@@773593

txt cnce , the role given to the human figure in Burges 's architecture , an obstacle to formal order asking more than its share of attention . I u a considerable extent the confusion is the narrative , Burgos relishing the dual natures of his elements , as in alabaster basins and bathtubs at Cardiff inlaid at the bottom with swimming fish and squirming eels in silver . The walls of Lord Bute 's bathroom are paneled with a collection of colored marbles set in rosy walnut framing , a play of liver , pistachio , purple gray . Burges 's innovation is to inscribe its name in Gothic script on each stone , running with the grain , which sets the disfiguring information sliding in different directions . It is one of his least tasteful effects because it defaces without embellishing , and exasperates the split between beauty and instruction . Though not a large-scale disturbance , it adds itself to interruptions like the insertion of one Moorish room among the Gothic at Cardiff and at Castell Coch , rationalized historically by the fanciful supposition the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forward in a lump not spread through the whole . He lets elements interfere with each other , feeling obstruction as energy , in huge beams which cut through the light of windows or the decoration of chimneys in rooms too small for them . This hyperkineticism reaches its end in his castles , dominated by their towers , the purest , least obstructed architecture , yet vulnerable because not obviously useful in the nineteenth century . The castle is an inert idea , heavy armor he lightens not by diminishing its mass but by turning it to pure assertion of character . Fortification , even more than the church of high ritual with all its newly rediscovered parts , becomes an expression of the nineteenth century , and through it architecture gains the freedom painting finds in pattern , and moves toward sculpture . Though most his , Castell Coch is Burges 's simplest work , his monolith . It is not a building for lovers of the picturesque , which fades at sunset or becomes misty at the edges . Buried in a hillside , it equally thrusts itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but implying like some trees the same amount below ground as above . He started with scanty remains of a medieval building , and his survey encouraged the belief it was an agglutinative structure extended from the home clump , matching every step outward with a link to the rear . These balanced impulses solve the problem of how to be fat and high , three towers of different height and thickness , bunched together by the round enclosure looping out to their rear . From beneath , on the slope where the huge cylinders rise out of even larger square buttress-solids , it is pure climb without opening , except for a peppering of holes  --  drains , vents , or anchors for scaffolding ? inscrutable even when we have seen water coming from one of ' them . On the other side at the bottom of the moat the wall starts as an artificial mountain , a bulge of masonry only changed to vertical above our heads . Thus all this stone conveys impregnability growing from a root too large to be uprooted , an assertion not to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest tower at Cardiff seems to have done . The larger castle is the flimsier , a string of bizarre effects ; but Coch is a unified discovery , with less Victorian or even Gothic feel to it , a whimsy which works . He had set out to build a functioning castle , not in the middle of a modern town like Cardiff but in a spot which still seemed a likely place for one , resupplying the moving parts , especially drawbridge and portcullis , controlled from a windlass room which is a display of medieval technology in iron and wood , with a fireplace for heating liquids to pour down on attackers , and a simple wooden partition for warmth . The oak grille of the portcullis , clothed in strengthening strips of iron , is a further exhibition of medieval-industrial style , to reconstruct their heavy labor more idle than reimagining their leisure . Passing from dungeon to windlass room to arched drawing room gives one a quick synopsis of social conditions , for Burges is careful not to convert the obsolete parts of the war machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relaxation and defense . The authenticity of one 's own dungeon or a bedroom at the top of an inconvenient spiral stair like Lord Bute 's is that of history as discomfort , which corresponds to stripped and " efficient " forms , obsolete efficiency for obsolete uses preserving a ghost of its original power however superseded . Thus the simple gutters in the courtyard , V 's in section formed of boards nailed at a right angle , give the satisfaction of any machine which reveals its purpose , and also that of anything more cumbersome as a fact while simpler as an idea , a dethinking of life 's equipment William Morris would have appreciated if it had not so overshot the edge of the necessary . The open passageway these drains run along is one of the castle 's great exhibitions of function , continued around the perimeter at the height of a non-existent story above ground , expressing continuously the work of stairs and of raising successive floors . Its purpose medievally is to give access to loopholes in the battlements and its effect to show the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure which preempts the idea of ornamental walkway . It is fashioned of plain members painted rusty red , according to the rule that the crazier the project the more sober its detailing should become . Like fountains , a favorite form of Burges 's he was n't often asked to execute , it functions as activity free from use , making a cycle in which the end joins the beginning , not a perfect circle in either case , the fountain sputtering and the gallery adjusting itself erratically to the roofs coming to meet it as it passes over the dwelled-in part and blurs house into defensive wall . In spite of such variety the deliberately blinkered accuracy at Castell Coch reminds one of his habit of copying the Middle Ages even in their unhistorical view of earlier periods , presenting Paris and Helen , as Chaucer would have done , in medieval dress to show that one would rather be damned in partisanship than saved outside it . In spite of its coherence there is something self-defeatist about Castell Coch , for all the integrity in Burges 's obsessive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the drawing of Simeon Stylites kept aloft by ingenious homemade bracing , secure above the dissected medieval city ; in the many-tubed vases whose meaning is explained in the vellum sketchbook where he imagines growth from every projection as if the chimneys at Castell Coch had sprouted leaves , for the towers there break into smaller towers , chimneys buttressed by flared squarings like their parent towers and mediated by stair turrets , thrusts of a size between tower and chimney . Because of such consistency and his contribution to the idea of architecture as expressive , as at its most extreme an almost recognizable living thing met before in life and now enlarged , it is Burges 's distinction to fail as a practical builder and to fall outside the realm of useful architecture , not that his buildings were n't well built but that the ones he most wanted to build were not much use , and become to a degree rare in his practical profession independent works of art . William Morris is usually played off against **26;161;TOOLONG , a story to be heard , contemplated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now he is remembered for his part in bringing the Gothic revival up to date , even making historicism revolutionary , which he did by concentrating on contradictions present from the start in the idea of a modern historicist style . Asymmetry , one of the qualities most admired in Gothic buildings , was recognized as growing by accretion rather than designed in all at once , so an architect like Butterfield often exaggerates in mass-produced approximation to the quaintness of medieval buildings . Though Morris was to follow another route from perverse exploitation of coarse industrial finishes his goal was similar , an effect of irregularity usually denied to the copyist . When Ruskin psychologized the formal properties of Gothic in the chapter Morris 's press reprinted as a pamphlet , saying the fact it had been built by Gothic builders was what made a building Gothic , he may have hoped it would inspire readers to become craftsmen who recaptured manually virtues of faithfulness irrecoverable along intellectual routes . The first step in Morris 's conversion , before he became interested in the conditions in which all work was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to transform himself as a workman and redesign his environment . Like all styles Gothic as it gathered force had spilled from one medium into others , propelled in Pugin 's theorizing by a more coercive ideology than other styles because it was regarded as the outward badge of a spiritual condition . Pugin 's attachment to detail and obsession with the " use " of obscure pieces of church equipment led to a new emphasis on making and concentrations of work in small utensils . In Pugin 's view the religious purpose validated the obsession , and Ruskin repeats the curious argument that here luxury is sacrifice because although the work of art remains in the church it belongs to God . Burges disentangles such pursuits from religion and makes a secular version of the chalice , an antichalice borrowing its pompous form from the equipment of the Mass . Though Pugin asserted that only sincere faith produced pure art and the Cambridge Camden Society carefully described medieval methods of finish , Morris is the first to attempt to reproduce not only medieval workmanship but medieval work , the act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for him than the achieved result . This anti-intellectual method revives Gothic as a real vernacular which real people talk as they perform real work . The results bear out the hopes , and no one will feel at Red House that art is degraded into craft as before later Morris designs where the materialist bias seems weedy rather than sturdy . Forms and colors are bolder at Red House than in the later designs , especially in the painted patterning on doors and ceilings which approaches peasant motifs in freehand repetition of simple pattern , abstract but impure enough to seem semi-pictorial like handprints or footprints . Here Morris 's veneration of vegetable dyes bears fruit in uncanny blue , red , and yellow darkened by their connection to the earth , and the absence of highly finished detail encourages bold shapes : the entrance arch , windows of odd outline plainly filled , and roofs in broad lumps . But the historicist paradoxes which seem at first to be solved by the simplicity are hiding in it after all . The reason figure-painting looks incongruous in this house , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ panels Burne-Jones began and did not finish in the main drawing room , is not purely formal , for the simpler kind of design it conflicts with is both advanced and archaic , and signifies to Morris , as his writings attest , intensified historical flavor , a stronger pre-pictorial time . Because life is to feel Viking or at least Romanesque , pictures in perspective seem sophisticated anachronisms . The best details at Red House hide their crudity in their convenience , like the beveling of the stair rail , which like Burges 's wooden drains shows an inspired stripping-away to a pre-medieval bareness which lacking distinguishing features can jump over the centuries and feel under our hand like just what we need . By going only a little further back one discovers a style almost styleless which presents therefore ease of physical translation , but when one simulates the life attached to it one must disguise its pre-Christian savagery . Red House was built before Morris discovered the Icelandic sagas , but not long before , and certain bold simplicities in the house show that he had already been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its richest literary sources . The world of the sagas embodied some of Morris 's hopes for the Gothic revival , clarified and freed of the heavy hand of Christianity , the life of a unified folk whose social organization was an intensification of kinship , whose leaders were simply the most active members , whose opponents represented individual greed too clever to shake the idea of a certain prized object from its mind . They fought over things , not ideas , and though there was something in the world called wisdom , nearly as hard to define as possess , the greatest joy was riding out alone in search of adventure , before one had been shackled by the reward at the end . Although this course of decline was inevitable at least one was defeated by the consequences of one 's own heroic acts ; heroism led to treasure , or a civilizing experience , and treasure brought decay , obscurely realized as self-defeat following attainment . Sigurd the Volsung of 1877 , his most vigorous rendition of the premedieval world , is an escape from the complications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not quite joined because virtue in our sense can not exist , but where inhuman strength gives leisure for the first stirrings of conscience , where " goodness " is a sustained but finally failed imperviousness to the invitations of complexity , a unity in the self which makes it dense to temptation for a space , until it begins to listen in spite of itself . If experience is corrupting the most beautiful time is the earliest , and to tell a story is only to accumulate the causes of melancholy . Even the saga , which begins with such a clean slate , ends clogged with poisons of thought , its freshness worn down by the tread of the denizens of the castle following the paths of their needs . Though his sense of history is extremely simple it is powerfully motivated , all of a piece , and gives the key to his simultaneous entertainment of purified medievalism and revolutionary socialism , for the brutal impious past and the heroic future are similar . Only a revolution could restore a true Gothic architecture , he said , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a whole society united like a Germanic tribe , no longer by race but by recognition of a larger sameness . Vistas of the socialist future require the same scale as the rush of generations in the epic , which blurs the savagery of existence and allows one to contemplate life as a succession of deaths . The sagas exist in a past before religion where the responsibility to remember one 's superstitions weighs lightly , and Morris can enjoy acting the quasi-believer , announcing magic transformations which are simply naive interpretations . The socialist future comes after religion , his portrayals of empty churches , in The Dream of John Ball for example , signifying the Victorian end of faith , the fading of its spell , perhaps to be replaced by hero-worship appropriate to a school story , less sophisticated but less weighty as well , causing one to erect rough-hewn memorials to one 's simple champions of labor , reincarnations of Sigurd . Morris sees far enough to realize that the heroism he calls for , built on innocence , can not last , and needs constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not Utopian in the ordinary sense . Thus one is led to ask whether a millennium is the proper conclusion to his cycle of generations , and if it expresses world-weariness instead of hope . In the work for which he will always be remembered best , the devising of flat repeating patterns to cover large interior spaces , a similar gloomy sense of inevitability can sometimes be detected . Most of his designs are retreats from pictorial complexity to the simplicity of a twodimensional web . The most interesting are still marginally undecided between flat and round , the minimal recession conveyed by stylized shading which exists to blur the large shapes as much as to suggest depth . The basic forms are always vegetable , perhaps slumbrous leaves filling the whole space , or more usually flowers contesting with leaves , rarely perched in by small animals , but never intruded on by human figures , a world set apart and purified to a system of vague shapes tied together underneath by a hidden net of tendrils . Walter Crane 's insertion of small figures on a Morris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designs are , so their forms can loom to the nearest view nightmarishly large , his best designs often his most Victorian , robust , full , even crowded . Like archaic diction , strong repeating patterns have an anti-representational tendency , drawing us toward incomprehensibility , tranquilizing in a far view but faceless in a near , metamorphism more manageable in mirror designs peeling and splitting in orderly ceremony . Even though these strong designs contain no straight lines or still passages , always twisting with a slight torque , their motion is deliberate rather than springy . His designs like his prose are often imitative of liveliness without being themselves lively ; his jollity like Ruskin 's piety , a quality he deeply wished for . The best designs , dark and sad , belie his efforts to resee the Middle as the Bright Ages , and their effects of hypnotic confusion are increased not lessened when as was intended various foliages are overlaid in wallpaper , curtains , rugs , and coverings to garb a whole environment in leaves , a stylized rurality more like a bower than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of figures , tangles juxtaposed as in an Islamic maze . Multiplication of faceless densities is also the principal feature of Morris tapestries and pages of print , not obliged by practical necessity to seek the anonymity of unending pattern , and possessing edges like paintings . The " Woodpecker " tapestry is one of the liveliest but its variety is confined to a narrow band of colors and forms . Individual objects can bulk larger than in repeating designs , but often come to no more than a large figure walking in front of a Morris wallpaper materialized as a garden , or in the " Woodpecker " simpler still ? a tree trunk which divides the design in two , a fattened line which fades behind an ostrich plume of leafage swirling up from below like vegetable flames but remains essentially a divider , Morris converting even opportunities for picture into border , and surrounding border with border as on his dark pages of type . It is a duplication too senseless to have occurred to a machine , this arbor enclosing an arbor , leaves protected by cushions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree of self-containment remote from naturalism , however naive in its ostensible subject matter . His ideas of work bore fruit , if not in his own practice , where regressive devotion to " natural " techniques made many processes more monotonous for workmen than they need have been ; his localizing of Ruskin 's quarrel with modern civilization had its more measurable effect ; but Morris 's greater significance lies in his focusing of what design means , embedding words and pictures in regularized tangles till neither stands out and the recognizability of the image is nearly lost . One of the distant sources of Kandinsky 's innovations in painting lies in this colonization of the picture space by the border , a relinquishment of perspective and pictorial uniqueness in favor of anonymities of ' pattern , propelled by an idea of history which hopes to reinstitute cohesions that the patterns describe . In The Ring Wagner reworked the Norse material Morris had rendered in Sigurd , and the German 's translation offended the Englishman deeply , though one might have thought a fusion of arts in one sacrament would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legend for which the simplest language is not typical enough is an inappropriate subject for the rococo conventions of grand opera . But perhaps the dispute over truth to the sources trivializes the difference between the two men , seen best in their relations to religion in the more primitive forms it assumes in the legends . Though Morris 's interest in religion only began to detoxify itself into an interest in the churches ' qualities as architecture , and he described savage rites like the cooking and eating of Fafnir 's heart with grisly enthusiasm , he saw the sagas as offering a chance to escape from enthrallment to the supernatural into the purely human , like release from a weight . Wagner , a non-believer , constructed of old stories a new oppression , embodied in a flood of sound which asked submission , whose seamlessness gave one the illusion of having no time to reflect , the simpler religion converted to sensations of power with minimal statable content fatally tied to non-individual sources of strength , like race , a self-dispersal which had its necessary counterpart for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other ethnic groups , copied from primitive tribesmen but assisted by techniques of rationality belonging to later stages of social life , it never being felt necessary to dress primitive impulses in matchingly primitive sounds . Of all Morris 's Arts and Crafts descendants , the designer Henry Wilson lacks obvious connection , for he signals a resurrection of the exotic Venetian side of Ruskin to which Morris was immune , and an intensified interest in esoteric symbolism more easily located in Morris 's romances than his designs . From Sigurd one could derive the idea of the maker as a wizard not to be trusted , and the art he describes there fits a later phase of style than his own , with a sense of materials like the luxurious strain of Arts and Crafts . Voysey seems a healthier derivative of Morris ? free of involvement in religion and picture still observable in Morris work who solves the problem of an unforced historicism so well he may not look historicist at all , but the blurring may come from a kind of purism , newly self-conscious of its derivative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific reference . While he cleans away detail Voysey emphasizes more than ever an organic lumpiness of outline , a marriage between functionalist textures and seven-dwarf shapes , takes his pictorial imagery from the nursery , doves and cherries , makes it vaguer and then gives it back to grownups . This progress feels only half-conscious and provides a good opportunity to follow the drift of late-nineteenthcentury English design away from secure ideological and stylistic moorings until it takes a strong character to see where he is . The drift exemplified by Wilson is more clearly marked but quite as obscure in its way , from recognizably Christian shapes and imagery to ambiguously derived and less communicative ones , Byzantine at their most comfortable but straying further , to Assyria and Babylon . He started like Morris and others looking for escapes from the straitjacket of Gothic , and found florid transformations which might be read as rationalizations , the west window of the church at Ealing filling the whole wall down to door level as in train sheds , its molten tracery and the overlaid buttress tracery outside making it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Wilson 's organicism recalls Ruskin 's concentration on single buds or petals and his way of seeing every flower fragment as a medium of light , lit up from inside by the glow of its own pigment , a world in which alabaster is the master substance . Ruskin 's search for and magnification of certain general principles of growth , which animate all stems as abstract serpents , bring him nearer to the roots of Art Nouveau than the less transformative Morris . Wilson has left few botanical studies , his vegetable forms less specific as he went on , but a study of embryonic leaves at the Victoria and Albert gives important clues about the relation of his natural imagery to nature itself . These fetal , stillborn forms are an Art Nouveau discovered pre-existent in the world , the plant distorting itself into flames or reptiles , a metamorphism characteristic of the edges of growth , pre-growth and post-growth , infancy and death . In the chalice for St. Bartholomew 's , Brighton , divergent natural substances are combined to make a monster , one nature represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the rudeness of the discol- ored enamel knop , a vigorous shape not smoothed out of its found condition , so only the crudest approximate to this conventional element of a chalice , but still looking ruined like the small reptile skull embedded in the carbonized St. George on Alfred Gilbert 's centerpiece for Victoria 's jubilee , the alchemy of gross substance into art , a transformation nearing its end , the likeliest reversal of decay being petrifaction . Extreme textural contrasts characteristic of Arts and Crafts even in more sober forms like Bainbridge Reynolds 's conglomerates of copper , brass , and iron perhaps mean as they do in Mannerism a last phosphorescence in the materials before a final subsidence , a hectic speeding up of process , which is felt by Ruskin and Morris to be intrinsically a form of life . Fascination with decadent phases in nature corresponds to certain feel- ings about one 's place in history . After Morris the sense of coming at the end generates melancholy , of which the new interest in myth and primitive religion is the most interesting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought on by the decay of religion available to Wilson was an authorized version of Ruskin 's symbolic correspondence , authorized by duplicated evidence from the distant past excavated by science , and institutionalized by the artist in specific forms , like the Brighton chalice , also a calyx , a flower on its stem , attempting to work a magic which would inhere in a thing not just in one 's method for contemplating it . It is both less and more ambitious than Ruskin 's schemes because it is content to seek its perfection in a bounded structure , the temple idea , whose floor is the sea , roof the dome of heaven , central pillar the tree of-the world , dangling lamps promises of resurrect ion or the generation of more . It is ambitious because the architect invents the religion , which because unfamiliar to his clients will have to be imposed on them by furtive formal devices instead of the recognizable codes of Christianity . W. R. Lethaby 's Architecture , Mysticism , and Myth ( 1892 ) , which influenced Wilson and was plagiarized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most disturbing signs of the disintegrative nature of this historical moment , a disorderly world-bag of myths , the last hope of someone cast adrift who invites the terrors of history to roam through his head as random associations , blurring places and times because no single moment holds the answer , which may crystallize from the ragged synopsis of all thought and belief . The materialization of early- and prehistory has given Lethaby the idea he may find room there to hide from science and reason , from the earth as a sphere hurtling through space , and the building as an envelope without content . But he is too much a rationalist to fall under the provincial spell of any creed in particular , so he hopes that the residue of submission he can summon before many cults can be combined into a semi-stable belief . This is not the stated aim of the book , which relinquishes terror , mystery , and splendor , and then makes its most impassioned evocation of the Egyptian temple awing the worshipper and crushing his imagination . That leaves Lethaby and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would-be worshippers who want to crush the imagination but can not fully accept this purpose , and might therefore be happier in the safely barbaric realm of jewelry . The myth Lethaby discovers in buildings may feel in the end bland , the temple a scale model of the world and the architect a scaled-down god , meanings not historically appropriate to Christian churches but hard to place elsewhere , for if churches are not numinous enough private houses will thoroughly unmask the mythic hopes . Like religion the comparison associates man 's work with something large and unlike religion with something believable , though the sensation of smallness , of the building as a feeble copy of its model , would perhaps no longer inspire awe because the reality it is modeled after is one from which faith has fled . Wilson 's most splendid project , the decoration of St. Bartholomew at Brighton , is built on an invisible iconography most visitors will not realize because it remains a unique case of such schemes to them . Whereas for Ruskin colored marbles and other luxurious stones are justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are formalized as the materials of the seven heavenly spheres in Arab and Kabalistic lore , exemplifying in their cloudy way seven colors , a non-figural , spiritual symbolism far from William Morris . In spite of the nearly complete absence of detail , however , it is a pictorial use of materials , the black floor a flat sheet of water in which other details are stranded , alone in a wide sea , many anticipated dividers , like a complete altar rail , missing . In Lethaby 's scheme the sea base is a stable idea but in Wilson 's execution the spectator feels helpless to unite the huge and distant parts , swept out on a rich waste expressive of metaphysical loneliness . When one meets similar proportions on a small scale , in C. R. Mackintosh 's oblong silver casket set with semi-precious stones which seem to emerge from the smooth surface , the unusual smoothness of the ground makes no attempt to hold the eye which slides on and on in an imaginary endlessness . Mackintosh 's details like Wilson 's look lonely , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the bud or before budding . ' The black floor is reflective and the pink-and-green ciborium is absorptive , a structure forty-five feet high , the most stylized rendition of trees Wilson ever gave and his most impressive effort to crush the imagination , for in spite of the fact that the rich stones again deny their natures , soft now not wet , the cruel featurelessness of these forms creates an oppression more observable than an actual one grazing the spectator 's head , for this is framed at a distance , a living picture of the relentlessness of gravity which bends upward , thrusts back again . The smaller cylindrical candlestands echoing the square supports of that simple tent are the best realizations of a persistent dream of Wilson 's , whose meaning is even plainer in the fantastic study of a building where two isolated columns again jut up far from any wall , reminiscent of the famous ones in Venice and sharing with Lethaby 's phallic alcove drawing of 1888 the large snake writhing up toward the figures on the head of the column . Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through , as perhaps also in the helmet turrets so favored by Wilson , Sedding , and other Arts and Crafts designers , where in spite of an apparent derivation from a Tudor feature ( King 's College chapel , Hatfield House ) deep imaginings come from outside Christianity altogether . The guiding principle of this decoration is not naturalism , or if so , ambivalent naturalism which associates forms equally with at least two organic models , an impulse to which ( Saudi is the proper end , who makes buildings so natural they arc hardly credible , a church like bats hanging up into the air . Only convention lets us call Wilson 's later web motifs trees , composed of arteries and decorated with leaves in the shape of hearts , as visceral as vegetable , and protected by an architectural canopy , the world turned inside out shielding its vegetable covering with its mineral core . In Burges the most esoteric symbolism is made somehow available , edible , hearts threatened by arrows , Rosicrucian alembics on the boil , all meanings made gross flesh . Lethaby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rare kind of imagination to accept symbols without believing them , to turn religious imagery into comic strip , innocence perhaps nearer its medieval originals than most revivalists think . The cathedrals built or proposed by Wilson 's generation seem reliably the last of such enterprises . Both Lutyens 's projected Catholic and Scott 's long-unfinished Anglican cathedral at Liverpool are impossibly large and enormously artificial at the same time , Lutyens 's like the unwindowed ruin of a great Roman bath and Scott 's the last large Gothic building . For a student of the revival this terminal has an overwhelming interest , the huge towers melted to a piece of Art Nouveau metal like the imaginary cities at the base of Wilson 's chalices , details almost erased , huge , costly , and no longer there , a tomb whose corpse is so long flown it can no longer picture him , where the cross-shaped plan at last makes no particular sense , the style picturesque at the end as it was in the beginning , another Fonthill . From absurdly literal claims the revival has retreated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge buildings hovering as almostideas , not-quite-relinquished hopes of transcendent coherence . Perhaps the proper drama for this setting is hard to guess because the Christian connection is no longer answerable to it , if it is a pagan eruption like the action of Strauss 's Salome , ceremony turning to carnage , as the excitement in Wilson 's organic forms may be their suggestion of cruelty , church decoration catching up belatedly with the sense of the world 's indifference argued by Darwin . CHAPTER FIVE ) ROMANTIC LOCALISM Beginning as art in the service of religion , Gothic revival finally reaches an anti-religious conception of imagery . Another tradition had achieved a similar result much earlier by a more ruthless method , avoiding a direct encounter with Christianity by inventing unknowable eras prior to it . If James Macpherson had presented his Ossian as an imaginative reconstruction of primitive life like Rousseau 's in the Discourse on Inequality the poems would be easier to appreciate as one of the most remarkable products of the eighteenth century . But enamored of the moral authority carried by the innocent voice he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into English prose . If they had been viewed as guesses , or pastiches based on small acquaintance with slender remains , it would not have been possible to treat them with the reverent care the critic Hugh Blair did when he derived a whole society from hints dropped here and there by the poems . Though he helped them in the notes , Macpherson was shrewdest in leaving it to his readers to play the historian , piecing together the dumb evidence of the poet . When literature is regarded as true record the reader becomes an archeologist , as Macpherson gave him specific ways of being and guaranteed he would find what he wanted most , a notion of the primitive which fit pre . Romantic psychological ideals . The poems gratify the new taste for authentic obscurity , subjectivism on a historical base , like a cloudy jewel one can stare into without doubting its reality . I low far the poet fell under the delusion he had hit on what it must have been like , and how far he congratulated himself in foisting his guesses on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because most of the authentic records ? his letters and journals ? have disappeared . We can now see Fingal and Temora , the longest Ossianic fragments , as unmistakably eighteenth-century poems , not in the simple fashion of his earlier Highlander reseeing northern history through Pope 's Homer , requisitioning a conventional heroic vocabulary for local materials . Their derivation is more obscure and their participation in an exotic psychology more drastic , but as epics they are clearly post-Miltonic and their portrayal of man 's place in nature is unthinkable before the generation of Rousseau . The poems show primitive man 's mind filled by , to the extent almost of consisting of , primordial natural images , cleared of social complexity ? the indoors , cities , techniques , arts ? so the mists and streams rush in . Nature in Homer is kept in its place by a sense of dependence on it , proportions lost by those economically detached from it like Japanese courtiers or eighteenth-century English travelers , for whom it becomes exotic , and who let it usurp the whole field by a magnanimous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happens prior to ( or at a point in the social scale above ) the division of labor , and its diffuse states might even be imagined preceding the settling of matter into its permanent forms . Homer , both Blair and Macpherson agree , is unfortunate in the society he 's born into , too complex for the noblest poetry , resulting in loquacity , his typical quality , the condition of having too many subjects and opinions , and speaking too particularly . This dissatisfaction with Homer solves itself for Ossian in a sophisticated deliteralization of the world , mental cleanliness like an educated person gone to live in a hut . Thus its monotonies are really novelties , with , if its historical authenticity is accepted , an inexplicable enthusiasm clinging to them . Beowulf is a fairer and nearer comparison than the epic models he cites , more Romantic than the classical ones through its interest in the edges of the human and its dwelling on fears in the night . But no reader finds in Beowulf the perverse preference of winter to spring Macpherson attributes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagination which loves unfriendly blasts , a foreigner 's dream of a marriage between the countryman and his violent mistress , whose proper source is the breasts of those who experiment with walks in the rain . Likewise darkness is an eighteenth-century preference thrust on the poem more often than genuine primitives would find agreeable . Homer had discovered the excitement in silent camps between which battle is suspended by fall of night , but in Fingal the interlude comes forward and ghosts appearing in the night to wakeful chiefs , councils held at night , as if fighting or threat of it left no other time for anything to happen , these motives make this a night poem to a surprising degree , as do , surreptitiously , figures taken from night weather introduced elsewhere , a secondary night . The idea " outdoors " is not derivable from Homer , or the sagas , or any pre-eighteenth-century original , an idea projected from comfortable houses , till in Ossian existence is shown entirely outdoors , an impossibility , because such high conceptualization needs contrast and unfamiliarity . Some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outdoors which are no longer permitted there except by mischance , especially dying outdoors , a woman expiring from unsatisfied longing on her husband 's tomb , melting together with the hill and the corpse . Likewise the solitude which goes with it is fabricated within society , and as yet unknown in its literal Adamic form . A barer solitude first becomes a vocation in the eighteenth century , before which to be alone with oneself would have seemed spiritual emptiness to be overcome . From this point on , it becomes part of a myth of oneself and an effort to be individual to an extraordinary degree . In Rousseau , credited with the invention of solitude as of so much else , loneliness is sometimes seen as a fruit of solitude rather than evidence that the self is a fragment without meaning in isolation . Nietzsche , perhaps the most unrecallable of solitaries , planned a history of the idea , which might have begun with Ossian ( anchorites and other self-tormentors disposed of ) , where it is still a mild escape which has not yet revealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts in Ossian , where stirrings of dissolution feel like fresh currents of air . Life in the poems seems remote , yet one could approach it more nearly in the present , as one could not the earliest life in Rousseau 's Inequality , which has no " family " because it lacks dwellings , couples , and recognition of children by their mothers after weaning , Rousseau an undefended thinker accumulating negations of normal certainties like the classical model builder , not the enthusiast . Macpherson 's radicalism is psychological not ideological , and his heroic ideal , solitary life outdoors governed by sentiment scarcely hampered by religious belief , is found in the next generation in Dorothy Wordsworth 's Journal . The life of her little band of solitaries differs in important respects from Ossian 's warriors ' , but the epic 's ferocity and bloodshed are lesser stumbling blocks than one might suppose . A favorite sentiment in the poems is compassion for defeated enemies , and at the end of Fingal the hero , saddened by success , expresses the withdrawal which so moved the poem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past , and the heroes who survive are prisoners of memories which though sources of beauty are always painful . Macpherson transmutes raw experience into history by showing memory the poet 's chief faculty , in Ossian who feels his age in the stories he tells , which finally express themselves as tombs in the landscape . In a similar way fields of daffodils or favorite copses become for Dorothy memorials to be visited for their power to resummon , and thus to tell her her age . The poem enlarges its characters and their feelings to natural catastrophes , a hero as a hillside or a hurricane , but Macpherson has an amusing note scorning the vulgar supposition ( in medieval Scotland ) that Fingal and the others are literal giants . Seen to be great , they have been thought big , a childish confusion he says , yet one of the effects he most labored at , so that when Runge came to portray them he caught the Ossianic bombast in spare Flaxman forms which loom over the treetops . It is cowardly to call Ossian bombast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pull back . The flaw and the inspired extension of the poems is identified by Blair when he says they show manners rude but sentiments refined . They are essentially sophistications , like all pastoral , giving the eighteenth-century reader the shell of heroic action with the insect pulp of hatred sucked out , the adrenaline of heroism without the coercion of it , so it becomes an exercise not a function . The innovation in a heroism of sentiment is that one 's greatness is measured by the sweep of one 's magnanimity , and that in this perspective victories and deaths become minutiae which the subjective hero hopes to rise above . Runge 's drawings are able to show a partial dislocation of perspective and interchangeability of modes ( men and rocks ) , but in the poem the loosening of boundaries goes further than it could in pictures . Acts are dismembered and characters dematerialized into images , giving the sensation of hallucinatory speed to the most prosaic parts of t he poem , a kind of thought the reader will never catch tip with , foretelling both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action of a passage like this from Fingal , until it could not he mistaken for history but feels a fresh theology : " But I will retire , " replied the youth , " with the sword of Trenmor ; and exult in the sound of my fame . The virgins shall gather with smiles , around him who conquered mighty Trenmor . They shall sigh with the sighs of love , and admire the length of thy spear ; when I shall carry it among thousands ; when I lift the glittering point to the sun . " ( Fingal , Book VI ) and Shelley , the freedom of imagery prefiguring how far above everyday claims his phantasmagoric pursuit of the image will rise . Thus though presented as a contribution to local history Ossian was calculated to appeal to readers across national boundaries , one of the least restrictive works ever written , a placeless storm turned loose on the reader to try the firmness of his coordinates . Tears , battles , and streams , analogous processes , are rolled together and the exteriority of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense and become names lost in the text . It is estheticism masquerading as savagery , manipulating abstract and concrete nouns in the same way , which can read as Dick-and-Jane-ish simplicity , or a complete cloudification in which especially the commonest objects become mysteries . In unheardof collocations , like " light of the oak " for fire , words lose much of their reference , left unexplained as if it were preferable the reader should miss the practical point , as if converting it to something which could happen in our world were a diminishment of power . When the reader is finally dissuaded from a literal reading of Ossian , perhaps as much by its treading rhythm , a dance to which he is compelled before he feels ready , as by more observable habits of linking actors with the wrong kind of action ( Fingal rises on Mora , as if he is a sun and Mora an island , Gaul pours as if a torrent ) , at the moment of leaving the literal behind he is swamped by a rush of disparate presences . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus less appropriate than similar aids in other epics , for insofar as they work as intended , these poems destroy narrative and preserve no more " action " in " sequence " than Blake , successive sentences , even successive phrases occurring in different places with new sets of objects , reality reborn from each minute to the next , which deliberately makes a nightmare of ideas like past and present , and present and absent : On Mora stands the king in arms . Mist flies round his buckler abroad : as , aloft , it hung on a bough , on Cormul 's mossy rock . In silence I stood by Fingal , and turned my eyes on Cromla 's wood : lest I should behold the host , and rush amid my swelling soul . My foot is forward on the heath . I glittered , tall , in steel ; like the falling stream of Tromlo , which nightly winds bind over with ice . The boy sees it , on high , gleaming to the early beam : toward it he turns his ear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a stream is Cathmor , like a youth in a peaceful field . Wide he drew forward the war , a dark and troubled wave . But when he beheld Fingal on Mora , his generous pride arose ; " Shall the chief of Atha fight , and no king in the field ? Foldath , lead my people forth . Thou art a beam of fire . " Forth issues Foldath of Mona , like a cloud , the robe of ghosts . He drew his sword , a flame , from his side . He bade the battle move . The tribes , like ridgy waves , dark pour their strength around . Haughty is his stride before them . His red eye rolls in wrath . He calls Cormul chief of Dunratho ; and his words were heard ; " Cormul , thou beholdest that path . It winds green behind the foe . Place thy people there , lest Selma should escape from my sword . Bards of green-vallied Erin , let no voice of yours arise . The sons of Morven must fall without song @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the traveller meet their dark thick mist on Lena , where it wanders , with their ghosts , beside the reedy lake . Never shall they rise , without song , to the dwelling of winds . " Cormul darkened , as he went . Behind him rushed his tribe . They sunk beyond the rock . Gaul spoke to Fillan of Selma ; as his eye pursued the course of the dark-eyed chief of Dunratho . " Thou beholdest the steps of Cormul ! Let thine arm be strong ! When he is low , son of Fingal , remember Gaul in war . Here I fall forward into battle , amid the ridge of shields . " The sign of death ascends ; the dreadful sound of Morni 's shield . Gaul pours his voice between . Fingal rises on Mora . He saw them , from wing to wing , bending at once in strife . Gleaming , on his own dark hill , stood Cathrnor of strcamy Atha . The kings were like two spirits of heaven , standing each on his gloomy cloud ; when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The blue-tumbling ofwaves is before them , marked with the paths of whales . They themselves are calm and bright . The gale lifts slowly their locks of mist ! ( Temora , Book III ) It seems necessary to take this large a sample in order to present him properly , because as in other eighteenth-century art its molten core is hard to locate under the professions of respectability . Notes appended by Macpherson are reminders of detachment , but even without contrary tendencies in the composite made by poem and notes , one might doubt that any work could have such a dissolute result , art 's wildness carefully planned if it is properly to stun , though one can , caught up , forget the route one has traveled . When the ecstasy is carried on long enough one decides in an estimate of psychic economy to allow oneself this freedom , or not , after which art becomes consciously a mechanism , a discharger . Ossian remains , after all , as does even Nietzsche , an imitation of demonic possession , the poems an instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's senses , which has as its goal the containment of unreason , a classical desire for completeness evident even in Blake 's proverbs ( " The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom , " but excess in the usual meaning does not travel by roads or believe in palaces ) . The example of Nietzsche cautions us however from claiming that writing is always a sign of mastery , for there the mechanism of daring oneself to go further and sending oneself to the edge is largely conscious , yet the undermining contradictions show expression producing heat by its inherent suppressions and helping precipitate an explosion in his case final , not a style of recovery . In the chapter on Odin in Heroes and Hero Worship Carlyle reconstructs for primitive northerners a life of continuous wonder in which frost and flame , now subjects of lectures , are regarded with religious awe , an opposed theory of the outcome of intimacy to Rousseau 's , for whom this union between man and his surroundings is wordless , thoughtless , unhaunted . Blair and Macpherson fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflects their feeling that the grandeur of experience is trivialized by doctrine , while their view of the origin of language is less sober than Rousseau 's . Blair argues that poetry is primitive and primitive thought poetic , ordinary speech among savages more daring than European poeticising . At the same time he recognizes in Ossian exquisite individual sensibility , an overload of wellsprings combining modern and primitive as the poem does , silently justifying itself as richer than the monophonic relics . The piety of the poems , their substitute for religion , is a modern import , focused on the tombs with which the landscape is prominently dotted , a fixation on posterity . It might seem logical that earliest history should devote itself to this form of remembrance ( one of Rousseau 's innovations is to push back to a state before death is grasped as an idea ) , and many anthropological visions have shown rude cultures given over to the service of death , but in Ossian tombs are beautiful remote mechanisms of history not death , savored by the survivors yet not foreseen by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Beowulf . In Ossian a certain kind of history is put in the place of religion , memory replacing prophecy . It seems inconsistent while lamenting them to envy these former deaths , but oddly enough it works this way in Ossian , who makes us feel that the heroes are before us in both , closer to the beginning and the end of life , like all past lives conflating opposed highlights , and by inhabiting such peaks obliging us to measure our unheroism . The least communicative pair of moments in our lives is joined in these , because they happened so long ago , terrors of time dissolved by plunging in against its current . Like religion the contemplation of history devalues the present , and , weakening our place , reconciles us to having one . Writers like Macpherson and Rousseau had banished Christianity from their considerations of early history , so that Chateaubriand in Atala sees himself as its reintroducer , who grafts it onto a fashionable vision of the nature prior to it . As a literary missionary taking Christianity to the New World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by blending the two flavors gaining a Rousseauist authenticity for religion , primitivizing it after the fact by showing its adaptability to this recent idea of naturalness and human origins . He needs all his imperturbability in the face of cultural oddity for this enterprise to seem plausible . But the stately gaze which never flinches or hurries is perhaps an agent of disbelief , suggesting that no faith but his could withstand these shocks . In the wilderness the practices of Christianity have only their beauty to recommend them , stripped of the cultural inevitability they carry in Europe . Here they are anthropologized and given a vaguer basis in sentiment instead of tradition , which though more universal feels less stable . Chateaubriand hears so heavily on the beauty of religion that one kels if it ceased to be beautiful his interest would end . But such is his power that he civilizes all he touches , making it the right subject for a worldly observer , and can seem the civilizer of religion as well as Indian customs . His characters use cultural loneliness to study Scripture and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work in the Psalms , consistently localizing the religious impulse , forcing it in the first case to express a personality and in the second subordinating it to his itinerary , for it will be better understood by the public after his visit . His own awareness of this problem does not ease it ; no amount of submissive profession will make us believe religion guides Chateaubriand instead of his leading it . Perhaps travel is prideful more often than not , but his trip to Jerusalem , which carries Christianity to its source to form a symmetry with his journey west to another origin , is egregiously creative , the traveler grasping a hitherto concealed configuration in the world as if to give it for the first time a purpose . Chateaubriand discovers in the Crusades a foretaste of his own journey , a grand confrontation of East and West whose drama becomes its morality , but it is doubtful whether any medieval Christian could invite another culture to qualify his faith . This adventure of putting oneself deliberately under the influence of alien ways only becomes tolerable when constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though the later proto-Romantic voyage to the Middle East is more pregnant with future possibility , the American travels guided by dreams of the previous century are undertaken by a less rigid Chateaubriand , though at its most exploratory his is a carefully composed mind which converts being-at-a-loss to an effect . In Chateaubriand both the wild and the natural feel like art , and his travels evince an unusual need for fresh disorder to subdue , so that the circumstantial prompting to the American trip , the search for a Northwest Passage , or escape from Revolutionary terror , do not explain , except by not ruling out , the kind of travel he pursued . His fictions of travel are always stories of displacement and estrangement , even without a clear surrogate for himself as a tourist , which the American cycle includes . At the beginning of The Natchez the European arrives in an Indian village with his guides and soon finds himself , seated under a flowering catalpa lit by torches held by boys in its branches , asked by the Sachem , old and ruined by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kent is young and says he has no story , a claim his preoccupation and the name he goes by , " the brother of Amelia , " belie . Though the catalpa and the customs which surround him have intimated Chactas 's tale , it still seems odd that we should trek into the wilds of the new continent to have our curiosity roused about a European narrative . Besides , Chateaubriand feels unreticent in the extreme , but volubility is perhaps a form of indirection . Rene will find Europe tangled with America from long before he comes , though as in Faulkner this past can not be fully possessed until he passes an initiation costing most of a lifetime . Chactas , the representative of Indian culture , the last great man of his race , has a Spanish adopted father whom he barely remembers . He is united with the brother of Amelia in having loved his " sister , " before he knows of the relation , burying her when he learns it , assisted by the priest who represents the bond of white blood between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the passions have already begun to transform themselves into the ornament of religious observance . Religion in the form of the priest or one 's inhibitions is the natural mediator between passions and the world , and in Chateaubriand religion is only a seemly word for articulation , his case an unforced example of the Rousseauist belief that language is a proof of man 's fall , an entanglement in the vines of complex desire which teaches that to love Atala one must first please the priest . Girodet 's famous picture of the most often represented incident in Chateaubriand , the burial of Atala , insists on the morbid role of faith in pointing the way from love to death . The priest has let the Indians keep their arrangement for the cemetery , or Groves of Death , consecrating it with a cross , a plot reminiscent of Eden , watered by its Stream of Peace with a tree in each family square the only gravestone , mute translation of the familiar record . While it is a Rousseauist hope that this service could be discharged thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infuses also the outdoor sacrament with hermit dressed in bark for celebrant . The priest thriftily uses what he finds in the woods , yet his jumble of nature and art is only a step removed from seventeenth-century masque , as his habit of engraving words of " an old poet named Job " on trees is from a Renaissance game . When he elevates the host it is lit by the rising sun , like the transformation scene which unfolds by known but unfathomed connivance ; God is the true god who makes theater in the wilderness . Chateaubriand must seek the truth in artifice and find his revela- tions in disguise , but with practice one learns to distinguish the true Chateaubriand in motifs like Christianized Ossian , wandering across the woods at night carrying one 's cumbrous relics . He returns so often in life and art to the periphery , moving from outpost to outpost , skirting the center , that the motion must contain a main principle of his character beneath the historical experience of the emigre . The geographical edge in Chateaubriand , though difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impinging condition . Though never at loss for a meaning , he travels in search of meaninglessness , or in long flirtation with it , trying to put his cultivation at risk . The reader may have less enthusiasm than Chateaubriand for the desert or wilderness ( the same word in French , with or without the trees ) , because to him it is the most moving landscape , an experience of bottomless profundity . America is a desert , the East is one , Alexandria is surrounded by three ? sea , sand , and a city of tombs bigger than the active quarters ; his eye sweeps across these continents he has emptied and he wonders , " Will it swallow even me ? " The desert in Chateaubriand is the most gigantic of tombs and his peregrination the equivalent of the blind Ossian stumbling toward the mound where Fingal is buried , mourning prolonged enough to wonder what effect it is making , but showing an authentic vocation for desolation . In Ossian letting oneself go is heroism , and in Chateaubriand tourism is , but only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but for being more lonely . The content of heroism is perhaps simply to be on one 's own and to return to society as one left it , without succumbing to the other roles that present themselves , which he likes to imagine obscure and unliterary , the famous mainspring of the present work a nameless inhabitant of polar seas . Like Ossian , Chateaubriand was susceptible to seeing very different things as much the same , or as either opposite or the same , both of which constructions blur particular qualities , so a European becoming savage and a savage Europeanized ( Rene and Chactas as characterized by the latter ) are confusing flips of the same coin , the residue of an eighteenthcentury human essence . The Indian and the Arab are barbarism not yet risen to civilization and civilization fallen into barbarism , history always harking to a model outside the tarnishing current . High contrast and no contrast are two kinds of desert , approximations to a stasis or mental glare in which all is endlessly one . As examiners of primitive societies Rousseau , Chateaubriand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a complex route to a simple goal , a taste for the power of logic to put an end to a difference , as Levi-Strauss sees it do when he finds cannibalism and prison " symmetrical , " one ingesting , the other ejecting its prey . That things impossible to be compared might be not only compared but seen afterward , following a mental flash , to have changed places is the most ambitious dream of such lovers of pattern thinking up spells . Near the beginning of Atala we can watch one of Chateaubriand 's symmetrical patterns coming into existence instead of tossed off glibly as it sometimes seems they are . The process moves by stages which partly cancel their predecessors . Chactas and Atala are fleeing at night through unfamiliar woods between his first and second captures when they see someone moving ahead of them with a torch , uttering peculiar cries . It is an Indian traveling in suspense toward the cabin of the girl he loves , who will extinguish his torch if she favors him , causing the desired darkness to fall , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the road a memorial to a dead child appears , where young women hoping to be mothers loiter on the chance of being chosen as the next habitation of his ghost , while the original mother wets the grave with tears . Fortified by these two images , of love and of maternity , the text informs us , the hopeless lovers continue a journey longer than the suitor 's and more thoughtful than the orphaned mother 's grief . The first image is their undoctored desire and the second their embryonic foreboding , or desire piously qualified by alarm . Only their general concern with Love and Maternity is called on to explain their interest in such scenes , and something irresponsible and bizarre in the initial imagining is regulated by the safe names he finds for **25;189;TOOLONG , or rather tableaux , for they are resting places though the desperate progress is said to continue as they move by . Even in their initial weirdness the scenes are talismans , and could more easily be extended into a necklace of similar stones than snapped off after two like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the demand for variation , but his alternation of flight with bouts of society ? when , recaptured , they enter the glare and noise of another village ? may simply string beads of greater size than individual pictures . Only at two moments in all his writings about the New World does one catch him without the defenses of poetry . They are his first glimpses of Frenchmen and Indians in the wilderness , recounted in the Voyage en Amerique and the Memoirs . In the French dancing master with Indian pupils and in the brave pulling his wife on a horse we find grotesque contradiction and eloquent blankness barred from the novels . Never again does an impression so threaten his sense of fitness , the function of such shocks taken up hereafter by interruptions which vary the pace by stopping . Scenery interposes itself and we find ourselves halted in a wide-awake swoon which gives its reasons , not carried so far away that it forgets the plant and bird species . Such partitions divide a drama which veers naturally into an unbroken current , like a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the best examples of drowsy alternation in Chateaubriand is Atala 's nightly reappearance to the bound Chactas , like Blake 's dream , which happens so often he wonders if it happens at all . So Celuta appears to Rene in The Natchez , and both heroes are freed and tended , guarded as by a crueler kind of nursing , penned in buildings and then set loose to be lost on a marshy surface without markers , as if in the gentle nightmare of one who has fallen asleep over the Discourse on Inequality . At his lest he is like sleep , and unlike Ossian turns prose into poetry by constant braking , slowing it to the languor of an eternal present in which it is not masochism fine Chactas to tolerate the delay of his execution by the festival which fills the day after he arrives . Reprieved so gracefully even a martyr becomes a spectator , and his heroes are more plausibly martyrs to time ? that is to boredom ? than victims of society which always releases them into that freedom where they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-caste who plays an insignificant part in The Natchez is called " the denizen of a third continent " ( Africa to the French Europe and Indian America ) , a casual phrase which makes a realignment or explication of the other relations . Chateaubriand collects cultures , crosses frontiers , locates the great fulcrums of civilization in order to be everywhere , not just to have been . The ladies of Smyrna poised between the debris of Athens and the ruins of Jerusalem are nowhere and everywhere . Their city is Paris , or rather their fashionable life is a Paris which has freed itself from constraint by travel , like love in the wilderness , or an unseen flower . Chateaubriand the tourist is also the transporter , the idea of Paris so much his fabrication it can be moved , or found elsewhere . He imposes himself by relocating familiar scenes and rearranging geography : the old idea successfully detached will flower more gorgeously in the wilderness . Chactas 's greatest intimacy with Atala comes in carrying her fresh corpse through the flowery woods , stopping for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returns to find a swamp where the grave was , memory corroded by water . Through a process of brooding he discovers the relocated bones of the maid , to which have been added those of the priest , and sets off again carrying this reduction of both . Finally it occurs to Rene that the mysterious bones wrapped in skins which accompany the remnants of the Natchez on their last journey are this very residue , with Chactas 's bones stirred in . Beside Niagara , an even waterier landscape , he prostrates himself before the rusty relics of the story , all its personages now tokens . In Atala primitive existence is reverie and bones only become real as they are moved about and silted over by thought . It is a picture of building a memory , history a pile which grows richer without increasing in size . In spite of its palpability the process is essentially subjective and hence problematic , for memory , the key function , resolves itself to a tenuous chain of individuals , and the extermination of a race is simply an overstrained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death . When Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm began collecting what appeared first in i 81 2 as the Kinder- and Hausrnarchen they saw themselves recovering bits of the national or racial memory strewn about within easy reach but uncared for , not visionaries like Chateaubriand but compilers , or at most naturalists gifted with a sharper eye for the disappearing species hidden in the hedgerows . They present their collection as the first truly scientific in German , meaning that variants have been carefully compared , that the source is often verbal , transcribed in the dialect of the speaker not affected-naive diction concocted by themselves , and that the apparent crudities of the original are not smoothed away . Such abdication before qualities sensed in folk products is revolutionary for its investment in uncorrected spontaneity , but it was n't as easy to escape one 's educated self as the Grimms believed . Collection is an anti-instinctive and critical procedure , even without their unformulated rules for what makes one story better than others , because a proximity not usual in nature allows comparison of stories after their selection . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ putting a stop to the succession of versions in which a story is never the same twice , but always improving and decaying , until suddenly immobilized into literature . Besides this they exercised more conscious influence by conflation , whereby incidents from different versions were combined if they did not conflict and duplications relegated to notes , resulting in a richer growth than occurred in nature , an approximation of the density of conscious art . An earlier generation could prefer Ossian and Gothick to the real thing or scrupulous recoveries , because they were more elegant and less gross , more obviously emotive and to an eighteenth-century sense coherent , than medieval or pre-medieval works themselves . In spite of their preference for the authentic fragment over the imposed continuity the Grimms overlaid the nostalgia which offended them in Ossian on their versions of the fairy tales , supplying an equivalent of the mists of time or haze of distance prominent in Macpherson and Chateaubriand and absent from true folk products . One of the best of the tales , Bruderchen and Schwesterchen , which inspired the comforting mythic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , only comes into its own because it symbolizes what for us fairy tales are about . The brother and sister leave home like many other pairs and enter in the forest a life of deepening strangeness , whose pull the boy is less able to resist , finally drinking from the third of the brooks which warn her in whispers while calling to his thirst . This disaster ates one of the Grimms ' ' most beautiful idylls , for to hold the deer he has turned into she binds him with her belt and finds them a house in the woods , where life continues till disrupted by his enthusiasm for the hunters ' horns . It is a visionary union of rude vigor and domesticity , of reassimilation to wild origins , return to childhood and sympathy with animals . Because it matches Romantic notions of life in the woods so well one suspects that much of the feeling is interpolated by the Grimms , but the closest one can come to verifying their sources is to summon a Russian parallel , where the brother drinks from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and stumbles into the king 's garden without passing through a house in the woods , the great pivot on which the Grimms ' version turns . The pattern is the same , its meaning different , but fairy tales disconcert us most by how little they care about their meaning in our sense of the word , discarding or retaining it by chance . That this story is " about " wildness and civilization , a welcome idea to us , seems finally illicit , and perhaps precious because alien to the circumstances in which we find it . Such fondness for its own settings , as in spite of its spareness the Grimms ' language often conveys , jars with the most inalienable formal principles of the tales , the old geometry of threes and the familiar unraveling which retraces the same steps in reverse order , like a series of gates one must pass through both coming and going in order to gain credit . Left to itself a fairy tale never feels the burden of its past but returns to former haunts as a train passes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing names long familiar , the romance of such journeys an imagination of those who see the names as surprises prepared for them by the night , who like the characters have the power of forgetting instantly what the kind old man has said . Chateaubriand 's superficial magic inheres in his attitude toward his material , while the surface of the fairy tales is misleadingly resistant and hard at the edge . As Wilhelm observed , they represent the most innocuous survival of an old mode of thought , myth . His way of describing it is to say that bits of myth lie distributed in them like shattered jewels among grass and flowers , bits whose significance has long been lost but goes on informing the stories like an unseizable soul . This notion signals a critical transition from religious faith ( Christianity now presented as the killer of belief , stiffer of imagination , disrupter of the bond between man and nature ) to a surreptitious adoration of myth , seen as more fresh , deep , and terrible than its predecessor mainly because it is not grown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoids art 's disadvantage of issuing from too clear a source and feeling thereby an artificial choice . Credulity before myth is not worship of a mind like one 's own but of an entity remote and non-individual , the mind of the folk which by mysterious accords throws up its monstrous dreams . Interest in folk art is an attempt to evade self-consciousness which , beginning from an arch-subjectivism like Chateaubriand 's , escapes the self by going further into it , to deeper more featureless parts , like a fall into a pit . Thus can the matter of fairy tales feel unshared as it is experienced , though common to all . The end of Romantic individualism is a retreat to unanalyzable clarities which though derived from an articulate product are themselves incommunicable , everyone 's first article of faith about fairy tales being that their secret can not be told . Despite its logical impossibility this idea of the discussable Unknowable has exercised a powerful hold on those who have given up the idea of an answer which resolves all , but still cling to the imminence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ archeology , an examination of remains largely inarticulate because untutored , prehistoric artifacts surviving in the present , whose position outside history is indicated by their freedom , like other folk art , from the cycle of styles , strong in their anonymity , which appeals to the Romantic sense that the self is anonymous deep down , differently from the way the eighteenth century felt it . Structuralist ideas of information and redundancy provide the most plausible explanation of how folk products survive extended illiterate transmission without denaturing or modernization , without losing their character or entering history . Information in this special use is contradiction or differentiation , a process of separating oneself off which has the best chance of transmission if haphazardly distributed through the text so that its location can not be clearly identified by the transmitter . Edmund Leach , speculating on how the Bible became the sort of text it is , shows that the effect of a succession of editors , or sufficient multiplication of intentions , might be to approach anonymity again , amendments contributing to an unintentional coherence . New ideas of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented by fairy tales , which conceive the person so loosely or generally it becomes no more than a bounded territory which wants to bring more inside itself . Our ability to engage passionately with such levels of generality suggests that abstraction comes more naturally and gratifyingly to human beings than is commonly supposed . One 's unthinking allegiance as a spectator at a game where one hardly knows the sides illuminates the " morality " of the tales , which is more cellular than moral , a kind of thrust like that which pushes a plant to the surface . Hansel and Gretel is about food , an undeniably primal subject , but if its participants are hardly human why does it assign dialect names to them ? Can this be simply disguise of its ruthlessness , as if a beast were to wear the friendly face of an old woman ? Certainly when illustrators of the tales like Richter and Schwind concentrate on woods and children , giving foliage the ruffly look of bows tied everywhere and making the dozy grandparent relation crucial , we feel them simple-minded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as mad , not a view the tales want to encourage , but in a sophisticated translation how they might come out , as they do in Lewis Carroll . Such a translation is like the dreaming of someone who has been upped of ! by Freud . ( ) ne can not make a simple response to a request for unedited material ; trying to keep one 's hands off produces results like madness , an overcompensatory excess . All the new sciences of unconscious products ? folklore , anthropology , and psychoanalysis ? face the danger of obliterating not just contaminating their data by observing them . When you ask someone to recite a dream or a tale so you can copy it down , the innocence which was its main virtue has been compromised . So the better system of roads at the end of the eighteenth century which simplified the collection of folk material was seen as a fatal incursion on it , as if after Freud 's inroads on consciousness dreaming were to dry up . The Grimms like to depict the old fragments they publish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shines and flowers bloom in vain , but how can being unvisited not be a perishable quality if one is talking about a real and not a fictional place ? Fortunately for psychic experience , however , the idea has reliable content , so a public experience can remain secret , and in the midst of busy streets inaccessible . Thus Hansel 's and Gretel 's behavior is simple but obscure , not especially intricate though highly patterned , and like something one might do though not very like : laying a path of stone pellets from a stone house into the woods , laying a path of bread pellets which disappear and wandering till one finds a bread house , which one begins to eat , only to be shut up and forced to eat in order to be eaten , until finally one is able to shut the big eater up where cooking is done , so she is cooked but left uneaten , and one flees the place where all is food , returning to scarcity , the stone house . Though powerful , this nightmare does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ susceptibilities play into the hands of the world , that he is designed exactly right for his own destruction , that his chances of success are small , a moral Freud could have endorsed . Though he found it in pursuit of truth and the tale in pursuit of success perhaps at the level they are carried out it comes to the same , a failure to synchronize man with something outside larger . Their views of the family feel similar though their ways of expressing them bear small resemblance , because both Freud and the tales disbelieve all moral profession and find real functions at a different level from that . If the knowledge of the tales became conscious they might make children ironists , but would never make them cynics , because they present a presocial world of selfish atoms and hang tenaciously despite its unlikelihood to an intoxicating vision of success . The fairy talc 's forgetfulness , leaving on a second and a third journey as if setting off for the first time , is a sign of its central self-centeredness , not a casual structural defect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed sense of responsibility , gives its resilience but suggests that overindulgence in the tales ( contra Bettelheim ) far from socializing a child will probably desocialize him . The freedom without responsibility Nietzsche strove so elaborately for is the fairy tale 's by primal right , and the sophistication of a narrative might almost be defined by the prominence of the function of memory in it , by the depth to which preceding actions are engraved on its face . The Grimms ' thirst for history led them to forms lacking all temporal depth , but what they still feel as historical sense is already shifting toward something else . Romantic obsession with the coherence of " ontogeny recapitulates philogeny , " the history of all life as the model for the individual 's and vice versa ? our particular instance of it being the equivalence between childhood and the fairy tale ? has anti-historical consequences . Such preoccupation with roots and such search for unity between past and present leads to a cyclic view , joins the actor to sources of strength outside his own efforts but dooms him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the processes of art and culture give the clearest indication of its historically revolutionary function for the Grimms . The great innovation of their generation was to identify culture with a specific national language and finally with race , so that one had the illusion of deriving highly contrived products from involuntary genetic process . This form of localism , which politicized language , culture , and race by linking them so closely to self-realization , by making them in fact surrogates for the self , saying these grand words and meaning me and mine , was able to look large and not pinched because it described itself in generalized language of growth . Therefore the politicization of language and culture to which the Grimms made a not very calculated contribution can be approached best through the apparently innocuous figures of the fountain and the flower . Viewed in the coldest light , the flowing spring of the nation 's poetry and the river of tribal migration are not organic metaphors at all , yet this indefinite image of continuous change is fallen into more often by organicist writers than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The power of this image of movement to persuade early folklorists will hardly be believed by one who finds in it mainly a suggestive blur , the idea of unspecifiable source and unending continuance , a disdain in other words of definite content , which vegetable ideas and even the fastest-growing most impermanent plant seem inevitably to admit more of . The favoritism shown this figure is explained in part by its resemblance to another , and by the odd linkage long established between blood and race , blood imagined as flowing from one generation to the next in a continuous if invisible river . Thus the gravitation to underground springs as expressing the progress of races , not because you lose their path on the map but because it reminds you of the way blood asserts itself , issuing suddenly from a particular point on the body , a mysterious motion one would like to contain or pass on . It is a subject at which one naturally takes fright , and so if a writer really means to evoke rivers of blood crossing Europe , he is not free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from one flow to the other , and in the vicinity of springs we are never far from discussion of the integrity of racial groups , but because of its evident harmlessness the idea of the river of folk can be deployed irresponsibly by a variety of writers . The frontispiece to volume two of the 1819 edition shows one of the Grimms ' old female informants pressing a small assortment of wildflowers against the tabletop in front of her . The shock of novelty when this was offered as a picture of the poet is now lost to us , an ordinary peasant woman drawing her inspiration from nature as it is casually gathered along the field 's edge . Opposite the old grandmother clutching her shreds of story , a garland of woodland flowers forms a soft cushion around the words of the title , the Grimms ' favorite figure for their collection to call it blooms they have formed into a rustic bouquet . The small fragment is congenial to them , sometimes as the scientist 's instance , sometimes the poet 's flash , their works frail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinct life , which might be trampled or mown , delicate not insistent , qualities few readers associate with the tales . In another connection , in their journal Old German Forests , Wilhelm describes the men of times when fairy tales were created as nonindividual , like lilies , because they followed their fathers ' paths without new thought , an echo of the reverse personification found in the tales instead of the moralizing positive kind . A girl becomes a plant , to be redeemed not injured when a piece is broken off , losing her distinctness toward an equilibrium in which all things are uniformly alive and none extraordinarily so . It is a similar de-individualizing amelioration when after an uneasy pregnancy a woman bears a sprig of myrtle , with which a prince immediately falls in love ? like most transformations in fairy tales , boys to ravens , princes to frogs , one in which people lose character instead of the reverse familiar in the rationalized magic of allegory . Perhaps this difference is less important than the fact of transformat ion , and the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cup from which God drank that is its goal . " Extremes meet " was a favorite Romantic proverb , satisfied so much more obviously by Blake 's transmogrifications than by anything in earlier literature one begins to wonder if it is a valid intuition or an imposed dogma , but it is suggestive to find the great de-poeticizer of the tales , Vladimir Propp , who calls his analysis functional and reduces them all to a single type , saying that malevolent and benevolent agency are the same , indistinguishably propulsive in sending the hero forth to what is alternately imagined as his doom or good fortune , or that for something to be stolen by a villain or lacked by a poor household has the same dynamic result . Metaphors aside , if one asks in what way literature is firmly and not fancifully organic , ignoring such extremes as Blake 's senseless vegetative cycles , one is reduced to saying that it feels right but does n't look logical , that it defeats explanation and seems to be obeying a higher principle than reason , or at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our theories . In other people 's explanations it is easier to see that the main effect of invoking organic metaphors for literature is to save a larger place for the irrational , and keep open the possibility that art embodies an ultimate power whose source is beyond us , perhaps just because we must have something beyond us inviting us on , the world 's mystery its greatest solicitude for man , the last explanation signaling the last moment of time for which there is any use . Wilhelm said tales were just as essential to life as common household utensils , spoons , cups , and towels , and were found entwined with them except where links with the past had been broken by the noise of machines . To imagine the stories as things , simple handmade artifacts , pleases him , but because he does not want a continuum between humble technique and large-scale manufacture , he erects his barrier of difference between one machine and another . The tales have not perceived a crevasse here , and much of their dreaming is technological , speed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a moving horse , swinging a sword through rain without wetting it , which may have lost some of its freshness for us but shows this kind of thought not really alienated as modern divorcers of technology and imagination have proposed . When the impostor who has stumbled on the abandoned dragon 's corpse hauls it to court and claims the reward , the hero is able to step forward with the animal 's tongue he has cut out , the key to the whole monster which establishes his right . If we were not heavily disposed against such a description we might see here the symbol as a laborsaving machine , the literalist doing the sweaty transport for nothing , the symbolist possessing that infuriating elegance which arises from leaving out steps , and finding an unnaturally short route , based to be sure on work done earlier in another place . When the fairy tale substitutes one bride for another or sends a girl along the side of a stream after a rolling ball of wool , the faceless dynamism is deeply true to its nature . In spite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear in dozens of parallel manifestations in an area stretching from India to France , in spite of many tendencies to an abstract polyvalent view of reality , the earliest connoisseurs of the tales chose to regard them as entirely local products , and emphasized their narrowness not their universality . But when people begin to lay claim to myth as a possession and culture as national property to be safeguarded , they create unsolvable problems , for ownership of these categories and even of one 's nationality is difficult to establish beyond doubt . Germanness is only satisfying if it is yours without question , and at the moment it becomes a conscious subject the worry arises that an enemy might be able to deprive you of it , so you contest it even without attacks upon it . The Grimms traced Germanness to ultimate roots in the German language , most irreducible sign of national difference , and preached a linguistic conservatism which would have astounded a German of the Enlightenment . They preferred to find the tales in dialect because they were truer , more gnarled , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrowness , to hold up language as a means of non-communication and exclusion of foreignness narrowly defined . A principal difficulty for any ideologist of language or race is that both in their present states are confused and fragmented , and the usual solution is to posit and envy a time when linguistic and racial unity was more sweeping , when a small but distinct Nordic race inhabited the whole north and spoke an honest Gothic tongue . And in fact the Grimms ' great linguistic achievements were devoted to the service of such dreams , a desire to believe that one had once been more perfect than one was now , not in the form of one 's diverse literal ancestors , a throng of atoms unmanageably increasing as one traveled back , but in one 's race-ancestors , to whom one could assign what qualities one liked , first of which would be a passionate awareness of belonging to a certain blood group , as yet insignificant but destined for hugeness . The company of German speakers was large in the present and unified in the past , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper condition . The Grimms took the hints of folk belief and custom scattered in various sources , prominent among which were the tales , to be intimations of once-undivided consciousness , and so grouped and rationalized them into a great Teutonic mythology , the kind of artificial synthesis which ancient Greeks and Hebrews had more or less made of themselves , which the ancient Germans were too deeply imbued with , perhaps , to require in externalized firm , absence as evidence of what one is superior to . When Jacob recalls drinking customs or the history of German cakes , they are not programs for revivals , because his mode is not action but nostalgia . In his love of pockets of backwardness and praise for communities which have let history flow past them unaware , he seems most distant from political participation , for localism is the enemy of history and change , and difficult to preserve from contamination . The professor of the creed of localism can not be authentically provincial himself , since to recognize what is Hessian or Saxon he must have been infected mentally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unthinking jingoist with an instinctive loathing of aliens only becomes dangerous when allied with a theorist of differences who has systematized his idea of Germanness and begins to legislate contamination , seeing all mixture and alteration of boundaries as disease rather than growth . We read such sinister meanings in the Grimms ' appreciations of folk culture only in retrospect , and find vogues for smallest units of Germanness ? names , proverbs , Sagen ( legendary explanations of strictly local phenomena like deep caves , islands stranded in rivers , or greetings among mountain people ) ? portents of things to come . In Ossian there appears to be an extreme nationalism of personal and geographical names , much of the distinctiveness of his world inhering in these baffling syllables , Inibaca , Selma , Cormack , which lie thick enough on the ground to become a subject in themselves and not an invisible convenience . In a sense they are all obsolete , since the same places and similar people still exist differently referred to , the names an inexpensive guarantee of the poem 's authenticity . Gaelic names @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thus their resemblance to early transcriptions of American Indian words . In this stage at least , nationalism can be a form of exoticism in which one pretends that the weirdness of the resurrected names feels immemorially right , and that only outsiders would balk at calling their children Ur got , Yvain , or Melisark . The geography of Ossian and of true folk literature is foggy but the addiction to certain characteristic species ? birches , pines , wolves , squirrels ? may be seen as a geography with nationalist overtones . On a much later building like the National Museum in Helsinki owls , elk , and pine trees with drooping branches and interlaced roots have been elaborated into expressions of the local soil and hence the national character , a modern variety of totemism , in which one identifies oneself obscurely with lower forms of Ilk , adopts them as badges not decor , roundabout forms of defiance . The Germans even manage to lay claim to night and bad weather , Italy having spoken already for sun and clear skies . The Nachtwachen von Bonaventura @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German patriots of night . Once it is undertaken every coordinate of life can be polarized and even one 's geographical position made an absolute . If to be northern is to possess a certain strong unattractive character , if it carries certain privileges , it is also something in which one can be outflanked , Danes , Swedes , Laplanders all more northern than oneself , until one hits on the division of the world into north and south so there is no boundary between oneself and Scandinavia but between oneself and the I Satins . A similar manipulation makes workable Ruskin 's link between geography and creativity . All our strength comes from the hills , and if English universities could be relocated in the mountains a great upsurge of productive energy would result . The fact that the cities like Venice which have produced what Ruskin values are not perched among mountains , and that mountain populations are in his experience degraded , is explained by the power of hills to act across distance and their powerlessness against bad habits deeply enough engrained . For some reason the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its situation , its isolation or discomfort , and encapsulates envy in the form " Evil , be thou my good . " But the feeling one must endorse everything in sight for the reason above all that it is one 's own will drive anyone of rational inclination to desperation , so it seems likely German defensiveness arises from being more in two minds about themselves than most people . An acute appreciation of the other side leads to polarizing what they want , until it is impossible to have even half of it . One of the most encouraging facts about Elias Lonnrot , who in compiling the epic he called Kalevala made the greatest single contribution to Finnish national consciousness , is that he could never be provoked to anti-Swedish feeling . Lonnrot was a doctor who began to collect fragments of Finnish oral poetry on vacations and tours of medical inspection in rural Finland , without at first the idea of forming them into a whole . After his first publication , The Harp ( 1829-31 ) , two skilled singers in an eastern district gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though the possibility of putting together a Finnish Ossian had been broached much earlier in an ethnic newspaper . As he went on Lonnrot not only collected but embodied the folk tradition , becoming a singer who like peasant ones could recite from memory and improvise links and elaborations as he sang . 1 le differed from peasant singers in using transcription to learn the songs , which helped him build a larger repertoire than any of them , while his knowledge of literary models like Homer undoubtedly influenced the way he exercised the singer 's right to arrange his material , to reassign actions to different of the stock characters who recur through the poems . But if he is a more radical social type than the Grimms , a case of deep mimicry , he feels correspondingly less ideological commitment to folk literature , casualness in his relation which makes him less important than they in the history of ideas . Like Runge whose transcription of The Fisherman 's Wife in the language of fisherfolk fired the Grimms at an early stage in their research , Lonnrot cultivated unscientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the informants from which the Grimms kept aloof . His doctoral dissertation had been about magic medicine and he became a popular instructor through medical and agricultural manuals for simple readers , giving them something in return for what he got and even contracting their diseases like typhus . As he lacks , in spite of various linguistic compilations including a Finnish grammar and dictionary , the Grimms ' scholarly rigor , so he does the crusading ideology of immersion in a lower class one might expect of a Russian , though he cultivated simplicity and retirement ? peasant clothes , a pipe , work at an ingenious desk he had invented , exercise , singing . The Grimms ' materials remain detectably on the scale they naturally occur , though massed differently . Lonnrot while scrupulous in preserving the specificity of his fragments ? charms for catching bears hold up the narrative for four hundred lines ? imposes on them a principle of coherence borrowed from another culture . Trying to make an epic from these desultory pieces he forges an unachieved Ossian , flat and centerless because he refuses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and preserves even the genre of the components , including recognizable bits from south Finland which are more balladic because in that region singers are women . After the addition of an equal amount of new material in i 849 the Kalevala became even more a treasure trove or national display case which contained every single bit of information about the life of the early Finns Lonnnrot could turn up . He was at pains to safeguard it from obsolescence with the claim that no new material was likely to appear because he and his assistants had scoured Finland and the songs were dying anyway from exposure to the air of national publicity . Ile is also concerned to show that odd usages in the poems like impossible tasks set for a suitor , a familiar motif in fairy tales , correspond to customs among the early Finns . He finds ingenious rationalizations of mythic beliefs , like that churches in Finland were built by giants and wrecked at night by demons , rationalizations which depend on the Finns taking their history from the downtrodden Lapps and then overlaying it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are Finns as seen by Lapps , and demons Lapps seen by Finns . A certain lack of the grandeur which the imported notion of epic demands prompted bizarre mythic interpretations Lonnrot confutes by noting prosaic inconsistencies ? the character who represents the spirit of fire is afraid of it and gets burned , the spirit of the air is as much at the mercy of contrary winds as others . To imagine a slanging match early in the poem as a contest between water and snow , a pivot between winter and summer , or the voyage to steal back a prized grain mill , simply because the geography is uncertain , as occurring in the blue seas of heaven with the lynchpin of the universe as its goal , are efforts to enlarge the poems to match the scale of one 's own biggest feelings . The characters are so obviously petty in themselves that somewhat on the model of Ossian one turns to the circumambient environment for intimations of something larger . Lonnrot was immune to this need for transcendence which converted the poem 's evident responsiveness to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that early beliefs were close to his own , founded on a single unspecific god . And he was content to lack a transforming vision , to collect pieces of shattered pots and to form them into a pattern but not to see it as the world-tree when he had finished . The metric form of the original materials is also relaxed and uncomplex , consisting of paired lines , the second of which varies the language but repeats closely the matter of the first . Although the singing depicted in the poem does not take this form , as collected by Lonnrot it was usually sung by two , a lead and a support , one of whom directed its course , leaving the alternate line to be completed by his partner while he prepared the one to follow . They sang clasping each other 's hands and rocking back and forth . As it comes through translation the motion of the verse is powerfully physical , and the particular proportions of sound and thought would probably feel much the same in any language , like heaving and then resting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dead calm but an effortless exertion . Thus the larger motion of the poem no matter how long it dwells on a simple action never becomes involute or intricate but a continuous grooming or polishing . Even the eyes sift the page like shaking a basket of stones , motion which acts as a filter keeping back some of the sense . In formal procedure it is an extreme example , but perhaps typical of anonymous products seeking out the kind of action which is rolled up then comes unrolled , and thus largely performs itself , like the house that Jack built or the hiding of successive kernels in each other and then in successive fish which are then chased and successively cut open to find fire at the end again . Admittedly Wolfram von Eschenbach 's Parzival , though rude in its way and peculiar for its author 's claims of illiteracy , is an extreme example of an authored poem , of a certain intricacy going with inexperience like a literary equivalent of Scandinavian or Celtic interlaced ornament . The professions of ignorance may be ironic adoptions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eccentricity , for it is a poem which allows language to become contorted in following grotesque actions , but perhaps it only proves that any action is susceptible of gnarling as each one in Lonnrot is of smoothing . The comparison with Wolfram shows that there are certain kinds of wit and obscurity deeply individual and literary , however much he may pretend to be an oral poet , which could not be passed on by a group product like Kalevala , though the thought may feel animistic or mythical , so Wolfram conceives a battle as the struggle between the heraldic emblems on knights ' shields instead of the knights themselves , between griffins and ostriches , on whose side a troop of anchors intervenes just as the conceit has begun to feel comfortable . Once he even splits one of these tribal totems between two groups , an army marked with the front halves of griffins joining a detachment identified by the rear halves . Surprises on such a scale , of which Wolfram prepares large quantities , are impossible in an orally transmitted work like Kalevala with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's tears in thirteen stages over various parts of his body , clothes , and possessions , running on to reach the lake and settle at its bottom from which they must be retrieved . Even a less automated example like the inquiry into the origin of iron touched off by Vainamoinen 's wounding himself with an ax and needing to know how iron came to be , and especially how it came to be " bitter , " or able to hurt its maker , in order to staunch the flow of blood ? even this historical investigation is self-completing , burgeoning irresponsibly at the expense of the narrative which is always losing its way because it is a purposefulness largely imposed by Lonnrot . Nothing reveals better the difference between the efficiency of the fairy tales and the exiguous spinning-out of the songs than the idle quality of magic in the Kalevala , which has become a reflex to be elaborated , whereas in the tale it escapes conscious inspection . Home feeling not magic runs deepest in the Kalevala , local sentiment tied not to geography but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or with cleanliness . This unadventurous meaning of local is well expressed in Gallen-Kallela 's peasant interiors of dark wood painted in the 18yos , and more abstractly by his Kalmala illustrations which look hewn from wood , a moderate heroism of work . Some of the most poignant moments of the poem are the most obviously interpolated and substitutable , general instructions to brides on how to clean stoves , spoons not forgetting the handles , tables not forgetting the legs , with none of the Homeric feeling that a ritual significance still graces the act . A nearer example than Homer of a naively materialistic world , the Nibelungenlied , lays over bare possession and maintenance a powerful mythology of waste . Expenditure is heroism there , sign of a craving within the limited confines for largeness . The Kalevala is remarkable for its sober contentment with cleanliness as a measure of civilization and for concentrating on its dark corner without pretending to prefer it to sitting by the window . Though an example of the higher Romantic valuation of custom and usage as concrete history , the sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Kalevala is truly extraordinary in how little it presses the claim of its own uniqueness . From the belief that the only reality is local , uniqueness not sameness being the irreplaceable value in experience , it is more usual to progress to extravagant claims for one 's habits . Having split the world into atoms one asserts that each or one of them contains an unfathomable wisdom and finds oneself again sitting atop something large , the eighteenthcentury infinite reached this time through a paradoxical introversion . Macpherson , Chateaubriand , the Grimms , and Lonnrot share a mythology of setting out to collect authentic folk materials . The first two know so well in advance what they want to find that we can not be sure whether they think they have found it or made it up . The nobility is at odds with the localism in Ossian , but they need each other . In spite of their queer names his characters are more ourselves than we are , yet the really telling thing is their historical inaccessibility which proves like a skeleton planted in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress , but likewise no regress to speak of since we can still conceive this purified humanity . It takes the weirdest particular circumstances to show that human life is a way of thinking not a set of physical conditions , archival research as a way of proving locality inessential . To go everywhere weakens the power of place on oneself , uses up the world 's capacity for the not-me . Travel has for Chateaubriand a more drastic significance and he is not simply a stronger enforcement of the non-local moral of Ossian , because of the difference his personality makes , as the medium through which all boundlessness will have to pass . ie travels far in search of a reality which can keep a step or so ahead of him , and if his antagonist is not quite equal to this , at least Chateaubriand proceeds on an assumption like the Grimms ' that one will only ever be able to understand by discovering differences , differences so extreme one is tortured into questioning the familiar . The American stories are more authentic anthropological fictions than the style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the retrospect of later experience like Malinowski 's Diary , which suggests that Chateaubriand renders shrewdly the psychological effect of extended festivity which wraps away the individual lives of the tribe , and which remains after his much greater dose of that life Malinowski 's best way of distinguishing primitive existence from ours . Chateaubriand gives it so well because it is what he is looking for , and could not be sure ? until he finally found it ? that he could not fully possess . Macpherson and Chateaubriand are remarkably uninterested in specific paraphernalia of primitive life , or at least subordinate the interest to their general visions of man at home , as we are not , respectively in weather and the infinite , rather than in a place . The Grimms ' narrowing and specifying finally comes down to language , an extremely sophisticated equivalent for the local in their detailed conception of it . In the process of thought they stand at an early stage of , the local as unshared became the crucial arbiter of value . Making extravagant claims for the despised could best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hate . The juxtaposition of nineteenth-century renewal of interest in folk tale and the appearance of the morality of folk tale as practical politics in Germany a hundred years later makes one want to outsmart history by finding not the seed only but the whole plant in the earlier time , perhaps by making out that adoption of fairy tales as part of one 's adult cultural inheritance signals an as yet dim need to give evil a larger place in life , to welcome emotions long suppressed , rage , revenge , cruelty , with articulate endorsement they had never had before , as if one were telling a brave new truth . CHAPTER SIX ) TURNING AGAINST HISTORY Like the Nazarenes in Germany , the Pre-Raphaelites are aggressive provincials in painting , reseeing old stories so radically that their best pictures look mainly awkward . The English movement is less reminiscent of specific archaic styles and a less literal mimicry of the medieval guild ; its early purity undresses the past as much as dresses it , but achieves even in this starker phase a new mystification of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name is not appropriate except in calling up unfashionable simplicity , their first great defender , Ruskin , twists it around to link them with van Eyck and Durer not Italy , to make them a monastic order , Protestant not Catholic , mounting a Reformation in art to primitive vision and primitive Christianity . The literariness which seems to us their salient characteristic did n't strike viewers then , distracted by a new harshness in the way they render " nature , " or inanimate and vegetable objects , which assume thrusting prominence in their earliest pictures . Like that of the Nazarenes , it is a strongly linear art but , perhaps for lack of a graphic tradition , more bewitched by surface texture . Even more than the Nazarenes , therefore , the Pre-Raphaelites separate reality into distinct parts and thus it is that faith to nature produces what is above all a school of Illustrators . Thus also are fanatical devotion to texture , illustration , and picture purified of obvious representation linked in series . The PreRaphaelite microscope is a destructive instrument , and their meticulousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least literary of the main Pre-Raphaelites . ( Christ in the House of His Parents achieves an impression of startling accuracy by stripping away accreted historical flavor to get down to a multitude of sharp things , wood that is woody but not old , costumes which have sloughed the theatricality of Lorenzo and Isabella to become flavorless primitive like David 's , neither Palestinian , medieval , nor contemporary but an unspecific amalgam . Though the composition remains angular , it comes together with greater ease than Lorenzo and Isabella , whose sudden stares and kicks are the most authentic things Millais ever captured , as of reality startled by a loud noise . The clothes may be , but the faces are not Italian , not types , because too particular , and formed unnaturally into a gallery like a series of snapshots taken in a railroad station but mounted in an album . Only in modern times , we may think , has there been such cramming of human diversity , or perhaps we mean such perception of individual difference . As no one has ever thought these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stream in Millais ' Ophelia is Danish , a less purposeful contradiction than the former , to show it as evidently English , deriving its power from our sense it was studied yesterday nearby . The way to imagine literature , Millais seems to say , is to put it in the place you know best , not a place of the mind or geographically or historically recondite ones , but the landscape equivalent of local modern dress . The contradiction in this procedure is not expected to disappear , so when Dyce sets young Titian in a recognizably English churchyard it means that Titian , like Ophelia , for all his historical far-offness enjoyed summer afternoons and sat on squeaking leather chairs . So as Ophelia floats downstream she catches a real chill , and is hidden from historical view by a tangle of identifiable waterside plants . This thick backdrop dominated by the upturned emblematic willow is one of the tours-de-force of Pre-Raphaelite painting but a confusing mess as well , a virtuoso display of textures muddy to incomprehensibility in its spatial relations . Because of its minuteness Pre-Raphaelite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its observances , a paradox Ruskin applauded when he compared the rural bank m a later Millais to a Byzantine enamel . hunt 's light of the World shows an even more bejeweled surface purporting to be a corner of England at a definite time of day , and Collins 's Convent Thoughts gives a more rigid instance of the outdoors beginning to feel like the indoors by the overlabored method of its representation . It shows a nun in a convent garden behind a high wall , pondering a daisy while her other hand holds open an illuminated missal in such a way its pages come right-side-up for us , a miniature reflection of the flowers around her which have parted from her like the pages of a book , or stepped away like tactful personages who give thoughts fuller head within these confines . She is a pressed flower whose color has faded , a process which has earned her a truer luxury , her vocation a figure for the analysis of sensation instead of its thoughtless experience . Pulling a daisy apart in this quiet walled space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can be dismemberment if by that one understands the multiplication of parts . The convent garden becomes thus a transitional Palace of Art , a conception which exerted unusual force on the PreRaphaelites , surprising only if one accepts them as devotees to nature in the rawest states . Every illustration is a partly unwilling confirmation of the power of one art to compel another , a tutelage under which many illustrators grow restless , which alternatively sends others spiraling inward to locate art 's sources in itself , to make a more hermetic and non-communicating image , a convent within a convent , like the island in the garden Collins 's nun is standing on . Whatever it is in Tennyson 's poem , Mariana 's entrapment in Millais 's painting is the devotee 's enclosure in art , which has crucified the body by throwing it out of use . But the power of its patterns is not felt to be simple in the painting , a power which has changed the seasons , autumn outside the window and summer in her embroidery , as often in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is twisted by art to produce colored pictures in stained glass one must allow to usurp the windows to appreciate . Here the chamber is a beautiful prison , disturbingly churchlike . Houses were churches in those days and there was no escape , ideas accepted enthusiastically by other painters but giving little pleasure to Millais . His career is the most disappointing of them all because from the most vital he develops quickly to the deadest , a decline already complete in 1853 with The Order of Release , accompanied by less exotic subjects and greater certainty of handling , as if through the removal of contradictions imposed on his prosaic character by the incense of a more remote history he had been compelled for a few years to inhale . The claustrophobia induced by art is the very sensation Dante Gabriel Rossetti pursues most energetically . His five illustrations to Moxon 's Tennyson of 1857 are among his best works partly because crammed into the awkward compass of the page and hence full of tensions in spite of illustrating undramatic moments in the poems . His devotion to literature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was spent in terpreting it , and yet his view is clearly idiosyncratic , a vision , which exaggerates the hieratic qualities of romance to make it a parody relig ion , a continuous ceremony carrying clearer sexual and historical overtones than are permitted to religion proper . Thus in Galahad Receiving the Sanc Grad , a version of Communion in which sexual roles are stressed , the knights form a garland in front and the angels a fence behind , guarding the prostrate figure of Perceval 's sister as if the gilt background of an early Florentine painting had exercised its patterning influence on the whole scene . In some of the Tennyson illustrations , especially The Lady of Shalott and Mariana in the South , the sense of entrapment is more aggravated still , as if the figures were pushed from behind toward a small opening or pressed against a window . Here his awkwardness as a draftsman conveys passionate collision and his plagiarisms from early German prints are assimilated to new uses , the background of Mariana from Durer seen in vertiginous perspective like a shrunken tunnel in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceptional even among these heated illustrations and so is the resulting impression that they are only small windows onto Rossetti 's sense of the text , so details which take the whole side in Durer are given only a corner here , and if he had more time he would have more to tell . He is the best though perhaps not the most faithful Pre-Raphaelite illustrator because , to Ruskin 's dismay , he divides himself evenly between literature and painting , so that his involvement in the text makes him fit too much in the space allotted without allowing details to become independent of each other . The author who corresponds best or can be coerced to fit Rossetti 's conception is Dante . This conception imagines itself to be a sacramental view of existence , yet feels comfortable only in secular settings and halts frequently in passionate inspection of art , thus his Dante dreams of a sleeping figure or draws an angel , illustration contemplating the act of illustration , the process of representation itself as the final authentication of primary reality . Music plays the role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily disguised as an activity rather than an art , and more readily associated with women . Stringed instruments and hair , portable organs and passionate kisses seem almost neces- sary linkages in Rossetti 's mind , as if music always worked like Paolo and Francesca 's reading . In Tune of the Seven Towers the three are brought clearly together ? cabinets of art in which women are shut up like porcelain , the esthete herself an item in a collection ; music as an enthralling rigor ; and sexual consummation bringing life to a standstill . It shows the enchantress seated in a music-making device like a set of stocks which binds hands , feet , and waist , and thus conceives art as a song without spontaneity and a form of sealing oneself off . It belongs to a class of life-denying experience in which Rossetti includes sexuality and is able to show so actively because he feels the contradiction in any passionate devotion , which always closes itself up to enjoy a sameness . In Ford Madox Brown 's Chaucer Reading at the Court of Edward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the composition upward as well as sideways , making a pattern in which motifs are standing on each other 's heads . It shows too full a range of age and occupation , too garish a variety of costume , the manufacture of which is too observable . But Brown 's Work has a similar feel of having been added to endlessly , unlikely dogs stuck in at the last minute , the interpreters at right a late improvement , but some of the most extraneous accessories , like the party of ragged children , included from the start . When Brown becomes historical the contradiction is less troublesome between the disarray of the world and coolness of the handling , and a crowd presented vertically in mural style easily forms smug pockets which feel as if they can get along on their own , a surprising feature also of much illustration unhindered by the practical difficulties made here by a vertical space full of creatures most of whose physical relations are necessarily conducted on horizontal axes . Of course in Chaucer Reading the format is not forced on Brown by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for atomization . From the start his illustrations had shown a willingness to disrupt the main emotion to make the scene feel more like a picture , as in the far view of Dover cliffs which comes between Cordelia and the sleeping Lear to frame the Britishness of the history and quicken us to the miracle of telescopic historical vision . Appliances like the King 's weird couch arc : a deep infection of poetry by ingenious science , systematized in later illustrations like Elijah with the Widow 's San or The Coat of Many Colors so that we feel everything has its place , cut off from others as if they took place in other rooms , as if to fit many rooms in one . It is smug also because the appliances all remind us of art and forethought , the carefulness of the life shown a commentary on the art which shows it . In illustration such lack of fusion can be a positive spur to inquiry , such inability of the artist to think in wholes an aid to the spectator 's learning , who will need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he sees . Much illustration , instead of a more slavish and unthinking branch of art , is a too-thinking one , trying to give the reader overdistinct and over-numerous ideas about the text , approaching a large mystery with many small clues , so that in the end one knows more about the houses of ancient Palestine than the feelings of Elijah , and has become a tourist not the prophet . William Holman Hunt is the only Pre-Raphaelite who felt obliged , in order to paint Biblical subjects , to travel to the Holy Land , struck by the incongruity of Christ knocking at the grown-over door of an English cottage though clothed in Oriental splendor . It is detail not conceptions one becomes a literal Nazarene to seek , yet , like Rossetti , he exerts transforming force on the bits he magpie-like collects . Partly he does it by believing that the literal becomes symbolic by having odd thought secreted in it , partly by denaturalizing his details through cramming . Hunt found a way to give the hoariest narratives of the Bible the accidental feel of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already plumbed as Christ among the doctors would need a long explanation appended to it . His Key to The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple is a hoax , though , illuminating inessential machines and leaving the farfetched human types and encounters uninterpreted . But the investigator of this picture irritated by Hunt 's footnotes seemingly intent on preserving every scrap of his research , his Egyptian , Assyrian , Palestinian , and British Museum adventures , may miss the Key 's clue to the painting . Like The Awakening Conscience or the idolatry of motherhood perpetrated by and for Victoria at Osborne , it is full of Victorian duplicity , trying to sneak its wishes past by calling them symbols , or giving greed the face of moral improvement . Thus Hunt manages to read St. Agnes ' Eve as a temperance tract , and Victoria to require before the sensuality of breast-feeding a hushed reverence . We know , or think we know , that the love nest recorded in Awakening Conscience is an everyday world , but it feels undeniably weird . Palestine has not given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journey how to avoid the ordinary while deep in the literal , to be fantastic without provable untruthfulness . So the move to Palestine was partly protective cover for the mind which bred luxurious exoticism wherever it was employed and elicited revealing inadvertencies from Ruskin , showing him , too , fatally charmed by indulgence dressed as teaching . Like most of Hunt 's paintings , The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple raises Messianic hopes , but a millennium of gold and colored glass , heaven a Turkish harem . Illustrating so much , it fails as an illustration , its drama stalled by feeling studied in every inch . Hunt 's is an unnatural realism , a nightmare sharpness of vision which became more hallucinatory as the contradiction bore in on him between his literalism and his spiritual pretensions , his efforts to make peacock iridescences represent God . The largest camel he ever gave his admirers to swallow was the so- called Triumph of the Innocents , in the form of the Flight into Egypt with the event of the title in far-off Bethlehem bubbling to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dadd or Blake because of the " accuracy " of its formulation . A less intricate , more grotesque camel is the Scapegoat , showing what excesses of ingenuity were required to keep Hunt 's technique from petrifying like that of the other Pre-Raphaelites . The lurid Palestinian hills in the background and the goat 's footprints in the snow or sand are so freshly painted they subvert momentarily Hunt 's insistence that we understand this as an emblem of human sacrifice . He proposes that medieval arbitrariness of symbolic equivalence should go together with modern arbitrariness of mechanical reproduction . The result is superior to a photograph not in the way it looks but the way it means , as empty as reality and as deliberate as allegory . There should be a liberation in this ? to show painstaking detail and then to humble it before the primacy of the idea , but it has the old separated feeling of bad illustration which fails to keep the detail in suspension and by some jolting motion allows it to precipitate out . Thus        @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @    