@@773640

txt Astronomical scrapbook Danjon could observe with this photometer until three days after first-quarter Moon , in effect determining the magnitude difference between the Sun and the Earth for various phases of the latter . In his 1954 summary , Danjon reported that the visual magnitude of the full Earth as seen from one astronomical unit distance is - 3.92 . But there were seasonal changes in the reflecting power of our planet , some 20 percent between October and July . During the International Geophysical Year ( 1957-1958 ) , a worldwide chain of Danjon photometers was operated to monitor such changes . If we recall that NASA did not launch the Tiros i spacecraft until 196o , it is evident that the first weather satellite was our Moon itselfl 40 . Observing very thin lunar crescents S oMETIMES an astronomically useful word becomes obsolete prematurely , like the adjective combust . This is defined in large dictionaries as referring to a planet that is invisible to the naked eye because of the Sun 's light . Thus , we might speak of the Moon as being combust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the morning sky until the waxing crescent first becomes visible in the west after sunset . Authentic cases of naked-eye sightings of a Moon younger than 22 hours are not very common . Every so often , variants of the following two stories crop up iii the popular literature . Neither stands close inspection . Johannes Kepler is sometimes cited as having seen the old Moon in the morning and the new Moon that same evening . However , Kepler actually was just quoting a statement by his teacher Michael Mastlin , who seems to have given neither observation nor other authority for his belief . This matter has been discussed critically by such Kepler experts as Edward Rosen and Ludwig Gunther . The other story was written over a century ago by William Henry Smyth in his Cycle of Celestial Objects : " The late excellent Mr. W. Frend used to relate . t remarkable circumstance : early one morning , a lady of his acquain-2no Observing very thin lunar crescents tance noticed the wire-like crescent of the moon , then approaching nearly to her conjunction ; and the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crescent in the west , soon after sunset . " This is mere hearsay from a book with a poor reputation for accuracy . Nevertheless , William Frend ( 1757 ? 1841 ) was a well-known English author , who from 1804 to 1822 published a popular astronomical magazine entitled Evening Amusements , or the Beauty of the Heavens Displayed . Among valid young-Moon sightings are those of Terence W. Quigley of Green Bay , Wisconsin , who described himself as a compulsive observer . This amateur 's interest in hairline crescent Moons began on March 5 , 1954 , when he saw the lunar crescent only 20 hours 58 minutes after new . He could not match this personal record until April 6 , 1970 , when during a search for Mercury with 7 x 35 binoculars he chanced upon the Moon when it was only 20 hours 41 minutes old . About five minutes later the sliver of light was comfortably visible to his unaided eye . The youngest crescent ever photographed may well be that captured by William D. Pence of Charleston , Illinois . He happened to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his 6-inch reflector and , by knowing just where to look , could see it without optical aid on April 25 , 1971 , when its age was 21 hours 13 minutes . " The sky was very transparent , " he noted , " but owing to twilight , earthshine was not visible to the naked eye or in the telescope . At 32X the crescent appeared broken into several pieces . . . I took the picture seen on page 202 immediately afterward with my 6-inch reflector . " A. D. Thackeray , while director of the Radcliffe Observatory , Pretoria , South Africa , wrote that on April 5 , 1962 , during a binocular search for Comet 1962c , he saw the 201/2-hour Moon with the naked eye and without difficulty . " I have often regretted that my house on the observatory grounds does not command an unobstructed view of the western horizon ; otherwise I feel sure that I would have recorded many other planned views of a very young moon , " he wrote . " The problem has a practical significance , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pretoria constantly telephone the observatory to ascertain whether the new moon will be visible or not . I have always understood from my predecessor , the late Dr. Harold Knox-Shaw ( who dealt with the same problem in his young days at Helwan , Egypt ) , that the record 201 Astronomical scrapbook was 17 ? hours . In the case of my own record , the visibility was so easy ( despite the proximity of a large city ) that I have no doubt this record could be beaten by more than an hour , given good enough conditions . " The modern record for sighting a young Moon seems to have been established by a member of the China Lake Astronomical Society in California . Realizing that March 15 , 1972 , would provide the opportunity to see a Moon less than 15 hours old , James H. McMahon prepared a detailed diagram showing the location of the Moon relative to Mercury and the sunset point . He reported , " Robert Moran drove in his jeep to the highest peak in the Rademacher Hills , eight miles due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . Moran was plagued by small clouds and some low haze . Nevertheless , using io x 50 binoculars and a copy of the diagram , he caught sight of the crescent at 6:28 p.m. , when the moon 's age was 14 hours 53 minutes . With difficulty , but positively , he continued to view the crescent for three minutes . Because the moon was 202 Observing very thin lunar crescents hard to see , he made no attempt at a naked-eye sighting , moving just his eyes to read the time from his wristwatch . The orientation of the crescent was as expected , and its length from cusp to cusp was estimated at only 6o degrees . At the rate the crescent was approaching the horizon , it probably set 0/2 minutes or less after it was last seen by him through the haze . " The topic of young Moons had a lifetime fascination for the English amateur astronomer Charles T. Whitmell ( 1849-1919 ) . By profession a school district administrator , he was a skillful computer who delighted in the solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ articles about them in popular journals , and he published the following account of a 14 ? - hour Moon that is widely regarded as the naked-eye record : " From Scarborough , in Yorkshire , about 8h p.m . ( G.M.T. ) on Tuesday , 2nd May 1916 , the Moon was observed by Lizzie King and Nellie Collinson , two maids in the service of Mrs. Ackroyd , of 43 , Westbourne Grove . I have been in correspondence with this lady , and wish to thank her for convincing evidence most courteously given . On the same evening , about 8h 15m , the crescent was also observed with the naked eye by Mrs. Willimott and her daughter , residing at Heighington in county Durham . Mrs. Willimott has also kindly replied to inquiries . We have thus the evidence of four persons . As might have been expected , atmospheric conditions were perfect .. . It seemed to me exceedingly probable that a mistake of a day might have been made with regard to the observations at Scarborough and Heighington . But this was certainly not the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2nd May was the occurrence on the same night of a Zeppelin raid over Yorkshire . . . . So far as I am aware , this Moon , 14 ? hours old , is the youngest yet observed in England . " One would like to know what the eyewitnesses themselves said , but the original evidence satisfied Mr. Whitmell , who seems to have been a competent judge . He also reports the case of a Mr. Hoare of Faversham , Kent , who saw a 143/4-hour crescent on July 22 , 1895 , and of D. W. Horner , Tunbridge Wells , Kent , who viewed a 16-hour-old Moon on February 10 , 1910 . In each instance , he communicated with the observer and made a detailed investigation of the circumstances , as far as they could be reconstructed . Whitmell 's own personal record was 22 hours , on April 1 , 1919. 20 . ; Astronomical scrapbook Good vision , a suitable climate , and years of perseverance are all that is needed for anyone to see some very young crescents . Not every new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conjunction with the Sun must fall within certain limits of local time . For example , if at the observer 's site new Moon occurs in the late morning , at sunset that day the crescent will be a hopelessly difficult eight hours or so , whereas on the next evening it will be a commonplace 32 hours old . If you are trying for a record , pick a month when the moment of new Moon falls sometime between midnight and sunrise . The season of the year is also important . In north temperate latitudes , around the March equinox is a favorable time for viewing a young evening crescent . At such a time the ecliptic crosses the horizon most steeply . This situation causes the Sun to sink rapidly , darkening the sky , while placing the waxing crescent quite far above the horizon . Similarly , around the September equinox is favorable for observing the morning crescent . Several of the dates cited earlier are near such times . Finally , it is advantageous to have the Moon at perigee ( closest to the Earth ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orbital motion is then fastest , thus increasing the angular distance of the crescent from the Sun . Indeed , this was the case for the observations of Quigley and of Thackeray . It is well known that many calendars , both ancient and modern , begin the month with the first appearance of the Moon . Historians , therefore , would like to have some simple criterion for deciding whether or not the crescent could have been seen from , say , Babylon on a specific date . One answer to this question was given in 1910 by J. K. Fotheringham , an English specialist in the history of astronomy and ancient chronology . His material was a collection of 76 nakedeye observations of the visibility or nonvisibility of the crescent in the years 1859 to 1880 , mainly by J. F. J. Schmidt at Athens . For each observation he calculated the true altitude of the Moon at the moment of sunset and the difference between the azimuths of the Sun and Moon at that time . Fotheringham 's data are plotted here . He noted that a clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observations , which he approximated by the curve . If for a given date at Babylon the calculated altitude of the Moon at sunset fell under the curve , the crescent probably would not have been seen , according to him . 1 1 204 Somewhat similar criteria were developed by E. W. Maunder of Greenwich Observatory and by the Indian Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac . Both are listed in this table , along with Fotheringham's. 205 Astronomical scrapbook What about the record-breaking observations made in 1916 at Scarborough and Heighington ? At both places the Moon 's altitude at sunset was 8.3 degrees and the Moon stood nearly vertically over the below-horizon Sun . These observations correspond to the cross on Fotheringham 's diagram . By all the three criteria the Moon should not have been seen ! Are the prediction rules at fault ? Or was Whitmell mistaken after all in accepting these observations as genuine ? Perhaps the best guide to the extreme limit of visual detection its supplied by the distinguished French astronomer Andre Danjon . In 1931 , when director of Strasbourg Observatory , he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with lunar phase . That August 13th , he saw the Moon when it was only 16 hours 12 minutes before new . To his surprise , in a 3-inch refractor at 25 power the crescent extended less than a quarter of a circle , being estimated as 75 to 8o degrees from cusp to cusp . Other observations , as well as an examination of printed records , showed that this shortness of the crescent was a general phenomenon , which became less marked as the angular distance of the Moon from the Sun increased . There is a simple explanation for the shortening , which Danjon pointed out in 1932 . When the moon is a slender crescent , the shadowed sides of lunar mountains are turned toward us and tend to mask the sunlit areas beyond them . Thus , the illuminated crescent looks narrower and shorter than if our satellite were a perfect sphere . This effect is shown by Danjon in the diagram opposite . He explains as follows : " Let us represent the moon . . . by its projection on a plane passing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Light coming from the direction SO illuminates the left half of the globe , limited by the terminator BD . Since the earth is in the direction OE , the hemisphere turned toward us is bounded by the great circle that projects as AC . On a smooth sphere , the zone AOB would appear sunlit , forming a 18o-degree-long crescent with one cusp at 0 , the other at the diametrically opposite point of the sphere . " But the moon is not smooth , and the mechanism described above displaces the cusp from 0 to Q. The lunar surface in the little triangle OPQ remains invisible . We call PQ the deficiency arc , and evaluate it as follows . If a is the angular distance of the moon from the sun ( taking account of lunar parallax ) , 2W the length of the cres- B cent ( which would be 18o degrees on a smooth sphere ) , the deficiency arc a is given by the formula sin a = sin a cos w . " From here and there , Danjon collected more than 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he calculated the deficiency arc , using this formula . The result , taken from his paper of 1936 , is the graph on page 208 . It shows that when the Moon is more than 40 degrees from the Sun , the arc is negative ; more sunlit area is visible than a smooth surface would afford , and the bright cusps extend for slightly more than a semicircle . But for elongations of less than 40 degrees , the deficiency arc rises steadily . Finally , when the Moon is seven degrees from the Sun , the deficiency is also seven degrees . That is , there is no longer any sunlit crescent visible . For an elongation of seven degrees or less , the entire crescent is contained in the shadowed region and disappears from our view . Thus , the limit of visibility of a young Moon is set by its angular distance from the Sun , not by its age . For a particular age , the angular distance can have quite a wide range of values , depending on the Moon 's latitude ( distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near perigee or apogee . A calculation for the case of the 207 14 ? - hour Moon shows that it was 7.6 degrees from the Sun and therefore visible by Danjon 's criterion . Another consequence was noted by Danjon . At new , the Moon can not pass more than 51/2 degrees north or south of the Sun , which is less than the seven-degree Danjon limit . Hence the crescent must vanish for an interval of time during every lunation . Under conditions when there can be no visible crescent , is it possible to observe the lunar disk by its earthshine ? A succinct answer was given in a 1967 report by three rocket astronomers at the E. O. Hulburt Center for Space Research ? M. J. Koomen , R. T. Seal , Jr. , and R. Tousey . It reads : " From the earth 's surface the moon has not been observed at elongations less than 70 from the sun ( Danjon ) . Here the crescent vanishes and the twilight sky masks the earthshine . Photographs of the earthlit moon at 20 elongation were obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ externally occulted Lyot white-light coronagraph of small size . Two of these 2085 The first observed occultation of one planet by another instruments were flown side by side in a solar pointing control mounted on an Aerobee-15o rocket , launched from the White Sands Missile Range at 16:38 UT and reaching a 175-km peak altitude . " The photographs resemble closely those of the full moon . Contrasts are approximately the same , leading to the conclusion that there was no appreciable quantity of cis-lunar dust , which would have manifested itself by strong forward scattering of sunlight . An irregular glint was present on the limb of the moon nearest the sun , and was apparently caused by grazing reflection from the smooth area of Mare Marginis . This glint may be considered a vestige of the new moon crescent . " The possibility of detecting the earthlit features of the lunar disk should be rather better at zero elongation than at an elongation of one or two degrees . For one thing , the Sun is totally eclipsed , and the earthshine is brightest . Even so , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scattered light from the corona and the sky . Visual attempts to see lunar features during a solar eclipse are probably meaningless because of contrast effects , but the vague outlines of the seas can be traced in a photograph taken during totality on March 7 , 1970 , by W. T. Peters at Cameron , Mexico . This picture is the only one of its kind that I have seen . In a sense , it is the ultimate in young-Moon photographs . 41 . The first observed occultation of one planet by another ON THE NIGHT OF JANUARY 9 , 1591 , young Johannes Kepler , then a student at the German university of Tubingen , went outdoors with his teacher Mastlin to observe a close conjunction of Jupiter and Mars . The two planets rose shortly after midnight , but the watchers saw no trace of Jupiter . It appeared to them that the giant planet was hidden behind Mars , and the reddish color convinced them that the latter was indeed the nearer of the two planets . 209 Astronomical scrapbook Taken at face value , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all planetary phenomena ? the occultation of one planet by another . However , this pretelescopic observation may merely concern a close approach or appulse of the two planets , with their separation less than the resolving power of the eye . It is well known that the bright planets appear to the naked eye considerably larger than they are in actuality . Tycho Brahe estimated the diameter of Mars as ioo seconds of arc when it is one astronomical unit ( 92,960,000 miles ) from the Earth ? a value To times greater than the planet 's actual diameter . Naked-eye testimony is not enough , unless backed by precise calculations of the planets ' positions , a verification that is lacking in the above case of Mars and Jupiter . Only a solitary case is on record of the occultation of one planet by another having been observed telescopically . This was on May 28 , 1737 , when Venus passed in front of Mercury . In the evening twilight at Greenwich Observatory , John Bevis watched the event low in the west with a nonachromatic refractor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about three minutes of arc from each other in the field of view . They were drawing together rapidly when clouds blocked the view . Eight minutes later Venus could be seen again at its full brilliance . But Mercury was invisible , concealed behind the disk of Venus . Once more the clouds blotted out the spectacle and prevented further observations . Bevis ' unique record was critically analyzed more than a century later by the great French astronomer , Urbain Le Verrier , who had begun his scientific career as an organic chemist but turned to celestial mechanics . Already director of the Paris Observatory and worldfamed for his independent prediction of the planet Neptune , he had just completed his new and greatly improved tables of the motions of the inner planets . As one of the tests of these tables , he computed from them the circumstances of the 1737 occultation of Mercury by Venus . Le Verrier calculated that Mercury was indeed behind Venus when seen by Bevis through the parted clouds . But the innermost planet was only partly occulted ; 2.27 seconds of arc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was near elongation at the time , about " quarter-moon " phase , and the portion of its disk that protruded beyond Venus ' limb was unilluminated , so Bevis could 210 not have seen it . Le Verrier commented with pride about the accuracy of his calculations : " The precision with which the principal phases were observed in the occultation of Mercury by Venus on May 28 , 1731 , is a remarkable confirmation of the exactness of our tables of the sun , Mercury , and Venus . " Although he observed at Greenwich , John Bevis was an amateur astronomer . Born in 1695 at Old Sarum , in Wiltshire , England , he became a physician with wide scientific interests . Besides the astro-211 able localities . But these places were then occupied by the Portuguese and Dutch , respectively , and Halley did not want to spend the time needed to master a foreign language . His choice therefore fell on the small South Atlantic island of St. Helena , at that time the southernmost land under England 's flag . Lying 1,200 miles off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1502 , and since 1651 it had been garrisoned by the East India Company as a waystation for its shipping . The youthful Halley acted promptly and with worldly wisdom . Beginning in July , 1676 , he and his Oxford friends began writing letters to influential persons . The matter reached King Charles II , who at once requested the East India Company to furnish Halley and his companion Mr. Clerke with free passage to St. Helena and all necessary aid . This was quickly arranged , and Halley 's father agreed to contribute ? 300 a year for the duration of the expedition . In November Halley and Clerke sailed from England aboard the East Indiaman Unity , and after a voyage of three months they arrived at Jamestown , the port of St. Helena . From this small settlement , a narrow valley ran up into the rugged interior of the island toward the central mountain , Diana 's Peak . 2 14 Edmond Halley at St. Helena From its 2,700-foot summit , one could see an unbroken circle of sea ; two miles north was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residence of the exiled Napoleon Bonaparte from 1816 until his death in 1821 . Halley set up his instruments on another nearby eminence , known to this day as Halley 's Mount . For his catalogue observations he used a " great sextant " of s ? - foot radius , fitted with telescopic sights , to measure the angular distances between stars . He also brought from England his 24-foot refractor and several smaller ones , a pendulum clock , and his two-foot quadrant for time sights . The year that the young astronomer spent on the remote island was very busy but often frustrating . Cloudy weather was much more prevalent than Halley had anticipated , and often the mountains were enveloped in fog . It was necessary to use every moment of clear nighttime sky . He got along badly with Governor Gregory Field , who is said to have been discourteous and arrogant . Also , living conditions must have been primitive in the isolated interior . But in spite of these obstacles , Halley succeeded in compiling a catalogue of 341 stars ( six of them in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weather prevented any measurements of stars in Piscis Austrinus ( except Fomalhaut ) and in Indus . As a compliment to his royal patron , Halley arranged 12 stars of Argo into a new constellation , Robur Carolinum or Charles ' Oak . The original edition of Halley 's catalogue , published just after his 215 Astronomical scrapbook return to England , is exceedingly rare , but Francis Baily 's 1843 revision of it is accessible today in any large observatory library . The 341 stars are arranged by constellation , with celestial longitudes and latitudes given to a nominal accuracy of half a minute of arc . Star brightnesses are given to the nearest whole magnitude and occasionally to the half magnitude . Rough though these data are , they provide some of the earliest available information about the luster of the far-southern stars . Three objects are listed as nebulae . One is merely a group of stars in Scorpius , but the " nebula between the tail of Scorpius and the bow of Sagittarius " is the star cluster now known as Messier 7 , while that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cluster Omega Centauri . Although Halley 's chief effort was to measure stars for this catalogue , he also observed the lunar eclipse of May 17 , 1677 , the eclipse of the Sun that May 31st , and the transit of Mercury on November 7th . It was this last event that first suggested to Halley the possibility of using transits of Venus to measure the Sun 's distance . He also seems to have independently discovered that a pendulum beating seconds is shorter near the Earth 's equator than in European latitudes , a fact noted by Jean Richer at Cayenne in 1672-1673 . Thus , when Halley returned to England in 1678 , he was laden with scientific fruits and already a famous man , who was quickly rewarded with election to the Royal Society and an honorary degree from Oxford . With St. Helena as a stepping-stone , he was fully launched on his career by his 22nd birthday . Two centuries after Halley , Sir David Gill ( later director of the Cape Observatory ) visited St. Helena for a week in July , 1877 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gill climbed Halley 's Mount to search for any traces of the old observatory . Mrs. Gill described this excursion : " We did not know whether any record of this work remained in stone and lime , and it was a pleasant surprise to find , on the spot that an astronomer 's eye at once picked out as the most favourable , a bit of low wall , duly oriented , and overrun with wild pepper ( Cluytia pulchella ) . This had been the Observatory , without doubt ; and near to it is a quarry from which the stones for its erection had evidently been taken . So charmed was my husband with this interesting record of the work of 200 years ago , that his investigations and surmises regarding it left us short time to linger in the little 216 hollow the site of Napoleon 's tomb lying near the foot of Halley 's Mount . " Gill 's identification of Halley 's observing site seems to have been accepted generally by later writers ( apart from occasional confusion of Halley 's Mount with Diana 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Arthur H. Mawson , tells me that the story is not quite right . The low stone walls are still there on Halley 's Mount , though the wild pepper trees mentioned by Mrs. Gill are gone . Mawson , who speaks with authority as a mining engineer , says the stones are not from the quarry but probably from a nearby road cutting . There is even some reason to doubt that these ruins are connected with Halley at all . A modern historian of the island , G. C. Kitchins , says , " I ( alley moved his instruments about all over the mountain and had no permanent observatory . " Mawson suggests that the old walls may be remains of a shelter erected for artillerymen after Halley 's visit , and he cites Kitchins ' book : " In 1682 Alarm guns were placed 2 ip Astronomical scrapbook on Halley 's Mount , as the settlers in Sandy Bay could not hear those at Alarm House . " 43 . Father Hell 's reputation A LONG TRAIN OF CONSEQUENCES followed from a famous paper read by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was entitled " A New Method of Determining the Parallax of the Sun , or his Distance from the Earth . " This paper explained how the Sun 's distance could be determined with vastly improved accuracy , by timing the beginning and ending of a transit of Venus across the solar disk as seen from widely separated places over the world . This phenomenon had last occurred in 1639 , when no useful observations of it were obtained . Consequently , astronomers awaited with keenest interest the next transits of Venus , on June 6 , 1761 , and June 3 , 1769 . Elaborate preparations were made and numerous expeditions set out for places as remote as Tahiti , Siberia , and California , in an international scientific effort unprecedented at that time . Of the many stories of these expeditions , one of the most curious concerns Maximilian Hell 's 1769 observations in Lapland and their aftermath . This Jesuit astronomer was born in 1720 at Schemnitz , Hungary , and became one of the best-known astronomical figures of his generation . His order sent him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and three years later he moved to Vienna to take charge of the recently established university observatory . There he gained fame for his observations and writings , and especially for publishing 37 annual volumes of the Vienna astronomical ephemeris . Surely this useful career should have entitled him to a respectable if obscure niche in astronomical history . He was long denied this entitlement , however , owing to a letter handed him on September 5 , 1767 , by the Danish ambassador at Vienna . It was an invitation from King Christian VII of Denmark and Norway to travel at royal expense to Vardo , in the extreme northeast corner of his domains , to observe the transit of 1769 . This 218 island station north of the Arctic Circle was of great importance , as observations of the transit made there could be combined with others from the South Pacific to give a solar parallax determination of considerable weight . Father Hell left Vienna on April 28 , 1768 , in the company of his assistant , Johann Sajnovics , S. J. Their travel diaries , published many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One stop was at Znaim in Austria , where at the observatory they were shown an iron octant said to have belonged to Tycho Brahe . In Saxony , Sajnovics noted , the beer was so bitter that it could scarcely be drunk . The two traveled through Leipzig to Lubeck , where they were met by an agent of the Danish king and escorted to Copenhagen . Christian VII received them cordially . The last leg of their travels was by ship to Vardo , where they arrived on October 11th to find a foot of snow on the ground . Erection of a small observatory began two days later . On the 18th their clock was set up , and the next day the first time-sights on the Sun were taken . Hell 's diary records trouble with the native helpers at the observatory , who would report for work at 9:30 , take lunch 219 Astronomical scrapbook from 11 to 2 , and leave at 3:30 when it started to get dark . The remainder of the winter and spring were spent by the astronomers in geodetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hospitality of the islanders . On the date of the transit , June 3 , 1769 , the Sun did not set in the high northerly latitude of Vardo . The entrance ( ingress ) of Venus onto the solar disk was timed shortly after 9:30 p.m. , through a brief break in the clouds , and the captain of the astronomers ' ship fired off his nine guns and ran up his flag . The overcast remained solid until just before Venus left the Sun about 3:30 a.m. , when successful observations of egress were made and celebrated with another salvo . On the next day the jubilant astronomers checked their clock correction by Sun sights and wrote letters to Vienna and Copenhagen , which were sent off by a courier armed with a flintlock . Father Hell and Sajnovics returned by sea to Copenhagen , arriving in late October , and spent the winter there . Meanwhile , in Paris , the famous French astronomer Lalande was collecting all available timings of the transit in order to calculate the solar parallax . He wrote for Hell 's observations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of publication . This aroused suspicions , and Lalande hinted that Hell was waiting for other observations so that he could manipulate his own to fit them . There were even rumors that Hell had not seen the transit at all and was forging his records in Copenhagen . Even though the publication of the Vardo observations by the Danish Academy of Sciences quelled these stories , some lingering doubts remained for many years . In 1835 , C. L. Littrow , director of Vienna Observatory , discovered among its archives Hell 's original journals and published them in a book that attracted wide attention . Littrow took a highly critical view of Hell 's veracity , and he denounced the Vardo observations as proven forgeries . The evidence was clear , according to Littrow : The original ink figures for the contact times had been scraped out of the paper and others inserted ; in many places in the manuscript , changes had been made with ink of a slightly different color . The reputation of Father Hell remained in eclipse for half a century , until the famous American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Being especially interested in transits of Venus , he asked to be shown Hell 's journal . 220 Father Perry 's expedition to Kerguelen Island Studying the manuscript with great care , he began to find curious discrepancies with Littrow 's description of it . For one thing , many of the alleged alterations had been made before the ink had dried ; the writer on making a mistake had rubbed it out with his finger . To settle whether the original contact times had actually been erased , Newcomb examined the paper under a magnifying glass by grazing light . Nothing had been erased , but evidently ink had not flowed freely from Hell 's pen , so he had written his figures over again for clarity . There remained only Littrow 's allegation that changes had been made with ink of a different color . To Newcomb , the manuscript had merely been retouched with the same kind of ink , which looked a little darker on drying . On inquiry , he found that Littrow 's color vision was so defective that he could not distinguish the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Newcomb 's words , " No further research was necessary . For half a century the astronomical world had based an impression on the innocent but mistaken evidence of a color-blind man respecting the tints of ink in a manuscript . " 44 . Father Perry 's expedition to Kerguelen Island AIRLINES AND ARTIFICIAL SATELLITES Support the comfortable belief that we live in an increasingly compact and familiar world . Actually , some parts of the Earth 's surface were better known in the 19th century than today . One good example is Kerguelen Island , a French possession nearly as large as Delaware , lying in a lonely part of the Indian Ocean well south of the shipping routes between South Africa and Australia . Back in the 1820 's and 1830 's , hundreds of American whaling and sealing ships visited there , until the indiscriminate slaughter of sea animals made the trade unprofitable . Kerguelen Island regained brief public attention in 1874 when American , British , and German astro-221 Astronomical scrapbook nomical expeditions went there to observe the transit of Venus across the disk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magnificent mountain scenery , glaciers , grassy meadows , fjords , and islets has only a handful of inhabitants and slumbers nearly forgotten . This remote island was discovered in 1772 by a French naval officer , Y. J. de Kerguelen-Tremarec ( 1734-1797 ) , during a voyage in search of a supposed new continent southeast of Africa . He sighted a coastline in latitude 490 40 ' south , longitude about 700 east , along which he sailed for 40 miles without landing until he was blown away from it by a gale . On returning to France , he published this remarkable account : " The lands which I have had the happiness to discover appear to form the central mass of the Antarctic continent . The latitude in which it lies promises all the crops of the Mother Country , from which the islands are too remote to derive fresh supplies . No doubt wood , minerals , diamonds , rubies , precious stones , and marble will be found . . . . If men of a different species are not discovered , at least there will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primitive manner , ignorant alike of offense or remorse , knowing nothing of the artifices of civilized society . In short , South France will furnish marvelous physical and moral spectacles . " This dream was deflated by Capt . James Cook 's voyage of 1776 . The great English explorer circumnavigated Kerguelen 's South France , proving it a group of one large and many small islands . Rather unkindly , he rechristened it Desolation Island , a name that has since yielded to Kerguelen Island . This distant outpost first attracted astronomical attention in 1857 , when Sir George Biddell Airy , the Astronomer Royal , discussed early plans for observing the transit of Venus on December 8 , 1874 . Timings from stations distributed as widely as possible over the Earth 's surface would be essential . For this reason , it was highly desirable to occupy posts in far southerly latitudes in the Eastern Hemisphere . The great international program to observe the transit resulted from the efforts of Airy in England , Otto Struve in Russia , and Arthur Auwers in Germany . Agnes Clerke describes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Every country which had a reputation to keep or to gain for scientific zeal was forward to co-operate in the great cosmopolitan enterprise of the transit . France 222 Father Perry 's expedition to Kerguelen Island and Germany each sent out six expeditions ; twenty-six stations were in Russian , twelve in English , eight in American , three in Italian , one ( equipped with special care ) in Dutch occupation . In all , at a cost of nearly a quarter of a million pounds , some fourscore distinct posts of observation were provided ; amongst them inhospitable , and all but inaccessible rocks in the bleak Southern Ocean , as St. Paul 's and Campbell Islands , swept by hurricanes , and fitted only for the habitation of seabirds , where the daring votaries of science , in the wise prevision of a long leaguer by the elements , were supplied with stores for many months , or even a whole year . Siberia and the Sandwich Islands were thickly beset with observers ; parties of three nationalities encamped within the mists of Kerguelen Island .... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Rev. Stephen Joseph Perry , S. J. ( 1833-1889 ) , who since 186o had been director of Stonyhurst Observatory near Manchester . He had already made a name by his sunspot studies , his geodetic and magnetic work , and his novel spectroscopic observations of the solar corona at the eclipse of December 22 , 1870 , in Spain . This hardworking , very able astronomer was a quiet-spoken and modest man , who seems to have made a deep personal impression on contemporary scientists . His expedition gathered in July , 1874 , at Cape Town , where the British government placed two small warships , HMS Volage and I IMS Supply , at its service . In accordance with the instructions drawn up by Airy , the naval lieutenants assigned to the transit of Venus party practiced astronomical observations at the Cape Observatory . And because the expedition was to make photographic observations in addition to visual timings of contacts , four assistants sought to master the still-novel arts of wet-plate and dry-plate photography . During these preparations , Father Perry made the acquaintance of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their way to Kerguelen . The British expedition sailed on September 18th and on October 8th sighted the northeast end of the island . Passing through Royal Sound into the broad landlocked expanse of Morbihan Bay , the ships found a sheltered anchorage at Island Harbor , nestled among tour islands in mid-bay . All of Kerguelen , wrote Father Perry in his journal , " as far as the 223 eye could reach , was completely buried in snow . This was the end of spring for the southern hemisphere , so we had pleasant prospects of rambles in snow-shoes over rugged hills and half-frozen marshes and bogs . " An excellent observing site was discovered near the west end of Morbihan Bay . At this inlet , promptly christened Observatory Bay , the British party built a pier and unloaded boo crates of equipment from the Supply . Prefabricated huts for dwellings and instrument shelters were soon erected on the mossy plain . By the beginning of November the equipment of the little observatory was in full working order . There was a transit instrument for time determinations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On nights when the Moon was visible , lunar altitudes and azimuths were measured with the latter instrument to give additional determinations of longitude . The Moon 's meridian passage was observed on every possible occasion for the same purpose . About the beginning of November Father Perry sailed in the Supply to the northern shore of Morbihan Bay to visit the American station at Molloy Point , where Comdr . G. P. Ryan , U.S.N. , was in command . Perry inspected the American 's transit , refractor , and solar camera , around which many hens and roosters were running . More important , he made arrangements for determining the longitude difference between the stations by means of signals simultaneously visible from the American and English camps . 224 Father Perry 's expedition to Kerguelen Island Perry 's big worry was the weather , for in December at Kerguelen average cloudiness runs about 75 percent . Therefore he sent telescopes and observers to two secondary sites to lessen the risk of the entire expedition being clouded out . Four men with two 4-inch refractors were carried by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land separating Morbihan Bay from Swain 's Bay . ( " Haulover " was the sealers ' name for an isthmus over which they could drag their boats . ) Another 4-inch refractor and two men were also placed at Thumb Peak , located near the southern shore of Royal Sound . December 8th dawned clear , but soon fleecy clouds and haze appeared . As half-past six drew near , everybody was at his post , all preparations complete . At Observatory Bay a long series of multipleexposure photographs of the Sun was begun with the solar camera . Father Perry himself used the 6-inch refractor to see Venus as a black notch on the Sun 's limb , and he began a series of measurements of the size of the notch with a double-image micrometer . But a large cloud came over the Sun before ingress was complete , and when it lifted 20 minutes later Venus was well advanced on its path across the solar disk . The murk returned , and at times became so thick that the 6-inch showed nothing of the planet . With dismay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruined . Egress was due about 11 a.m . The sky cleared shortly before then , and the teams using the 6-inch and 4-inch refractors were able to get good timings of third and fourth contacts . Something had been saved ! The question was now how the two secondary stations had fared . That evening the Supply returned to Observatory Bay , bringing the two men from Thumb Peak . They reported excellent weather and timings of all four contacts , though it had been snowing the night before . Three days of storms intervened before it was possible to send the Supply to Swain 's Haulover to pick up its team , which had been completely successful at ingress but clouded out at egress . Although the transit was over , Father Perry 's expedition could not leave Kerguelen . Airy 's instructions required that over a hundred additional observations of the Moon be made to provide a more accurate longitude for the primary station . But so cloudy was the weather that this endeavor took 12 weeks , forcing the expedition to go on half rations . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Thumb Peak for more geodetic work . Meanwhile , the German expedition at Betsy Cove , on the north coast of Kerguelen , was similarly winding up its affairs . In late December , the Volage sailed there carrying eight chronometers , in order to determine the longitude difference between Observatory Bay and Betsy Cove by comparing their local times . Father Perry was surprised to find the German camp located in the middle of a small cemetery , where sealers had been buried many years before . The 17-man team there enjoyed excellent weather on the morning of the transit , carrying out a full program of contact timings , photography , and heliometer measurements . By late February , as the British at Observatory Bay neared the end of the long program of lunar observations , they began to disThe next transit of Venus mantle their equipment and load it aboard ship . For safety against total loss , the scientific records were copied , one set to return on the Volage , the other on the Supply . Finally , at S:3o a.m. on February 27th the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three hours later both ships were under way . 45 . The next transit of Venus THE NEXT TRANSIT OF VENUS will take place on June 8 , 2004 . In passage across the face of the Sun Venus is a striking sight , a black disk large enough to be detected even with the suitably protected naked eye . For watchers in 2004 there will be the awesome thought that not a single human being remains alive who observed the last transit of Venus , in December , 1882 . In fact , this phenomenon has been seen only six times since the invention of the telescope . The first predicted occurrences were on December 7 , 1631 , and December 4 , 1639 ; both were only imperfectly observed . The next transits , on June 6 , 1761 , and June 3-4 , 1769 , were widely observed from many parts of the world . By that time it was realized that timings of the beginning and ending of a transit from widely separated geographical locations afforded an accurate method of measuring the Sun 's distance . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasion of the transits of December 9 , 1874 , and December 6 , 1882 . This method of finding the Sun 's distance has become hopelessly obsolete , being replaced by radio ranging to spacecraft and planets . Professional astronomers will probably feel much less urgency about the events in 2004 and 2012 , but the appeal to amateurs will not be lessened . The dates of the six historic transits show clearly the pattern of recurrence , at intervals of 8 , 1211/2 , 8 , and I05 l/2 years . The Decemher transits occur when Venus is near the ascending node of its orbit ( that is , crossing the ecliptic plane northward ) , while the June ones take place near the descending node . Is it possible that some precisely dated ancient Chinese record of 227 v " a dark mark on the Sun " may refer to Venus in transit , instead of a naked-eye sunspot or sunspot group ? To facilitate the search for such cases , the Belgian astronomer Jean Meeus published the dates and approximate circumstances of all transits between 2971 B.C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Journal of the British Astronomical Association , 68 , 98 , 1958 ) Meeus also gives some geocentric predictions for the event of June 8 , 2004 . As seen from the center of the Earth , the event begins at 5:15 Universal time , when the disks of Venus and the Sun are externally tangent ( contact I ) . Contact II is the moment of internal tangency , 19.4 minutes later . The least distance of centers ( 0.661 solar radius or 10.4 minutes of arc ) comes at 8:21 Universal time . As the planet works its way westward across the solar disk it again reaches internal tangency ( contact III ) , and 19.4 minutes later the transit ends with contact IV at 11:28 Universal time . However , the contact times for an observer on the Earth 's surface will differ by some minutes from the geocentric values . I have made some rough calculations of local circumstances . North America is not particularly favored . If you live in the eastern part of the United States or Canada , when the Sun rises on Tuesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already be nearly over . At New York City and at Montreal , the Sun will be only about 18 ? up when contact IV happens at 6:27 a. m . Eastern standard time . Farther south and west even less will be seen ; Chicagoans and 228 Miamians will only be able to glimpse the last dark notch in the Sun 's limb . Europe will see the whole transit . At London , for example , the morning Sun will be t t ? up when ingress starts and nearly on the meridian when the show ends 6 ? hours later . As we travel farther cast around the globe , the transit slips later into the day . At Moscow , first contact comes at 8:13 a. m. and last contact at 2:33 p.m. ; at Bombay , 10:42 a. m. and 5:14 p. m . But at Tokyo , where the transit does not start until 2:08 p.m. , the Sun and Venus will set before the event is complete . Sydney , Australia , enjoys only ingress before the Sun sets , while New Zealand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and South America miss it altogether . A considerable number of interesting optical phenomena may be visible to observers on June 8 , 2004 . For example , at ingress , when Venus has partially entered upon the Sun 's disk , a circle of light around the planet should be conspicuous , to judge from many reports in 1874 and 1882 . This is a well-known effect of Venus ' attmosphere , observed as early as the 1761 transit by the Russian scientist M. V. Lomonosov . Just after internal tangency the dark body of Venus may remain connected to the Sun 's limb by a famous " black drop " ? a dark ligament that may persist for many seconds before it ruptures and vanishes . Although the black drop features in 229 Astronomical scrapbook many reports from 1761 and 1769 , it was less often seen at the next two transits . Apparently this phenomenon is associated with small telescope apertures and low magnifications . The better equipment used in 1874 and 1882 sometimes showed instead a dusky , hazy appearance between Venus and the Sun 's limb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II and III . There are also some anomalous records , such as Venus during transit appearing gray with a black center , as reported by L. A. Vessey at Woodford , New South Wales , in 1874 . The Meeus article mentioned earlier contains a memorable quotation from William Harkness of the U. S. Naval Observatory , writing in 1882 : " There will be no other transit of Venus till the twenty-first century of our era has dawned upon the earth , and the June flowers are blooming in 2004 . When the last transit occurred the intellectual world was awakening from the slumber of ages , and that wondrous scientific activity which has led to our present advanced knowledge was just beginning . What will be the state of science when the next transit season arrives God only knows . " 46 . Lunar studies before the telescope WILLIAM H. PICKERING once discussed the question of how much detail , on the face of the Moon can be distinguished by the unaided eye . He made up a list of 12 test features in order of increasing difficulty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surroundings . Reasonably good eyes should be able to see No. 7 , Mare Vaporum , as a very dark spot , while really fine vision can reach No. to , the faintly shaded area near Sacrobosco . Persons with exceptional visual acuity might distinguish the 11 th feature , a dark patch at the edge of Mare Imbrium , just across the Apennine Mountains from Mare Vaporum . But Pickering thought that his No. 12 , the Riphaeus Mountains , might be beyond even the keenest naked-eye vision . Careful experiments of this kind reveal a surprising amount of lunar surface features . The best results , I have found , are obtained by viewing the waning gibbous Moon during the latter part of morning twilight . Much less is visible by night , when glare hampers , or in full daylight , when contrasts are diluted . Thus seen against the deep blue sky of a cool dawn , the pale lunar disk is richly dappled with recognizable markings . This sight suggests the question : How much can be deduced about the Moon 's physical nature by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not easy for us today to answer this question directly , because we are too familiar with telescopic views and modern descriptions that can not be fully erased from memory . Our best look into the problem comes from two remarkable books written about the Moon in the 1st and Ilth centuries A.D. These reveal that selcnography had made good progress long before the telescope was introduced . I'IIe author of the first was a Romanized Greek , Plutarch of Chaeronce , who lived from about A.D. 46 to 120 . Besides his famous Parallel Lives , which incidentally is rich in astronomical allusions , he wrote over 6o lesser works on varied topics in ethics , history , literature , and science . One of these is On the Face of the Disk of the Moon . Plutarch 's book is not a technical scientific treatise but a literary work intended for educated laypersons . In the form of a dialogue , it 2,33 Astronomical scrapbook presents a wide variety of opinions then held about the Moon , with arguments for and against each viewpoint . One speaker , Lamprias @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some of which have a very modern ring . The opening pages summarize and refute several older theories 2.34 Lunar studies before the telescope concerning the Moon 's spots . One notion was that the markings are merely illusions , another was the idea of Clearchus that the Moon was a mirror in which terrestrial lands and seas were visible . Also dismissed was the Stoic philosophers ' doctrine that it was a mixture of the classical elements fire and air . Instead , maintained Plutarch through his spokesman Lamprias , the moon is another Earth . Reason demonstrated that it is a solid , opaque globe illuminated by the Sun . He quoted Aristarchus as saying that the Moon 's diameter is between 19/6o and 43/108 of the Earth 's , and he cited an unidentified author that it is distant 56 earth radii . The roughness of the lunar surface was deduced from the absence of a specular reflection of the Sun , as from a polished glass ball ; instead , an entire hemisphere is visibly sunlit at full phase . Plutarch went further and asserted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Topographical features inappreciable in themselves could be recognized by their long shadows . He mentioned as a specific analogy 6,350-foot Mount Athos in northern Greece , which near sunset casts a shadow that reaches 50 miles across the Aegean Sea to the island of Lemnos . According to J. H. Madler , this very correct concept of the Moon 's mountainous nature may have been suggested by the lunar Apennines . Near the time of first or last quarter , this range produces a conspicuous irregularity in the terminator for a naked-eye observer . Plutarch 's dialogue about the Moon was first printed in 1509 , and one edition of it was prepared by no less an astronomer than Johannes Kepler . Probably this widely read classic had a good deal of influence on thinking about our satellite during the dawn of modern astronomy . The second pretelescopic book on selenography came from the pen of one of the greatest Arab astronomers , al-Haitham , better known to us as Alhazen . Born at Basra in Iraq about A.D. 965 , he moved to Egypt as a young man and died @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ author , famed for his commentaries on Aristotle and Galen , and for many books on mathematics , optics , and astronomy . I I 's hook On the Nature of the Spots Seen in the Moon was known only by a 13th-century mention until a manuscript was discovered early this century in the municipal library of Alexandria . The text was first published in 1925 , in a German translation by Carl Schoy . Alhazen began by emphasizing how careful observations of lunar 2 ; S Astronomical scrapbook spots show they are permanent features , not changing in shape , position , or size . He rejected the theory that the large dark areas are shadows of elevated parts , because such shadows would vary in extent . His conclusion was that the light and dark regions are composed of different materials , reflecting light in unlike amounts . This conjecture had been mentioned in passing by Plutarch . The Arab astronomer discussed it in much detail , on the basis of his own optical theories . These sound rather strange today . One tenet of Alhazen was that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " out to feel it . His reasoning led him to believe that the Moon 's darker parts were of denser rock . Although Alhazen 's tract was unavailable in Europe , its concept of visible differences in the composition of the lunar surface had a wide currency during the century before the invention of the telescope . The idea is said to be mentioned in the books of the German Erasmus Reinhold ( 1542 ) and the Italians Geronimo Cardano ( 1550 ) , Giovanni Benedetti ( 1581 ) , and Francesco Barozzi ( 1585 ) . Three of these men are commemorated by the crater names Reinhold , Cardanus , and Barocius. 47 . The " long night " of selenography 0 o x 1 N G BACK over the history of lunar studies since the invention of the telescope , we can see a repeated pattern . Four times in 400 years , a greatly improved observing method has attracted a new generation of scientists to lunar problems , and a vigorous but temporary flowering of selenographic observations and ideas has resulted . The first of these occasions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Moon ? by Galileo , Kepler , Langrenus , Hevelius , Grimaldi , and their contemporaries from 1610 to 1650 . In this period the Moon became recognized as another world to explore ; it was also when maps were drawn . After a long lull the second period of great activity began early in the 19th century , when 236 achromatic refractors and filar micrometers were employed in lunar observing by W. G. Lohrmann , J. H. Madler , and J. F. J. Schmidt , initiating scientific cartography of the Moon . The third revolution started in the 1890 's , when large telescopes at Lick and Paris observatories began systematic lunar photography . The fourth revolution was , of course , closeup observations by spacecraft and manned exploration . In this bird's-eye view , we see recurring peaks of scientific activity that usually last for several decades but eventually tail off . These intervals of selenographic productivity are coming at shorter and shorter intervals with increasing overlap . One rather puzzling feature of this historical panorama is the " long night " of selenography that followed the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its initial popularity and drop out of the forefront of astronomical research ? Actually , a good deal of selenographical activity was going on during this dark period , but it failed to produce lasting results . The work of Christiaan Huygens ( 1629 ? 1695 ) exemplifies this thesis . One of Holland 's great men of science , he was an active telescopic observer and is particularly remembered for discovering Saturn 's satellite Titan in 1655 and for recognizing the true form of Saturn 's 23 7 ring system in 1659 ( see Chapter 24 ) . His lunar studies , however , remained generally unknown until 1925 , when they were published for the first time in Vol. 15 of his collected works . It is now clear that Huygens was the discoverer of three famous lunar features that were long attributed to J. H. Schroter ( 1745 ? 1816 ) . On May 30 and 31 , 1686 , Huygens used his 123-foot-long nonachromatic refractor to view and draw the Straight Wall , the well-known cliff in Mare Nubium . That month he also recorded Schroter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great Hyginus rille in a refractor of 6o-foot length . The lunar observations of Robert Hooke ( 1635 ? 1703 ) have attracted much more attention , for he described them in a chapter of his widely read Micrographia ( 1665 ) . This brilliant scientist served the Royal Society of London for nearly half a century as its curator of experiments . So versatile was he that he originated much but per2.38 fected little , and the Moon captured his roving attention for only a short time . Reproduced here from Hooke 's Micrographia is his drawing of the crater Hipparchus , made with the aid of " a thirty foot Glass , in October 1664 , just before the Moon was half inlightned . . . It appears a very spacious Vale , incompassed with a ridge of Hills , not very high in comparison of many other in the Moon , nor yet very steep . The Vale itself ABCD , is much the figure of a Pear , and from several appearances of it , seems to be some very fruitful place , that is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of vegetable substances ; for in all positions of the light on it , it seems to give a much fainter reflection than the more barren tops of the incompassing Hills , and those are much fainter than divers other cragged , chalky , or rocky Mountains of the Moon . " Hooke 's lively curiosity was not content with simply examining the Moon 's craters , for he had to try various laboratory experiments to duplicate them . Dropping bullets into soft pipe clay gave realistic rimmed craters , but Hooke was dissatisfied with this idea as applied to the Moon , " for it would be difficult to imagine whence those impacting bodies should come . " His second experiment consisted 240 letting a pot of boiling alabaster cool gently , so that many small pits resulted . Viewing these pits by oblique candlelight in a dark room , he was delighted by their similarity to lunar craters . On a much larger scale than these casual observations was the work of Gian Domenico Cassini ( 1625 ? 1712 ) at Paris Observatory . In mapping the Moon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leclerc ( 1637 ? 1714 ) and a now-forgotten artist rd Patigny . Cassini made many drawings of the Moon in its 241 Astronomical scrapbook different phases , using black and white chalk on a blue background , and these were combined to make a full-Moon chart 12 feet in diameter . This work appears to be lost , except in the form of smallscale engravings of a century later . One vestige of the Paris astronomer 's selenographic labors is the name " Cassini 's bright spot , " which is sometimes used for the area called Hell Q on modern maps ( see Chapter 52 ) . It is conspicuous at full Moon to anyone using a small telescope to examine the rays running from Tycho north toward Arzachel . W. Beer and J. H. Madler , who rediscovered it in the 1830 's , quote what Lalande 's edition of Cassini 's chart tells about it : " On October 21 , 1671 , M. Cassini noticed near Gauricus ( a small feature located below Tycho ) a kind of whitish cloud , of which some remnants remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the same cloud reappeared in the same place . " October 18 , 1673 . New large crater between Pitatus and Walter in exactly the spot where the whitish cloud was seen in 1671 . " As Beer and Madler correctly pointed out , the " white cloud " is a surface feature that can be seen every month for about lo days around the date of full Moon . On October 18 , 1673 , when this region was close to the terminator , the spot would have been invisible . Since Cassini made no positional measurements , and since the craters Hell and Hell B lie fairly near the bright spot , one of them is undoubtedly his " new crater , " according to Beer and Madler . Another Paris astronomer of the same period , Philippe de La Hire ( 1640-1718 ) , spent a decade preparing a general map of the Moon . In his own words , La Hire worked with a telescope in one hand and his chalk in the other . This map is said to have been in existence as late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are the more than 300 lunar drawings made by Maria Clara Muller ( 1676-1707 ) , a skillful observer who was the daughter of the Nurnberg artist-astronomer G. C. Eimmart and the wife of the mathematician J. H. Muller . The latter , incidentally , wrote in 1710 a memoir with the title " Does the Moon Have an Atmo-sphere ? " Looking over this gallery of shadowy figures , we can see why none of them started a new era in lunar studies . One severe handicap was the unwieldiness of the immensely long nonachromatic refrac-242 The " long night " of selenography tors of the late 17th century . One glance at Huygens ' aerial telescope ( page 126 ) will suggest the exasperating labor of locating a sky object and of keeping it inside the field of view . It was feasible to use long telescopes for isolated observations , such as timing an eclipse of Jupiter 's first satellite , but the labor of protracted work at the eyepiece must have been a powerful reason for taking no more than casual looks at the Moon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number and the isolation of its devotees , which tended toward the dispersal and loss of observing records . We should not forget the difficulties in reproducing lunar drawings in those days . Possibly one reason for Hevelius ' reputation as a selenographer is that he was also an artist who could make his own engravings and a rich man who could publish his own books . Still another cause of the low ebb of descriptive selenography about 1700 was that it did not yield a product needed by other branches of astronomy . But in the middle of the 18th century , selenography acquired a dollar-and-cents importance . Overseas commerce needed accurate neaps , and these in turn required longitude determinations of distant places . One old-fashioned and rather inaccurate way was to clock the beginning of a lunar eclipse as seen from , say , Rome and Bombay ; the difference between the two local times would be the longitude difference . A considerable improvement in this technique was pointed out by " H. Lambert ( 1728 ? 1777 ) and Tobias Mayer ( 1723 2 ) . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual craters into the Earth 's shadow . If the observers at Rome and Bombay each timed the same long list of craters , a much more reliable result would be had . This plan required more accurate and complete lunar maps than were available . For this reason , although the method had been suggested a century before by Hevelius , it did not come into general use until better Moon maps were drawn for the specific purpose . Apparently , the first use of Hevelius ' crater method was at the lunar eclipse of November 1 , 1724 , for a determination of the longitude difference between Lisbon and Paris . At Lisbon , G. B. Carbone made crater timings with the aid of Riccioli 's lunar map , but I slot know who made the corresponding observations in Paris . Carbone was a priest who later went to China as a missionary , and 43 Astronomical scrapbook who published some observations of Jupiter 's satellites . Perhaps this man has an overlooked importance in the history of lunar studies , as one of the first to show a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boscovich and the Moon 's atmosphere // years ago , astronomers have searched for phenomena that would indicate the presence of an atmosphere surrounding our satellite . Successively more and more sensitive tests failed , but a lingering rear guard of believers surrendered only when the Apollo landings put the airlessness of the Moon beyond any doubt . The history of the search for a lunar atmosphere seems very incompletely covered in books on the Moon . In particular , the important role played by Roger Boscovich ( 1711-1787 ) has gone largely unnoticed , and his book on the subject is mentioned seldom if at all . This Jesuit astronomer was a Slovene ( from present-day Yugoslavia ) and not an Italian as usually stated . Born at Dubrovnik ( Ragusa ) , he went to Rome in 1740 to become professor of mathematics at the Collegio Romano . His scientific work was extremely varied and influential , including the invention of astronomical instruments , studies of eclipses and transits of Venus , methods of computing comet orbits , hydraulic engineering , important contributions to pure mathematics , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he at one time served as the ambassador of his native Ragusa , then an independent republic , to the court of France . His interest in the lunar atmosphere problem seems to have been stimulated by the annular eclipse of the Sun on July 25 , 1748 , which was widely observed in Europe . At Berlin , the famous Swiss mathematician Leonhard Euler watched the course of the eclipse by projecting the solar image on a white screen fastened behind the eyepiece of his telescope . On this screen he had drawn a circle just large enough to contain the Sun 's disk . But when the eclipsed Sun 244 Roger Boscovich and the Moon 's atmosphere had become a crescent , its cusps apparently extended beyond the circle . This effect , Euler noted , would result from the refraction of sunlight by air on the Moon . He critically analyzed this observation In a memoir read before the Berlin Academy of Sciences in 1748 , concluding that the lunar atmosphere was dense enough to produce a horizontal refraction of 20 seconds of arc . ( The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sun on the horizon when it is actually this angular distance below it . ) Euler 's paper led Boscovich to a comprehensive study , published at Rome in 1753 as a 76-page book , De Lunae Atmosphera . This is a systematic exploration of the phenomena that should be observable if . the Moon possessed an appreciable atmosphere . As far as the optical theory of his day permitted , Boscovich made specific , quan-245 Astronomical scrapbook titative predictions , which he compared with the observations available . The whole discussion is crisp and businesslike , and so modern is Boscovich 's viewpoint that his book is worth reading even today . If the Moon had a gaseous envelope , the Jesuit astronomer pointed out , a star or planet undergoing occultation would suffer very distinctive changes in appearance . As a star neared the Moon 's limb , it would be displaced outward more and more by refraction , the shift at the moment of disappearance being twice the horizontal refraction : 40 seconds of arc , if Euler had been right . This effect could be tested by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moon 's limb . Moreover , the star 's light would become increasingly dimmed and reddened . A planetary disk about to be covered by the Moon would appear flattened , just as does the setting sun . In addition , because blue light is refracted more strongly than red , a star 's image very close to the Moon 's edge would be spread out into a spectrum , with its red end toward the Moon . If the horizontal refraction by a lunar atmosphere were as great as 20 seconds , the spectrum ought to be nearly two seconds of arc long , according to Boscovich . This he considered too small to be recognized in the telescopes of his time . hi the case of a planet , however , the effect would be easier to see , for the planet 's edge nearest the Moon would have a red border . Something of this sort had indeed been recorded by Delisle and by Louville in France , when Venus was occulted in 1715 . But they used nonachromatic refractors of inferior quality , and Boscovich dismissed their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for but not seen at other occultations of planets . At solar eclipses a dense lunar atmosphere could betray its presence in several ways . The cusps of the solar crescent would be prolonged , and the irregularities of the Moon 's edge smoothed out . And could the corona seen at total eclipses be interpreted as an extensive sunlit lunar atmosphere ? " No , " answered Boscovich . On pages 57 to 6o of his book he summarized the available reports on the corona , beginning with Kepler 's of 1605 . The corona must be an appendage of the Sun rather than the Moon , he decided . For one thing , at the total eclipse of 1715 it had unequal extent in different directions , unlike an atmospheric shell . Also , in 1724 Maraldi had noted that the corona was concentric with the Sun rather than the Moon . Some of the other tests for air on the Moon marshaled by BoscoThe first true mapper of the Moon which were : The phases of the Moon should differ slightly from prediction ; diffuse and gray mountain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface detail near the limb . Boscovich attributed to Huygens the idea that lack of lunar clouds denies an atmosphere , but regarded this as an insensitive test . Partly with the aid of his own observations , Boscovich concluded that none of these signs of a lunar atmosphere had been observed beyond question . Euler was clearly wrong ; the Moon 's air , if any , had to be considerably less dense than he had announced . Though Boscovich 's book is little known now , it must have been widely read in its day . The year after it was published a second edition appeared at Leipzig and a third at Vienna in 1776 . Some years awl. , when J. H. Schroter and Franz Gruithuisen wrote in support t " a lunar atmosphere , their views met little acceptance . On the other hand , the skepticism in W. Beer and J. H. Madler 's book of 837 was generally adopted by astronomers . These reactions may , part , have been due to the continuing influence of Boscovich 's atise. 4 y . The first true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astronomer about 1800 and wished to study the Moon 's surface , you would have been seriously ndicapped by the lack of adequate maps . The best at that time was the Gottingen astronomer Tobias Mayer , published in 1775 , and On such a small scale that the lunar diameter was only 71/2 inches . It *A. the only Moon map of the time that did not depend on mere c estimates for crater positions . Correcting this lack was the self-appointed task of a 25-year-old German amateur astronomer , Wilhelm Gotthelf Lohrmann ( 1796 ? ' ) . A native of Dresden , he was occupied in the geodetic survey the kingdom of Saxony . This gave him a familiarity with practical cartography of the greatest value in his lunar project . His aim was 247 " to represent the moon 's surface features , and their gradations of light and shade , with all possible accuracy , and to carry out both measurements and drawings by scientifically sound methods . " Both C. F. Gauss and J. F. Encke , the leading German astronomers of the day , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formulas for the determination of crater coordinates . After some experimental observations , in 1822 Lohrmann erected for the purpose an observatory on the top floor of his house in the Dresden suburb of Pirna . There was no dome , but instead a roof of planks that could be removed individually . Lohrmann 's principal telescope was a refractor of 6-foot focal length , with a 4.8-inch achromatic objective by Fraunhofer ; it was fitted with a filar micrometer . The instrument was equatorially mounted on a stone pier and had slow motions but no driving clock . There was also a 3.3-inch Fraunhofer refractor , and a small transit instrument for time determinations . So equipped , Lohrmann enthusiastically began detailed charting of the Moon , on a scale of 38.4 inches to its diameter . To supply 248 The first true mapper of the Moon accurate reference points , he established from micrometric measurements the selenographic latitudes and longitudes of 79 craters . The pencil sketches made at the telescope were afterwards carefully combined into 25 ink drawings , which together covered the Moon 's entire visible face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lohrmann followed J. H. Schroter in adopting a scale of o to to , where o represented black shadows , 5 light gray , and to the brightest regions , like the crater Aristarchus . These grades of brightness were carefully represented on the section maps . In drawing crater walls , Lohrmann indicated relief by making the shading darker the steeper the slope . The first four of the 25 section maps were published in 1824 in Lohrmann 's book , Topography of the Visible Surface of the Moon , First installment . Its 130 pages contain a historical account of lunar studies , a full explanation of the author 's working methods , and detailed descriptions of the regions charted . This was the first modern treatise on selenography . Perhaps because of the book 's rarity today , few modern astronomers have mentioned how closely its plan was followed , even in minor details , y the better-known The Moon of W. Beer and J. H. Madler ( 1837 ) . he merit of the latter book lies much more in its completeness than In its originality . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Moon is foreshadowed . Lohrmann 's attitude is shown by a footnote added to his description of Sinus Aestuum : " In this region , at ion'tuck 8 ? E , latitude 6 ? N , Mr. Gruithuisen believes he has seen a city , a fortress , and other artificial works . He hopes soon to recognize the lunar inhabitants themselves , if they parade en masse through their forest glades , and he tells much in his selenographical writings of hot springs , minerals , animals , and plants . But these famed discoveries and the elaborate hypotheses based on them have no place in a straightforward book on lunar topography . " When publishing the first installment of his atlas in 1824 , Lohrmann stated that he expected to finish the whole project in six years , and then republish all 25 sections together as a general map . Howaver , it was only after many interruptions , partly due to his failing eyesight , that the charts were completed in 1836 . Unfortunately , the dapper plates for printing them had not been made when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He had , however , published 249 Astronomical scrapbook aliistliit. in 1838 a small general map , 15 inches in diameter , that was noteworthy for its rich detail . Publication of the remaining sections of Lohrmann 's atlas wa undertaken in 1851 by the distinguished selenographcr J. F. J Schmidt ( see Chapter 5o ) . However , his prodigious energy as a observer apparently did not extend to business affairs , and it was no until 1878 that the other 21 section maps appeared . The names two lunar craters record this protracted effort : Barth . after the Lei 250 Julius Schmidt : An incredible visual observer zig publisher of 1878 , and Opelt , after the father and son who completed the reductions of Lohrmann 's measures of crater coordinates . Lohrmann 's work far surpasses anything previously attempted , in scope , accuracy , and detail ? his atlas contains 7,178 craters and 99 rilles . The long delay in publication kept most of it from the world until after the more extensive lunar maps of Madler and Schmidt had appeared . Nevertheless , they followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ought to be recognized as the first modern selenographer. 5o . Julius Schmidt : An incredible visual observer ANYONE INTERESTED in the history of visual observing will soon come across the name of J. F. Julius Schmidt ( 1825 ? 1884 ) . ( though he was director of Athens Observatory for a quarter cenry and a trained professional , amateur astronomers might well aim him as one of their own . Schmidt is famed for his great lunar as , his measurements of lunar mountain heights , and his discov'es of rilles and other detail . Also , his energy as an observer has perhaps never been equaled. r example , variable stars were a favorite subject of his for four decades . During the last two years of his life Schmidt made no fewer thsn 85,000 observations of them . His record books contain 9,800 ghtness estimates of the prototype Cepheid variable Delta Cephei 5,800 of the eclipsing binary Beta Lyrae . Many of the more familiar naked-eye variable stars were discovered by him , including Geminorum , Rho Persei , u Herculis , and Delta Librae . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of over 78o drawings of Jupiter provided the material for later German 's doctoral dissertation . At a single apparition of this planet , Schmidt timed 98 instances when the Great Red Spot crossed Jupiter 's central meridian ( that is , when it was equally distant from planet 's east and west limbs ) . His sunspot observations were so 25 ! numerous as to be reported in book form . Meteors , the zodiacal light , nebulae , lunar eclipses , and comets were also observed on the same extensive scale . But the special love of this unwearying man was the Moon . As a 14-year-old boy in his native town of Eutin in north Germany , Schmidt bought at an auction a copy of Schroter 's famous book on the Moon . His imagination was fired by the many pictures of lunar craters and mountains , and his one desire was to explore these wonders for himself . A small refractor with lenses ground by his father became Schmidt 's first telescope , and with this instrument he began making drawings of the Moon . Having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realized that his efforts would become of scientific value as soon as he could use more powerful instruments . S2 Julius Schmidt : An incredible visual observer This opportunity arrived in July , 1841 , when Schmidt moved to Hamburg and was allowed regular use of the telescopes at the observatory there . In 1845 he got a position at the private observatory of J. F. Benzenberg at Bilk , near Dusseldorf . This experience proved to be a disappointment ; the large refractor was reserved by Benzenberg for his own searchings for an intramercurial planet , and when not in use by him was kept under lock and key . For Schmidt there was only a small telescope , with an objective too defective for any serious lunar work . A few months of this was enough , and Schmidt went to Bonn Observatory to spend eight years as F. W. A. Argelander 's assistant ( see Chapter 8o ) . Here he found opportunity to continue the lunar drawings , in the intervals not filled by routine meridian-circle work , or by the zone observations for the great Bonner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin he had the use of the Royal Observatory 's 9-inch refractor ? the same instrument with which J. G. Galle first recognized the planet Neptune . Schmidt tells how on May 17 , 1853 , this telescope showed him no fewer than 78 craters on the floor of the lunar ring plain Clavius . About this time , Schmidt was invited on Argelander 's recommendation to take charge of the private observatory of E. von Unkrechtsberg , at Olmutz in Moravia . Here there was freedom from routine , and a Fraunhofer refractor of 5-foot focal length equipped with a good filar micrometer . This equipment was at once put to use for the measurement of lunar mountain heights from the lengths of their shadows . In the next three years Schmidt made almost 3,000 height determinations . During his stay at Olmutz , he wrote Der Mond , a 164-page treatise on selenography published at Leipzig in 1856 . It is perhaps the first discussion of the lunar surface by anyone well versed in geology . Schmidt 's last move was to Greece , where he assumed the directorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , G. K. Bouris , once aroused an angry clamor by proposing that famous buildings of the ancient city be demolished to give the observatory a clear southern horizon . ) When he arrived on December 2nd , he found the observatory in great disrepair and all of the instruments out of commission . But with characteristic energy he began work by taking a barometer reading the very day he stepped ashore 25 , i Julius Schmidt : An incredible visual observer at Piraeus . The first telescope to be restored to working order was the 6-inch refractor that for the next quarter-century would serve for Schmidt 's lunar studies . Later the small meridian circle was put hack in use , but apparently only for determining time . Under the favorable Greek sky , the German astronomer resumed his detail drawings of the Moon with renewed vigor . By 1865 their number was so great that he began to compile from them a general topographic map of the Moon , which was corrected and added to by new telescopic observations . In its final form , this map consists of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six feet in diameter . Some of the sections are based on 150 drawings , gathered over three decades . In all , 32,856 craters are represented ; Schmidt estimated that a complete survey with the 6.2-inch Athens refractor at 600x would reveal 100,000 craters . This chart greatly surpassed in completeness and accuracy anything previously attempted . The atlas was published at Berlin in 1878 as Charte der Gebirge des . Moudes ( Map of the Mountains of the Moon ) . Simultaneously , a companion text appeared under an identical title , except for the addition of the word Erlduterungsband ( Explanatory Volume ) . This is still an Invaluable historical source , containing , for instance , the full details of all Schmidt 's height measurements , catalogues of rilles and ray systems , and a wealth of descriptive notes . ( E. Neison 's oftenquoted The Moon came out in 1876 , too early to incorporate Schmidt 's work . ) Of special interest is the section on Untie , a feature in Mare Serenitatis that for decades was cited as evidence for probable change on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year 1843 Linne was generally recorded as a small , deep crater ; in October , 1866 , Schmidt reobserved it as a white spot . On pages 155 to 163 of his book , Schmidt reports individually his 200 observations of Linne from 11441 to 1874 ? basic data for any serious attempt to solve the mys- 255 tery . He remarks that several other lunar features , such as Werner I ) and Lassell D ( Alpetragius d ) , seem exactly analogous to Linne , each of them appearing as a bright patch containing a minute crater pit . In the above portion of his lunar atlas , Lassell D is the light area " dd " in the lower right corner . Julius Schmidt : An incredible visual observer Schmidt 's atlas and companion volume of text incorporate his lunar observations only to the year 1874 , but his selenographic studies continued until his sudden death on February 7 , 1884 . During this decade , according to his official Athens Observatory reports , he made 2,536 more lunar drawings , a larger number than he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moon seems never to have been published in any form . Once , while using the library stacks at Harvard Observatory , I chanced upon another unpublished Schmidt manuscript . It was a 56-page , typewritten copy made in 1924 of his Observations of Lunar Eclipses 1842-1879 . The text , in German , had been transcribed by Willard J. Fisher , who from 1922 until his death in 1934 at age 67 was a research associate at Harvard . Schmidt 's book contains his extensive notes on 28 eclipses , beginning with the partial one of January 26 , 1842 , which he viewed as a 16-year-old . For some of these eclipses , Schmidt had published brief accounts in the Astronomische Nachrichten , but his manuscript supplies a good deal more information . The rest of the manuscript is simply raw observations , but the material is valuable for its very detailed notes on colors , long ' descriptions of various eclipse phenomena , and hundreds of timings of when craters entered or exited the Earth 's umbral shadow . Although the work shows no application of photometry or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparative record of 38 years of lunar eclipses seen by the same expert eye . The picture of Schmidt suggested by the eclipse records is that of a very determined but rather unimaginative man . He seems to have aimed at making great numbers of somewhat crude observations , rather than devising new and more accurate methods . During his directorship at Athens there was no expansion of the rather limited astronomical facilities . Schmidt appears to have worked unaided at the observatory , for in this part of the eclipse manuscript other names are mentioned very infrequently . For example , Demetrius Kokkides , who was to succeed Schmidt as director and become professor of astronomy at the University of Athens , appears as a collaborator only at the eclipse of November 4 , 1873 , when he made naked-eye timings of contacts . One wishes for access to Schmidt 's letters and a diary for a closer look at the personality of this unusual man . Clearly , his ability to Snake observations had far outrun his ability to analyze them . One Astronomical scrapbook impression was preserved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1883 stopped in Greece on his return from an astronomical expedition to Egypt . " At Athens , " he told the Royal Astronomical Society , " I had the satisfaction of a long interview with that eminent veteran in astronomical research , Dr. Schmidt . To me it seemed , and it still seems , a thousand pities that the invaluable results of many years of his labors still remain unpublished . " Less than a year later , Schmidt died in his sleep . The evening before , he had attended a social gathering at the German embassy in Athens . King George I and Queen Olga of Greece came to the observatory for his funeral . Noteworthy is the appreciation of Schmidt by the Dutch astronomer A. Nijland in an 1898 address entitled " The Rights of Small Observatories : " " Whoever has no instruments at all should take the shining example of Julius Schmidt , one-time director of the observatory at Athens , dilapidated but situated in an excellent climate . This astronomer of great talents and wonderful stamina has shown the whole world how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even seemingly insignificant subjects gain special interest . " 51 . J. N. Krieger : The Moon half-won THERE IS AN OFTEN QUOTED COMPLAINT by W. H. Pickering about lunar terminology : As a general rule , the larger a crater , the smaller the contribution to selenography by the person after whom it was named . Great observers like J. H. Madler and J. F. J. Schmidt have been honored with minor formations , while the huge ring plain Plato is called after a philosopher whose addition to our knowledge of the Moon 's surface was probably nil . The earthly fame or obscurity of a selenographer also is sometimes ' SS an untrustworthy measure of his merits . For example , there are major figures from central and eastern Europe whose work is almost unknown by English-speaking amateurs , mainly because their writings are hard to find or use inconvenient languages . A case in point is the German observer , Johann Nepomuk Krieger ( 1865 ? 1902 ) , whose beautiful lunar drawings were of an excellence that remains perhaps unmatched to this day . The brief allusions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance of his Moon atlas . The portion of it he managed to complete before his early death is still a storehouse of information . Krieger 's career was like that of many other amateurs , but with greatly enhanced lights and shadows . His intense urge to become an Astronomer originated from a desire to escape the limited daily life of the mountain hamlet of Unterwiesenbach in Bavaria , where he Was horn on February 4 , 1865 . There his father ran a small brewery And an inn , in which the boy started work at the age of 15 after a year in agricultural school . 259 It is not quite certain how his attention first turned to astronomy , whether from books or through a fellow townsman nicknamed " the stargazer . " But he early obtained a small telescope and began active observing , especially of the Moon . In 1886 Krieger visited Hermann Klein in Cologne for advice on his future . Klein was Germany 's outstanding popularizer of astronomy at that time , the author of several good books for amateurs , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lunar observer himself , Klein had translated E. Neison 's famous monograph , The Moon , from English into German . The Cologne professor warmly encouraged Krieger to go on with a career in selenography , and urged him to study the 261 J. N. Krieger : The Moon half-won mathematics that had been omitted in a spotty education . Klein also advised mastering the graphic arts and photography . Furthermore , lie gave Krieger an introduction to Hugo Seeliger , the director of Munich Observatory , who became a lifelong friend . By selling the brewery after his father 's death , Krieger obtained the money to move to Munich , where he attended university classes in mathematics , physics , and astronomy . But it was not long before he knew that he had neither the background nor the taste for mathematics , and that his future in astronomy must be as an amateur . Krieger thereupon built an observatory , equipped with a good 10 ' /2-inch refractor , in the Munich suburb of Gern-Nymphenburg . Here he began his life 's work , the task of accurately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such a project has been the ambition of many amateurs , but Krieger 's long and careful preparations put him in a class by himself . Although the keen-eyed German showed much skill in drawing , this ability was not inborn but developed through persistent effort . From the start , he realized the value of charts that everywhere reach the same level of detailedness : " The selenologist who finds that some small area , randomly chosen , has been delineated with utmost minuteness will easily attach undue importance to it , perhaps basing an evolutionary theory on what was really faulty planning by the observer . To get this uniformity , Krieger habitually worked with a power of 26o , also reducing his io ' /z-inch aperture to 6 ? inches . On first looking into the eyepiece with full aperture at this magnification , he could see fine details that became quite invisible a few minutes later owing to glare . In the best seeing , when the full objective was usable with very high powers , there was more fine structure than could be sketched . K @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of large-scale Moon photographs as the base for his drawings , thereby insuring accuracy in the placement and sizes of lunar features . This valuable technique has been surprisingly little used by other workers . At first , Krieger was provided by Klein with photographs taken with the Lick 36-inch refractor ; later , he used mainly Paris pictures sent to him by M. Loewy and P. Puiseux . The years 1890 to 1894 were spent in developing skills and techniques , and Krieger regarded them as a practice period , preliminary 26 ; Astronomical scrapbook to his main effort . The 28 best of the 125 drawings from that time were published in 1898 at Trieste as the first volume of Krieger 's atlas . In 1895 he transferred the observatory from the northern side of the Alps to the southern , where he hoped to find clearer skies and steadier seeing at Trieste , near the head of the Adriatic Sea . The year 1896 was spent in readying the new Pia Observatory , which Krieger named after his wife . Finally , in 1897 he resumed his labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half year . Krieger had now refined his method to assure utmost reliability . For each lunar area to be charted , a photographic print was chosen with a scale of about 12 feet to the Moon 's diameter . At the telescope , additional features were entered on the same print during to , 20 , or more nights , with a different colored pencil each night , so that the color was a key to the date when a particular feature was noted . Next , all these markings were neatly transferred to a second print . On a night of good seeing , when the throw of shadow on the Moon matched that when the photograph had been taken , this print was compared with the moon and corrected . Finally , a finished copy was made on a third print , using lead pencil and charcoal , to serve for reproduction in the new atlas . In this laborious way , Krieger produced depictions of the Moon 's surface that are startlingly superior to almost all other amateur efforts ? in meticulous accuracy , aesthetic appeal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his standards . Krieger 's hope to cover the entire visible face of the Moon in this fashion was never fulfilled , despite his single-minded energy . The year 1 898 was one of ceaseless activity , yielding 458 observations on 92 nights . His days were spent preparing photographic bases , collating and finishing drawings , and doing the many chores of an active one-man observatory . This , too , was when he published the first installment of his atlas , and when he was involved in an acrimonious controversy forced upon him by Philipp Fauth , a famous lunar observer of that time ( see Chapter 52 ) . The same pace continued through 1899 . But this incessant toil , all-night vigils followed by full days in his office , finally broke down Krieger 's health . The collapse came in 1900 . His doctors told him to stop observing and to move to a 16 . E Phillip Fauth and his Moon atlas gentler climate . He dismantled his observatory in January , 1901 , giving the 10 1/2-inch telescope to the Austrian naval observatory at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months at sanatoria in Italy seeking to finish the text for the second part of his atlas . From his sickbed he continued to dictate to a friend until he lost the power of speech . The end came at San Remo , in the Italian Riviera , on February to , 1902 , just after his 37th birthday . The incomplete manuscript , together with hundreds of drawings ranging from finished products to rough sketches , eventually came into the hands of Krieger 's old friend , Professor Seeliger . The latter wisely chose the very able Austrian selenographer Rudolf Konig to edit and reconstruct the atlas . The work appeared in 1912 as two magnificent volumes , published by the Vienna Academy of Sciences tinder the title Joh . Nep . Kriegers Mond-Atlas ? Neue Folge . One volume is an album of 58 large pictures of lunar regions , some never completed . Each plate has a transparent overlay , bearing key numbers and letters for scores of formations of interest . The other volume is text , containing long and detailed descriptions of each region . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them were drafted by Konig with the aid of the original observing books and papers . 52 . Philipp Fauth and his Moon atlas NEARLY a quarter century after his death in 1941 , Philipp Fauth 's large Mondatlas was published in Bremen , West Germany . Its appearance caused a revival of interest in this German selenographer , who had been hitherto little known in English-speaking countries . You can get surprisingly contradictory opinions about Fauth whenyou talk to people familiar with his story . Some call him a very great man , but there are many older European astronomers to whom his name is anathema . The popular articles about Fauth that were published about the same time as his atlas hardly touch on the problem of his psychology . The question of the value of his atlas should be discussed separately . Fauth was perhaps the most capable and versatile of all active visual observers of the Moon between about 1900 and 1940 . He combined descriptive selenography with cartography , measurements of craters , and statistical studies . In 1936 he published Unser Mond , the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevertheless , this same man was also widely known for his crank cosmogonical theories and for vitriolic polemical writings . Fortunately , he managed to keep his telescopic work largely separate from his fantasies , and Unser Mond is practically free of them . He had the kind of complex personality that contemporaries found hard to appraise justly ; no wonder that most articles about him are either tar and feathers or whitewash. 266 A variety of circumstances have combined to give Fauth a diminished reputation that has reflected undeservedly on his legitimate lunar work . They include his conflict with organized astronomy and the failure of his writings to reach English-speaking astronomers . 267 The key to the whole story is the isolation in which Fauth worked , leading to an extreme independence of outlook . By vocation a schoolteacher , he remained an amateur astronomer all his life and never took part in the collective life at a professional observatory . Because Germany , unlike France or England , had no national amateur organization , he had little opportunity for cooperative observing and exchanging ideas with his fellows . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were at a low ebb following the deaths of J. F. J. Schmidt and W. R. Birt , and young Fauth realized his superiority to most of his competitors . It is easy to see how this lone wolf would get into irresolvable disagreements with professional astronomers . Particularly in the case of the Prague selenographer Ladislav Weinek ( 1848-1918 ) . Fauth was so abusive in print that a rift widened between him and the academic world . Next came Fauth 's advocacy of the Welteislehre 26R Phillip Fauth and his Moon atlas ( Cosmic Ice Doctrine ) , Hans Horbiger 's grotesque glacial cosmogony . According to Horbiger , the Moon was covered with a layer of e 140 miles thick . The Moon was spiraling in toward the Earth and upon crashing would cause a new ice age . Previous ice ages resulted from crashes of previous moons . The Milky Way was made up not 1 stars but of blocks of ice spiraling toward us . For many years , Fauth was involved in this strange movement , which carried on gueriIIa warfare against official astronomy in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nazis , who linked to their notions about racial purity . Disciples would disrupt scititic meetings with shouts of " out with astronomical orthodoxy ! yr us Hobiger ! " Heinrich Himmler declared that the Fuhrer him . f " is a convinced supporter of this theory so much abominated by 2 hg Astronomical scrapbook scientific hacks . " These affairs all did lasting harm to Fauth 's scientific reputation . His serious selenographic work made surprisingly little impact on amateur astronomy in Great Britain and the United States . One reason seems to have been personal conflicts between him and some prominent members of the British Astronomical Association 's lunar section . Characteristically , Fauth republished a set of British drawings as samples of " degenerate selenography . " Another reason why his name remained relatively unfamiliar was the extreme rarity of Fauth 's Unser Mond outside of Germany . When the German amateur died on January 4 , 1941 , he left unfinished a major undertaking , his lunar atlas on 22 sheets , to a scale of 1:1,000,000 . The basis of this project was the large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an excellent 151/2-inch apochromatic refractor , first at Landstuhl in the Rhineland and later at Grunwald in Bavaria . The charts were eventually completed by Fauth 's son Hermann and published in 1964 . The particular merit of this atlas is its richness in fine detail , for his 151/2-inch telescope under favorable conditions had better resolving power than the best Earth-based lunar photographs today . Therefore , the student with some topographic problem ? the pattern of Triesnecker rilles , or the ridge system near Linne ? will find Fauth 's atlas a valuable reference when used in combination with other sources . Such applications raise the question of homogeneity , since sonic of the relief was drawn by Philipp Fauth , some by his son . There is a characteristic difference between their styles . The father drew with a surer stroke , whereas the son sometimes inserted ambiguous patterns . But there is another reason for owning Fauth 's Mondatlas . Ernst E. Both expresses it in his excellent History of Lunar Studies : " Fauth was the last of the great visual observers , and the very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his contemporaries . And , it seems unlikely that they will ever be approached by any individual . " Astronomical scrapbook 53 . Linne in fact and legend POPULAR WRITINGS about the Moon through the 1950 's frequently stated , with more or less assurance , that the lunar formation Linne underwent a decided physical change during the previous century . We are told how Linne was recorded as a crater by W. G. Lohrmann in 1823 , by J. H. Madler in 1831 , and by J. F. J. Schmidt in 1841-1843 . But then it is reported that in 1866 Schmidt found its place occupied instead by a white patch that persists to this day . The whole question of whether Linne suffered a drastic alteration hinges on what the observers of 1823 to 1843 actually saw and the confidence their evidence deserves . Many fairly recent appraisals of the problem seem to have been written at second or third hand , without any actual examination of the source material . These writers often relied for their facts on Edmund Neison 's well-known The Moon , which appeared in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition , the very important analyses by W. Prinz ( 1894 ) and P. Fauth ( 1901 ) have gone generally unnoticed . The present appearance of Linne in small telescopes is a conspicuous white spot , about six miles in diameter , lying in the western part of Mare Serenitatis . ( Lunar east and west are used in the modern sense , as they would appear to an astronaut standing on the Moon , not in the old-fashioned sense of east and west in the Earth 's sky . ) The white spot appears small at lunar sunrise and sunset and attains its maximum size about four days before and after full Moon . It shrinks slightly at full . This apparent variation , repeated each month , is not peculiar to Linne , but is shared by other bright spots . Inside this white patch , large instruments show a small craterlet I1/2 miles in diameter and 2,000 feet deep . Richard J. Pike describes it as " an extremely fresh but otherwise quite ordinary impact crater . " The eastern wall of the craterlet is noticeably thicker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. Brenner about 1900 and since confirmed by W. H. Steavenson and several other observers . This tiny crater is much too small to have been seen as such with the very modest instruments used for observing Linne in 1823-1843. 272 Astronomical scrapbook The craterlet is located on the summit of a low hill about three miles in diameter that casts a conspicuous shadow when grazingly illuminated by the rising or setting Sun . From my own observations of the shadow length , the hill was found to be about 300 feet high . This broad , gentle swelling deserves classification as a lunar dome , a suggestion made by Fauth and independently by H. P. Wilkins and P. Moore . This description of the present aspect of Linne agrees in detail with Schmidt 's records on about 200 nights in 1866-1874 . Using the 6-inch refractor of Athens Observatory , he repeatedly glimpsed the craterlet as a minute black speck within the white spot , and on several dates he saw the shadow of the hill . We have strong evidence , therefore , that Linne in 1866-1874 looked the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observations of 1823-1843 , by Lohrmann , Madler , and Schmidt . In 1821 Lohrmann , the German amateur , began preparation of a detailed lunar map from observations with a 4.8-inch refractor ( see Chapter 49 ) . The first four of the 25 sections of this atlas were published with an explanatory text in 1824 . On Section IV Linne is depicted as a crater , labeled A. Lohrmann on page 92 of his book tells us : A is the second crater on this plain Mare Serenitatis ; it lies according to my observation in longitude + 11 ? 27 ' 22 " , latitude + 270 42 ' 06 " , beside a ridge extending from Sulpicius Gallus . It has a diameter of rather over one German mile 41/2 statute miles , is very deep , and can be seen in every illumination . " We learn further from page xv of the appendix that Lohrmann measured the coordinates of Linne only once , on May 28 , 1823 . He had previously chosen the crater Conon as a reference point for charting this part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be seen distinctly near the time of full moon ; A , on the other hand , is always visible as a bright spot in the gray Marc Serenitatis . " Except for Linne being termed a depression , these statements are quite consistent with the present appearance . The explanation of that discrepancy can be found on page 19 of Lohrmann 's work : " I sketch and measure the larger mountains and craters under high illumination , so as to be able to chart in detail as large a portion as possible under the rare favorable conditions when the region is near the ter minator . " These words suggest that Lohrmann 's only examinatio of Linne may have been made under a high sun , when it would have 274 Linne in fact and legend been easy for him to mistake a bright spot for a bright crater floor . Because of this likelihood that the term " crater " resulted from an incorrect inference , no safe argument for change in Linne can be based on Lohrmann . Madler 's observations of Linne were made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refractor . Charting Linne as a crater , he cscribes it on page 232 of their 1837 book : " The two main ridges nite near the deep crater Linne , which according to one measure by ohrmann and seven by us lies in longitude + 11 ? 32 ' 28 " , latitude 27 ? 47 ' 13 " . It is 1.4 German miles six statute miles in diameter but indefinitely bounded at full moon . " All seven of Madler 's sitional measures of Linne were made in one night , December 12 , 31 , and hence their number does not imply special attention to is formation on many dates . There is reason to believe that Madler made the same mistake we have ascribed to Lohrmann . Unlike modern observers , he paid parOar attention to lunar features under high illumination , and he Is us explicitly that his brightness estimates were habitually so de . There are at least two other cases where Madler charted and cribed as craters objects that are really bright spots : Lassell D ( formerly called Alpetragius d ) and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lohrmann 's accounts suggests that c earlier one influenced the later . Finally , there remain Schmidt 's records of 1841-1843 . There is a remarkable contradiction between the two versions of them that he bushed . When Schmidt in 1867 announced to the Vienna Acadamy of Sciences the disappearance of the crater Linne , he said he had drawn this region II times between April 27 , 1841 , and August 17 , 3 . Only five of these drawings showed Linne , but each time as ater . Yet Schmidt 's book of 1878 listed 19 drawings in those same rs , on at least two of which Linne was represented as a bright t ! At the time of these observations , Schmidt was still a boy in teens , having been born in 1825 . He had not yet gained the skill experience that later made him a leader in selenography , and he i then using only small telescopes . For these reasons , and because his inconsistent testimony , little weight can be attached to his I - 1843 observations . is survey of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this object had ever been observed as a large 275 crater . A deeper skepticism is warranted by several very early observations of Linne as a bright spot . It is so depicted in two drawings Mare Serenitatis made in 1788 by the English artist John Russell , was pointed out by A. A. Rambaut in 1904 . Moreover , another swing of 1788 by J. H. Schroter contains a light patch that is probably Linne . ( This identification has sometimes been doubted , It it is substantiated by Schroter 's description . ) There is another line of inquiry to be traced . Madler was still alive 1866 when Schmidt first announced that Linne had changed . His examination of the formation might be expected to decide the Ili . The aged selenographer was living in Germany , after having bred from the directorship of Dorpat Observatory in Russia , and 277 Astronomical scrapbook was recovering from a cataract operation in April , 1866 . His first opportunity to look again at Linne was on May to , 1867 , with the heliometer of Bonn Observatory . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same throw of shadow as I remember seeing it 37 years before , " Madler reported . On that very same night Schmidt also observed Linne , with the 6-inch refractor of Athens Observatory : " Linne appeared as a conspicuous hill , casting a shadow , more striking than I have seen , at least since October , 1866 . The hill may have been 3,000 feet in diameter and Soo feet high . The surrounding bright patch in the gray plain was very insignificant . " What Schmidt saw is valid today as a description of Linne just after the sun has risen there . If , then , this same appearance matched Madler 's memory of the 1830 's , we have a further argument against a change having taken place . Thus the famous Linne legend turns out to have no sure foundation . Instead of repeating it , future writers of observing guides might more realistically call attention to this formation as one of the best-studied examples of a numerous class of bright patches , each containing a small craterlet . Other prominent instances are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all three being strikingly similar to Linne. 54 . An alleged satellite of Venus HOW MUCH CONFIRMATION do you need to place an observational discovery beyond any reasonable doubt ? This important anid disturbing question is raised by the story of a satellite of Venus , which at one time was confidently accepted as a member of the solar system . No fewer than 33 observations of it by IS different astronomers were recorded during the 17th and 18th centuries , beginning With F. Fontana at Naples on November II , 1645 . In the year 1761 lone , 18 observations of the object were made . Some of these sightings were by well-known observers who even ) day have a reputation for reliability . Thus G. D. Cassini , director f Paris Observatory and discoverer of Cassini 's division in Saturn 's ngs , wrote in his journal for August 28 , 1686 : " At 4:15 a.m. , while examining Venus with a telescope of 34 feet focal length , I saw at of its diameter to the east an ill-defined light , which seemed to itate the phase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . diameter was very nearly 1/ that of Venus . I observed it with ration for a quarter of an hour , when , on quitting the telescope r five minutes , I could not find it again , the dawn being too ' gilt . " In 1773 , the German astronomer Johann Lambert calculated the it of the satellite of Venus . He found that this moon revolved ) tit its primary in 1 i days and five hours . Its average distance m Venus was 661/2 radii of the planet ( 250,100 miles ? about the lc distance as the Moon is from the Earth ) . Also , the orbit was her oval , having an eccentricity of 0.195 . Widespread interest was used when Lambert announced these results to the Berlin Acady of Sciences . The King of Prussia , Frederick the Great , proposed t the satellite be named after his friend , the French astronomerthematician Jean d'Alembert . The latter prudently declined the ' or , explaining that his place on Earth was so insignificant he had ambition for one in the skies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such satellite exists . Was never seen after 1768 . Veteran observers of Venus such as II Schroter , William Herschel , and J. H. Madler could not find More recently , E. E. Barnard , whose interest in satellites was 281 marked , made many observations of Venus with telescopes up to the Yerkes 4o-inch in size without finding any companion . Finally , it is almost certain that space probes , beginning with Mariner 3 which flew by Venus in 1962 , would have detected any substantial satellite . Yet , even in the last century , the satellite of Venus found few champions . In 1875 , a curious book , Der Venusmond , was pub lished in its defense by the German , F. Schorr . He argued that the many failures to see it were due to a brightness variation that normally caused the satellite to be so faint as to be invisible . Schorr ' elaborate hodgepodge was more enthusiastic than critical , and i soon sank into the vast abyss of forgotten semiscientific literatur without having cleared up the mystery . What the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Brussels Observatory , then at the start of his career the most distinguished Belgian astronomer of his generation . In h ' memoir of 1887 , Stroobant reprinted in full all the original statements of the observers of the satellite of Venus , described the earli - hypotheses to account for the observations , and subjected all this a searching examination . In the first place , Lambert 's orbit was clearly impossible , as 282 O required the mass of Venus to be to times greater than it actually is . Next , the descriptions of the satellite were highly contradictory . Several accounts spoke of a large disk showing the same phase as Venus . At least some of these observations must refer to " ghosts " m .. ed by reflections within the telescopes , which would be particularly noticeable for so bright an object as Venus . Other observers had described the satellite as starlike , and Stroobant , by calculating Ilse positions of Venus at the dates in question , could identify in even cases what star the observer had mistaken for a satellite . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " satellite " seen by Roedkiaer et Copenhagen on March 5 , 1 ' 761 , was the planet Uranus ? 20 years before its recognition by Herschel . There remained little else of the observations except some statements so vague as to inspire no confidence . So final was Stroobant 's critique that the alleged satellite of Venus has now been almost forgotten Astronomical scrapbook 55 . The problem of visual observations of Venus IN 1956 THE GERMAN ASTRONOMER Joseph Meurers wrote a small book called Astronomical Experiments . It is a systematic survey of scores of different laboratory experiments intended to simulate astronomical objects and phenomena under controlled conditions . It is also a disturbing book , as I found on reading the pages dealing with visual observations of detail on the planet Venus . He reports experiments making plain that many of the ordinarily observed disk features on this planet have no objective existence . Amateur observers often record bright caps near the cusps of the crescent , a bright band along the limb , and a shading along the terminator . In addition , darkish collars bordering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indistinct dusky and brighter patches on the disk . All these features represent only slight differences in contrast . The preceding general description applies well to certain drawing made at Munich Observatory around 1896 by the Swiss-born as tronomer Walter Villiger , who later was for many years chief of the - astronomical division of the Carl Zeiss works in Jena . But , in addi tion to his Venus sketches , Villiger also drew illuminated balls o rubber or plaster of Paris . These were S5 millimeters ( 2.2 inches ) i diameter and were viewed from a distance of 400 meters ( abou 1,310 feet ) with a 5-inch refractor . Although each of these ball actually had a completely structureless surface , the drawings sho cusp caps , bright limb bands , and the characteristic dusky patches Note the close resemblance between these model drawings and Vil liger 's sketches of the actual planet made with a 51/2-inch aperture . Confirmation of these disquieting results is afforded by anothseries of careful experiments on Venus models carried out in 195 by the well-known German amateur W. W. Spangenberg . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with small tel. scopes at such distances that they appeared the same size as Ven 284 observed with powers of 6o to 140 . To simulate unsteady seeing , he plced an electric heater underneath the telescope objective . Spangcnberg 's drawings of his models again suggest typical depictions of the planet itself . They add to the demonstration that purely illusury cusp caps and collars , limb brightenings , and dusky streaks ca be recorded . Furthermore , the Villiger and Spangenberg experiments taken together demonstrate that independent observers may 285 Astronomical scrapbook share a common pattern of optical illusions . Evidently , we are not always entitled to assume that a Venus feature is real simply because it has been similarly drawn by independent observers . The visual observer of Venus , before he can secure wholly trustworthy results , ought to find out how to distinguish possible true features from subjective ones . A very promising clue is suggested by the experience of Audouin Dollfus of Meudon Observatory . Using a number of telescopes of different apertures and with powers of 20 to 1,200 , he ascertained that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He concluded that when Venus is magnified enough to make its telescopic image six times the naked-eye diameter of the Moon ( or about three degrees ) , spurious effects become inappreciable . This finding throws interesting light on the often-stated fact that Venus markings are better seen with small telescopes than large . W. F. Denning , a very experienced British planetary observer , wrote in 1891 : " Accounts are sometimes published of very dark and definite markings seen with only 2 or 3 inches aperture . Such assertions are usually unreliable . Could the authors of such statements survey the planet through a good to- or 12-inch telescope , they would see at once they had been deceived . Some years ago I made a number of observations of Venus with 2- , 3- , and 4 ? - inch refractors and 4-and 10-inch reflectors , and could readily detect with the small instruments what certainly appeared to be spots of a pronounced nature , but on appealing to the 1 o-inch reflector , in which the view became immensely improved , the spots quite disappeared , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which usually constitute the only visible markings on the surface .... " To this might be added the testimony of Franz Gruithuisen , who made many observations of Venus from 1813 to 1847 . He was the . first to report the cusp caps , and he examined them in many telescopes . However , he saw them best with his smallest instrument one of only 1 ' /2-inch aperture ! Clearly , it is a wise precaution for amateur astronomers who make visual observations of Venus to carry out analogous observations o models . In this way the observer can find if his or her drawn ) . contain subjective markings . By varying the experiments it shoul be possible to discover which observing techniques minimize t 286 The disappearance of a marking on Mars risk of self-deception . Similar experimental studies might well be made by observers of surface detail on the minute disks of Uranus , Neptune , or the four large satellites of Jupiter . Spangenberg pointed out that in many of his model tests he recorded the dark central cross haracteristic of the Uranus drawings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The disappearance of a marking on Mars AROUND THE BEGINNING of the 19th century the world center of lunar and planetary studies was the little North German town of Lilienthal , near Bremen . Here were the observatory and optical shops of J. H. Schroter ( 1745-1816 ) , chief magistrate of the neighborhood , who for nearly 30 years kept unflagging watch upon the moon and planets . Here his assistant , K. L. Harding , discovered the ird asteroid , Juno , and the famous F. W. Bessel began his career . Fate was unkind both to Schroter and to his reputation . The deades of war that convulsed Europe finally engulfed him in April , 813 , as Napoleon sought to regain his slipping hold on Germany . Lilienthal was sacked and burned by the French army of General Vandamme , and Schroter lost at one stroke his observatory , records , magistrateship , and wealth . Unable to resume observing , he died three years later . This enthusiastic amateur , the Percival Lowell of his age , has been underrated by later astronomers . His own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , William Herschel , whose Inc has obscured all other observers of his time . Again , it has been hri Schroter 's misfortune to be remembered more for his faulty rotation hods of Mercury and Venus than for being the first astronomer to vote a lifetime to telescopic study of the planets . And , finally , the w of it volumes devoted to his findings on Mercury , Venus , Jupiter , Saturn , and the Moon , were written in a fantastically unreadable style that left their contents largely unnoticed . 2 ( ( ? 7 The Lilienthal astronomer published no book on Mars , although he had followed this planet intensively . It was long supposed that his manuscript of Martian observations had been destroyed in the ruin of his observatory . Finally recovered among the family papers of a nephew , the Mars writings were published in 1881 by the Dutch astronomer H. G. van de S. Bakhuyzen , together with 216 of Schroter 's drawings . A curious delusion pervades this book ? that the Martian markings were mere wind-blown cloud formations in a thick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Acting on this belief , Schroter from night to night carefully estimated the times when various dar markings crossed the central meridian of the planet , in an effort t measure Martian wind velocities . These markings can often be iden tified ; hence Schroter 's transit times could have been used in combi 8,1 anon with later observations to determine the rotation period of Mars with high precision . No one ever did this , and in fact this valuable material seems to eve been totally overlooked . Only Schroter 's drawings were used y astronomers studying Mars ' rotation period , and these were illsuited for the purpose . The drawings nevertheless remain of value persons looking for surface changes on Mars , for they were made pith instruments respectable even by modern amateur standards . Schoter 's first large telescope was a reflector of 7-foot focus , made ly William Herschel ; and in I792 he acquired a 9.3-inch , f/17 Schrader reflector which Lalande called the finest telescope in existence . While most of the features in the drawings reproduced here are identifiable on present-day maps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark region nearly as large as Texas , marked on 16 of Schroter 's sketches of I798-1800 , which is no longer to be seen on stars . Two drawings made by Herschel in I783 also show it . Bakhuyzen , who wrote in German , named it Spitze B ; we might call it Arrowhead. 2 t ) Astronomical scrapbook Both Schroter and Herschel represent this now-vanished feature as long , appearing triangular much like the prominent present-day marking known as Syrtis Major . The base of the Arrowhead was near Martian longitude 225 ? , latitude ? 15 ? , at the edge of Marc Cimmerium ; it stretched northward over the so-called canal Cyclops and Pambotis Lacus . These last two features may be the remnants of the Arrowhead . The disappearance of this vast tract ? for two decades one of the most easily seen features on Mars ? is the most striking change yet recorded on the surface of the red planet . Its explanation remains an intriguing puzzle . 57 . Asaph Hall finds the moons of Mars O N A SATURDAY MORNING in 1856 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a stranger entered the library of Western Reserve College . The librarian looked up to see a tall young man o about 28 in rough clothes . He was so covered with dust that the custodian of the books took him for a tramp and was about to turn him out . But the visitor explained that he wished to consult Laplace 's Mecanique Celeste to resolve some difficult problem in the motions of heavenly bodies . He identified himself as Asaph Hall and said that he had just walked the 15 miles from Shalersville , where he was a schoolteacher . The book was brought out , and Hall was al lowed to make all the extracts he wanted . Afterwards he returned by foot to Shalersville . This anecdote , preserved by Hall himself , i an indication of the determination by which he rose from youth ftl poverty and obscurity to become one of the leading American a tronomers of his generation . Hall was born at Goshen , Connecticut , on October 15 , 1829 , SO of an unsuccessful merchant who tried to retrieve his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to load up a wagon wit clocks and drive as far south as Georgia , selling them and finally th horse and wagon , and then return home for another trip . The bo 290                     