@@773939

txt 50 Defending China bag of tricks , according to requirements . Some guerrilla tactics and some positional war are suggested , but above all annihilating the enemy is the best objective . It would be misleading however to view this phase as more coherent than merely abiding by the principle of if it works , then use it ' . The third phase of offensive war is even less unusual in the annals of strategic studies , for it is basically conventional war of massed armies . It does however play a crucial role in Mao 's conception of how to defeat the general invader of China . He called it the most fascinating , the most dynamic ' phase when it is increasingly clear that victory can be achieved . The precise moment at which the shift into offensive war should be made is left vague , but once it comes , the bypassed cities can be captured , the enemy forces engaged in positional war and more than one place can be struck at the same time.25 Nevertheless , the operational principles still stress mobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy 's forces rather than to hold territory . These phases of Mao 's people 's war are both flexible and logical . Thus it should come as no surprise that they continued to serve as the focus of Chinese defence against general invasion in the period after 1949 , and that they were subject to elaboration and adjustment . Soviet strategy was not incorporated whole-heartedly even in the hey-day of the Soviet model , as Mao soon came to urge the military not to eat pre-cooked food ' . Soviet strategy for the modern services ( navy and air force ) appeared more relevant than for the ground forces.26 In the early 1960s people 's war seemed to stress walking on two legs ' , i.e. incorporating modern aspects into China 's revolutionary experience . Positional war was emphasized along with close combat . Professionalism , compactness and quality ' , and modern war were underlined by Defence Minister Lin Biao , Chief of Staff Luo Ruiqing and above all Marshall Ye Jianying.27 They praised people 's war , under modern conditions ' and said it included combined arms operations.28 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's military strategy as sanction for the modernization . Now even cities and vital installations were to be defended in positional warfare . To be sure , the expert ' component did not go unchallenged , for by the Cultural Revolution , the PLA was placing greater emphasis on politics and professionalism was forced into the background . China , as an established state with borders to defend , had Ideology 51 somewhat different priorities than did the CCP engaged in first phase strategy . Maoism was not discarded , but the flexibility of people 's war was invoked as the main principle . Mao was quoted as saying , Any kind of guideline rules of war technique develops in accordance with the development of history and war ; there is nothing in the world that does not change . ' 29 This eclectic approach has by and large continued to the present day without any successful attempt to formulate a new strategy for defending China . To be sure , there have been temporary changes of emphasis , and debates about these changes , but the wide spectrum of strategy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variations to be labelled Maoist.30 For example , Lin Biao was accused in the mid-1970s of both military caution and adventurism in the pre-1949 campaign , indicating the absence in China of any clear , coherent Chinese doctrine.31 Following Mao 's death , military strategy designed to cope with the threat of general invasion still did not evolve in any clear direction . Flexibility of people 's war remained a main feature , including guerrilla operation and positional war . According to Su Yu , Mao highly valued this kind of positional warfare , which illustrated the continuous development of our tactics under new conditions and the flexible application of the various methods of fighting according to objective conditions . ' 32 Ye Jianying said the laws for directing war vary with the changing situation of war ' and declared it was time to formulate new ideas for people 's warfare in contemporary conditions ' .33 In the early 1980s Chinese strategists were more openly discussing the meaning of people 's war under modern conditions ' .3a There was however no attempt to invent a coherent strategy as articles spoke openly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combined arms operations , and positional war.35 The dominant theme was flexibility and even Mao was said to be a silent supporter of this line . One writer in Military Science went further than most when he suggested that Mao would have updated his views on conventional war if he had had the chance : It was a pity that Comrade Mao Zedong had no time to make a systematic summation of large-scale wars , especially the practice of strategic counter-offensives in this period in the same way as he had summed up the experiences in strategic defensive operations in the early period of the anti-Japanese war .. .36 52 Defending China The emphasis was also placed on abandoning guerrilla war and building a regular and modern army for national defence ' . People 's war meant fighting for the people with their support , but modern conditions ' had to be taken into account . Better logistics , equipment and tactics were needed for this new war , and it would include holding major cities and military sites . Deng Xiaoping and others were praised for fighting such a war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The strategists made plain that although there were going to be changes , they were uncertain as to the precise outcome . During the first stage of a war , we should mainly use positional defensive warfare , with powerful support and co-ordination of mobile warfare , and guerrilla warfare in order to gradually consume and annihilate the enemy 's strength and bring about a change in the balance of strength between the enemy and us . Concentrating a superior force to destroy the enemy forces one by one is still the basic way for our army to fight . However , when we use this way of fighting on the battlefield , we have to study and solve a series of new problems because of development in weapons and technical equipment . " In sum , China 's strategy for defending itself from threats of general invasion was rarely rigid , but only now is this flexibility openly acknowledged.38 People 's war has never been a fixed doctrine , but always incorporated change . Although at times some Chinese strategists interpreted the theory in a rigid manner , and these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prolonged , that said more about the quality of the theorists than the theory . Thus China in the 1980s can claim that its belief in people 's war under modern conditions is not new in principle , although the specific nature of modern condi-tions is obviously new . In the final analysis China has not had to test this aspect of people 's war as China has not been invaded since 1949 . But threats of a less serious nature have been faced since the Communist revolution . Limited Threats Defending China since 1949 has arguably had more to do with limited war along the frontiers than it has with general threats of invasion . But unlike the problem of total war , there are few stated Chinese strategic ideas on how to meet the limited threats . There is a great deal of practice , from Korea in 1950 to Vietnam in 1979 , of limited frontier war , but precious little strategic thinking about this complicated kind of conflict . Ideology 53 The paucity of analyses of limited war may well be due to the apparent reluctance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessarily involves a degree of forward deployment so as to hold certain positions . Such positional war was previously only conceived of as the third stage of a protracted war and Maoist strategy did not see it as a starting point for any strategy . Mao spoke clearly of the need not to engage the enemy outside the gates ' because it opposes the strategy of letting our pots and pans be smashed ' by fighting a mobile war.39 As is already plain , Mao did accept the need for some positional war and the practical evidence of post-1949 Chinese defence policy indicates numerous attempts to meet the enemy at the gates . So what strategy was adopted in these cases ? The answer seems to lie in two implicit rather than explicit elements . First , it seemed to be accepted that China could be seen as engaged in permanent positional war since 1949 in order to defend its international frontiers ( but not for threats of total invasion ) . Second , wars remained people 's wars because they had popular support but not because they followed any specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke of the need to pursue positional war and emphasized the sensible policy of concentrating forces , surprise attack and keeping the initiative.40 As the Korean war came to an end Mao again spoke of the war as a people 's war largely in the positional phase . He offered a counter to those who would not meet the enemy at the gate by saying that to allow US troops up to the Yalu River would not allow China to carry on production free from worry ' .41 This doctrine of extended deterrence was not taken up by post-Korean war strategists in China , although some , including Defence Minister Peng Dehuai , did support positional war . Mao made it plain in 1958 that the lessons of Korea for China 's strategy had not yet been analysed.42 In the 1970s Korea was briefly listed as an example of effective positional war and was said to have illustrated the continuous development of our tactics under new conditions and the flexible application of the various methods of fighting according to objective conditions . ' ' ' In the 1980s , the Korean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war was our magic weapon ' , but also a severe trial of strength and will ' .44 Both assessments stressed the positional war dimension of Chinese strategy and one article said there was both a positional attack and a positional defence . Mao put forth a series of 54 Defending China theories , policies , principles and tactics in operations in waging an international war under modem conditions ' . These included emphasis on discipline , co-ordination , use of abruptness , small encirclement operations , anti-tank training , air-drops , tunnels , tactical offensives , and establishing better rear services . In short , a sensible conventional , largely positional war beyond China 's gates . It is , however , too simple to suggest that defence at the gates ' was in effect adopted although it was unpolitic to openly admit such deviation . In fact , it seems more apparent that the policy of positional war at the gates was a focus of strategic debate that was never fully resolved in China . In January 1961 Ye Jianying spoke of both holding strongholds and coastal positions while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in deep ' as postulated in Mao 's first and second phases of protracted war.45 Evidence for more significantly divided counsel was apparent in the mid-1960s . The looming US military presence in the Vietnam war made China take a more explicit stand on whether it would meet the enemy at the gates . One strategist in 1965 spoke favourably of holding cities and fighting positional war.46 Chief of Staff Luo Ruiqing emphasized forward defence and positional war , including the construction of permanent defensive structures in North Vietnam . Other military men , including Lin Biao , rejected the idea of meeting the enemy at the gate in favour of more passive defence in depth . Lin 's 1965 tract on people 's war even urged the Vietnamese to pursue strategic retreat and praised guerrilla tactics . Others , perhaps including Mao , were less extreme ( or less certain of their alternatives ) . The resulting compromise apparently included a sizeable Chinese presence in Vietnam but a decision to avoid direct confrontation with the US.47 In 1969 Mao seemed to explain the compromise by suggesting that defence at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ye Jianying 's 1961 line , Mao said that this third stage of protracted war would have to be abandoned if , however , the war was on a large scale . Others may come and attack us but we shall not fight outside our borders . We do not fight outside our borders ... but if you should come and attack us we will deal with you . It depends on whether you attack on a small scale or a large scale . If it is on a small scale we will fight on the border . If it is on a large scale then I am in favour of yielding some ground . China is no small country . If there is nothing in it for them I do n't think they will come ... If they invade Ideology 55 our territory then I think it would be more to our advantage ... They would be easy to fight because they would fall into the people 's encirclement . As for things like aeroplanes , tanks and armoured cars , everywhere experience proves that they can be dealt with.48 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union , Mao seemed to indicate that short of a major Soviet strike , forward defence was best , but not to the extent of his 1953 statements on extended deterrence into a neighbouring state . Such a differentiation according to scale of attack was not made in public in the 1970s . Meeting the enemy at the gate was called left opportunism ' when attributed to Wang Ming by Su Yu in 197849 ( Luo Ruiqing 's was a rightist ' error ) . Xu Xiangqian , in the same year also said Engaging the enemy outside the gates has never been a good method of fighting ' , but added that the enemy should not be allowed to run rampant . He should be lured to where you want him and then some positional warfare should be adopted when at key places we will put up a strong defence ' .50 Apparently there was still no unanimity on dealing with limited threats . In the early 1980s the new material on Chinese strategy still offered no solution to the problem , although some writers did speak positively of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently part of a broader debate on Chinese strategy and foreign policy , for the question of whether it was wise to post forces at the gate was an important aspect of the allegorical articles in the early 1980s on strategy in the Qing dynasty.52 Defending China against threats of limited war was a vexed issue beyond even the scope of Mao 's flexible military strategy . Nuclear Threat China 's attitude towards the nuclear threat draws many of its principles from the same Maoist sources that shaped China 's attitude towards general invasion . An attack on China that does not win the people 's support will fail . Nuclear war against China is therefore of limited utility because it is no substitute for occupying the entire country . Thus the enduring strategic principle , first declared by Mao , that the atom bomb is a paper tiger ' , has lost none of its relevance since it was first propounded . Mao was merely suggesting that the rules of history and political power had not changed , although the destructive power of weapons had increased.53 Zhou 56 Defending China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use the atom bomb to deal with a peasant war . ' S4 The paper tiger thesis does not however mean that China does not appreciate the destructiveness of nuclear weapons.55 Chinese strategists clearly accepted that they were powerful , but they insisted that it would still be necessary to invade China in order to defeat it . Basic deterrence of nuclear war was achieved by reliance on geography.56 It would also be incorrect to suggest that China did not study the more specific implications of nuclear weapons . The Soviet debates of the 1950s on nuclear strategy were followed and commented upon by China.57 Beijing was only too well aware that the US had nuclear forces threatening China and at least in order to meet these limited threats some kind of nuclear support for China was required . The great value Mao placed on the Soviet ICBM test in 1957 showed that in some respects China even took nuclear forces more seriously than the Soviet Union . Chinese shifts in step with the Soviets on various strategic issues , for example the belief that nuclear war was no longer inevitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear policy . This Chinese concern . with nuclear weapons for limited rather than general threats was more visible in the early 1960s as reliance on Soviet deterrence of the US came more into doubt . The Military Affairs Committee said in January 1961 ? ' The physical atomic bomb is important , but the spiritual atomic bomb is more important . We must reorientate the entire work of our army towards dealing with a new world war equipped for atomic warfare ... ' 58 Ye Jianying echoed this view and seemed to express more concern with biological weapons . He said nuclear weapons ... can only be used to destroy centres and the economic reserves of the opponent during the strategic bombing phase . After that , they are used principally as fire power preparations for assault . However , the army and regular weapons are necessary to terminate war ... ( this ) is to rely primarily on man ... They ( US ) also recognize that they can not deal with China only by using nuclear weapons , because China possesses a large territory and lots of people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons which are the most effective way of harming farm products . They think China would be thrown into disorder if she had no food to feed her people . , .59 In the early 1960s the possibility of dealing with tactical nuclear weapons seemed to be of greater concern for China than the massive nuclear strike.60 Ideology 57 Tactical or even theatre nuclear forces for China seemed to have been a source of some disagreement . Much like the debates on conventional limited war , so limited nuclear war was the focus of debate . By 1964 , at least Zhou Enlai was saying unambiguously that China would not develop tactical nuclear forces.61 The mid-1960s was a period of much change in China 's nuclear posture as the testing of China 's first atom bomb in October 1964 provoked a series of explicit statements of nuclear strategy . China pledged not to be the first to use nuclear weapons ( hence the opposition to tactical forces ) and supported nuclear-free zones . Mao said the paper tiger thesis was only a figure of speech.62 China generally attempted to minimize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately after the first test but before the establishment of a credible second strike.63 China 's rapid rise to a secure second-strike level , coupled with superpower caution , ensured that the Chinese could carry on developing nuclear strategy . However , it is remarkable that little seems to have changed in China 's original nuclear strategy . Some articles seemed more simplistic than others , but by and large deterrence against general nuclear war was not seen as a problem64 as strategy for such a war still relied on people 's war . Su Yu said in 1978 We do not deny that nuclear weapons have great destructive power and inflict heavy casualties , but they can not be counted on to decide the outcome of a war . The aggressors can use them to destroy a city or town , but they can not occupy those places , still less can they win the people 's hearts ... ( nuclear weapons ) pose a much greater threat to the imperialists and social-imperialist countries whose industries and population are highly concentrated ... Our economic construction can not therefore be destroyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than simply a compilation of its leaders ' declared positions . The pressures of technology and institutions also help shape China 's changing doctrine and can not be fully developed in this section on ideology ( see concluding chapter ) . But suffice it to say that Chinese views on nuclear weapons include a peculiarly Chinese notion of graduated , minimum deterrence , and acceptance of the need to tailor nuclear deterrence to changing reality . Perhaps the most current example of flexibility in China 's nuclear 58 Defending China doctrine is in the recent alteration of its previous opposition to acquisition of tactical nuclear weapons . Since the early 1980s China has been discussing the potential usefulness of tactical nuclear forces and by 1982 China had clearly been training in a simulated tactical nuclear environment . " One report suggested that China itself was even considering the first use of such nuclear weapons , in flat contradiction to China 's pledge not to be the first to use nuclear weapons . " It seems that , if invaded , China might find no need to keep to its no-first-use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not fixed . Like other aspects of general conventional Chinese defence policy , it seems that the closer China gets to limited conflicts , the more there is pragmatism and flexibility in its military doctrine . People 's war can set general principles , but even people 's war under modern conditions ' can not predict all future military developments . Conclusions China 's guiding military ideology is people 's war ' ? whether it be under modern conditions or not . People 's war is pre-eminently a notion of military science ? a concept like Communism itself that is so general as to set basic goals but not serve as a blueprint for day-to-day action . People 's war has some impact on military art , but it is at this more pragmatic level that China 's modern conditions ' has a greater impact . People 's war is therefore essentially the notion that war must have popular support and be suited to local conditions . In China 's case this means essentially a mass army prepared to trade space for time and men for weapons . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the specific cases of the use of the Chinese military instrument because these have mostly been concerned with limited threats . In these limited threats the Chinese doctrine is far from consistent , with little certainty on whether to meet threats at the gate , or to wage mobile or positional war . Similarly , on the nuclear level , while China seems to have fairly clear-cut general notions of deterrence , when it comes to limited nuclear war , Chinese doctrine seems more ambiguous . The general picture of Chinese military ideology is one of flexible basic principles and even greater pragmatism when faced with less general threats to China . Interestingly enough , this is also apparently China 's view of military aid to other states and revolutionary Ideology 59 movements . That the world at large should be encouraged to have social revolutions is not in question for China , but the revolutions should be indigenous and based on local conditions . China offers military aid for various reasons , but the only revolution it seems to export is the idea of revolution itself.6R In only Korea and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own military force to support revolutionary causes . But in recent years China 's policy on arms transfers to friendly states has undergone a major change . By the early 1980s it was clear that China was prepared to sell arms on a large scale , even in contradiction to its stated policy.69 Whether it be in making or defending revolution at home , or helping revolution abroad , China 's military ideology has both a set of basic principles and a flexible view of how these ideas can be implemented . A pragmatist is one who adapts his purpose to suit reality . China is more like a pragmatic ideologist , trying to mould reality in the light of its purposes . 60 Defending China Ideology 61 62 Defending China 4 Institutions An analysis of the sources of Chinese defence policy would clearly be incomplete without making reference to institutional and bureaucratic forces . Does an analysis of institutional influences tell us very much about how China defends itself ? In order to answer this basic question it is necessary to focus on the problem of how much independence the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branches of the PLA has an effect on policy . Therefore it is logical to start with a general review of Party ? Army relations , and then proceed to an analysis of the different types of threats to China and how the institutional dimension might add to our understanding of the problem . The Impact of Party ? Army Relations The old American Sinologist 's joke that the east may be red , but the west is expert ' , indicates a large part of the problem in analysing Party ? Army relations . Neither is the east exclusively red , nor is the west exclusively expert . To conceive of Party ? Army relations as if Party and Army were monolithic bodies locked in inevitable struggle is seriously to misrepresent a far more complex reality . As will hopefully become apparent below , neither the military nor the civil authority in China is a monolithic group . ' Cleavages cut across the Party ? Army division so that it is misleading to view the PLA as an individual actor , let alone an independent one . It is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncertain terms that the Party controls the army on all issues . The reality is , as usual , more complex . Take for example the central problem of professionalism in the PLA and the extent to which it conflicts with civilian and ideological demands . The adoption of the Soviet model for the military in the early 1950s meant professionalism in the officer corps , establishment of military academies , and the 64 Defending China introduction of a system of ranks . At first this modernization did not conflict with ideology because the ideology itself was deemed to be modernization . However , this mad dash to professionalism along a path towards the Soviet model soon ran into roadblocks . In the military , as in many spheres of Chinese life , professionalism came under attack for denying the validity of China 's revolutionary experience . However , the emerging policy dispute should not be seen as one between a Communist Party favouring ideology and a PLA holding on to newly-won professional skills . It is far more accurate to suggest that groups within both the Party and military had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the Soviet model was carried on at various levels of Chinese society and not between coherent and impermeable groups in politics . ' Even within the PLA , various different strands of opinion on professionalism can be identified . The younger members of the military had more interest in professional skills as they had risen to prominence in the post-Korean War experiment . ' Some military men had developed closer ties to the Soviet Union and probably saw a greater need for retaining the Soviet model 's professionalism . Other elements of the PLA were more involved in political control tasks and were disturbed at the loss of their political influence in a purely professional military . In the late 1950s Peng Dehuai was replaced by Lin Biao as Defence Minister . Both were military men ; they simply had different views , and represented different elements in the armed forces . Peng fell from power for his wider challenges to Mao on domestic issues , not for being a military professional . ' If the vast majority of the PLA stood for professionalism , then the post-Peng purge should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the contrary , the purge was surgical , and barely cut out an isolated few who had challenged Mao 's authority on domestic economic policy . PLA leadership changes can not be attributed to any single factor . ' It seems more likely that rather than looking at Party ? Army debates , it is better to seek root causes in central leadership politics and economic debates . In the 1960s the same pattern continued : military men were divided on PLA policy and joined forces with diverse political coalitions in the civil structure . The purge of Luo Ruiqing ( Chief of Staff ) was not merely a purge of professionals . The move was in fact Institutions 65 part of a more complex process involving military and civilian figures on both sides of the red versus expert argument . ' Furthermore , it is impossible to identify a unified Party or Army in the Cultural Revolution when parts of the PLA were brought into the political arena on the side of one civilian group . ' In the early 1970s the purge of Lin Biao involved many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remove the Defence Minister . Following Lin 's fall , the PLA began drifting back to the barracks from which they were ordered in the mid-1960s . Far from opposing this return to professional concerns , the Party and Army encouraged it . Just as the PLA did not seek involvement in the Cultural Revolution , so they did not oppose being sent back to military pursuits . Most of the Party and Army shared a common vision of a return to normality . ' The post-Mao struggles to remove the Gang of Four ' also showed the same pattern of confused Party ? Army lines . The Gang had some support in the PLA although somewhat less than in society as a whole . In the late 1970s much of the PLA responded quickly to the back to the barracks campaign for they agreed with the new CCP mood of professionalism and seeking truth from facts ' .9 Where there were limits on professionalism , they were due to lack of funds , but not a lack of desire or the presence of policy dispute . As in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The new emphases on military training , academies , and professional skills were mirrored in various other aspects of Chinese society . The tension , such as it was , between professional and radical ideology , was a nation-wide phenomenon and not a Party ? Army issue . In sum , the general absence of a unified , let alone independent military position on most issues , makes it hard to suggest that it would be useful to pursue an institutional approach to Chinese defence policy . But what of the area where the Soviet military obtains much of its power : functional specialization ? As students of the Soviet military well know , the Soviet armed forces apparently can claim power because they are specialists in certain key fields . ' ? It is clear that in the Chinese case , the PLA has few of these spheres of influence . Because of Chinese technological backwardness , the PLA has few areas where it can control the flow of information and thereby gather power . There are of course military institutions in which the functional specialization may at some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tasks of the PLA are open and largely intelligible to most in the civilian decision-making hierarchy . 66 Defending China The complex web of powerful decision-makers in China can be traced back to the CCP structure . Under the Central Committee of the Party lies the crucial Military Affairs Committee ( MAC ) which makes most specific policy choices . " The Ministry of Defence has no such power but may be more important in the implementation of policy . The MAC is staffed by senior military professionals but takes its lead from general CCP policy . In effect the MAC mediates between conflicting military demands but the overarching range of military action has already been set by the leading members of the Central Committee . Mediation is also achieved at the level just below the MAC where several general departments deal with more specific issues . The General Political Department ( GPD ) is responsible for maintaining ideology , discipline , morale , and education in the armed forces . The GPD is not always in step with CCP policy as its purges in the Cultural Revolution make plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests are interwoven in complex patterns at various levels . For example the GPD 's task at lower levels merges with that of the chain of political commissars that extend down the line of PLA power , but at higher levels the GPD and the Party Commissars are clearly separate institutions . The chain of command is even more complex . Political commissars are present at virtually every level at which there is a military commander but the professional soldiers trace their power to the second of the general departments , the General Staff Department . Headed by the Chief of Staff , the GSD executes the military orders of the MAC . The third department is the General Rear Services Department responsible for logistics mainly of the ground forces as well as some of the other services and the dispersal of foreign aid . It is clear that military institutions are diverse and far from unified in command . Decisions and problems seem to flow both up and down the channels of authority , making it very difficult to see any clear pattern . Thus even if the PLA were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would be able to offer a unified policy position . The same eclectic pattern is evident when looking at the role of military industry . The equipment for the PLA is largely produced by five Machine Industry Ministries . As with the military itself these industries are in fact under the control of the MAC . In this case , the intervening body establishing policy for the ministries is the National Defence Institutions 67 Industrial Committee ( NDIC ) . ' Z The NDIC is staffed primarily by military professionals who soon move on to other tasks and the Committee by and large is responsive to military needs rather than pressure from the ministries . Since the early 1980s there has been some suggestion that the Party control ? through the MAC ? is less important than it used to be . The reconstituted State structure , including its own Central Military Commission ( CMC ) and a National Defence Industry Office ( NDIO instead of NDIC ) , is said to have assumed control of military industry . In June 1983 , further consolidation of overlapping Party and State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of writing , the implications of these changes were uncertain . However , it seems that Party control has not in reality been relinquished , despite some cosmetic changes . There certainly appears to be a remarkable coincidence of membership of parallel Party and State structures like the MAC and CMC . To a certain extent these changes seem part of China 's attempt to rationalize its general economy , and take firmer control of military power . Whatever the case , the military industry sector stands out as one where lines of power are complex , cutting across simple Party ? Army lines . Obviously , this overlapping structure allows for numerous policy debates and does not itself impose any recognizable pattern on policies . As Western analysts have made clear , the main determinant of policy for military industry is the general state of the economy as thrashed out in the CCP Politburo . There are strong co-ordinating links in the structure , as in the Soviet system , but debates do occur . Different ministries demand a different allocation of resources , as in the 1971 steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the top of the Party . There are inputs from the ministries and military units concerned , but making the choices are part of the Politburo 's task . Similarly , debates within ministries , for example on the need for civilian versus military ship-building , produce unity in demanding more funds , but disunity in how to allocate them . Once again the issue is resolved at higher echelons . Thus there can be little certainty as to what a policy outcome might be , without a full understanding of the complex web of cross-cutting pressures that affect the process . Furthermore , the centrality of national economic priorities , as well as the removal of military men from control of the ministries of military industry in the late 1970s , means that the PLA has minimal independent influence on the economic dimension of military policy . 68 Defending China National economic pressures are felt most keenly on the issue of just how much of the budget is allocated to the PLA . The military 's budget has been remarkably constant . " While this does not necessarily mean that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is probably an indicator that if it exists , such a role is severely circumscribed . Those changes in the budget that do occur can be traced either to changes in the general state of the economy , civilian leadership politics , or short-term fluctuations due to variable costs of certain military hardware.14 The official military budget has remained roughly constant at 10 per cent of GNP and the PLA apparently is satisfied to keep to that figure . Only general economic growth can provide funds for future military needs . Neither is it possible to suggest that different elements in the PLA have been locked in fierce factional battles over funds , for here too there is remarkable constancy in budgets . Each of the three main services has about 20 per cent of the total funds on average and thus changes in their postures ( to be discussed below ) have occurred gradually and within these financial constraints . Concensus seems to be the main characteristic of the budgetary process . In sum , the PLA does not appear to be an independent actor in policy debates . Decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on various policy problems in which the military , or part of it , is only one of several participants . But if the PLA is not a monolithic actor , than perhaps it can be more usefully studied with reference to its specific tasks . Thus we now turn to an analysis of the way in which military institutions might tell us something about meeting threats to China 's security . Institutions and General Threats It should come as no surprise that the institution most concerned with meeting a threat of general invasion to China is the ground forces . But institutions can have different ways of coping with a threat , so it is especially important to ascertain what strategic bias , if any , is exhibited by the PLA ground forces . Assuming that there is some rational calculation in their organization ( and for some that is a large assumption ) the ground forces appear to be organized to fight a mobile defensive war and to defend certain key positions . China 's 11 military regions , consisting of 29 military districts , are defended by ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops in 11 armoured and 118 infantry Institutions 69 divisions are notionally able to be shifted anywhere in China and organized in an ad hoc way to meet a specific threat that may arise.15 In reality it appears that these forces are designed to operate on a regional basis in coordination with the more explicitly regional based local and militia units . While the 11 military regions are undoubtedly of some organizational importance in peacetime , it seems that in case of a general threat of war , the regional organization will be along the line of 5 major fronts . In the early 1980s the first front comprised the Beijing and Shenyang military regions facing the Soviet Union , Korea , and Mongolia . It contained 8 armoured divisions and 46 infantry divisions with the Shenyang region standing out as the most heavily defended sector of China . Organizationally this area is of paramount importance and reflects an apparent decision to defend crucial industrial and population centres in a positional war that surrenders only the territory closest to the frontier . The second front comprises the Lanzhou and Urumqi military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ north and India , Pakistan , and Afghanistan in the south . This vast and unpopulated territory is defended by one armoured and 14 infantry divisions . Apparently there is little plan to hold this territory in time of invasion and the relative absence of population makes the pursuit of people 's war less than credible . The third front based on the Chengdu military region , faces India , Nepal , Bhutan , and Burma and is sparsely manned by 9 infantry divisions . Protected by the Himalayas , this region has little reason to be accorded special organizational status , especially with the diminution of a threat from India . The fourth front on the other hand has some geographic protection , but the presence of IndoChinese problems means it has been accorded a higher organizational status . Comprising the Guangzhou and Kunming military regions , and facing Burma , Laos , Vietnam , and Hong Kong , this front has emphasized infantry by garrisoning 18 such divisions in its territory . Like the first front it protects crucial parts of core China , but the more favourable geography @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military forces is needed . The fifth front is composed of the Jinan , Nanjing , and Fuzhou military regions facing Taiwan , Japan , and Korea . The presence of two armoured and 20 infantry divisions probably has more to do with internal security needs and less with facing a threat of invasion . 70 Defending China Like the as yet unmentioned Wuhan military region , these forces perhaps serve as a reserve from which to reinforce threatened areas and at the same time maintain a firm grip on the majority of the Chinese population in core China . The modernization needs of these central or reserve forces are less likely to be as pressing as for those units facing identifiable military threats requiring specific military forces . In peacetime these regional interests probably play a greater role than in wartime . It seems apparent that in times of crisis central control is strengthened and more ad hoc military responses are organized.16 Nevertheless , the main institutional pressures from the PLA ground forces remain regional . Apart from the obvious local interests of the militia and local forces , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more , the regional military commanders may adopt different positions on domestic politics and develop different attitudes to their sometimes diverse regional ethnic population . One need merely look at the Lin Biao affair or the post-Mao succession to see the futility of suggesting a single military viewpoint . " Thus , not only are the regions different from each other , but they are also not always in agreement with central civilian or military authority . Such wide ranging differences of opinion among the military , probably are reflected also in different assessments of how the PLA should meet a general threat of invasion . Certain regions are less interested in the creation of a professional force , some are interested in a certain kind of professionalism , some benefit from unsophisti-cated logistics , and some might prefer a more active military role . These and other differences of opinion make it next to impossible to ascertain the institutional impact of the PLA on policy . The very complexity of motives and needs makes it necessary to try and understand the intricacies , but also makes it plain that simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear is that the ground forces are the main focus of the general defence of China . Both the navy and air force play a far less important role . But in the areas where the navy and air force are important , they complicate rather than clarify any potential institutional role in policy making . The air force , unlike the ground forces , is centrally organized with its own communication network that bears only superficial similarity to regional troop formations.18 The central command from Beijing is less strong in Institutions 71 peacetime , but it seems that in time of conflict combat operations by the air force would be even more firmly run from the centre . In any case the air force 's role in meeting a general threat to China is probably minimal . Chinese aircraft are by and large designed to contest air superiority , but this is a battle unlikely to be won against the far superior Soviet air force . Most of the 400 modern airfields are in core China and this leaves vast areas of the country virtually undefended from the sky . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the air force has the smallest role . The navy seems to take up a position in between the air and ground forces , but once again with different organizational procedures.19 Until recently the navy was simply designed for coastal defence in a variation of people 's war adapted to the sea . Thus forces were small and fast and intended to harass the enemy , lay mines , and support ground operations . The bias was also somewhat more akin to Mao 's third phase of positional war in that the navy sought to defend coastal positions and vulnerable cities along the shore . Like the ground forces the main organizational control of naval forces was regional , but the regions are not the same as those identified for the ground troops . The three fleets are notionally responsible to naval headquarters in Beijing in peacetime , but this central control is tightened during war . The northern fleet covering the Yellow Sea essentially faces Korea and comprised 500 ships of substantial size . The East Sea fleet covers the main industrial areas and the Taiwan Straits . Because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Soviet naval forces , it has 750 major craft . The third fleet in the South China Sea has 600 ships and faces Vietnam and the more extended Soviet naval threat . The complex lines of control are perhaps best seen when analysing the naval air forces designed to defend surface ships and naval installations . So far these pilots have been all land-based and under the organizational control of the air force . While acknowledged as the cream of the crop in Chinese military aviation , navy pilots still basically serve air defence roles . What then does an institutional analysis tell us about defending China from a general threat ? First , China 's main response is to be found in the ground forces . But this does not mean that simple judgements can be made about institutional preferences for policy . Clearly the ground forces have cleavages between centre and region , as well as between region and region . The essentially regional 72 Defending China organization of these forces means that many of these cleavages are likely to be important , but not in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be difficult to assert , although somewhat easier for the air and possibly naval forces . These institutional arrangements do , however , lend credence to the view that people 's war remains the central , and in many senses still the credible form of defence against the general threat of invasion . Yet the allocation of forces in specific regions tends to suggest that vast expanses of territory will , if necessary be surrendered mainly in the west while in the north and east the stress might well be on the positional war phase of people 's war . Thus an examination of PLA organization does not suggest a necessarily uniform defence of China . What is also suggested by this institutional analysis is the relative lack of concern with professional military matters . The tendency to establish ad hoc commands during war , the flexible regional organization , and China 's selective recruitment to all services , " O means that the non-professional element inherent in much of the people 's war doctrine , continues to be crucial . Thus central political judgements become paramount . Coupled with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent that the institutional dimension to strategy for the general defence of China reveals little more than that there is no pattern . It is important to understand institutional sources of policy , but they are unlikely to provide any coherent picture . Perhaps the picture is more clear and simple when looking at the relatively less complex problem of limited war threats to China . Institutions and Limited Threats It can be argued that , since meeting general threats to China is so crucial , the parochialism of military institution 's interests are not allowed to dominate policy discussion . More limited threats might however offer greater scope for the assertion of institutional differences . Certainly the organization of the ground forces on a regional basis seems to lend credence to this conviction . However , such regionalism or even warlordism ' of local commanders pursuing the interests of their independent kingdom ' does not appear to occur to any significant degree . Perhaps because of the extreme sensitivity to the potentially disastrous effects of Institutions 73 warlordism ' , modern China seems to have avoided any such independence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlined above , is undoubtedly an added reason for the absence of regionalism . Some analysts have suggested that independent action by a local commander may explain the 1969 Ussuri clash , but the argument is a convoluted one.21 It seems more likely that even in the case of limited threats to China 's security , the central political leadership quickly takes control in an ad hoc manner and overrides any existing local institutional biases . This was clearly the case during the Korean war when no specific institutional interest can be seen as determining policy . Policy was determined by the change of commanders from Lin Biao to Peng Dehuai and the objective reality of heavy military losses , rather than by competing interests within the PLA.22 Forces were also brought into combat from different regions , thus further complicating the picture . In the 1962 Sino-Indian war there was evidence that only regional forces were used , but conflicts in Indo-China in the 1960s and 1979 involved less reliance on local troops . More importantly , there were debates on which forces to use in Vietnam in the mid-1960s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet the US threat . There were clearly contributions to the policy process from various diverse groups in the PLA and Party , but no simple institutional judgement is possible . In the previous chapter we have already mentioned the complex issue of whether to meet the enemy at the gate ' . An appreciation of the complexity of institutional interests helps provide a better grasp of policy , but a simple organizational approach is not helpful.23 A study of the air force role also does not offer a convincing argument for the organizational perspective . Central control of the air force seems to have remained crucial , as China 's political elite juggled political options . For example , as new military threats developed in the south of China , the requisite airbases were constructed in order to provide a military option.24 The organizational structure of the air force therefore followed policy choices rather than determined them . It is however true that the air force is more likely to play a decisive role in meeting limited war threats . Because the air force is too vulnerable in a general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tends to see itself as undertaking limited roles assigned by the central political elite . 74 Defending China The air force prefers to operate closer to home as its technical and logistical weakness is then less important . This service , unlike the ground forces , is likely to be more interested in , and more important in limited war threats , be they on Chinese soil or in neighbouring territory . This role is however likely to remain limited , especially against such modern air forces as those in the Soviet Union and Vietnam . On the other hand , the air force may find a greater role in the longer term in participating in combined arms operations . Whatever the case , the PLA institutional lines in the air force tell us little about the use of military force against limited threats . Not surprisingly , naval forces have the same pattern of limited institutional freedom . It is clear that many potential limited threats involve naval interests . Defending coasts , islands , or offshore resources give the navy a greater interest in limited war than general threats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air force , the navy 's interest is in planning for limited war or meeting the enemy at the gate ' and indeed contrasts with the more passive approach of the ground troops . On the other hand , there are numerous limited threats in which the navy 's interest is minimal . In Korea the navy merely tried to hold the line , but did not try to take on the superior US forces.25 Similarly in the Vietnam war the navy 's profile was low . Again , like the air force , the navy has little interest in many limited wars where its power counts for little . Taiwan crises , on the other hand , would naturally involve the navy to a far greater extent . Changes may well be under way in the service , not because of any institutional determinism , but more because , like the expanding Soviet navy , the Chinese navy seems to have been given a greater role by the political leadership . Whether as a result of leadership debates or technological change , " the navy seems to be expanding its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air force were first formed out of ground force units in the early 1950s , and it is perhaps only now that they are finding their institutional feet . Given prolonged development of expertise and technological sophistication , they may well take on new roles that will make the institutional perspective on policy more productive . In sum , evidence of debates and cross-cutting institutional lines make it plain that a full grasp of institutional preferences is needed in order to understand the sources of Chinese policy . But such an organizational perspective can not provide a guide to policy as the Institutions 75 complexity of the issues defies such neat categories . Institutional issues do however suggest a few general points . First , the navy and air force have a more important and independent role in meeting limited as opposed to general threats to Chinese security . Second , none of the branches of the armed forces are designed for action very much forward of the Chinese gates . However changes in this judgement may be underway . Third , the use of any PLA service seems to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outcome of central leadership politics . Institutional predilections may affect policy at this point , but they tend to be so diffuse as to undermine the possibility of their having an important or decisive impact . Institutions and the Nuclear Threat In the Soviet Union it is suggested that the relative independence of the strategic rocket forces gives them special influence over policy . Unlike the US where nuclear forces tend to be divided among the different services , the institutions of Soviet nuclear capability are said to exert more noticeable influence . The Chinese case seems to fit into neither model . It must be stressed that we know very little about how China 's nuclear forces are organized and commanded . Thus most speculation about the institutional impact of the nuclear forces can be little more than somewhat informed speculation . With this modest level of certainty , it can be assumed that the Chinese control of nuclear weapons combines elements of both the US and Soviet pattern . Like the Soviet Union , Chinese nuclear forces seem to be controlled by the Second Artillery , a service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible to the MAC and the Politburo.27 Unlike the Soviet Union , the Second Artillery does not appear to be just another service , but rather a special one more firmly under central control and heavily influenced by the Chinese public security apparatus and the scientific and technical community . The Second Artillery does not appear to be just another fief of the military establishment . Rather , the central political leadership seems able to keep a firm grip on these powerful forces , and especially because China does not have a large number of nuclear weapons , such central control is more efficient . " The decisions on production and deployment also seem to be under similar central control with institutional roles more for security 76 Defending China and technical experts rather than military men . The few nuclear production sites as well as missile sites may be spread out across China , but they do n't seem to be subject to any significant regional influences.29 Once again it does not seem especially useful to seek evidence on how nuclear strategy is made by tracing institutional lines , other than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems relatively reduced . In fact , the major reason for this simplified institutional picture is that the Chinese nuclear forces are not very sophisticated and hence lack the areas of expertise and specialization that give their Soviet counterparts more power . The probable evolution by China of tactical nuclear weapons will not necessarily increase the institutional role of the nuclear forces , and it certainly will complicate it . Confusing command and control problems will have to be sorted out , but as is the case with the superpowers , the decision to use the weapons is likely to remain with central authorities . Furthermore , the PLA does not have to contend with pressures for arms control which both superpowers have found enhance the institutional differences . There is nothing like talk of limitations or reductions in a country 's armed forces to bring out clear organizational interests . It is also likely that the nuclear forces find their policy preferences intersecting with those of the other services in a complex way . Nuclear weapons are generally a cheaper path to deterrence and defence as compared to conventional weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat to China , nuclear weapons only compete for resources with conventional forces when it comes to meeting limited threats . It is here that the lower cost of nuclear forces is particularly appreciated . But because nuclear weapons have opportunity costs for other services , the other services of Chinese defence may not appreciate the central elite 's efforts to cut costs by deploying nuclear forces . But even here the judgement is a complicated one , for the more technologically advanced services like the air force and navy might well be pleased with more investment in electronics rather than steel . The problem is they then might find that the special kind of electronics needed for nuclear forces still drains resources from the air or naval forces . Clearly the picture is complex . Even if we could draw the institutional lines in greater detail , it is likely that they would again show a pattern of cross-cutting cleavages defying simple institutional analysis . It is important to understand the importance Institutions 77 attached to central control of nuclear forces and the complex series of interests involved in developing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an analysis of military institutions leads to any inexorable conclusions for China 's defence policy . Summary and Conclusions Those seeking insights from military institutional arrangements as to how China defends itself , will be disappointed with this chapter . There seem to be few significant lines of organizational power and influence in the PLA that are crucial in shaping Chinese defence policy . The evidence for this conclusion is drawn from several sources , but the most important one is that there are no clear lines of institutional policy in the military as a whole , or in specific services . The cleavages on policy are numerous and far from consistent in any given case . What is more , the military is not independent enough to impose its will on the party leadership even if it could formulate a single coherent one . The central policy choices seem to be taken by the central party leadership , taking into account pressures from groups within the military , but also myriad other pressure groups . It is however true that the organizational approach is more useful in considering a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice of the PLA is relatively unified and vociferous when they feel they are not getting sufficient funds or professional latitude . But even in these two areas , it has already been noted that significant differences within the PLA exist . Thus the PLA has an important role to play in policy making , but not as an institutional actor . The scope for important independent military action as an institution is also much reduced because of the relative lack of expertise . The absence of large or sophisticated military systems where the armed forces can jealously guard information means that a crucial source of power and leverage is lacking . It is possible that with growing sophistication in Chinese forces and expansion of technological skills , the PLA will gradually obtain more power . Then it also might be more useful to look at institutional lines of control . But for the time being the analysis of Chinese defence policy is not particularly well served by institutional analysis . The development of active and independent PLA power will follow the creation of the basic military tools , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some might balk at the inclusion of a chapter on PLA operations in Tibet . It has been suggested that the liberation ' of Tibet was merely part of the broader anti-Guomindang war of liberation . However , there are several reasons for arguing that the PLA campaign in Tibet was the first use of force by Communist China beyond its frontiers . First , it will be shown that the Tibet campaign was specially planned and was not merely a continuation of civil war operations . Second , unlike the civil war , the invasion of Tibet had clear and specific foreign policy implications . Finally , there is a widely held belief that because Tibet , unlike other parts of China , was an independent , or at least quasi-independent state , therefore the 1950 invasion was an expansion of Chinese territory . Without passing judgement on the legitimacy of these claims , the Tibet operation was a special one , and can properly be treated as the first use of Chinese military power beyond its de facto frontiers . Course of Events Unlike most of the case studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Tibet are not readily known . However , there can be little doubt that the communists intended to liberate ' Tibet , for even in 1936 Mao Zedong told Edgar Snow that Tibet and Xinjiang will form autonomous republics attached to the Chinese federation ' . Following the declaration of the People 's Republic of China in October 1949 , official government statements made it clear that Tibet would be liberated ' . Military preparations began in early 1950 but took on concrete shape in April when Garze in Sichuan was captured and the laying of roads began toward the Tibetan border . ' The arduous military preparations were taken simultaneously Tibet , 1950 ? 1951 81 with attempts at peaceful unification . In January the Dalai Lama was ordered to send a delegation to Beijing for talks and to cease attempts to obtain international support . In February a Tibetan delegation left Lhasa for India . By April , when Chinese military preparations were under way , an eight man Tibetan delegation tried to reach China via Calcutta and Hong Kong . Their attempt to fly to Hong Kong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want unification and therefore refused to grant visas for the delegation . ' Throughout the summer there were rumours that China had invaded Tibet , but these seem only to have been Chinese probing of border positions . On the diplomatic front , the Tibetan delegation in India planned to circumvent British roadblocks by discussing the problem with the Chinese ambassador in India who was expected to arrive there shortly . On 22 August the leading pro-Chinese living Buddha ' , Geda , was killed in Tibet perhaps foreclosing Beijing 's attempt at organizing a fifth column.4 In any case , China was also told by India in mid-August that Britain had now withdrawn its refusal to grant visas . China 's exasperation at what it viewed as the delegation 's procrastination provoked a Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs statement to India on 31 August . The statement said that the Tibetan delegation had better arrive by mid-September as PLA plans were well under ways On 9 September the Tibetan delegation began talks with the Chinese charge d'affaires in Delhi where he reportedly told them to come to Beijing as soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speed up the matter , for they had already told the United States secretly in August that they were only playing for time . ' During September the talks in Delhi did not seem to progress even though the Chinese ambassador eventually arrived in September . As China said at the time , we hear footsteps on the staircase , but nobody ever appears ' . ' The Delhi talks in fact seemed unconnected to the military preparations . The Indian government was again warned in mid-October of the need to have the Tibetans arrive quickly in Beijing , even though Chinese forces invaded Tibet on 7 October . On 24 October the Tibetans announced they would in fact go to Beijing , but a day later the Chinese media announced that Tibet had been invaded . On 1 November , the New China News Agency ( NCNA ) said the town of Qamdo was taken on 19 October after a twelve day 82 Defending China operation . ' Wildly exaggerated reports followed suggesting China 's imminent capture of Lhasa , but , apart from minor advances , no other major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entry into the Korean war ( troops entered Korea on 14 October ) and to the extent that Tibet was noticed , the reports cited only the abortive attempt by El Salvador to raise the issue in the UN and Sino-Indian exchanges of letters on Tibetan history . In the spring of 1951 several Tibetan delegations converged on Beijing to begin talks as China appeared still to prefer a peaceful solution . Military operations were arduous . In April the delegations representing the Dalai Lama , the pro-China Panchen Lama , and another pro-Chinese Tibetan group , began talks . On 23 May they signed an Agreement on Measures for the Peaceful Liberation of Tibet ' that effectively gave China control . Unlike the military manoeuvres , this political coup by China received wide domestic media coverage . ' On 21 July the Chinese representative sent to Tibet , Zhang Jingwu , travelled via India to Yadong where the Dalai Lama was staying after his flight from Lhasa . The two entered Lhasa on 17 August and the vanguard of PLA troops arrived from the Qamdo area on 9 September . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1952 the Tibetan Military Region was formed . The regional commander , Zhang Guohua , had led the military campaign in Tibet and now embarked on a lengthy stay as the most powerful leader in the region . Thus after the brief battles of October and November 1950 , Chinese power was effectively established by October 1951 , and without firing a shot . Objectives China 's objectives in using the PLA were straightforward ? to gain control of Tibet . Beijing 's will was stated unambiguously in numerous public declarations and there is little evidence that these objectives changed at all . Two principles were paramount in almost every declaration of intent . China sought to liberate the Tibetan people and defend the frontiers of China ' .10 Although the objective of liberation was stated with monotonous regularity , statements by Mao Zedong and Zhu De spoke of offering to help our Tibetan brothers to liberate Tibet ' . " After the dashing of China 's hopes for a fifth column in August 1950 , it appeared unlikely that the PLA Tibet , 1950 ? 1951 83 would receive much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiction of helping ' the Tibetans . The second objective of defending China 's frontiers seems even less persuasive , although it was repeated often enough . Some declarations said there was a need to strengthen the defence ' of China 's western frontier , consolidate ' western defences , or prevent imperialist encroachment ' , 12 but they all shared the belief that there was a threat to China 's borders . As will be shown below , the limited concern of China 's enemies with Tibet at this time casts serious doubt on the validity of this belief . Some Chinese statements even spoke of the need to drive out ' the imperialists as an objective of the PLA action , but there is even less evidence that the impexialists ' had ever seized Tibet . The most likely reason for the invasion , the unification of China , was only stated explicitly after the combat had ceased , and even then it was not as consistent a theme as liberation and defence ' . One final objective , that of maintaining world peace ' was mentioned only once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the by then far more serious Korean war . However , it would be misleading to suggest that Chinese objectives were determined by such foreign policy pressures . The goals of liberation and unification were clearly rooted in domestic policy . Where there might be an objective related to foreign policy , it is the claim that imperialists needed to be held at bay . It is significant that the Soviet Union 's comments on the Tibetan operation made reference virtually exclusively to this foreign policy objective . 14 This bias is even more remarkable when compared with other Communist parties which stressed the Chinese mix of domestic and foreign objectives.15 The Soviet line does not necessarily mean that China included foreign policy objectives in its statements on Tibet at the Soviet Union 's behest . On the contrary , it seems more likely that Moscow merely picked up one strand of Beijing 's line in large measure because it suited broader Soviet foreign policy goals . The caution in China 's setting of objectives in the Tibet operation is even more clear when analysing the question of whether the liberation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of objectives included a call for peaceful settlement . Even after force was used , this was intended only to coerce the Tibetans to talk . China 's pressure was cautious and the PLA tried to use the minimum force . Chinese objectives did not change during the crisis 84 Defending China and they were achieved , in all their varieties , fairly easily . The objectives were maximalist in that they required unification with China and the drawing of a forward defence line incorporating all of Tibet . Nevertheless , the coercion was obtained economically , and from China 's point of view , undoubtedly successfully . Military Operations It is obvious that the military details about the PLA operations in Tibet were few and far between . Estimates of the number of Tibetan forces range between 8000 and 100,000 , with the most likely figure being closer to 9000 . Chinese forces were said to have numbered between 20,000 and 250,000 with the most likely figure for combat troops being around 30,000 . In as much as the Tibetans were lightly armed and the terrain difficult , the scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Qamdo , China claimed to have killed or wounded 180 , and taken prisoner 898 , while several thousand others are said to have surrendered.16 Reports of Chinese casualties are sparse but one source claimed they could be as high as 30 per cent , mostly due to difficult geographic conditions , and 2000 in combat . " Given that all figures are no doubt exaggerated , this was hardly a bloody battle , but it was undoubtedly arduous . One NCNA report said the PLA had overcome its greatest geographical obstacle , and that progress was at 5 kilometres per hour as roads had to be laid in front of advancing troops. x Thirteen major mountain chains were crossed on the 1300 km journey to Lhasa . China 's determination in this venture , even as the Korean war expanded , shows at least that some importance was attached to the Tibet operation . The movement of Chinese troops into Tibet did not seem to follow any specific strategy other than that determined by geography and political pressures . Zhang Guohua said his forces used Mao 's guiding principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy and striving to annihilate him completely and not to allow him to escape.7 ' But that seems a logical enough dictum under any circumstances . There is some speculation that Lin Biao was responsible for planning the operation , but it seems likely that the planning was in fact done by Liu Bocheng and also Deng Xiaoping , both of whom dominated the Southwest Military Region and the Second Field Tibet , 1950 ? 1951 85 Army.20 Other leading military figures included He Long and Liu 's chief of staff from the 1947 campaign , Li Da . Li wrote in 1973 that He personally planned and prepared for the march under the leadership of the Southwest Bureau ' . The actual forces were led by Zhang Guohua 's 18th Corp , supported by elements from other units in the southwest . Zhang 's forces were well ensconced on the roof of the world by the end of 1951 and dominated local politics for at least fifteen years . Aside from the formidable geographic barriers to PLA operations , the main determining factor for the course of Chinese policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly from Sino-Tibetan relations rather than Chinese ties to any other state , great or small . China had demanded that the Tibetans send a delegation to China for talks and seemed prepared to wait for some time before using force . The Tibetans made signals in early 1950 that they were seeking international recognition , and by April the Dalai Lama also tried to send a delegation to Beijing . The Tibetans were obtaining new arms shipments from India and from July talks began with the United States on further military aid . " China followed a two prong strategy with the Tibetans , on the one hand urging peaceful negotiations , and on the other preparing its military options . During the summer of 1950 further delays in the sending of the Tibetan delegation could be traced to British mischief-making and above all Tibetan machinations . Until September 1950 the Chinese were probably willing to believe that the Tibetans were acting in good faith , but after then Beijing felt the Dalai Lama was procrastinating . " As winter set in , the pressures for immediate action built up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , China still pursued the path of peaceful unifi-cation , and when the Tibetans finally sent their delegations , the PLA halted their drive . The agreement in May 1951 made further military operations superfluous . The salience of Sino-Tibetan relations is obvious when compared to the relative unimportance of Chinese relations with the great powers . The Soviet Union was a very passive actor in the Tibetan events ? fomenting tension with premature rumours of United States military aid to Tibet , and generally playing up the alleged involve-ment of imperialist intrigues ' . ' What is more , the Soviet Union , just as much as the rest of the world , was out of touch with the specific details of the conduct of Chinese military operations.24 86 Defending China The United States was equally out of touch . It was obviously preoccupied with the Korean war and in any case had long accepted Chinese suzerainty ' over Tibet . President Truman refused to respond favourably to Tibetan requests for aid in 1949,25 but from the summer of 1950 the Department of State took an active part in setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United States aid was never sent , due to confusion in the Tibetan camp , and India 's desire not to antagonize China . Washington did not pay a great deal of attention to Tibet , but it did try to orchestrate , via its ambassador in India , some limited efforts at keeping China from launching a full scale attack by promising to provide limited defensive ' arms to the Tibetan.26 It was apparently felt by some United States officials that if the Tibet issue was not given undue importance , then even if China invaded , the event could be more easily minimized . ' At the time of PLA operations in October , the United States was unaware of the military situation but saw no need for urgent action.28 The United States apparently was not behind the attempt by El Salvador to raise the Tibetan issue with the United Nations , and in any case it was a half-hearted venture quietly shelved with American connivance . " Washington also tried a more limited strategy to undermine the May 1951 agreement by using covert methods to entice the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with China . These efforts were aborted by the Dalai Lama 's advisers.30 The United States role , and to a certain extent also British assistance to Tibet via India , did figure in Chinese commentaries on its objectives and on Chinese operations in Tibet , but the western involvement was largely rhetorical rather than real , and more useful for Beijing 's propaganda than an important determinant of policy . The only external power of any importance for the PLA operations was India . The Indians were crucial not merely because geography determined that communication with Tibet was most effective via India ( even for Chinese delegations ) . India was also central because the Tibetan delegation spent a great deal of time there trying to get to China , and above all because India was seen as China 's most important friendly state , especially in the tense Korean War period . This is not to say that India influenced China 's position in any significant way , but China did deem it important to keep in close touch with the Indian leadership . The exchange of notes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a case in point . " But in the end China had set its objectives , and obtained them , according to its own plan and with full knowledge that there would be a political price to pay in Sino-Indian relations . The deterioration in Beijing ? Delhi relations was noticeable , but not catastrophic . The real damage would be done later in the 1950s when the implications of the extension of Chinese power to the Indian frontier would be fully appreciated . In general , the Chinese had only limited success in communicating its objectives to the Tibetans . On the political level the Chinese messages were hampered by difficult geographic problems . But even so , the Tibetans did not appreciate the urgency of Chinese signs sent either in the open media or via Indian intermediaries . It was not that the messages did not get through , but rather that they were misunderstood by the receiver . Messages to other states including India and the superpowers were better understood , but then they were of less importance . China did not have to deter these outsiders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after Chinese diplomats communicated directly with the Tibetans in Delhi did Beijing 's message get through , but by then it was too late . China then used the idiom of military action to signal Beijing 's seriousness to the Tibetans . The Tibetans soon responded and negotiations were rapidly wound up when they were held face to face in April/May 1951 . However this Chinese use of force was not necessarily a risky game . The military operations were of a low level and used only sparingly . The minimal foreign interest in the use of force meant that risk was also kept low , especially when compared with the simultaneous , and much larger battles , beginning in Korea . In sum , Chinese operations seemed prudent , relatively clear , and above all successful . Clearly there were risks in the PLA action , but they were controlled by cautious reactions to the changing situation on the ground . Pragmatism in seeking the Chinese objective seemed to be a successful policy . Domestic Dimension In 1949 there were apparently important differences of opinion in the Chinese leadership about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a year later , no such divisions were apparent . " From a careful assessment of different Chinese leaders ' statements , the Tibet operation was carried out with relative unity at the top . As has 88 Defending China already been suggested , an analysis of Chinese objectives in Tibet reveals no major differences in emphasis . The most important policy declarations were made by Liu Bocheng , the Second Field Army commander and leading figure in the southwest ; Zhu De , the dominant military figure after Mao , and Zhou Enlai , the leading figure dealing with foreign policy . No major discrepancies are evident in any of their speeches except for one statement by Zhu De , and one by Mao and Zhu , declaring that China would help ' the Tibetans achieve liberation rather than have the PLA do it for them . " There was however no pattern to these differences in emphasis and both Mao and Zhu also made statements more in keeping with the general line . If there is a need to explain some of these subtle variations of statements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the Chinese leadership . For example Zhou Enlai 's 30 September speech declaring that a peaceful solution was possible , when an invasion was a week away ' 31 probably indicates Zhou 's leading role as a diplomat . In any case , the peaceful line was used in later declarations in the hope that China could avoid a full scale invasion . Further evidence of a division of responsibility is evident in the April/May 1951 Sino-Tibetan talks . Zhou Enlai clearly led the Chinese side , but when the politically symbolic Panchen Lama arrived in China Zhu De led the Chinese side . When an agreement was reached in May , Zhu De made the major Chinese speech but Mao was also present to place the highest seal of approval on the pact.35 The only area where there are perhaps some more significant policy differences is the shady area between the military operations and the diplomatic communications . It is clear that even the Chinese diplomats in Delhi did not know the date of the Chinese invasion . Some Western reports were so struck by the absence of official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that they felt the military action was due to local initiative.36 The fact that the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs offered no comment ' on 13 October when asked whether China had invaded , may indicate nothing more than caution.31 What seems most likely is that poor communications with the recently established Chinese embassy in Delhi was exacerbated by the Chinese desire to keep silent until the first phase of their operation was complete . No deeper significance can be assumed . Tibet , 1950-1951 89 Neither is it possible to discover important differences among the Chinese military leaders . It is true that the PLA operation was dominated by Liu Bocheng 's Second Field Army , and He Long was brought in earlier in 1950 from the First Field Army , but there is no evidence of policy disagreements.3ri It is however notable that He received almost no coverage in comparison to Liu Bocheng on matters relating to Tibet.39 If there were factional splits within the PLA at the time , they did not seem to affect policy on Tibet . Summary China obtained all its stated objectives in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted them , but only after forcing the Tibetans to capitulate . Yet it is equally clear that Chinese objectives were not met until it had used force to overcome Tibetan hesitancy , although China 's will was not established entirely by force of arms . The necessity to use force was not so much due to a failure in China 's communication with the Tibetans or anyone else , but rather because the Tibetans did not move swiftly dnough for China 's liking . This is not to say that China had any set strategy of how to obtain its objectives . It used as much force as was required , and did so at low risk and with great caution . Not even the presence of leadership debates clouded the clarity of the objectives . But the unwillingness of the Tibetans to capitulate meant that China had to compel them to do so , even though Beijing probably wished to avoid such an option . The military operation was not a major one , but it was difficult and required a decision to proceed in hard times when a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about to get under way . The successful use of the military instrument in unifying China might have given Chinese leaders hope that a similar prag matic policy could be pursued for that other great irridentist cause , Taiwan . But the Korean war brought the US into the Taiwan ? China equation , and meant that China would not be able to invade Taiwan as it had invaded Tibet . 6 Korea , 1950 ? 1953 Water shapes its course according to the ground over which it flows ; the soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing . Therefore , just as water retains no constant shape , so in warfare there are no constant conditions . Sun Zi No war was as important to the People 's Republic of China as the Korean war . The significance derives not only from the unprece dented casualties , but also from the fact that it was the only war in which Chinese troops were forced to retreat and the only war in which all three Chinese armed services took part . Most importantly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a superpower , and coming as it did in the first year of the People 's Republic of China , helped establish basic elements of Chinese defence and foreign policy . Thus it is undoubtedly central to a study of Chinese defence policy to analyse how and why China used military force in Korea . Previous analyses have often been superb in assessing the first phase which drew China into a war that had been going on for at least three months . But it is also important for our purposes to assess the way in which China used military force in the following thirty months of combat . Both phases cast important light on the principles of Chinese defence policy . Without prejudging the account that follows , the major conclusion is that far from pursuing a coherent military and political strategy , China was forced to react pragmatically to the changing fortunes of war . The Course of the Korean War The reasons for the outbreak of the Korean war on 25 June 1950 have been the subject of much public and academic debate . ' Most probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conflict that could have just as easily begun for other reasons . While it is Korea , 1950-1953 93 reasonable to assume that China was aware of an imminent attack , it seems far less certain that Beijing 's leaders approved of the venture . Even if China had given the North Koreans and the Soviet Union a silent nod of assent , it must have been in the hope that the victory would be swift and the US would cut its losses and not respond . But both hopes were soon dashed . Washington rallied its allies to respond militarily to the North Korean action , and what is worse for China , President Truman ordered the 7th Fleet to patrol the Taiwan Straits . This last act was particularly disturbing to Beijing as it delayed the final stages of the civil war ? the taking of Taiwan . The other Chinese hope ? that of a swift victory ? did not materialize . By late June China began moving some troops from the Taiwan front to staging areas close to the Sino-Korean frontier . By the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .2 The mounting apprehension in Beijing really began in August when the US turned the military tide and Chinese commentaries began speaking less optimistically about the military prognosis . On 25 August China alleged US strafing of Chinese villages on the Yalu river and Chinese warnings to the US increased in parallel . If China was trying to deter the US at this stage , it was failing miserably . On 15 September US troops landed at Inchon behind Communist lines and a counter-offensive began in the south , out of the Pusan perimeter . China increased its level of concern and its warnings to the US but the advance on North Korea by MacArthur 's troops was swift and unchecked . Clearly the US and China had communication problems , but more importantly there was little the US could do to convince China that it was not a target . Nor was there much that China could do to convince the US not to cross the old dividing line in Korea at the 38th parallel . Foreign Minister Zhou Enlai summoned Indian Ambassador Pannikar in the now legendary midnight meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prevent a US threat to China 's Northeast . But Washington was not in a mood to heed such calls , especially from the Indians . On 7 ? 8 October the US forces crossed the 38th parallel . On 8 October Mao Zedong ordered Chinese volunteers ' to support North Korea , and Chinese troops crossed the Yalu on 14 ? 16 October . Achieving complete tactical surprise they first engaged US troops on 25 October and then suddenly disengaged on 7 November . For close to three weeks China paused to see if the US would now pull back . But once again the two sides ' motives were so 94 Defending China fundamentally at odds that such a simple solution was not feasible . On 24 November the US resumed its end the war offensive ' and two days later Chinese forces counter-attacked in force , forcing the US into its longest retreat . ' The Chinese military campaign achieved notable success early on and PLA forces entered Seoul on 4 January 1951 . But US forces soon regrouped and the war became more of a slog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commander of the Chinese troops , Lin Biao was removed under circumstances still uncertain . His replacement , Peng Dehuai achieved less than Lin Biao on the military front , but his retreat in combat ( including Seoul on 14 March ) , inflicted heavy casualties on the Americans . MacArthur was relieved of command on 10 April . Peng responded , perhaps in the mistaken belief that MacArthur 's purge ' was a sign of weakness , and launched a fruitless assault on 22 April . The US line held and thousands died on both sides . Another offensive in May collapsed even more swiftly . American troops did not pursue the Chinese forces as they had decided to hold the line , roughly at the 38th parallel . China 's objectives might have been inflated after rapid victories in the early stages of the war , but now they had to settle for a static war along the original dividing line in Korea . On 23 June the Soviet Ambassador in the UN offered a truce and the first serious talks began on 10 July . Now both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two opposing armies dug into sophisticated fortifications . From October 1951 the Chinese began rapid modernization of their forces under fire including special emphasis on improvements in the air , and artillery power as well as logistics . Most notable was the great wall ' built by China to protect its forces along the parallel . It is hard to be sure what the remainder of the Korean war achieved . From January 1952 to the armistice on 8 June 1953 , neither side gained any territory of consequence and both suffered continuous casualties . From 1952 the main excuse for deadlock seemed to be China 's refusal to allow POWs to choose whether or not they wished to be repatriated . It seems more likely that China saw the benefit of limited combat behind relatively safe and static fortifications , while the US bled ' and its position in Asia was undermined . Following Stalin 's death in early March 1953 , China essentially capitulated to US demands on the POW issue and the way was open Korea , 1950 ? 1953 95 for an armistice . Last-minute obstruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ US political pressure . Despite occasional brief crises in Korea , little has changed since then . But if the war seems such a fruitless waste of lives , it offers revealing insights into Chinese military policy . Objectives If the first three months of the three year war are analysed ? the period from the outbreak of war to the Chinese intervention ? the objectives of Beijing 's leaders seem clear cut . But a broader analysis of the war soon reveals a multiplicity of Chinese objectives , and ones that are ever-changing in response to different conditions . To suggest fixed Chinese objectives , is to engage in what Mao called mechanicalism ' . Mao was quoted in September 1950 as having said , Different war situations determine the different guiding laws of war according to the differences in time , locality and character ... War and the guiding laws are developmental ' .4 By looking at the full three years war , rather than the first three months , the changing Chinese objectives and strategy become apparent . Excellent and extensive analysis of the first phase of Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war to Chinese intervention , has already been done . ' Several objectives are commonly agreed . First , China was preoccupied with national unity and therefore was initially concerned to pursue the liberation of Taiwan . Also problems of economic reconstruction at home made China shy away from becoming entangled in militaryventures in Korea . But these objectives did not necessarily preclude moral support for North Korea 's objectives of reunification , so long as they could be achieved swiftly and with minimal US response . Beijing supported gains for the communist world , but not if they required China to abandon its primary objective of national unity and reconstruction . This first objective was clearly not attained . US involvement in the defence of Taiwan , the much reduced chance of a seat in the UN and above all the firm response of US forces to Pyongyang 's adventure , meant that the unification with Taiwan was prevented . Nor did North Korea gain an easy victory . At this stage , the failure of Chinese objectives was serious , but not yet critical . It must have seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China itself 96 Defending China was under threat . A missed opportunity that went wrong ( the loss of a window for taking Taiwan ) , was not as bad as the necessity to take active defence measures in the face of a direct American threat to China . This brings us to the second Chinese objective , deterrence and the defence of China from a US threat as American troops approached the Chinese border . Some analysts suggest China 's objectives changed , in recognition of the impending military difficulties , as early as 5 July , while others suggest it was later in August , or indeed on 15 September after the Inchon landing by the American forces . ' What is clear is that China 's position did change , even if specific transition points are in dispute . The objective military situation was changing and in order to avoid mechanicalism ' in strategy , Chinese policy changed as well . But like China 's first objective in this period , this second one also failed . The graduated deterrence which in retrospect seems so clear and obvious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Enlai 's nocturnal warning delivered via Pannikar was only the most salient signal in a process that in many respects was doomed to fail . The sense of inevitability is derived from fundamentally irreconcilable objectives on the part of the US and China . ' The lack of reliable Sino-American channels of communication was of course a contributory problem , but the main cause was the US 's failure to understand the Chinese frame of reference . US troops crossing the 38th parallel , no matter how much it was accompanied by soothing words of honourable intentions towards Chinese sovereignty , could not be tolerated in Beijing . ' Such a policy would inevitably have drawn Chinese intervention . That Chinese deterrence of the United States threat failed , was then largely beyond China 's ability to remedy . In many respects , Beijing 's policy was too clever by half . For example , the initial engagement of United States troops after having stealthily placed fifteen divisions in ambush , and then the sudden disengagement to give Washington the chance to reconsider its approach to the Chinese frontier , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Open troop movements and explicit declarations of intent might have just managed to persuade Truman to rein back his troops . The brief Chinese engagement was seen in Washington only as reinforcing the view that China was merely protecting its Manchurian frontier , and did not wish to intervene in Korea on a large scale . Korea , 1950 ? 1953 97 Given the failure of Chinese deterrence and China 's continuing desire to defend its northeast , the third phase of Chinese strategy began . From the 26 November military offensive , China began a strategy of compellence designed to ensure a United States withdrawal , the defence of China , and the viability of the North Korean regime . But in the same way that China 's objectives before intervention were changed by the altering fortunes on the battlefield , so Chinese military objectives expanded as China 's leaders became too dizzy with success . The 26 November Chinese attack was strikingly successful not so much because of Chinese military prowess in this third phase , but more because the United States forces pulled back very rapidly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month later , Chinese troops had caught up with the retreating United States forces , now dug in at the 38th parallel , and in a further offensive , forced them to retreat a little further . Thus the events of December rapidly became a classic case of success on the battlefield determining the pace of political positions . Zhou Enlai on 11 December asked What do the Americans want ? ' and proceeded to enlarge the Chinese objectives in the war by declaring the unimportance of the 38th parallel line . " In early October Zhou had declared the parallel as almost a sacred trip wire not to be crossed by the Americans , but in December he too was prepared to ignore the line . China 's disdain for the line was to be as much of a mistake as was MacArthur 's two months earlier . In February US forces pushed the Chinese back and in March Seoul was recaptured . Lin Biao surrendered the command of Chinese troops to Peng Dehuai and both sides began to sustain high casualties in relatively fruitless military offensives . The removal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have given Beijing some hope that the 38th parallel could be breached , but once again there was little movement and great casualties . The final Chinese push , in May , was an even swifter failure and Beijing must have been struck that the US refused to follow up possibilities of counter-attack on both occasions . The US forces had settled for the 38th parallel and now China was doing the same . Once again the objectives changed in the face of new facts on the battlefield . The decision by US forces not to pursue the Chinese in defeat was a reliable signal that the war could be kept limited . ' 2 Thus the Chinese- objective of merely defending itself and the territorial 98 Defending China integrity of North Korea was successfully accomplished . However , the most recent Chinese objective of victory which had developed as a result of early Chinese triumphs in December , was not accomplished . The transition to scaled down objectives was not immediate , but by June its logic was becoming persuasive to Beijing 's leaders . The Malik proposal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chinese by surprise . But China needed little encouragement to see that it had to settle for its minimum objectives of security for itself and Pyongyang.13 From the summer of 1951 , but especially from October 1951 , the Chinese settled down to fight a war of attrition . The objective of wearing down the US was designed not only to weaken American power in general , but also to strengthen Chinese power in Asia . It is not necessary to postulate the conspiracy theory of Soviet pressure on China to stay in the war , to explain Beijing 's continuing military operations . So long as casualties could be minimized , it was possible to see a Chinese interest in draining US power . The objective of attrition certainly figured prominently in Chinese statements.14 Official declarations also spoke of keeping the initiative ' both in battle ( even when retreating ) as well as in political negotiations at Panmunjom.15 It was however very difficult to see any initiative being taken by either side . The war was fading from both American and Chinese front pages as both sides developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortifications . Both military machines also pursued narrower objectives as they learned something about modern war . For the US it was the lesson of limited war , but for China it was a time to modernize and learn from the Soviet Union ' ( see next section ) . This final phase of attrition , where the very pursuit of combat was more crucial than the actual outcome , could of course not last indefinitely . By August 1952 Mao Zedong had made it plain to colleagues that a truce was inevitable and China could be proud of its achievements although they fell short of total victory.16 He reiterated the strategy of attrition and acknowledged that in any case the US was now more interested in the politics of Europe than Asia . The truce came about in stages . Early steps were aborted by US raids into Manchuria or an unfavourable political climate in Beijing or Panmunjom . " The election of Eisenhower in November 1952 made it plain that there would be no substantial change in US policy Korea , 1950 ? 1953 99 and China could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the death of Stalin in March 1953 opened the floodgates of change in the communist world . One need not believe the conspiracy theorists ' suggestions that Stalin kept China in the war against its will , to be struck by the change of policy after Stalin 's death . It is just as plausible that the new more moderate Soviet lead in foreign policy was thrust upon China . In addition , the complex factional politics in both the Soviet Union and China may well have opened such doors of policy change.18 Whatever the case , upon his return from Stalin 's funeral , Zhou Enlai broke the diplomatic log jam over the POW issue and in effect accepted voluntary repatriation . Even if the Soviet Union had to buy Chinese acquiescence with further economic aid , the resulting end of hostilities also generally suited Chinese objectives . In this final phase , and as Mao noted in September 1953 , China could be pleased with events . The US was forced to extend itself ( although not as much as Mao thought ) ; the US was seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military experience and equipment ; and China 's reputation for steadfastness was enhanced.19 But Mao 's self-satisfied judgement belied the crooked path that had to be traversed in the three years of war . Chinese objectives and successes were by no means clear or unchanging . In the first phase , hopes for swift victory by North Korea were just as swiftly proven false . In the second phase Chinese deterrence of US encroachment to the Yalu was an equal failure . The third phase of defence by crossing the Yalu was rapidly transformed into delusions of victory . Defence was indeed ensured by July 1951 , but victory was unobtainable . The final phase of attrition was a success in that the risks and costs were contained . But it was a failure in that it was China that finally capitulated at Panmunjom and US power remained in Asia and on the Korean peninsula . In the end , the only clear Chinese strategy was the strategy of expediency , and the only verdict on success or failure was a mixture of the two . Military Operations If the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what of China 's military objectives ? As already noted , Mao ( and Sun Zi ) had warned against mechanicalism in 100 Defending China military strategy , but Western ( and some Chinese ) analysts have suggested that China pursued a unified military strategy in Korea . After thirty months of combat and more than half a million casualties , it seems clear that Chinese military strategy ( like Sun Zi 's image of water ) retained no constant shape . The first phase of military operations was one in which Chinese troops took no part . Indeed the PLA was being demobilized and reorganized after the civil war , and only the Tibet and Taiwan operations commanded any military resources for combat.20 Between May and July 1950 there was a shift of 60,000 PLA men to Northeast China , but it is likely that the transfer was part of a reorganization of local forces after the dislocation of the civil war , and not early planning for military action in Korea . This is not to argue that the PLA was imprudent during the early stages of the Korean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Field Army joined a similar number of Fourth Field Army troops in Shandong and , unlike the earlier transfer , these new troops were neither local to Shandong , nor engaged in civilian labour on arrival.21 A month later a further 50,000 Fourth Field Army troops designated for the Taiwan front were shifted to the Northeast.22 It seems that from July China was planning on some use of military force in Korea , if only as a symbol of its intent to defend Manchuria . The US was clearly aware of these moves , but as with most failures of intelligence , the lacunae were in interpretation rather than gathering of information.23 The specific manner in which the PLA would be used was of course still undecided . While China tried desperately to deter US encroachment to the Yalu , there were few specific references as to how China would use military force if deterrence failed . China 's strategy of people 's war was a prominent feature of Beijing 's comments , as was the view of such strategy as being eminently flexible . As has already been noted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ September 1950 , seemed to be a clear signal that China would use the military instrument as it was best suited to the specific needs of the Korean war . The guiding doctrine would continue to be people 's war , but that was defined as little more than a war with popular support.24 Later in September the acting Chief of Staff , Nie Rongzhen took up the same theme when discussing atomic weapons and the Korean war . Nie said , After all , China lives on the farms . What can atom bombs do Korea , 1950 ? 1953 101 there ? ' 25 and went on to make clear that it was the US ground threat that counted most . China 's denigration of the atom bomb as not decisive was no doubt accurate given that the US was fighting a limited war in Korea , but China had clearly not thought through the broader strategic problems of atomic war.26 Nevertheless , China was prepared to fight the US military power deployed in Korea , and it was planning to do so with few strategic straight jackets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ US crossed the Yalu represented a major change for China . This forward defence policy beyond China 's gates was unprecedented in Mao 's military thought . It was a clear sign , if any was needed , that China had indeed stood up ' , and would defend its national interest , even beyond its own territory . When the 300,000 Chinese forces crossed the Yalu in mid to late October , they achieved textbook surprise.27 Their first engagements were fierce and largely effective . However , the Chinese had to act sooner than they wanted because the North Korean forces had collapsed so suddenly . The first jet aircraft battles , at the end of October , also did not go China 's way . Nevertheless , when China broke off combat to give the US a chance to retreat , Beijing 's military commanders could be well pleased with their results . It is notable that these first engagements , and indeed the combat during the rest of 1950 , was not guerrilla war . However , the military operations were very much a people 's war and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there were both continuities and discontinuities with previous Chinese military action . The continuities were most apparent in the successful use of relatively untrained and under-armed soldiers against a militarily more sophisticated enemy . By using impressive deception and stealth the Chinese overcame technological inferiority . By using remarkable mobility , mostly by foot over rough terrain , the Chinese overcame logistical inferiority.28 There were however disturbing signs of military weakness even in these early successes . Not that China resorted to human wave tactics , but there were signs that the strategy of ambush and luring in deep , had its limits against a more modern and mobile force than Chiang Kai-shek 's forces . US troops soon found that Chinese forces could not fight lengthy continuous battles without having to stop for supplies and new instructions to get to the front . The swift US withdrawal to the 38th parallel far outstripped the pace that the less 102 Defending China flexible Chinese command and logistics system was designed to handle . China 's initial victories were not so much due to any special characteristic of the people 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprise . By taking the initial decision to intervene with a forward defence , the Chinese had broken with much of their previous strategy but then the Korean war was a new type of problem , refusing adaptations . It remained to be seen if they could adapt on the battlefield and make such a strategy hold on to the gains won by surprise . The early campaigns of 1951 at first suggested that China had indeed adapted well to Korean conditions . However , China 's early optimism soon faded as the implications of fighting a linear war ( basically along the 38th parallel ) with non-linear tactics became appreciated in Beijing . It did not take long before US forces learned to cope with Chinese strategy and Beijing soon was forced to fight the linear war for which it was ill-equipped . Chinese strategy was forced to change by military realities , for to fail to do so would have meant being driven back to the Yalu . US troops took advantage of the fact that the Korean war was a major war fought in a small area . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in depth could thwart Chinese attempts to infiltrate and ambush . By rolling with the punches ? giving some ground , holding the defence line straight , and then surging back when the PLA ran out of steam ? the US forces inflicted costly defeats on China . Superior US firepower from land , sea , and above all air , coupled with superior communciations and logistics , meant that Chinese forces were denied any substantial breakthrough.29 It is difficult to say whether China fully appreciated its military weakness in these early defeats . To be sure the Chinese had accurately dismissed atomic weapons as not applicable to the limited Korean war.3O But it also seems likely that the misunderstanding of modern weapons applied also to superior conventional force . The delusion no doubt ensued from the perception of sweeping victories in December , and vivid memories of trouncing the US-backed Chiang Kai-shek forces . But it soon became apparent to the PLA leadership that the carnage could not go on indefinitely . Lin Biao was replaced by Peng Dehuai but still offensives in the old style were tried and failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was resigned to more important changes in military strategy than merely shifting commanders . A nineteenth century army could not hope to win a twentieth century war against a twentieth century foe . Korea , 1950 ? 1953 103 Although Chinese strategy was forced to change under fire , it is difficult to find contemporary Chinese comment admitting the failures of strategy . China spoke of taking the initiative in retreat ' , but only rarely of difficulties in military operations.31 Indications of major changes were only apparent when China later spoke of improvements ' in its military operations . Mao was explicit , more than a year after the changes began in July 1951 , that China had to alter its military disposition.32 The first change was an improvement of PLA equipment in order to match an enemy rich in metal ' . Soviet military aid emphasized artillery and air force equipment , as well as more modern personal weapons . This modernization under fire was swift , and even though not all of it was used to its full extent ( the air force was more for training than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This shift from denigrating superior weapons , to acquiring the weapons themselves , did not necessarily mean China pursued an anti-Maoist military strategy . Mao 's anti-mechanicalism line could rightly claim to encompass such modernization if that was what was needed . To stress the superiority of man over weapons is not to say that man is superior to any weapon , but rather than morale counts for a great deal in war . Thus Mao 's doctrine was not so much altered , as emphasis was placed on different aspects of an already flexible approach . Nowhere was this flexibility more apparent than in the new emphasis on fortifications and linear defence . While it is true that Mao rarely stressed this kind of defence in previous wars , he did mention it as useful . Undoubtedly China 's military strategy adapted in the Korean war to place greater stress on fortifications , but it was a change that Mao 's doctrine could incorporate . Mao spoke of the strategy of digging tunnels ' and indeed the Chinese built an impressive great wall along their defence lines to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shape up the coasts of Korea to guard against another Inchon-type landing.33 The third major change came in the morale of the Chinese forces . The poor logistics resulting in inadequate clothing and above all poor food , coupled with repeated military set-backs , had caused PLA morale to plummet . Chinese forces were not well prepared for the war , and apparently political training had not caught up to the fast moving events and the North Korean defeat . From July and especially October 1951 the transformation in the PLA was dramatic . Mao would later call it a big school for large104 Defending China scale military exercises ' .34 One of the most crucial threads running through this modernization was a growing emphasis on Soviet military aid and doctrine . To be sure Mao 's strategy still received top billing , even as it was being modified for modern conditions.35 At first , until early 1952 , China gave scant mention to Soviet aid and emphasized the changes occurring as objective necessities modern war . Stress was placed on combined arms operations , new equipment , better logistics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by early 1952 many of these discussions began to include specific reference to Soviet aid and doctrine . Both modernization and modern military technique ' were said to be crucial , and both could be learned , at least in part , from the Soviet Union.37 Some Chinese leaders mentioned both Maoist and Soviet military thought while others did not ( see next section ) . Zhu De said on 1 August 1952 that the PLA should learn from Mao and Soviet military science ' , while pursuing a great study campaign.3S It would however be misleading to suggest that Maoist and Soviet military thought shared no common ground . Clearly changes were already under way in PLA doctrine and equipment before Soviet approval was claimed . Indeed it is more logical to suppose that the Soviet gloss was being added to , rather than replacing , Mao 's emphasis on modern war . The great influx of Soviet aid after 1952 no doubt made the praise of Soviet doctrine more sensible , but the new campaign was not achieved at the expense of Maoist doctrine . All these changes were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success , but rather because the war had settled into a more static and less devastating form . China claimed that its modernization of forces and doctrine had altered the balance of power , 39 but in reality little had changed on the battlefield . Mao would later . claim that China had won the war because it had fought a people 's war , 40 but what is more interesting is not the fatuous claim of victory , but the factors that he saw as crucial . Mao admitted that the modernization of equipment and strategy in the light of modern conditions after July 1951 , was necessary . Other benefits of the war , such as military training , were also noted by Mao . Just as China 's political objectives , had changed so military strategy also needed to be flexible during the Korean war . Mao 's doctrine was flexible enough to cope with the changes from nonlinear to linear war , and from nineteenth century equipment to twentieth century technology , without needing to be entirely cast Korea , 1950 ? 1953 105 aside . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maoist ideas . In sum , China 's , and Mao 's military strategy were flexible . Domestic Politics It would be expecting a great deal of any political leadership to engage in a bloody and costly war for thirty months and not have some domestic debate on the issue . Yet it has been the conventional wisdom that Chinese leaders had no serious disagreements on the Korean war . It now appears that there were some important differences of opinion , although it apparently remains true that none of these debates on its own explains any particular policy shift . The debates may have contributed to compromises or helped tip the balance on certain decisions , but none seemed to have been decisive . Perhaps the main reason why these domestic debates were not decisive for the conduct of the war , was that there existed many different policy divisions , not all of which pitted the same leaders against each other . As in most political processes , the policy cleavages were cross-cutting . The cleavage between those who wanted to get on with the economic reconstruction of China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security at the gate , was probably the deepest . While obviously not an open fight , let alone one fought to the finish , this debate seemed to surface before the decision to intervene , as well as during the course of the war of attrition . As with all these policy debates it is hard to identify specific factions , let alone factional leaders , but some sort of debate did take place . The dark shroud draped over these debates was no doubt the result of basic unity derived from the recently completed civil war struggle , and the concern with the looming US threat in Asia . It has already been established that China did not want a war in Korea if it was likely to drag on , and drag in its neighbours . China 's eyes were set firmly on economic reconstruction and the liberation of Taiwan.41 The hoped for swift North Korean victory would have avoided a choice between intervention for national security reasons , and abstention for reasons of economic reconstruction . In the end the choice had to be faced , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to intervene . Cultural Revolution sources claimed leaders like Chen Yun , in charge of economic reconstruction , opposed intervention.42 There is even 106 Defending China some evidence that Liu Shaoqi was to be counted among those most concerned about shifting expenditure to the military from economic reconstruction . It is also reasonable to surmise that regional economic czars , such as Gao Gang in Manchuria , would have favoured reconstruction , but also action to defend the Northeast frontier . Obviously factional lines could not have been simple . But what is clear is that some debate took place . Peng Dehuai 's memoirs speak explictly of Mao having been opposed on his decision to enter the war . Indeed Peng himself says he was initially among Mao 's opponents but soon was persuaded by the Chairman 's logic.43 Other , more esoteric evidence from 1950 indicates that there was at least some kind of policy disagreement . An article in August 1950 spoke of some people taking a fencesitting attitude ' .44 Later on in the war Mao seemed to go out of his way to stress that economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the US was held at the 38th parallel . He also emphasized the reduction in war costs as a result of the post-July 1951 military strategy.45 Western sources have made it plain that PLA soldiers were more doubtful about the purpose of the war during the attrition phase and others talk of the heavy economic burden imposed by the war.46 The influence of these factors and perhaps even factions is hard to gauge . They may well have helped modify Chinese military strategy or temper political objectives in the stalemate phase . They apparently did not have a decisive impact on the conduct of the war , but this may well have been because the cross-cutting cleavages reduced the impact of any single set of complaints . Economic reconstruction argued for non-intervention , but it also suggested intervention if the Northeast economic base was under threat . The evidence of disagreement over military strategy is much more circumstantial . There are various dimensions to this issue , but one of the most crucial was perhaps whether the war in Korea should have been allowed to take precedence over retaking Taiwan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Beijing journal late in 1950 when an article spoke of some people ' who did not appreciate that to let the enemy accomplish the first step of his strategy ? overcoming Korea , our difficulties in liberating Taiwan across the ocean will be increased . It is therefore our urgent task to aid Korea . ' 47 Certainly China was loath to move troops from the Taiwan front to Korea.48 The difficulty in ascertaining the Korea , 1950 ? 1953 107 importance of this possible Taiwan first ' group , is not only the lack of evidence , but also the fact that it was probably only one part of a more complex argument . No doubt some of those favouring the Taiwan option were only doing so to undercut the case for Korean intervention on the ground of national security . Another possible cleavage , between Party and Army , does not appear to have been at all relevant to the Korean question . The absence of rigid career specialization so soon after the civil war was probably the main reason . " On the other hand , disputes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Party and Army . The reason for the replacement of Lin Biao by Peng Dehuai is still shrouded in mystery but the two were apparently involved on opposite sides of political fences later in the 1950s and again during the Cultural Revolution . They were no doubt rivals for influence in the military hierarchy , but it is not possible to suggest any specific area in which this rivalry had an impact.50 Even in military strategy Peng seemed to pursue a course similar to that of Lin , although Peng would later shift to the linear defence . Similarly it is possible to argue that splits between Field Armies may have been crucial in the war , but once again no clear pattern emerges . Lin 's Fourth Field Army and Chen Yi 's Third Field Army made up the bulk of the intervention force , with the Fourth featuring more prominently at the start.51 It is also possible to explain the centrality of , and changes between , these Field Armies more in terms of their superiority among PLA units and their heavy casualties during certain phases of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerns the role of the Soviet Union . While it should not be suggested that there were pro-Soviet factions in the Chinese leadership , it seems more plausible that some did lean more to reliance on the Soviet Union . We certainly know of such leanings on foreign policy debates in 1949 and the pro-Soviet proclivities of Gao Gang in Manchuria have often been cited . It seems most likely that some leaders saw greater benefits than others in co-operation with the Soviet Union . This pattern of ' coincidence of interests ' is most apparent when analysing the question of Chinese differences on Soviet military aid . It is apparent that military strategy was a topic of some debate in China . It is equally apparent that Soviet military ideas did assume a greater role in China by 1952 . But the two events are not necessarily 108 Defending China linked by cause and effect . The discussions about military doctrine appeared to be heading towards a resolution before Soviet aid was taken on any great scale and Soviet equipment was used to allow China to make its adjustments in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in China , and indeed allowed those changes to be made . However , this is a far cry from suggesting that Soviet military aid and doctrine replaced Chinese ideas on military policy . There can be little doubt that some sort of debate on military strategy had taken place . Cultural Revolution sources suggest that the first three battles of the Korean war ( until April 1951 ) were fought according to Mao 's operational plan ' urging active attack instead of taking a rest ' . Mao then reportedly said Chinese forces should pull back to the 38th parallel to lure the enemy in deep ' , but Peng refused . What is worse , in the May campaign , Peng committed leftist ' errors by launching a further attack and against American troops instead of only South Korean troops as Mao desired.52 Chinese losses were tremendous , including the death of Mao 's eldest son . Peng 's reported desire for a further offensive was blocked by Mao in favour of protracted fighting and positive defence ' . Obviously much of this assessment must be suspect , coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1967 . Nevertheless , it does suggest that military set-backs did encourage pragmatism and strategic debate . On Army Day in 1951 , He Long spoke openly of debates , supposedly taking place in 1927 about whether to capitulate to military pressure or to organize resistances ' He noted also that once combat was agreed , some also opposed Mao 's decision to endure heavy casualties . He Long spoke openly of the fact that military strategy was still being evolved , but he praised Mao for his guiding role in military affairs . It seems possible that opposition to Mao came not only from those who opposed the use of military force , but also from critics on the right who argued for a more forthright strategy of attacking the strongholds ' . The complexity of the debate no doubt made it easier to reach a compromise military strategy that involved fortifications manned by soldiers who would make forays out in mobile strikes . The agreed emphasis was placed on pragmatic responses to specific military problems , and there was a frank of acknowledgement of the changing nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of expediency . Korea , 1950 ? 1953 109 The discussions of strategy never seemed to end entirely , as each major change in fortunes triggered some questioning of policy . The war of attrition in particular provoked the question as to whether China should be optimstic about holding out against US power.55 But what almost everyone agreed on was the need to modernize the strategy and arms of the PLA . Despite earlier denigration of Western military equipment , it was decided to seek the nearest equivalent for China 's own forces . To this end only the Soviet Union could be of assistance and Soviet aid was added to the changes under way in the PLA . It seems apparent that some Chinese leaders were more enthusiastic about reliance on the Soviet Union than others . Some military professionals , pre-eminently Peng Dehuai seemed more willing to praise Soviet aid and ideas than did other Chinese leaders.56 But the differences , such as they were , were of degree . For example , Zhu De praised Soviet aid and military science in Pravda in 1952 , but also praised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were deemed applicable to many aspects of Chinese society , praise for Soviet military science was not unusual . Soviet military aid was an addition to the already evolving Chinese modifications in doctrine . The Soviet Union had apparently been involved in Chinese military strategy from the earliest days of the Korean war . But to admit such co-ordination is not to argue that Moscow dictated terms to Beijing . Just as it has been argued that Soviet influence was a contributory rather than a determining factor in the Chinese decision to intervene in Korea in 1950 , so the Soviet Union was at most a contributory factor in the modernization of Chinese military strategy . In neither case should it be argued that China lost direct control of its policy . Thus if there were discussions of military strategy in China ( and the evidence suggests there probably were ) and there were some Chinese leaders more willing to seek Soviet assistance ( and there probably were ) , then an understading of leadership politics is important in understanding the use of military force by China . However , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy disagreements in China ? over the decision to intervene , military strategy , and perhaps even the degree of reliance on the Soviet Union ? they did not determine the outcome of Chinese policy . The divisions of opinion in China did not form into coherent and relatively unified factions , so as to change policy in any specific way . What seems to have been most crucial to the choice of policy was the pressure of military contingencies and changing international                     