@@773424

txt ning mate , Sen. Alben Barkley , the president appeared on t h rostrum during the wee hours of the morning to give his : u ? ceptance speech . It was a new Truman , showing a new fighting style in his speeches . To overcome Truman 's tendency to react speeches in a flat drone , his staff encouraged him to talk off-thy cuff from a brief outline . " Senator Barkley and I will win this election and make the Republicans like it , " he said , " do n't you forget it ! " Near the end he sprang a bombshell . On July 26 , known in Missouri as " Turnip Day , " he would call Congress back into session " to get the laws the people need , " many of which the Republican platform had endorsed . On July 17 a group of rebellious southerners met in Birmingham and nominated South Carolina Gov . J. Strom Thurmond on a States ' Rights Democratic ticket , quickly dubbed the " Dixiecrat " ticket by a headline writer on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough electoral votes to preclude a majority for either major party , throwing the election into the House where they might strike a sectional bargain like that of 1877 . A few days later , on July 23 , the left wing of the Democratic party gathered in Philadelphia to name Henry A. Wallace on a Progressive party ticket . These splits in the Democratic ranks seemed to spell the final blow to Truman . The special session of Congress petered out in futility . But Truman , undaunted , set out on a 31,000-mile " whistle stop " train tour during which he castigated the " do-nothing " Eightieth Congress to the accompaniment of cries from his audiences : " Pour it on , Harry ! " and " Give ' em hell , Harry . " And Harry would respond : " I do n't give ' em hell . I just tell the truth and they think it 's hell . " Dewey , in contrast , ran a restrained caption may have snatched defeat from the jaws of victory . In trying to look " presidential , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Longworth 's deadly simile , looking like the groom on the wedding cake . He deliberately studded his speeches with high-toned platitudes hailing the " creative genius " of a free people , damning the " prophets of gloom , " and staying for the most part on what a reporter called " a high road of rich baritone homilies . " In Phoenix he disclosed that " America 's future ? like yours in Arizona ? is still ahead of us . " To the end the polls and the pundits predicted a sure win for Dewey , and most speculation centered on his cabinet choices . But on election day Truman chalked up the biggest upset in American history , taking 24.2 million votes ( 49.5 percent ) to Dewey 's 22 million ( 45.1 percent ) and winning a thumping 303 to 189 margin in the electoral college . Thurmond and Wallace each got more than a million votes , but the revolt of right and left worked to Truman 's advantage . The Dixiecrat rebellion reassured black voters who had questioned the Democrats ' commitment to civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tag Truman as " soft on Communism . " Thurmond carried the four Deep South states in which his name was accompanied on the ballot by the Democratic party symbol ( in Alabama one could not vote for Truman ) and walked off with 39 electoral votes , including one from a Tennessee elector who repudiated his state 's decision for Truman . Thurmond 's success started a momentous disruption of the Democratic Solid South , which in a series of elections now divided its vote . But Truman 's victory also carried Democratic majorities into Congress , where the new group of senators included Hubert Humphrey , Tennessee 's Estes Kefauver , and by eighty-seven votes , " Landslide Lyndon " B. Johnson of Texas . The outcome seemed a vindication for the New Deal and a figure mandate for liberalism and Truman so regarded it . " We have rejected the discredited theory that the fortunes of the nation should be in the hands of a privileged few , " he said in January 1949 . His State of the Union message repeated substantially the agenda he had set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population and every individual , " he said , " has a right to expect from his government a fair deal . " Whether consciously or not he had invented a tag , the " Fair Deal , " to set off his program from the New Deal . The president won some of his Fair Deal proposals , but they were mainly extensions or enlargements of New Deal programs already in place : a higher minimum wage , bringing more people under Social Security , extension of rent controls , farm price supports at 90 percent of parity , a sizable slum-clearance and public housing program , and more money for the Reclamation Bureau , the TVA , rural electrification , and farm housing . Despite Democratic majorities , however , the conservative coalition was able to resist any drastic new departures in domestic policy . Congress gave the cold shoulder to civil rights bills , national health insurance , federal aid to education , and Agriculture Secretary Charles F. Brannan 's plan to provide subsidies that would hold up farm incomes rather than farm prices . Congress also turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . figure The Cold War Heats Up ? 1203 THE COLD WAR HEATS UP Global concerns , never far from center stage in the postwar world , plagued Truman 's second term as they had his first . In his inaugural address Truman called for foreign policy to rest on four pillars : the United Nations , the Marshall Plan , NATO , and a " bold new plan " for technical assistance to underdeveloped parts of the world , a sort of global Marshall Plan which came to be known simply as " Point Four . " Under the Technical Cooperation Administration , this program to aid the postwar world began in 1950 with a modest outlay of $35 million . " LOSING " CHINA AND THE BOMB One of the most intractable problems , the China tangle , was fast coming unraveled in 1949 . The Chinese Nationalists ( Kuomintang ) of Chiang Kai-shek had at first accepted the help of Communists , but expelled them from their ranks in 1927 . When a new leader , Mao Tse-tung , began to rebuild the Communist party by organizing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of Kiangsi province in the south . After an arduous trek , which the Communists later romanticized as the " Long March " of 1934-1935 , they entrenched themselves in northern China at Yenan in Shensi province . The outbreak of war with Japan in 1937 relieved them of pressure from the Nationalists , and at the same time enabled them to assume a patriotic stance by fighting the Japanese . During the war Roosevelt , and apparently Stalin as well , believed that the Nationalists would organize China after the war . The commanders of American forces in China long found Chiang hard to get on with and were driven to the same conclusion as many foreign service officers : that Chiang 's government was hopelessly corrupt , tyrannical , and inefficient . After the war , American forces nevertheless ferried Nationalist armies back into the eastern and northern provinces as the Japanese withdrew , and themselves temporarily occupied some of the major coastal cities in China . United States ' policy during and immediately after the war was to promote peace and coalition between the factions in China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It soon became a losing fight for the Nationalists , as the Communists radicalized the land-hungry peasantry . In October 1948 the Communists took Mukden ; three months later they were in Peking and Tientsin , beginning another long march southward . By December 1949 they had taken Canton and the Nationalist government had fled to the island of Formosa , which it renamed Taiwan . From 1945 through 1949 the United States had funneled some $2 billion in aid to the Nationalists , to no avail . Administration critics asked bitterly : " Who lost China ? " and a State Department white paper put the blame on Chiang for his failure to hold the support of the Chinese people . In fact it is hard to imagine how the United States government could have prevented the outcome short of military intervention , which would have been very risky and unpopular . The United States continued to recognize the Nationalist government on Taiwan as the rightful government of China , delaying formal relations with Red China for thirty years until 1979 . Seeking to shore up friendly regimes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French-supported regime of Emperor Bao Dai in Vietnam and shortly afterward extended aid to the French in their battle against Ho Chi Minh 's guerrillas there . As China fell to the Communists , American intelligence in September 1949 found an unusual radioactivity in the air , evidence that the Soviets had set off an atomic bomb . The American nuclear monopoly had lasted just four years , but under the umbrella of security that it seemed to offer , the wartime military establishment had been allowed to dwindle . In a crisis , this left American leaders the choice of doing nothing or cremating millions of people . The discovery of the Russian bomb set off an intense reappraisal of the strategic balance in the world , causing Truman in 1950 to end a dispute among his scientific advisors by ordering the construction of a hydrogen bomb , a weapon far more frightful than the Hiroshima bomb , lest the Russians make one first . The discovery also led the National Security Council to give the president a top-secret document , NSC-68 , which called for rebuilding conventional military forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other than nuclear war . This represented a major departure from America 's time-honored aversion to keeping large standing armies in peacetime , and was a very expensive proposition . But the American public was growing more accustomed to the nation 's world role , and the invasion of South Korea by Communist forces from the north then clinched the issue . WAR IN KOREA The division of Korea at the end of World War II , like the division of Germany , began as a temporary expedient and ended as a permanent fact . In the hectic clays of August 1945 a State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee adopted a hasty proposal to divide Korea at the Thirty-eighth Parallel . The Soviets accepted to the surprise of Dean Rusk and others involved . Since they bordered on Korea , the Russians could quickly have occupied the whole country . With the onset of the Cold War , it became clear that agreement on unification was no more likely in Korea than in Germany , and by the end of 1948 separate regimes had appeared in the two sectors and occupation forces had withdrawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Communists . General MacArthur during 1949 and Secretary of State Dean Acheson in January 1950 omitted both Korea and Formosa ( Taiwan ) from an America defense perimeter which included the Philippines , the Ryukyu Islands , and Japan . The weakened state of the American military may have contributed to the impression that South Korea was vulnerable . For whatever reasons , North Korean forces crossed the boundary on June 24 , 1950 , and swept quickly down the peninsula . President Truman responded decisively . Korea might have been outside America 's defense perimeter , but its southern tip was dangerously close to Japan . Besides , American foreign policy was still much subject to what might be called the " Munich syndrome , " or what General MacArthur called " history 's clear lesson . . . that appeasement but begets new and bloodier war . " Failure to act , Truman reasoned , would embolden Communist leaders " to override nations closer to our own shores . " An emergency meeting of the U.N . Security Council quickly censured the North Korean " breach of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veto power , was at the time boycotting the council because it would not seat Red China in place of Nationalist China . On June 27 , its first resolution having been ignored , the Security Council called on U.N . members to " furnish such assistance to the Republic of Korea as may be necessary to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security in the area . " Truman then ordered American air , naval , and ground forces into action . In all , some fourteen other U.N . members sent in military units , the largest from Britain and Turkey , and five sent medical units . Later , when the U.N . voted a unified command , General MacArthur was designated to take charge . The war remained chiefly an American affair , and one that set a precedent of profound consequence : war by order of the president rather than by vote of Congress . It had the sanction of the U.N . Security Council , to be sure , and could be considered a " police action , " not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action without a declaration of war , but never on such a scale . For three months things went badly indeed for the Republic of Korea ( ROK ) and U.N . forces . By September they were barely hanging on to the Pusan perimeter in the southeast corner of Korea . Then , in a brilliant ploy , on September 15 MacArthur landed a new force to the North Korean rear at Inchon , port city of Seoul . Synchronized with a breakout from Pusan , the sudden blow stampeded the enemy back across the border . At this point George Kennan argued that the U.N . forces should stop at the Thirty-eighth Parallel and negotiate , but a decision was taken on MacArthur 's assurance to push on and seek to reunify Korea . The Russian delegate was back in the Security Council , wielding his veto , so on October 7 the United States got approval for this course from the U.N . General Assembly , where the veto did not apply . United States forces had already crossed the boundary by October 1 , and now continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad hints of intervention by Red China , flew out to Wake Island for a conference with General MacArthur on October 15 . There the general discounted chances that the Red Army would act , but if it did , he predicted " there would be the greatest slaughter . " That same day Peking announced that China " can not stand idly by . " But by October 20 U.N . forces had entered Pyongyang , the North Korean capital , and on October 26 the most advanced units had reached Chosan on the Yalu River border with China . MacArthur now predicted total victory by Christmas , but on the night of November 25 Chinese " volunteers " counterattacked , and massive " human wave " attacks , with the support of tanks and planes , turned the tables on the U.N . forces , sending them into a desperate retreat just at the onset of winter . It had become " an entirely new war , " MacArthur said . Soon he was putting out word that the fault for the war 's continuance lay with the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed raids on China 's " privileged sanctuary " in Manchuria , a blockade of China , and an invasion of the mainland by the Taiwan Nationalists , but Truman resisted . MacArthur seemed to have forgotten altogether his one-time reluctance to bog the country down in a major war on the Asian mainland . 1208 ? The Fair Deal and Containment Truman stood firmly against leading the United States into the " gigantic booby trap " of war with China , and the U.N . forces soon rallied . By January 1951 U.N . troops under Gen. Matthew Ridgway finally secured their lines below Seoul , and then launched a counterattack that carried them back across the Thirty-eighth Parallel in March . When Truman seized the chance and offered negotiations to restore the boundary , MacArthur undermined the move by issuing an ultimatum for China to make peace or be attacked . Truman decided then that MacArthur would have to go . On April 5 , on the floor of the House , Republican Minority Leader Joseph Martin read a letter in which MacArthur criticized the president and said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an act of open insubordination left the commander-in-chief no choice but to accept MacArthur 's policy or fire him . Civilian control of the military was at stake , Truman later said , and he did not let it remain at stake very long . The Joint Chiefs of Staff all backed the decision , and on April 11 , 1951 , the president removed MacArthur from all his commands and replaced him with Matthew B. Ridgway . Truman 's action set off an immediate uproar in the country , and a tumultuous reception greeted MacArthur upon his return home for the first time since 1937 . MacArthur 's speech to a joint session of Congress provided the climactic event . " Once war is forced upon us , " he said , " there is no alternative than to apply every available means to bring it to a swift end . War 's very object is victory . . . . Why , my soldiers asked of me , surrender military advantages to an enemy in the field ? I could not answer them . " MacArthur ended the speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his youth " which proclaimed most proudly that old soldiers never die , they just fade away . " And like the old soldiers of that ballad , he said , " I now close my military career and just fade away , an old soldier who tried to do his duty as God gave him the light to see that duty . " A Senate investigation , with Richard Russell of Georgia in the chair , brought out the administration 's arguments , best summarized by Gen. Omar Bradley , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . " Taking on Red China , " he said , would lead only " to a larger deadlock at greater expense . " The MacArthur strategy " would involve us in the wrong war at the wrong place at the wrong time and with the wrong enemy . " Americans , nurtured on classic western showdowns in which good always triumphed over evil , found the logic of limited war hard to take , but also found Bradley 's logic persuasive . On June 24 , 1951 , the Soviet representative at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thirty-eighth The Cold War Heats Up ? 1209 Parallel ; Secretary of State Acheson accepted in principle a few days later with the consent of the U.N . China and North Korea responded favorably ? at the time General Ridgway 's " meatgrinder offensive " was inflicting severe losses ? and truce talks started on July 10 , 1951 , only to drag out for another two years while the fighting continued . The chief snags were prisoner exchanges and the insistence of South Korea 's President Syngman Rhee on unification . By the time a truce was finally reached on July 26 , 1953 , Truman had relinquished the White House to Dwight D. Eisenhower . The truce line followed the front at that time , mostly a little north of the Thirty-eighth Parallel , with a demilitarized zone of four kilometers separating the forces ; repatriation of prisoners would be voluntary , supervised by a neutral commission . No final peace conference ever took place , and Korea , like Germany , remained divided . The war had cost the United States more than 33,000 battle deaths and 103,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were about 1 million , and North Korean and Chinese casualties an estimated 1.5 million . ANOTHER RED SCARE In calculating the costs of the Korean War one must add in the far-reaching consequences of the Second Red Scare , which had grown since 1945 as the domestic counterpart to the Cold War abroad and reached a crescendo during the Korean conflict . Since 1938 , a House Committee on UnAmerican Activities had kept up a drumfire of accusations about subversives in government . In 1945 government agents found that secret American documents had turned up in the offices of a Communist-sponsored magazine , and in 1946 more dramatic revelations came from a Canadian royal commission which uncovered several spy rings in the Canadian bureaucracy . On March 21 , 1947 , just nine days after he announced the Truman Doctrine , the president signed an executive order setting up procedures for an employee loyalty program in the federal government . Every person entering the civil employ of the government would be subject to an investigation . By early 1951 the Civil Service Commission had cleared over 3 million people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismissed for doubtful loyalty , but no espionage ring was uncovered . The program covered all government employees , not just those in sensitive positions . The Truman program was designed partly if not mainly to protect the president 's political flank , but it failed of that purpose , mainly because of disclosures of earlier Communist penetrations 1210 ? The Fair Deal and Containment into government that were few in number but sensational in character . The loyalty review program may in fact have heightened the politically explosive hysteria over Communist infiltration . Perhaps the single case most damaging to the administration involved Alger Hiss , president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , who had served in several government departments , and while in the State Department had been secretary-general of the United Nations charter conference.Whittaker Chambers , a former Soviet agent and later an editor of Time magazine , told the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1948 that Hiss had given him a number of secret documents ten years earlier , when Chambers worked for the Soviets . Hiss sued for libel , and Chambers produced microfilms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . Before a federal grand jury Hiss denied the accusation , whereupon he was indicted for perjury and , after one mistrial , convicted in January 1950 . The charge was perjury , but he was convicted of lying about espionage ? for which he could not be tried because the statute of limitations on the crime had expired . Most damaging to the administration was the fact that President Truman , taking at face value the many testimonials to Hiss 's integrity , called the charges against him a " red herring . " Secretary of State Dean Acheson compounded the damage when , meaning to express compassion , he said : " I do not intend to turn my back on Alger Hiss . " The Hiss affair had another political consequence : it raised to national prominence a young California congressman , Richard M. Nixon , who doggedly insisted on pursuing the case and then exploited the anti-Communist cause to win election to the Senate in 1950 . More cases surfaced . In 1949 , the government brought about the conviction of eleven top Communist party leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conspiracy to advocate the overthrow of the government . The Supreme Court upheld the law under the doctrine of a " clear and present danger , " which overrode the right to free speech . In 1950 , the government disclosed the existence of a British-American spy network which had fed information about the development of the atomic bomb to Russia . These disclosures led to the arrest of , among others , Klaus Fuchs in Britain and Julius and Ethel Rosenberg in the United States . The Rosenbergs , convicted of espionage in wartime , were executed in 1953 . The importance of the secrets they transmitted is doubtful . In a time of less excitement their sentence might well have been commuted . The Cold War Heats Up ? 1211 MCCARTHY 'S WITCH-HUNT Such revelations encouraged politicians to exploit public fears . If a man of such respectability as Hiss were guilty , many wondered , who then could be trusted ? The United States , which bestrode the world like a colossus in 1945 , had since " lost " eastern Europe and Asia , and " lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , insisted that there was nothing secret about the basic principles underlying the bomb . ) Early in 1950 the hitherto obscure Sen. Joseph R. McCarthy suddenly surfaced as the shrewdest and most ruthless exploiter of such anxieties . Seeking a way to augment his chances of reelection in 1952 , he took up the cause , or at least the pose , of anticommunism . He began with a speech at Wheeling , West Virginia , on February 9 , 1950 , in which he said that the State Department was infested with Communists and that he held in his hand a list of their names . Later there was confusion as to whether he had said 205 , 81 , 57 , or " a lot " of names , and even whether the sheet of paper carried a list . But such confusion always pursued McCarthy 's charges . Challenged to provide names , he finally pointed to Owen Lattimore of the Johns Hopkins University , an Asian expert , as head of " the espionage ring in the State Department . " A special committee under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's charges " a fraud and a hoax . " McCarthy then turned , in what became his common tactic , to other charges , other names . Whenever his charges were refuted , he loosed a scattershot of new charges . In his hit-and-run tactics , McCarthy displayed the instincts of Shakespeare 's Iago , planting suspicions without proof and growing ever more impudent . " He lied with wild abandon , " the commentator Richard Rovere wrote ; " he lied without evident fear ; . . . he lied vividly and with bold imagination ; he lied , often , with very little pretense of telling the truth . " McCarthy never uncovered a single Communist agent in gov- wrote in his Memoirs , " . . . I expressed in talks and lectures the view that there were only five regions of the world ? the United States , the United Kingdom , the Rhine valley with adjacent in dustrial areas , the Soviet Union , and Japan ? where the sinews of military strength could be produced in quantity ; I pointed out that only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the main task of containment , accordingly , as one of seeing to it that none of the remaining ones fell under its control . " The years after World War II were unlike any other postwar years in American history . Having taken on global burdens , the nation had become , if not exactly a " garrison state , " at least a country committed for the first time to a major and permanent National Military Establishment , along with the attendant National Security Council , Central Intelligence Agency , and by presidential directive in 1952 , the enormous National Security Agency , entrusted with extensive monitoring of media and communications for foreign intelligence . The new policy initiatives of the Truman years had led the country to abandon its longstanding aversion to peacetime alliances not only in the NATO pact but in the agreements with Japan , the Philippines , and the other American states . It was a far cry from the world of 1796 , when George Washington in his Farewell Address warned his countrymen against " those overgrown military establishments which . . . are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the foreign world . " 32 CONFLICT AND DEADLOCK : THE 1950s TIME FOR A CHANGE " By 1952 the Truman administration had piled up a heavy burden of political liabilities . Its bold stand in Korea had brought a bloody stalemate abroad , renewed wage and price controls at home , reckless charges of subversion and disloyalty , and the exposure of corrupt lobbyists and influence peddlers who rigged favors in Washington . The disclosure of " the Mink Dynasty " and the " five percenters " led Truman to fire nearly 250 employees of the Bureau of Internal Revenue and , among others , an assistant attorney-general in charge of the Justice Department 's Tax Division . But doubts lingered that Truman , protege of the Kansas City Pendergast machine , would ever finish the housecleaning . There were two Trumans , the newscaster Elmer Davis had said : " The White House Truman does all the big things right , and the courthouse Truman does all the little things wrong . " But by 1952 few things , big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country had bogged down in " Plunder at home , blunder abroad . " EISENHOWER 'S POLITICAL RISE It was , in another maxim of the day , " time for a change , " and South Dakota 's Sen. Karl Mundt had a simple formula for Republican victory : K , C2-Korea , communism , and corruption . The GOP ( Grand Old Party , or Republican party ) field quickly narrowed to two men , Sen. Robert A. Taft and Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , with General MacArthur alert 1217 for a deadlock . The party wheelhorses turned instinctively to Taft , " Mr. Republican , " long a faithful party worker . Taft had become the foremost spokesman for domestic conservatism and for a foreign policy which his enemies branded isolationist . A man of stubborn integrity , he did not usually trim his sails to the prevailing winds . He had openly opposed the war-crimes trials , for instance , arguing that they were ex post facto and a dangerous precedent . His conservatism left room for federal aid to education and public housing , and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an active American role in opposing communism but opposed " entangling alliances " such as NATO . He joined the " Asia Firsters " in stressing the strategic importance of the Pacific area , but warned against the dangers of a land war on the Asian mainland . In Korea , he felt , the time had come to go all out for victory or to withdraw completely . But Taft inspired little enthusiasm beyond the party regulars . He projected an image of little glamor , and as a leader used to taking controversial stands , he had made enemies . The eastern , internationalist wing of the party turned instinctively to Eisenhower , then the NATO commander . As a war hero he had the glamor that Taft lacked , and his captivating and unpretentious manner inspired support . His leadership had been tested in the fires of war , but as a professional soldier he had escaped the scars of political combat . He stood , therefore , outside and above the vulgar arena of public life , although his political instincts and skills were sharpened during his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the presidential bug until Sen. Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , and others appealed to his sense of duty : only he could stop Taft and the isolationists . In January 1952 the general affirmed that he was a Re- " Time fin- a Change " ? 1219 publican and in the following months permitted his name to be entered in party primaries . In June he left his NATO post and joined the battle in person . An outpouring of public enthusiasm began to overwhelm Republican party regulars . Bumper stickers across the land announced simply , " I like Ike . " The closely divided convention resolved itself into a series of contests between rival delegations which the younger Taft could not control . Eisenhower won the nomination on the first ballot . He balanced the ticket by choosing as his running mate a youthful Californian , the thirty-nine-year-old Sen. Richard M. Nixon , who had built a career on opposition to " subversives " and gained his greatest notoriety as the member of the House Un-American Activities Committee most eager in the pursuit of Alger Hiss . THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a belated thrust at Roosevelt forbade any president to seek a third term . The amendment exempted the incumbent , but weary of the war , harassed by charges of subversion and corruption in government , his popularity declining , Truman chose to withdraw and his exit threw the Democratic race wide open . An early lead was mustered by Tennessee 's Estes Kefauver , who had chaired a nationally televised investigation of organized crime . Sporting a coonskin cap , the symbol of his campaign , Kefauver worked the streets and shook every hand in reach . But his primary victories failed to move Democratic party regulars . Truman preferred Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois but , rebuffed by the governor 's insistent refusal , threw his support to VicePresident Alben W. Barkley . Just before the convention , however , a group of " certain self-appointed political labor leaders " told Barkley he was too old ( at seventy-five ) and asked him to withdraw . When he did , Truman threw his support again to Governor Stevenson , who aroused the delegates with an eloquent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the convention drafted Stevenson , who then chose Sen. John J. Sparkman of Alabama as his running mate . The campaign matched two of the most magnetic personalities ever pitted in a presidential contest . Both men attracted new followings among people previously apathetic to politics , but the race was uneven from the start . Eisenhower , though a political novice , was a world figure who had been in the public eye for a decade . Stevenson , the politician , was hardly known outside of Illinois and never able to escape the burden of Truman 's liabilities . The genial general , who had led the crusade against Hitler , now opened a domestic crusade to clean up " the mess in Wash1220 ? Conflict and Deadlock : The 1950s ington . " To this he added a promise , late in the campaign , that as president-elect he would go to Korea to secure " an early and honorable " peace . The Democrats ' charge that he was grandstanding had little impact in the face of his long military experience . Stevenson 's forte was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolve to " talk sense " and " tell the truth to the American people " came across as just a bit too aloof , a shade too intellectual . The Republicans hastened to cast him in the role of an " egghead , " a latter-day Hamlet , in contrast to Eisenhower , the man of the people , the man of decision and action . The war hero triumphed in a landslide of 33.9 million votes to Stevenson 's 27.3 million , and 442 electoral votes to Stevenson 's 89 . The election marked a turning point in Republican fortunes in the South : for the first time since the heyday of the Whigs the South was moving toward a two-party system . Stevenson carried only eight southern states plus West Virginia ; Eisenhower picked up five states in the outer South : Florida , Oklahoma , Tennessee , Texas , and Virginia . In the former Confederacy the Republican ticket garnered 48.9 percent of the votes . The " nonpolitical " Eisenhower had made it respectable , even fashionable , to vote Republican in the South . Elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deal coalition , attracting supporters among the ethnic and religious minorities in the major cities . The voters , it turned out , liked Ike better than they liked his party . Democrats retained most of the governorships , lush control of the House by only eight votes , and broke even in the Senate , where only the vote of the vice-president ensured Republican control . The congressional elections two years later would weaken the Republican grip on Congress , and Eisenhower would have to work with a Democratic Congress until he left office . IKE Born in Dennison , Texas , on October 14 , 1890 , Dwight David Eisenhower grew up in Abilene , Kansas , near the geographical center of the country and Harry Truman 's hometown of Independence , Missouri . Young Eisenhower 's first memory of presidential politics was a torchlight parade in 1896 , but after graduating from West Point he went on to spend nearly his entire adult life in the military service . He spent World War I stateside as a tank instructor , and then worked his way through the ranks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington and the Philippines . After Pearl Harbor , Gen. George C. Marshall made Brigadier-General Eisenhower his chief of operations . Later , as a major-general , he took command of American forces in the European theater and directed the invasion of North Africa in November 1942 . In 1944 he assumed the post of supreme commander of allied forces in preparation for the invasion of the continent . After the war , by then a five-star general of the armies , he became chief of staff and supreme commander of NATO forces , with a brief interlude in between as president of Columbia University . Eisenhower 's inauguration brought a change in style to the White House . The contrast in character between the feisty Truman and the avuncular Ike was reinforced by a contrast in philosophy and approach to the presidency . Eisenhower 's military experience developed in him an instinct for methodical staff work . He met with the cabinet and the National Security Council nearly every week , and relied heavily on them as consultative bodies . Under the direction of his chief assistant , former New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paperwork reached the Oval Office digested into single-page summaries . " I count the day lost , " Adams said , " when I have not found some new way of lightening the President 's load . " Such procedures , it seemed , tended to isolate the president from conflicting viewpoints and to reduce the policy choices available to him . The public image of Ike confirmed that view , but it endeared him all the more to the people as a man who rose above politics . He was unpretentious , an ardent golfer , a corn- mon man who read little but western novels , uninformed one t currents of intellectual and artistic life , and given to copybook maxims : " Everybody ought to be happy every day . Play hard , have fun doing it , and despise wickedness . " George Kennan said : " He was the nation 's number one Boy Scout . " But those who were closer to him have presented another side to the man . When provoked he could release a massive tempt . ' and scalding profanity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as duty , honesty , and thrift , he was not above a calculated dissimulation . The scrambled syntax in which he answered reporters ' questions was sometimes deliberate evasion . Eisenhower deliberately toned down eloquent passages which speech writers tried to smuggle into his public utterances , although he had written florid speeches for General MacArthur . One recent student of Eisenhower 's techniques has spoken of a " hidden-hand presidency " in which Ike deliberately cultivated an image of passivity to hide his active involvement iii policy decisions . DYNAMIC CONSERVATISM " AT HOME Like Ulysses Grant , however , Eisenhower betrayed a weakness for men with money . His cabinet , a column in the New Republic quipped , consisted of " eight millionaires and a plumber . " The plumber , Secretary of Labor Martin Durkin , was gone in eight months , charging that the administration had reneged on a promise to change the Taft-Hartley Act . Charles E. Wilson , president of General Motors , became secretary of defense and two auto distributors , Douglas McKay and Arthur Summerfield , became secretary of the interior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wryly remarked , " have all left Washington to make way for the car dealers . " Unaccustomed to the glare of Washington publicity , several cabinet members succumbed to foot-in-mouth disease . It was perhaps innocent enough for Charles E. Wilson to say at his confirmation hearings , " I thought what was good for our country was good for General Motors , and vice versa , " except that it was readily translated into : " What is good for General Motors is good for the country . " Douglas McKay put it more baldly : " We 're here in the saddle as an Administration representing business and industry . " Treasury Secretary George Humphrey , head of Mark Hanna 's old coal and oil firm in Cleveland , put Andrew Mellon 's picture on the wall , and replied when asked if he had read Hemingway 's The Old Man and the Sea : " Why would anybody be interested in some old man who was a failure and never amounted to anything anyway ? " Eisenhower called his program " dynamic conservatism , " which meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it comes to human beings . " Stevenson conjectured : " I assume what it means is that you will strongly recommend the building of a great many schools to accommodate the needs of our children , but not provide the money . " Budget cutting was a high priority for the new administration , which set out after both domestic programs and national defense . Eisenhower warned repeatedly against the dangers of " creeping socialism , " " huge bureaucracies , " and budget deficits . But though Eisenhower chipped away at New Deal programs , his presidency in the end served rather to legitimate the New Deal . In 1953 Eisenhower won quick congressional approval for turning over to the coastal states the oil-rich " tidelands " which the Supreme Court had awarded to the federal government . Eisenhower also abolished the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , ended wage and price controls , and reduced farm price subsidies . Eisenhower also moved the government away from the Roosevelt-Truman commitment to public power . In fact , had Ike had his way the government would have sold the TVA . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new TVA steam plant to supply the power needs of Memphis , Tennessee , and thereby release power to serve the AEC 's atomic weapons plant at Paducah , Kentucky . Opposed to any further expansion of TVA , the administration instead got behind a plan of the Dixon-Yates utility syndicate to build a private plant . Controversy over the proposal dragged out for two years until investigations revealed that the government consultant who recommended the plant was vice-president of an investment firm handling Dixon-Yates securities . The embarrassed administration then seized upon an alternative , a municipal powerplant with which the city of Memphis promised to supply the need . Another protracted struggle over public power ended differently when the Idaho Power Company won a license to build three small dams on the Snake River in place of a gigantic federal dam proposed for Hell 's Canyon . Still another step away from public power came with the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 , which opened the door for construction of private nuclear powerplants under AEC license and safeguards . In fiscal policy the administration found its passion for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had already been prepared by Truman 's men , providing for expenditures of $80 billion and a deficit of $9.9 billion , which Eisenhower 's heroic efforts reduced by only $4.4 billion . In 1954 Treasury Secretary George Humphrey formulated tax re- ductions which resembled Andrew Mellon 's programs of the 1920s in providing benefits mainly to corporations and individ uals in the upper brackets . The new budget slashed expenditures by $6.5 billion , nearly 10 percent , and Humphrey joined with the Federal Reserve Board in tightening credit and raising inter est rates to avert inflation . But the business slump which m l lowed reduced government revenues , making it harder to bal ance the budget . After that experience Eisenhower 's fiscal and monetary policies became less doctrinaire and more flexible . The government accepted easier credit and deficits as necessary " countercyclical " methods . The Keynesian Age , if not yet ac knowledged , endured . In some ways , moreover , the administration not only main tained the New Deal but extended its reach , especially after 1954 when it had the help of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1954 and 1956 brought coy erage to millions in categories formerly excluded : professional people , domestic and clerical workers , farm workers , and members of the armed forces . In 1959 the program 's benefits went up 7 percent . The federal minimum wage rose in 1955 from 75 ( G to $1 an hour . Federal expenditures for public health rose steadily in the Eisenhower years and the president went so far as to endorse federal participation in health insurance , but Congress twice refused to act . Low-income housing continued to be built , although on the much-reduced scale of some 35,000 units annually . Some farm-related programs were expanded during the Eisenhower years . The Rural Electrification Administration announced on its twenty-fifth birthday in 1960 that 97 percent of American farms had electricity . The Farmers Home Administration and a Rural Development Program continued the program of loans to support farm ownership and improvements , although on a much smaller scale than the New Deal 's Farm Security Administration . Cordell Hull 's program of reciprocal trade agreements was regularly renewed . Under the Agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a large scale to finance the export of surplus farm products in exchange for foreign currencies , an idea much like the McNary-Haugen scheme of the 1920s . Surpluses were exported also as gifts to needy nations and to provide milk for schoolchildren . By an amendment to the act in 1959 , surpluses became available to the needy by issuing food stamps redeemable at grocery stores . Despite Eisenhower 's general disapproval of public power programs , he continued to support public works for which he saw a legitimate need . Indeed two such programs left major monuments to his presidency : the St. Lawrence Seaway and the Interstate Highways . The St. Lawrence Seaway , designed to open the Great Lakes to ocean-going ships by means of locks and dredging , had languished in Congress since the time of President Hoover because of opposition by eastern business and railroad interests afraid of the competition . In 1954 Eisenhower finally broke the opposition by pointing to Canadian determination to go ahead anyway and to the growing need of American steel producers for Laurentian ore as the Mesabi deposits gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and five years later the seaway was open . The Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956 authorized the federal government to put up 90 percent of the cost of building 42,500 miles of limited-access interstate highways to serve the needs of commerce and defense , as well as private convenience . The states put up the remaining 10 percent . It was only afterward that people realized that the huge national commitment to the automobile might have come at the expense of America 's railroad system , already in a state of advanced decay . CONCLUDING AN ARMISTICE America 's new position in the postwar world , however , continued to absorb Eisenhower 's attention . The most pressing problem when he entered office was the continuing , painful deadlock in the Korean peace talks . The main stumbling block at Panmunjom was the insistence of North Korea and Red China that all prisoners be returned regardless of their wishes . To break the deadlock , Eisenhower resolved upon a bold stand . In mid-May 1953 he stepped up aerial bombardment of North Korea , then had Secretary of State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat to remove all limits on weapons and targets . It was a thinly veiled warning of atomic warfare against Red forces , perhaps even against China itself . Whether for that reason or others , negotiations then moved quickly toward an armistice along the established battle line just above the Thirty-eighth Parallel , and toward a complicated arrangement for prisoner exchange which allowed captives to accept or refuse repatriation . On July 26 , 1953 , President Eisenhower announced the conclusion of the armistice . But most of the Korean peninsula was devastated . Whether or not Eisenhower had pulled a masterful bluff in getting the armistice has never become clear ; no one knows whether or not he actually would have forced the issue with atomic weapons . Perhaps the more decisive factors iii bringing about a settlement were the size of Chinese Communist losses , which even they found unacceptable , and the new spirit of uncertainty and caution felt by Russian Communists after the death of Josef Stalin on March 5 , 1953 ? six weeks after Ike 's inauguration.CONCLUDING A WITCH-HUNT The Korean armistice helped to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph R. McCarthy , which had flourished amid the anxieties of wartime . Eventually the logic of McCarthy 's tactics led to his self-destruction , but not before he had left still more personal careers and reputations in ruins . The Republicans thought their victory iii 1952 would curb his recklessness , and Senator Taft sought to deflect him into the chairmanship of the Permanent Investigation Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Government Operations , but merely provided him a platform and staff resources . McCarthy 's new sensations overshadowed those of the regular subversive-hunting committees of the House and Senate.When Eisenhower nominated Charles E. Bohlen , a career diplomat , as ambassador to Russia , McCarthy and other Senate militants attacked Bohlen for association with the Yalta " betrayal . " Not only had Bohlen been Roosevelt 's interpreter there , he had even defended the Yalta agreements before a Senate committee . The intervention of Senator Taft brought Senate approval of the nomination , but thirteen members persisted in voting against Bohlen . McCarthy then began to fill the headlines with gossip and innuendoes about the State Department 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent two youthful assistants , Roy M. Cohn and G. David Schine , on a junket to Europe to purge the libraries of the International Information Agency . " Subversive works , " such as the writings of Emerson and Thoreau , were removed from shelves and in some cases burned . Dulles ordered American nformation centers abroad to exclude the works of " any Communists , fellow travellers , et cetera . " McCarthy finally overreached himself when he tried to peddle the absurdity that the United States Army itself was " soft " on communism . The cases in point , it seemed , were a " pink " dentist at Fort Monmouth , New Jersey , since given an honorable discharge , and the army 's refusal to give special treatment to a draftee , G. David Schine , McCarthy 's former assistant , who was being held " hostage . " A confusing tangle of charges and countercharges led to televised hearings by McCarthy 's subcommittee , with Sen. Karl Mundt temporarily in the chair . From April 22 to June 17 , 1954 , the Army-McCarthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dragging out lengthy irrelevancies , repeatedly calling " point of order . " He became the perfect foil for the army 's gentle but unflappable counsel , Joseph Welch of Boston , whose rapier wit repeatedly drew blood . When a witness used the word " pixie , " McCarthy demanded a definition and Welch sweetly explained that a pixie was " a kind of fairy . " But when McCarthy tried to smear one of Welch 's young associates , the counsel went into a cold rage : " Until this moment , Senator , I think I never really gauged your cruelty or your recklessness . . . . Have you no sense of decency , sir , at long last ? " When the audience burst into applause , the confused senator was reduced to whispering , " What did I do ? " Apparently he never found out , but at that point the house he had thrown together began to crash around his ears . He descended into new depths of scurrility , now directed at his own colleagues , calling Ralph Flanders of Vermont @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a living miracle . . . the only man who has lived so long with neither brains nor guts . " On December 2 , 1954 , the Senate voted 67 to 22 to " condemn " McCarthy for contempt of the Senate . Samuel J. Ervin , Jr. , of North Carolina , a newly appointed senator , accused him of " disorderly conduct by flyblowing . . . a strong Anglo-Saxon word , but a very expressive one . " McCarthy was finished , and increasingly took to alcohol . Three years later , at the age of forty-eight , he was dead . The witch-hunt was over . McCarthyism , Ike joked , had become McCarthywasm , though not for those whose reputations and careers had been wrecked . To the end Eisenhower kept his resolve not to " get down in the gutter with that guy " and sully the dignity of the presidency , but he did work resolutely against McCarthy behind the scenes . Eisenhower shared , nevertheless , the deeply held conviction of many citizens that espionage posed a real danger to national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , convicted of transmitting atomic secrets to the Russians , on the grounds that they " may have condemned to death tens of millions of innocent people . " They went to the electric chair at Sing-Sing Prison on June 19 , 1953 . INTERNAL SECURITY Even earlier , Eisenhower stiffened the government security program which Truman had set up six years before . Executive Order 10450 , dated April 27 , 1953 , broadened the basis for firing government workers by replacing Truman 's criterion of " disloyalty " with the new category of " security risk . " Under the new edict federal workers lost their jobs because of dubious associations or personal habits that might make them careless or vulnerable to blackmail . In December 1953 the AEC removed the security clearance of the physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer , the " father of the atomic bomb , " on the grounds that he had expressed qualms about the hydrogen bomb in 1949 ? 1950 and had associated with Communists or former Communists in the past . Lacking evidence of any disloyalty or betrayal , the AEC nevertheless branded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defects in his character . " The Supreme Court , however , modified some of the more extreme expressions of the Red Scare . In September 1953 Chief Justice Frederick M. Vinson died and Eisenhower chose former Gov . Earl Warren of California to take his place , a decision the president later pronounced the " biggest damnfool mistake I ever made . " Warren , who had seemed safely conservative while active in politics , proved to have a social conscience and a streak of libertarianism which Eisenhower 's next appointee , William I. Brennan , Jr. , shared . The " Warren Court " ( 1953-1969 ) , under the chief justice 's influence , became an important agency of social and political change on through the 1960s . In connection with security programs and loyalty requirements , the Court veered back in the direction of traditional individual rights . In Yates v. United States ( 1957 ) an opinion by Justice John Marshall Harlan narrowly construed the Smith Act of 1940 to apply to those advocating revolutionary action , not those merely teaching revolutionary doctrine in the abstract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence , rendered the Smith Act a dead letter . In Pennsylvania v. Nelson ( 1956 ) the Court banned state prosecution for subversion against the United States since Congress had preempted that field . Much later , in Albertson v. Subversive Activities Control Board ( 1965 ) , the Warren Court held that the McCarran Act 's requirement that Communist party leaders register with the board violated the Fifth Amendment guarantee against self-incrimination . This left the board little to do until it was abolished in 1973 . DULLES AND FOREIGN POLICY The Eisenhower administration promised new departures in foreign policy under the direction of Secretary of State John Foster Dulles . Grandson of one former secretary of state and nephew of another , Dulles had pursued a lifetime career as an international lawyer and sometime diplomat . At the age of nineteen he had been secretary to the Chinese delegation at the 1907 peace conference at The Hague ; in 1919 he had assisted the American delegates at the Versailles Conference . As counselor to the Truman State Department he had , among other things , negotiated the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself an active Presbyterian layman , Dulles , in the words of British Ambassador Sir Oliver Franks , resembled those old zealots of the wars of religion who " saw the world as an arena in which the forces of good and evil were continuously at war . " The foreign policy planks of the 1952 Republican platform , which Dulles wrote , showed both the moralist and the tactician at work . The policy of containment was needlessly defensive , Dulles thought . This conviction meshed nicely with the conventional wisdom of the right wing that Yalta was perhaps a betrayal , at best a blunder . The 1952 platform , therefore , promised to " repudiate all commitments . . . such as those of Yalta which aid Communist enslavement " and to end " the negative , futile and immoral policy of containment ' which abandons countless human beings to a despotism and godless terrorism .... " A new policy of liberation , the platform promised , " will inevitably set up strains and stresses within the captive world which will make the rulers impotent to continue in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The policy came perilously close to proclaiming a holy war , but Dulles took care to explain that he did not intend forcible liberation . Soon it became apparent that it was less a policy than a web of rhetoric to catch ethnic voters whose homelands had fallen captive . The Republican party 's new Ethnic Origins Division made the most of it . Eisenhower in his inaugural address promised to " unleash " Chiang Kai-shek ? that is , cancel the Seventh Fleet 's orders to prevent his invading the Chinese mainland . The fleet 's more realistic mission of protecting Taiwan continued , however . When it came to repudiating Yalta , the administration drew back . Ike was conscious of his own vulnerability as the commander who had implemented the agreement and who had stopped American forces short of Berlin and Prague . The administration 's Captive Peoples Resolution merely rejected any misuse of the Yalta agreements , " which have been perverted to bring about the subjugation of free peoples . " The real betrayal , in short , had been Russian violation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That the liberation rhetoric rang false became more evident in June 1953 when workers in East Germany rebelled against working conditions and food shortages . When Russian tanks rolled over the demonstrators , the administration did nothing except to deplore the situation . For three years more Dulles was able to maintain the belief that his rhetoric was undermining the Communist hold on eastern Europe ? until suppression of the 1956 uprising in Hungary underscored the danger of stirring futile hopes among captive peoples . COVERT ACTIONS Insofar as interventions occurred , they were covert operations by the Central Intelligence Agency in countries outside the Soviet sphere . Under Eisenhower , Allen Dulles , brother of the secretary of state , rose from second in command to chief of the CIA . A veteran of the wartime Office of Strategic Services , he had already had a hand in beefing up the CIA 's capacity for cloak-and-dagger operations . In two cases early in the Eisenhower years this capability was actually used to overthrow governments believed hostile to American interests : in Iran ( 1953 ) and in Guatemala ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a seventy-year-old nationalist , whipped up popular feeling against British control of Iranian oil production and then expropriated the foreign properties . In thus challenging Western interests he had the support of the Tudeh , Iran 's Communist party , and left the impression that he either had gone over to their side or would become their dupe . In these circumstances , Allen Dulles sent a crack agent , Kermit Roosevelt ( Theodore Roosevelt 's grandson ) , along with Col. H. Norman Schwartzkopf , who had helped the shah of Iran , Mohammed Reza Pahlavi , to organize his secret police . Armed chiefly with about a million dollars , they stirred up street demon- strations against Mossadegh which , reinforced by soldiers loyal to the shah , toppled the premier , sent him to jail , and brought the young shah back from exile in Rome . A new premier made an arrangement under which the British and Americans each got 40 percent of Iran 's oil production , the Dutch 14 percent , and the French 6 percent . In Guatemala , Jacobo Arbenz Guzman had become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While the administration lacked evidence that Arbenz was a Communist , Ambassador John Peurifoy said " he talked like a Communist , he thought like a Communist , and he acted like a Communist , and if he is not one , he will do until one comes along . " Critics of the intervention contended that Arbenz 's chief sin was that he had expropriated 225,000 acres of United Fruit Company land . He had also secured weapons from East Germany with which to arm a peasant militia . With Eisenhower 's consent the CIA chose one Col. Carlos Castillo Armas to stage a coup from a base in Honduras . The operation , however , was mainly a war of nerves , with rumors spread by clandestine radio stations and token raids on Guatemala City run by surplus planes from World War II . Arbenz panicked , resigned , and fled the country . Defenders of the action were those who agreed with the conclusion of a committee commissioned to investigate the CIA in 1955 : " It is now clear that we are facing an implacable enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at whatever cost . There are no rules in such a game . Hitherto acceptable norms of conduct do not apply . " BRINKSMANSHIP Actually , Dulles made no significant departure from the strategy of containment created under Acheson and Truman . Instead he institutionalized containment in the rigid mold of his Cold War rhetoric and extended it into the military strategy of deterrence . He betrayed a fatal affinity for colorful phrases which left him , according to Arthur Larsen , " perpetually poised between a cliche and an indiscretion . " To his lexicon of " liberation " and " roll back , " Dulles added two major new contributions while in office : " massive retaliation " and " going to the brink . " " Massive retaliation " is actually a shorthand version of Dulles 's phrase " massive retaliatory power , " a description of the " New Look " in military strategy , an effort to get , in the slogan soon current , " more bang for the buck " or " more rubble for the ruble . " Budgetary considerations lay at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shared the fear that in the effort to build a superior war power the country could spend itself into bankruptcy . During 1953 new members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , headed by Adm . Arthur W. Radford , set to work on planning a new military posture . The heart of their New Look was the assumption that nuclear weapons could be used in limited-war situations , allowing reductions in conventional forces and thus budgetary savings . Dulles , who announced the policy on January 12 , 1954 , explained that savings would come " by placing more reliance on deterrent power , and less dependence on local defensive power . " No longer could an enemy " pick his time and place and method of warfare . " American responses would be " by means and at places of our choosing . " No longer would " the Communists nibble us to death all over the world in little wars , " Vice-President Nixon explained in March 1954 . By this time both the United States and Russia had exploded hydrogen bombs . With the new policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terror " had replaced the old " balance of power . " The threat of nuclear holocaust was terrifying , but the notion that the United States would risk such a disaster in response to local wars had little credibility . Dulles 's policy of " brinksmanship " depended for its strategic effect on those very fears of nuclear disaster . Dulles argued in 1956 that in following a tough policy of confrontation with communism , one sometimes had to " go to the brink " of war : " The ability to get to the verge without getting into war is the necessary art . If you can not master it , you inevitably get into war ... . We walked to the brink and we looked it in the face . We took strong action . " The first occasion on which a firm stand had halted further aggression had been America 's threat in 1953 to break the Korean stalemate by removing restraints from the armed forces . The second had come in 1954 , when aircraft carriers moved into the South China Sea " both to deter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for instant retaliation .... " INDOCHINA : THE BACKGROUND TO WAR Dulles 's reference to Indochina was an oversimplification : it neglected the complexity of the situation there , which presented a special if not unique case of the nationalism which swept the old colonial world of Asia and Africa after World War II , damaging both the power and prestige of the colonial powers . By the early 1950s most of British Asia was independent or on the way : India , Pakistan , Ceylon ( later Sri Lanka ) , Burma , and the Malay States ( later the Federation of Malaysia ) . The Dutch and French , however , were less ready than the British to give up their colonies and thus created a dilemma for American policy-makers . Americans sympathized with colonial nationalists who sometimes invoked the example of 1776 , but Americans also wanted Dutch and French help against communism . The Truman administration felt obliged to answer their pleas for aid . Both the Dutch and the French were obliged to reconquer areas which had passed from Japanese occupation into the hands of local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created a puppet Indonesian Republic which emerged from World War II virtually independent . The Dutch effort to regain control met resistance which exploded into open warfare . Eventually , American pressure persuaded the Dutch to accept self-government under a Dutch-Indonesian Union in 1949 , but that lasted only until 1954 when the Republic of Indonesia became independent . In April 1955 the Bandung Conference in Indonesia , attended by delegates from twenty-nine independent countries of Asia and Africa , signaled the emergence of a " Third World " of underdeveloped countries , unaligned with either the United States or the Soviet bloc . Among other actions the conference condemned " colonialism in all its manifestations , " a statement which implicitly condemned both the USSR and the West . French Indochina , created in the nineteenth century out of the old kingdoms of Cambodia , Laos , and Vietnam , offered a variation on Third World nationalism . During World War II Japanese control of the area had required their support of pro-Vichy French civil servants and opposition to the local nationalists . Chief among the latter were the Vietminh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the influence of Communists led by ho Chi Minh . At the end of the war this group controlled part of northern Vietnam , and on September 2 , 1945 , Ho Chi Minh proclaimed a Democratic Republic of Vietnam , with its capital in Hanoi . Ho 's declaration borrowed clearly from Thomas Jefferson , opening with the words " We hold these truths to be self-evident . That all men are created equal . " American officers were on the reviewing stand in Hanoi and American planes flew over the celebration . Ho had received secret American help against the Japanese during the war , but bids for further aid after the war went unanswered . Vietnam took low priority in American diplomatic concerns at the time . In March 1946 the French government , preoccupied with domestic politics , recognized Ho 's new government as a " free state " within the French union . Before the year was out , however , Ho 's forces came into conflict with French efforts to establish another regime in the southern provinces , and this clash soon expanded into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up former native kings as puppets in Laos and Cambodia , the French installed Bao Dai of an old Vietnamese ruling family as emperor of Vietnam . The victory of the Chinese Communists later in 1949 was followed by Red China 's diplomatic recognition of the Vietminh government in Hanoi , and then the recognition of Bao Dai by the United States and Britain . The Vietminh movement thereafter became more completely dominated by Ho Chi Minh and his Communist associates , and more dependent on Russia and Red China for help . In 1950 , with the outbreak of fighting in Korea , the struggle in Vietnam took on more and more the appearance of a battleground in the Cold War . When the Korean War ended , American aid to the French in Vietnam , begun by the Truman administration , continued . By the end of 1953 the Eisenhower administration was paying about two-thirds of the cost of the French effort , or about $1 billion annually . By 1954 the United States found itself at the edge of the " brink " to which Dulles later referred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bien Phu , near the Laos border , in the hope of luring Vietminh guerrillas into a set battle and grinding them up with superior firepower . The French instead found themselves trapped by a superior force which threatened to overrun their stronghold . In March 1954 the French government requested an American air strike to relieve the pressure . The request had been encouraged by Adm . Arthur W. Radford , chief of staff , who argued for raids by B-29s from the Philippines covered by carrier-based fighters . The forceful chief of staff won the support of Dulles and Vice-President Nixon . Army Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway , however , disagreed . Effective action , he feared , would require American ground forces , which were not up to the assignment . Eisenhower himself seemed to endorse forceful action when he advanced his " domino theory " to a news conference on April 7 , 1954 : " You have a row of dominoes set up , you knock over the first one , and what will happen to the last one is the certainty that it will go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cautious game . When congressional leaders expressed reservations , he took a stand against American action unless the British lent support . When they refused , he backed away from unilateral action . THE GENEVA ACCORDS AND U.S. POLICY On May 7 , 1954 , the massive attacks loosed by Vietminh Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap finally overwhelmed the last French resistance at Dien Bien Phu . It was the very eve of the day an international conference at Geneva took up the question of Indochina . Six weeks later , as French forces continued to meet defeats in the Red River Delta , a new French government under Premier Pierre Mendes-France promised to get an early settlement . On July 20 representatives of France , Britain , Russia , the People 's Republic of China , and the Vietminh reached agreement on the Geneva Accords , and the next day produced their Final Declaration which proposed to neutralize Laos and Cambodia and divided Vietnam at the Seventeenth Parallel . The Vietminh would take power in the north and the French would remain south of the line until elections in 1956 should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to join in the accord or to sign the Final Declaration , with the result that Russia and China backed away from their earlier hints that they would guarantee the settlement . In the end , nobody at all signed the Declaration and participants confined themselves to unilateral statements in which they endorsed or dissociated themselves from particular parts of the Geneva Accords . The American response was an effort to set up mutual defense arrangements for Southeast Asia . On September 8 , 1954 , at a meeting in Manila , the United States joined seven other countries in an agreement that Dulles wanted known as the Manila Defense Accord ( MANDAC ) , but which the press quickly labeled as the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization ( SEATO ) . The impression that it paralleled NATO was false , for the Manila Accord was neither a common defense organization like NATO nor was it primarily Asian . The signers agreed that in case of attack on one , the others would act according to their " constitutional practices , " and in case of threats or subversion they would " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries ? the Philippines , Thailand , and Pakistan ? together with Britain , France , Australia , New Zealand , and the United States . India and Indonesia , the two most populous countries in the region , refused to join . A special protocol added to the treaty extended coverage to Indochina . The treaty reflected what Dulles 's critics called " pactomania , " which by the end of the Eisenhower administration contracted the United States to defend forty-three other countries . Eisenhower announced that though the United States " had not itself been party to or bound by the decision taken at the Geneva Conference , " any renewal of Communist aggression " would be reviewed by us as a matter of grave concern . " In Vietnam , when Ho Chi Minh took over the north , those who wished to leave for South Vietnam did so with American aid . Power in the south gravitated to a new premier imposed on Emperor Bao Dai by the French at American urging : Ngo Dinh Diem , who had opposed both the French and the Vietminh , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been in exile at a Catholic seminary in New Jersey . In October 1954 Eisenhower offered to assist Diem " in developing and maintaining a strong , viable state , capable of resisting attempted subversion or aggression through military means . " In return the United States expected " needed reforms . " American aid was forthcoming in the form of CIA and military cadres charged with training Diem 's armed forces and police . Instead of instituting reforms , however , Diem tightened his grip on the country , suppressing opposition on both right and left , offering little or no land distribution , and permitting widespread corruption . In 1956 he refused to join in the elections to reunify Vietnam , and after French withdrawal from the country , ousted Bao Dai and installed himself as president . His efforts to eliminate all opposition played into the hands of the Communists , who found recruits and fellow travelers among the discontented . By 1957 guerrilla forces known as the Vietcong had begun attacks on the government , and in 1960 the resistance emerged as the National Liberation Front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower administration was helpless to do anything but " sink or swim with Ngo Dinh Diem . " QUEMOY AND MATSU Having backed away from the " brink " in Vietnam , Eisenhower and Dulles soon found themselves approaching another . Just before the Manila conference in September 1954 , Red Chinese artillery began shelling the Quemoy islands at the entrance to Amoy harbor , and soon afterward brought under fire the nearby Matsu and Tachen groups , all of which were held by Chiang Kai-shek 's Nationalists . On his way back from Manila Dulles stopped in Taipei and worked out a mutual defense treaty which bound the United States to defend Taiwan and the nearby Pescadores Islands , and which bound Taiwan to undertake offensive action only with American consent . The treaty omitted mention of the offshore islands , and the mainland Chinese continued their pressure , occupying one of the Tachens . In January 1955 the president secured in Congress a resolution giving him full power to go to the defense of Taiwan and the Pescadores , and also authorizing him to secure and protect " such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to defend Taiwan . Congress 's endorsement was overwhelming ? the resolution drew only three negative votes in each house ? for so sweeping a grant of ' power . The Red Chinese kept up their activity nonetheless , and under pressure from the American government the Nationalists evacuated the Tachens as indefensible . But Quemoy and Matsu became symbols of the will to protect Taiwan , and were perhaps strategically useful too . In any case Adm . Robert B. Carney , chief of naval operations , " leaked " word to newsmen that the administration was considering a plan " to destroy Red China 's military potential and thus end its expansionist tendencies . " Soon afterward the Chinese backed away from the brink . At the Bandung Conference in April , with diplomatic encouragement from other Asian nations , Premier Chou En-lai said Red China was ready to discuss the Formosa Strait issue directly with the United States . In May 1955 representatives of the two governments began meetings in Geneva , and the guns fell silent . A THAW IN THE COLD WAR The quiet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " thaw " in the Cold War . Europe remained the chief focus of American foreign policy , and there friendly gestures came from the Soviet government and the Communist party secretary Nikita Khrushchev , who had come out on top in the post-Stalin power struggles . While American and Chinese officials were discussing Quemoy and Matsu , the Soviets agreed to the Austrian State Treaty , ending the four-power occupation of that little country and restoring its independence as a neutral but Western-oriented state . At Geneva , during July 18-23 , 1955 , President Eisenhower , British Prime Minister Anthony Eden , and Premiers Edgar Faure of France and Nikolai Bulganin of the Soviet Union held the first summit conference since the one at Potsdam ten years before , but unlike the Potsdam meeting this one was strictly a cosmetic affair . The leaders displayed cheerful grins and conveyed a mood of affability that had newsmen writing about the amicable " spirit of Geneva . " But they decided nothing of substance on any of the major issues they discussed . The high point of the conference came on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called his " Open Skies " proposal , a prelude to disarmament by which Russia and the United States would give each other " a complete blueprint of four military establishments from beginning to end , " and would each open its skies to the other for aerial surveillance . Khrushchev , who was present at the meeting , told the president privately that it was " a very transparent espionage device . " It would give Americans information they did not already have while providing the Russians little they did not already know . In consequence the conference did nothing except to lay the groundwork for cultural and diplomatic exchanges . The conference left behind a vague aura of peace , but it also made clear the arrival of a thermonuclear stalemate . " THE AFFLUENT SOCIETY " THE CONSUMER ECONOMY The warm afterglow of Geneva made ' the prospect of nuclear conflict seem remote . With the guns silent in Vietnam and the Formosa Strait , the world enjoyed its first season of peace in nearly two decades , while a flourishing economy ushered the United States into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affluent society . " The consumer culture which had emerged in the 1920s now resumed the growth stunted by depression and war . Pent-up demand and wartime savings triggered the postwar prosperity , which was maintained by Cold War outlays and increased consumer buying . Advertising and credit spurred the process , and credit cards , used at least since the 1930s , proliferated with advances in plastics and computers . The electronic computer , the first of which was built in 1945 , went on the market in the 1950s . But at this time consumers were more interested in new products such as television , transistorized FM radios , electric floor polishers , electric can openers , electric pencil sharpeners , antibiotics , and automatic car transmissions . Consumers enjoyed easy access to these goods in the new drive-in shopping malls spreading in the suburbs . Government expenditures for the St. Lawrence Seaway , the interstate highways , new rocketry , and the space program created new boom towns . The increased demand for housing called forth arrays of homogenized houses , typified by the sprawling Levittowns in Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where the snuggeries perched along the hillsides inspired a popular song , " Little Boxes " : " And they 're all made out of ticky-tacky and they all look just the same . " At the same time relaxed trade restrictions encouraged Americans to enjoy a variety of exotic foreign products and fashions . The reciprocal trade agreements started by Cordell Hull in 1934 were expanded into a multilateral policy under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade signed at Geneva in1947 . By 1960 the average level of American duties was down to about 12 percent from above 50 percent in 1930 . The flow of American funds abroad made the dollar the chief medium of international exchange . The United States now had by far the most productive economy in the world . In 1955 , with about 6 percent of the world 's population , the nation produced nearly half the world 's goods . The median family income rose from $3,083 in 1949 to $5,657 in 1959 , a rise , when corrected for inflation , still of some 48 percent . Inflation , measured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was kept in check by efforts to hold the line on governmental expenditures . These efforts contributed to recessions in 1949 , 1953-1954 , 1957-1958 , and 1960-1961 . Despite the visible rise in wealth , the American economy grew more slowly from 1948 to 1960 than most other major world economies : its growth rate was 2.9 percent compared to 8.7 percent for Japan , 7.2 percent for Germany , 5.8 percent for Italy , 4.2 percent for France , and 2.7 percent for Great Britain . But America had started from a much higher plateau after the war , and the 1960s would bring a renewed spurt of economic growth . STIRRINGS IN CIVIL RIGHTS If the Eisenhower presidency seems an interlude of relative tranquility between two decades of domestic and foreign strife it should be remembered that those years saw the onset of a revolution in race relations which historians have come to call the Second Reconstruction . Eisenhower entered office committed to civil rights in principle , and did push the issue in areas of federal authority . During his first three years public services in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yards and veterans hospitals . Beyond that , however , two aspects of the president 's philosophy inhibited vigorous action : his preference for state or local action , and his doubt that law could be effective in such matters . " I do n't believe you can change the hearts of men with laws or decisions , " he said . For the time , then , leadership in the civil rights field came from the judiciary more than from the executive or legislative branch of the government . In the 1930s the NAACP had resolved to test the " separate but equal " doctrine which had upheld racial segregation since the Plessy decision in 1896 . Charles H. Houston , dean of the Howard University Law School , laid the plans and his former student , Thurgood Marshall , served as chief NAACP lawyer . They decided to begin with the expensive field of postgraduate study . At the time no southern or border state provided such study for blacks , although some offered grants for them to go out of state . In the case of Lloyd L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a grant failed to provide the equal protection of the laws required under the Fourteenth Amendment . Missouri hastily improvised a separate law school , but before Gaines 's lawyers could resolve the issue , he mysteriously vanished . In Ada Lois Sipuel v. Board of Regents ( 1948 ) the court found a black woman entitled to attend the University of Oklahoma Law School in the absence of a separate facility , and in Sweatt v. Painter ( 1950 ) ruled that a separate law school in Texas failed to measure up because of intangible factors , such as its isolation from most of the future lawyers with whom its graduates would interact . THE BROWN DECISION By that time challenges to segregation in the public schools were rising through the appellate courts . Five such cases , from Kansas , Delaware , South Carolina , Virginia , and the District of Columbia ? usually cited by reference to the first , Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka , Kansas ? came to the Supreme Court for joint argument in 1952 . Chief Justice Earl Warren wrote the opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which a unanimous Court declared that " in the field of public education the doctrine of separate but equal ' has no place . " In support of its opinion the Court cited current sociological and psychological findings presented by the eminent Kenneth Clark , a black psychologist . It might well have cited historical evidence that Jim Crow facilities had been seldom equal and often not available to blacks at all . A year later , after further argument , the Court directed " a prompt and reasonable start toward full compliance " ; the process should move " with all deliberate speed . " The white South 's first response was relatively calm , deceptively so as it happened . Eisenhower refused to take any part in leading white southerners toward compliance . Privately he remarked : " I am convinced that the Supreme Court decision set back progress in the South at least fifteen years . The fellow who tries to tell me you can do these things by force is just plain nuts . " While token integration began as early as 1954 in the border states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led by the newly formed Citizens ' Councils and similar groups . Before the end of 1955 , moderate sentiment in the South gave way to reaction . Virginia 's Sen. Harry F. Byrd supplied a rallying cry : " Massive Resistance . " State legislatures passed pupil assignment laws and adopted other dodges , all futile , to interpose their power between the courts and the schools . In March 1956 , 101 southern members of Congress lent their names to a " Southern Manifesto " which denounced the Court 's decision as " a clear abuse of judicial power . " At the end of 1956 , in six southern states , not a single black child attended school with whites . In several of the others the degree of desegregation was minuscule . THE MONTGOMERY BUS BOYCOTT At the end of 1955 the drive for civil rights took a new turn in Montgomery , Alabama , " the cradle of the Confederacy . " There , on December 1 , 1955 , Mrs. Rosa Parks was arrested for refusing to give up her seat on a city bus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders met in the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church to organize a massive bus boycott under the Montgomery Improvement Association . In Dexter Avenue 's twenty-six-year-old pastor , Martin Luther King , Jr. , the movement found a charismatic leader who spoke eloquently in cadences familiar to the Bible Belt . He brought the movement a message of nonviolent , passive resistance compounded from the Gospels , the writings of Thoreau , and the example of Mahatma Gandhi in India . " We must use the weapon of love , " he told his people . " We must realize so many people are taught to hate us that they are not totally responsible for their hate . " To his antagonists he said : " We will soon wear you down by our capacity to suffer , and in winning our freedom we will so appeal to your heart and conscience that we will win you in the process . " The bus boycott achieved a remarkable solidarity . Blacks in Montgomery formed car pools , hitchhiked , or simply walked . But the white town fathers , who were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and against the pleas of a bus company tired of losing money . The boycotters finally won through the federal courts a case they had initiated against bus segregation , and on December 20 , 1956 , the Supreme Court let stand without review an opinion of a lower court that " the separate but equal doctrine can no longer be safely followed as a correct statement of the law . " The next day King and other blacks boarded the buses , but they still had a long way to travel before Jim Crow could be laid finally to rest . Trying to keep alive the spirit of the bus boycott , King and a group of associates in 1957 organized the Southern Christian Leadership Conference ( SCLC ) . Despite Eisenhower 's reluctance to take the lead in desegregating schools , he had no problem with supporting the right to vote . In 1956 , hoping to exploit divisions between northern and southern Democrats and to reclaim some of the black vote for Republicans , Eisenhower proposed legislation which became the Civil Rights Act of 1957 . The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the Senate , after a year 's delay , with the help of Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson , who won southern acceptance by watering the act . Still , it established for a period of two years the Civil Rights Commission , which was later extended indefinitely , and a new Civil Rights Division in the Justice Department , which could seek injunctions to prevent interference with the right to vote . The SCLC promptly announced a campaign to register 2 million black voters . The Civil Rights Act of 1960 provided for federal court referees to register blacks where a court found a " pattern and practice " of discrimination , and also made it a federal crime to interfere with any court order or to cross state lines to destroy any building . LITTLE ROCK There had been sporadic violence in resistance to civil rights efforts , but a few weeks after the 1957 act passed , the governor of a state for the first time stood in outright defiance of the law . Arkansas Gov . Orval Faubus called out the National Guard to prevent nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under federal court order . A conference between the president and the governor proved fruitless , but on court order Faubus withdrew the Guard . When the students tried to enter the school , a hysterical mob outside forced their removal for their own safety . At that point Eisenhower , who had said two months before that he could not " imagine any set of circumstances that would ever induce me to send federal troops , " ordered a thousand paratroopers to Little Rock to protect the students , and pladed the National Guard on federal service . The soldiers stayed through the school year . The following year Faubus peremptorily closed the high schools of Little Rock , and court proceedings dragged on into 1959 before the schools could be reopened . The year 1959 proved an important turning point , for in that year massive resistance in Virginia collapsed when both state and federal courts struck down state laws which had cut off funds from integrated schools . Thereafter , massive resistance for the most part was confined to the Deep South where five states , from South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ token integration . A LANDSLIDE FOR IKE When President Eisenhower suffered a " moderately severe " coronary seizure during a Colorado vacation in September 1955 , some journalists felt that he could not have chosen a more opportune time : there was no immediate crisis on the horizon . He recovered quickly and was getting back in harness within a month . In February 1956 , after his doctor pronounced him recovered , the president announced his decision to run again . A serious operation for ileitis , an inflammation of the intestine , in June 1956 did not change his plans . In August the Republican convention renominated him by acclamation and , despite a quixotic effort by Harold Stassen to dump Nixon , again named him as the vice-presidential candidate . The party platform endorsed Eisenhower 's " modern Republicanism . " The Democrats turned again to Stevenson , who had campaigned vigorously in the primaries against Sen. Estes Kefauver . After Stevenson freed the convention to name its own candidate for vice-president , the delegates chose Kefauver by a narrow margin over young Sen. John F. Kennedy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Democratic staples : less " favoritism " to big business , repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act , parity for farmers , tax relief for those in low-income brackets . Neither candidate generated much excitement during the campaign . The Democrats did what they could with the issue of the president 's health , but centered their fire on the heir apparent , Richard Nixon , a " man of many masks . " Stevenson aroused little enthusiasm for two controversial proposals : to drop conscription and rely on an all-volunteer army , and to ban H-bomb tests by international agreement . Both involved military questions which put Stevenson at a disadvantage by pitting his judgment against that of a successful general . During the last week of the campaign the season of world peace was broken by shooting wars along the Suez Canal and in the streets of Budapest . The two crises made it possible for Stevenson to declare the administration 's foreign policy " bankrupt . " Most voters , however , seemed to reason that the crises spelled a poor time to switch horses , and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state , Missouri , but in carrying Louisiana became the first Republican to win a Deep South state since Reconstruction ; nationally , he carried all but seven states . The decision was unmistakably clear : he won more than 35.6 million popular votes to a little over 26 million for Stevenson , 457 electoral votes to the Democrat 's 73 . A SEASON OF TROUBLES CRISIS IN THE MIDDLE EAST The twin crises in the Suez and Hungary were unrelated but occurred almost as if placed in malicious juxtaposition by some evil force . The attack on Egypt by Britain , France , and Israel disrupted the Western alliance and damaged any claim to moral outrage at Russian actions in Hungary . For the Soviets , the Suez War afforded both a smokescreen for the subjugation of Hungary and a chance to enlarge their influence in the Middle East , an increasingly important source of oil . After 1953 the Eisenhower-Dulles policy in the region departed from the Truman-Acheson focus on Israel and distanced itself from British-French economic interests in order to culti vate Arab friendship . To forestall Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the " northern tier " of the Middle East . Under American sponsorship Britain joined the Moslem states of Turkey , Iraq , Iran , and Pakistan in the Middy East Treaty Organization ( METO ) , or Baghdad Pact , as the treaty was commonly called . By linking the easternmost NATO state ( Turkey ) to the westernmost SEATO state ( Pakistan ) , METO had a certain superficial logic , but after Iraq , the only Arab member , withdrew in 1959 it became clear that the whole thing had been moribund from the start . Below the northern tier , moreover , the Arab states remained aloof from the organization . These were the states of the Arab League ( Egypt , Jordan , Syria , Lebanon , and Saudi Arabia ) , which had warred on Israel in 1948 ? 1949 and remained committed to its destruction . The most fateful developments in the region turned on the rise of Egyptian Gen. Carnal Abdel Nasser , leader of the army officers who overthrew King Farouk in 1952 . The bone of contention was the Suez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French-Egyptian venture . But in 1882 the British government had acquired the largest block of stock and from the next year on British forces were posted there to protect the British Empire 's " lifeline " to India and other colonies . When Nasser 's new regime pressed for the withdrawal of British forces from the canal zone , Eisenhower and Dulles supported its demand , and in 1954 an Anglo-Egyptian treaty provided for British withdrawal within twenty months . Nasser , like other leaders of the Third World , remained unaligned in the Cold War and sought to play both sides off against each other . In 1955 Nasser made a deal for Czech armaments in return for Egyptian cotton . The United States , meanwhile , courted Egyptian support by offering the prospect of American assistance in building a great hydroelectric plant at Aswan on the Nile River . From the outset the administration 's proposal was opposed by Jewish constituencies concerned with Egyptian threats to Israel , and by southern congressmen who feared the competition from Egyptian cotton produced by irrigation at Aswan . When Nasser then increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dulles abruptly canceled the loan offer in July 1956 . The outcome was far from a triumph of American diplomacy . The chief victims , it turned out , were Anglo-French interests in the Suez . Unable to retaliate against the United States , Nasser nationalized the Suez Canal Company and earmarked its revenues for the Aswan project , thereby enhancing his prestige in the Arab world . The British and French , directly challenged and faced with loss of control of the crucial Suez Canal , reacted strongly . Fruitless negotiations dragged out through the summer , and finally , on October 29 , Israeli forces invaded the Gaza Strip and the Sinai peninsula . The Israelis invaded ostensibly to root out Arab guerrillas , but actually to synchronize with the British and French , who began bombing Egyptian air bases and on November 3 occupied Port Said . Their actions , the British and French claimed , were meant to protect the canal against the opposing belligerents . The Suez War put the United States in a quandary . Either the administration could support its Western allies and see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations Charter and champion Arab nationalism against imperialistic aggression . The latter course was adopted , with the unusual result that Russia sided with the United States ' position . Once the threat of American embargoes had forced Anglo-French-Israeli capitulation , the Russians capitalized on the situation by threatening to use missiles against the Western aggressors . This belated bravado won for Russia some of the credit in the Arab world for what the United States had done . REPRESSION IN HUNGARY All the while , Khrushchev was engaged in the subjugation of Hungary , a sharp reversal to the campaign of " de-Stalinization " he had launched in his " secret " speech on the crimes of the Stalin era , delivered at the Communist Party Congress in February 1956 . Khrushchev joined this confession of Communist tyranny with hints of relaxed policies and suggestions that different countries might take " separate roads to socialism . " In the satellite countries this put Stalinist leaders on the defensive and emboldened the more independent national leaders . In June riots in the Polish city of Poznan led to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership of the Polish Communist party . Gomulka managed to win a greater degree of independence by avoiding an open break with the Russians . In Hungary , however , a similar movement got out of hand . On October 23 fighting broke out in Budapest , followed by the installation of Imre Nagy , a moderate Communist , as head of the government . Again the Russians seemed content to let " de-Stalinization " follow its course , and on October 28 they withdrew their forces from Budapest . But Nagy 's announcement three days later that Hungary would withdraw from the Warsaw Pact brought Russian tanks back into Budapest . They installed a more compliant leader , Janos Kadar , and hauled Nagy off to Moscow , where a firing squad executed him in 1958 . It was a tragic denouement to a movement that , at the outset , promised the sort of moderation which might have vindicated Kennan 's policy of " containment , " if not Dulles 's notion of " liberation . " LEGISLATIVE STUMBLING In the euphoria of his landslide victory on November 6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that modern Republicanism has now proved itself . And America has approved of modern Republicanism . " He later defined this as " the political philosophy that recognizes clearly the responsibility of the Federal Government to take the lead in making certain that the productivity of our great economic machine is distributed so that no one will suffer disaster , privation , through no fault of his own . " Eisenhower Republicans , it seemed clear , had assimilated the New Deal as an accomplished fact . But decisive as was the vote for Eisenhower , the winner 's coattails failed to swing a congressional majority for his own party in either house , the first time this had happened since the election of Zachary Taylor . A season of troubles followed Eisenhower 's smashing victory . It began with the " great budget battle " of 1957 . In January the president sent up to Capitol Hill a $71.8-billion budget for fiscal 1958 , up $3 billion from the previous year , the biggest peacetime budget ever . The size of the budget , which increased foreign aid , military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public works , and education , startled and alarmed even the president , who had little time to cut it back . Eisenhower sent the bill to Congress , still hopeful that continued prosperity and high revenues would supply a surplus . On the day the budget went to Congress , January 16 , 1957 , Secretary of the Treasury George Humphrey told reporters " there are a lot of places in this budget that can be cut , " and suggested that if government could not reduce the " terrific " tax burden " you will have a depression that will curl your hair . " Eisenhower claimed to share Humphrey 's desire to reduce the budget , but the spectacle of a treasury secretary challenging the budget on the day it went to Congress conveyed an impression of divided purpose and conflict in the administration . Both Democrats and Old Guard Republicans declared an open season on the administration 's budget requests , and in the end they hacked out about $4 billion , including heavy cuts in foreign aid , the United States Information Agency , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in August , an economic slump had set in and tax revenues dropped . In spite of the cuts , the administration projected a $500-million deficit . SPUTNIK On October 4 , 1957 , came the Soviet launching of the first man-made satellite , called sputnik , an acronym for the Russian phrase " fellow traveler of earth . " Sputnik I weighed 194 pounds , but less than a month later the Soviets launched a capsule of 1,120 pounds , and it carried a dog wired up for monitoring . Americans , until then complacent about their technical primacy , suddenly discovered an apparent " missile gap . " If the Russians were so advanced in rocketry , then perhaps they could hit American cities just as Nazi rockets had hit London in 1945 . All along Eisenhower knew that the " gap " was more illusory than real , but could not reveal that high-altitude American U-2 spy planes were gathering this information . Even so , American missile development was in a state of disarray , with a tangle of agencies and committees engaged in waste and duplication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Johnson 's Preparedness Subcommittee of the Armed Services Committee laid out the facts about all this . The launching of Explorer I , the first American satellite , on January 31 , 1958 , did not quiet the outcry . Russia 's success with Sputnik launched efforts in America to enlarge defense spending , to offer NATO allies intermediaterange ballistic missiles ( IRBMs ) pending development of longrange intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) , to set up a new agency to coordinate space efforts , and to establish a crash program in science education . The " sputnik syndrome , " compounded by a sharp recession through the winter of 1957-1958 , loosened the purse strings of economy-minded congressmen , who added to the new budget more than Eisenhower wanted for both defense and domestic programs . During 1958 Britain , Italy , and Turkey accepted American Thor and Jupiter missiles on their territory . In July 1958 Congress created the National Aeronautics and Space Agency ( NASA ) to coordinate research and development in the field . Before the end of the year NASA had a program to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manned flight , by Commander Alan B. Shepard , Jr. , did not take place until May 5 , 1961 . Finally , in September 1958 Congress enacted the National Defense Education Act , which authorized federal grants especially for training in mathematics , science , and modern languages , as well as for student loans and fellowships . CORRUPT PRACTICES During the first two years of Eisenhower 's second term , public confidence in his performance , as registered by opinion polls , dropped sharply from 79 percent to 49 percent . Emotional issues such as civil rights and defense policy had compounded his troubles . The president 's image was further tarnished when congressional investigations revealed that the administration , which had promised to clean up " the mess in Washington , " was itself touched by scandals , one of which involved Sherman Adams , the White House " chief of staff . " Adams , it seemed , had done little more than open some doors at the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Trade Commission with introductions for Boston industrialist Bernard Goldfine , but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rug from Goldfine . In September 1958 the president reluctantly accepted Adams 's resignation . Republicans also faced the growing opposition of farmers , angry with cuts in price supports , and labor , angry because many Republicans had made " right-towork " ( or open-shop ) laws a campaign issue in 1958 . The Democrats came out of the midterm elections with nearly two-to-one majorities in Congress : 282 to 154 in the House , 64 to 34 in the Senate . Eisenhower would be the first president to face three successive Congresses controlled by the opposition party . One consequence was that the president could manage few new departures in domestic policy . The most important legislation of the last two years in the Eisenhower presidency were the Landrum-Griffin Labor-Management Act of 1959 , the Civil Rights Act of 1960 , and the admission of the first states not contiguous to the continental forty-eight . Alaska became the forty-ninth state on January 3 , 1959 , and Hawaii the fiftieth on August 21 , 1959 . The Landrum-Griffin Act of September 14 , 1959 , aimed at controlling union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its House sponsors and the somewhat less stringent views of Sen. John F. Kennedy and some of his colleagues . It reflected , nevertheless , popular feeling against racketeering and monopolistic practices in unions , especially the Teamsters , which had been revealed by an extensive Senate probe directed by John L. McClellan of Arkansas . The act safeguarded democratic procedures , penalized the misuse of union funds and coercion of members , and excluded from office persons convicted of certain crimes . The act also strengthened restrictions on secondary boycotts and blackmail picketing . Most of its provisions were directed against unfair union practices , but the act also monitored employer payments to union officers or labor-management consultants . FESTERING PROBLEMS ABROAD Once the Suez and Hungary crises faded from the front pages , Eisenhower enjoyed eighteen months of smooth sailing in foreign affairs . A brief flurry occurred in May 1958 over hostile demonstrations in Peru and Venezuela against Vice-President Nixon , who was on a goodwill tour of eight Latin American countries . Then in July 1958 the Middle East flared up again . By this time the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called the Eisenhower Doctrine , which promised to extend economic and military aid to Middle East nations , and to use armed forces if necessary to assist any such nation against armed aggression from any Communist country . President Nasser of Egypt meanwhile had emerged from the Suez crisis with heightened prestige , and in February 1958 created the United Arab Republic ( UAR ) by merger ( a short-lived one ) with Syria . Then on July 14 a leftist coup in Iraq , supposedly inspired by Nasser and the Russians , threw out the pro-Western government and killed King Faisal , the crown prince , and the premier . In Lebanon , already unsettled by internal conflict , President Camille Chamoun appealed to the United States for support against a similar fate . Eisenhower immediately ordered 5,000 marines into Lebanon on July 15 , where they limited themselves to the capital , Beirut , and its airfield . He proposed to go no farther because , he said later , if the government could not hold out with such protection , " I felt we were backing up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should not be there . " British forces meanwhile went into Jordan at the request of King Hussein . Once the situation stabilized , and the Lebanese factions reached a compromise , American forces ( up to 15,000 at one point ) withdrew in October . East Asia heated up again when , on August 23 , 1958 , Red China renewed its bombardment of the Nationalists on Quemoy and Matsu . In September the American Seventh Fleet began to escort Nationalist convoys , but stopped short of entering Chinese territorial waters . To abandon the islands , President Eisenhower said , would amount to a " Western Pacific Munich . ' " But on October 1 he suggested that a cease-fire would provide " an opportunity to negotiate in good faith . " Red China ordered such a cease-fire on October 6 , and on October 25 , which happened to be the day the last American forces left Lebanon , said that it would reserve the right to bombard the islands on alternate days . With that strange stipulation the worst of the crisis passed , but the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Premier Khrushchev called it a bone in his throat . West Berlin provided a " showplace " of Western democracy and prosperity , a listening post for Western intelligence , and a funnel through which news and propaganda from the West penetrated what Winston Churchill called " the iron curtain . " Although East Germany had sealed its western frontiers , refugees could still pass from East to West Berlin . On November 10 , 1958 , at a Soviet-Polish friendship rally in Moscow , Khrushchev threatened to transfer Soviet obligations in the occupation to East Germany . After the deadline he set , May 27 , 1959 , Western occupation authorities would have to deal with the East German government , in effect recognizing it , or face the possibility of another blockade . But Eisenhower refused to budge from his position on Berlin . At the same time he refused to engage in saber-rattling or even to cancel existing plans to reduce the size of the army . As Stephen Ambrose , an Eisenhower biographer , wrote : " He thought the greatest danger in the Berlin crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an arms race that would bankrupt the country . " Khrushchev , it turned out , was no more eager for confrontation than Eisenhower . In talks with British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan , he suggested that the main thing was to begin discussions of the Berlin issue , and not the May 27 deadline . Macmillan in turn won Eisenhower 's consent to a meeting of the Big Four foreign ministers . There was little hope of resolving different views on Berlin and German reunification , but the talks distracted attention from Khrushchev 's deadline of May 27 : it passed almost unnoticed . In September , after the Big Four talks had adjourned , Premier Khrushchev paid a visit to the United States , going to New York , Washington , Los Angeles , San Francisco , and Iowa , and dropping in on Eisenhower at Camp David . In talks there Khrushchev endorsed " peaceful coexistence , " and Eisenhower admitted that the Berlin situation was " abnormal . " They agreed that the time was ripe for a summit meeting in the spring . THE U-2 SUMMIT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's face . On May 1 , 1960 , near Sverdlovsk , east of the Urals , a Soviet rocket brought down an American U-2 spy plane . Such planes had been flying missions over Russia for three and a half years . Khrushchev played up the news for domestic consumption to keep in good standing with Soviet " hard-liners . " He set out to entrap Eisenhower and succeeded , by announcing first only that the plane had been shot down . When the State Department insisted that there had been no attempt to violate Soviet airspace , Khrushchev then announced that the Soviets had pilot Francis Gary Powers , " alive and kicking , " and his pictures of military installations . On May 11 Eisenhower finally took personal responsibility ? an unprecedented action for a head of state ? and justified the action on grounds of national security . " No one wants another Pearl Harbor , " he said . In Paris , five days later , Khrushchev withdrew an invitation for Eisenhower to visit the USSR and called on the president to repudiate the U-2 flights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When Eisenhower refused , Khrushchev left the meeting . Eisenhower 's frustration in Paris was magnified by several foreign-policy setbacks he encountered as his term drew to a close . Another came a month afterward when he set out in June on a tour to Formosa , the Philippines , and Japan . Japan had just agreed to a new military treaty which extended the American right to station armed forces in Japan indefinitely , subject to renunciation on one-year 's notice . Although the treaty removed all remnants of Japan 's status as an occupied country , neutralists and pacifists ? together with a small number of Communists ? argued that the treaty would draw Japan into the Cold War . Others complained that the treaty did not return the Ryukyu and Bonin Islands to Japanese administration . Massive anti-American riots and demonstrations reached such a level that on June 16 Premier Nobusuke Kishi notified Eisenhower in Manila that the Japanese government could not guarantee his safety . He had no choice but to fly back home . Premier Kishi then resigned . CASTRO 'S CUBA But the greatest thorn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Castro , which came to power on January 1 , 1959 , after three years of guerrilla warfare against the dictator Fulgencio Batista . In their struggle against Batista , Castro 's forces had the support of many Americans who hoped for a new day of democratic government in Cuba . When American television picked up trials and executions conducted by the victorious Castro , such hopes were dashed . Staged like a Roman holiday before crowds of howling spectators , the trials vented anger against Batista 's officials and police , but offered little in the way of legal procedure or proof . Castro , moreover , planned a social revolution and opposed the widespread foreign control of the Cuban economy . When he began programs of land reform and nationalization of foreign-owned property , relations worsened . Some observers believed , however , that by - rejecting Castro 's requests for loans and other help the American government lost a chance to influence the direction of the revolution , and by acting on the assumption that Communists already had the upper hand in his movement the administration may have ensured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed little reluctance to accept the Communist embrace . In February 1960 he entered a trade agreement to swap Cuban sugar for Soviet oil and machinery . In July , after Cuba had seized three British-American oil refineries which refused to process Soviet oil , Eisenhower cut sharply the quota for Cuban sugar imports . Premier Khrushchev in response warned that any military intervention in Cuba would encounter Russian rockets . In October 1960 the United States suspended imports of Cuban sugar and embargoed most shipments to Cuba . One of Eisenhower 's last acts as president was to suspend diplomatic relations with Cuba on January 3 , 1961 . In the hope of creating " some kind of non-dictatorial third force , ' neither Castroite nor Batistiano , " as Eisenhower put it , the president authorized the CIA to begin training a force of Cuban refugees ( some of them former Castro stalwarts ) for a new revolution . But the final decision on its use would rest with the next president , John F. Kennedy . ASSESSING THE EISENHOWER YEARS The Eisenhower years have not drawn much acclaim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration " the time of the great postponement , " during which the president " lived off the accumulated wisdom , the accumulated prestige , and the accumulated military strength of his predecessors " and left domestic and foreign policies " about where he found them in 1953 . " Yet even these critics granted that Eisenhower had succeeded in ending the war in Korea and settling the dust raised by McCarthy . But if he had failed to end the Cold War and in fact had institutionalized it as a global confrontation , he sensed the limits of American power and kept its application to low-risk situations . If he took few initiatives in addressing the social problems that would erupt in the 1960s , he left the major innovations of the New Deal in place and thereby legitimized them . If he tolerated unemployment of as much as 7 percent at times , he kept inflation to an average rate of 1.6 percent during his terms . His farewell address to the American people , delivered on radio and television three days before he left office , showed his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the military . Like Washington , Eisenhower couched his wisdom largely in the form of warnings : that America 's " leadership and prestige depend , not merely upon our unmatched material strength , but on how we use our power in the interests of world peace and human betterment " ; that the temptation to find easy answers should take into account " the need to maintain balance in and among national problems " ; and above all that Americans " must avoid the impulse to live only for today , plundering , for our own ease and convenience , the precious resources of tomorrow . " As a soldier , Eisenhower highlighted perhaps better than anyone else could have the dangers of a military establishment in a time of peace . " This conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms industry is new in the American experience , " he said . " In the councils of government we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence , whether sought or unsought , by the military-industrial complex . The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance of technology , " a government contract becomes virtually a substitute for intellectual curiosity " in directing university research . This new circumstance created the dual danger " of domination of the nation 's scholars by Federal employment , " and the shaping of policy by " a scientific-technological elite . " His great disappointment as he lay down his responsibilities , Eisenhower said , was his inability to affirm " that a lasting peace is in sight , " only that " war has been avoided . " But he prayed " that , in the goodness of time , all peoples will come to live together in a peace guaranteed by the binding force of mutual respect and love . " Eisenhower 's misgiving about the military-industrial complex sounded a warning that countered the complacency and buoyant optimism of the 1950s . By the end of that decade a chorus of voices was deploring the triumph of materialistic values that arrived with what John Kenneth Galbraith had labeled " the affluent society . " If we are so rich , social critics wondered , why do we feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the singing commercial as our litany , " asked Adlai Stevenson , " are we likely to fire the world with an irresistible vision of America 's exalted purposes and inspiring way of life ? " Eisenhower greeted these lamentations in the traditional way : he named a presidential commission to study the matter . Goals for Americans : A Report of the President 's Commission on National Goals ( 1960 ) appeared just as Eisenhower was leaving office . The commission saw no need to worry . The gross national product had more than doubled since the end of the war and there was no reason to doubt its continued growth . If government investment in education kept pace with the economy , one could expect a new cadre of professionals ? doctors , economists , social workers ? to solve the problems that came with prosperity . The only real danger came from abroad , in the form of Communist aggression and subversion . The report contrasted the Communist ideal of the state with the American ideal of the individual . How a nation of 180 million individuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their unbridled self-interest was , appropriately , a matter best left to the individuals themselves . 1260 But the members of the commission were better historians than prophets . As the complacent 1950s yielded to another decade , few if any people foresaw the collapse of consensus , the hopes dashed , the ironic turns of fortune ahead . An alert prophet might have found a sign in an unlikely quarter ? the Woolworth lunch counter in Greensboro , North Carolina , where just one month into the 1960s , on February 1 , four black freshmen from a nearby college sat down and asked for coffee . It took them nearly six months to get service , but by then they had set in motion the completion of a Second Reconstruction and had introduced two salient styles of the 1960s : civil disobedience and the youth rebellion , two protean phenomena that would assume many different shapes before the decade ended . DEMOGRAPHIC AND ECONOMIC TRENDS " A NEW GENERATION " John Fitzgerald Kennedy 's election to the presidency in 1960 was symbolic in several ways . Most obviously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ youngest person ever elected president . Eisenhower at seventy was then the oldest man ever to occupy the White House . When Kennedy told the inaugural crowd that " the torch has been passed to a new generation of Americans , " he was on the mark in both a political and a demographic sense . The much-mentioned " generation gap " that came to popular attention in the 1960s had a solid foundation in population statistics . Between 1945 and 1960 America 's total population increased by almost 40 million . In the 1950s alone the population went up by 28 million , an 18.5 percent increase that was the largest since the peak years of immigration in the first decade of the twentieth century . Much of America 's social history since the 1940s has been the story of the " baby boom " generation and its progress through life . The population explosion created a massive demand for family housing in the 1950s and thereby spurred the remarkable growth of suburbs , and the highways and cars required for transport to them . By the 1960s the population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleges , a rise in auto accidents and " juvenile delinquency , " and toward the end of the decade , a glutted job market and a high rate of unemployment among people in their teens and twenties . The youth culture that attracted so much attention in the 1960s was not the figment of some Madison Avenue imagination , although advertisers responded quickly to the rapidly growing youth " market . " America 's population was dominated by a generation                     