@@774287

txt  | particularly its bridges and roads ? was the envy of all Europe . In chemistry , too , the government 's support for research and development paid handsome dividends . The manufacture of gunpowder , the processing of sugar from beets , the manufacture of dyes and alkali ? these were just a few of the fields in which France showed the way . Yet it was in Britain , not France , that the Industrial Revolution burst forth . While French technological progress was tied to government support and bureaucracy , the British pattern was one of individual ingenuity and entrepreneurial initiative . Private family enterprises , most notably those of the Crowleys , the Crawshays , and the Darbys , controlled the fabrication of iron . Their kinship practices ( granting responsibility and ownership to children , cousins , and in-laws ) , reminiscent of the Scottish clan system , provided effective administration for as many as five generations . These industrial clans invented , developed , and perfected many ironmaking techniques that are landmarks in the history of technology . A French observer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backwardness in this " most essential of trades " and grudgingly spoke of the English " skill in working iron and the great advantage it gives them as regards the motion , lastingness , and accuracy of machinery . " lo The other vital component of the Industrial Revolution was , of course , the steam engine . In 1698 , one Thomas Savery of Devon patented a water pumping device consisting of a cylinder that was alternately filled with steam and then chilled ( by pouring water on the outer surface ) , creating a vacuum that sucked water through a pipe from below . Then a new blast of steam forced the water up through a pipe above . In 1712 , a more effective engine ( powered by a piston pushed by atmospheric pressure into an evacuated cylinder ) was produced by Thomas Newcomen , an ironmonger also from Devon . For more than half a century , Newcomen engines served to drain British mines , albeit with woeful inefficiency . Starting in 1768 , they were grad-  | ually replaced by James Watt 's radically improved design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied to newly developed spinning machinery , marking the beginning of the factory age . The growth of British invention as described in history books sometimes seems like a succession of spontaneous personal inspirations . Actually , progress came in hard-won increments , entailing many experiments by many teams of technicians . And though the British Crown was not nearly as supportive as was the government in France , it is not true , as some historians suggest , that it played no role at all . The Royal Ordinance Department maintained at Vauxhall a complex of foundries and shops manned by a cadre of trained craftsmen and engineers , and many of the mechanical advances leading to the steam engine were accomplished there . Equally important were constructive government policies granting patents and monopolies and fostering finance . The Bank of England , founded in 1694 , antedated its French counterpart by more than a century . Few of the millwrights , mechanics , ironworkers , and just plain tinkerers of eighteenth-century Britain thought of themselves as engineers . The concept of professionalism evolved earliest , as it did in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smeaton , builder of bridges , harbors , and lighthouses , began to call himself a " civil engineer " around 1750 . The term was intended to rid his profession of the disagreeable association with military affairs . Although he made his reputation in great construction projects ? most notably the Eddystone Lighthouse ? Smeaton also worked on improving waterwheels , steam engines , boring machines , and other mechanical devices . Truly the complete engineer , this remarkable man was made a Fellow of the Royal Society . He also evinced a strong sense of professional pride , and on March 15 , 1771 , he met with several of his colleagues at the Kings Head Tavern in Holborn to form the Society of Civil Engineers ( soon to be known as the Smeatonian Society ) . Social clubs were very much the vogue in Britain at that  | time . Many groups gathered to exchange scientific and technical information , and many societies were formed , some by scientists , engineers , or manufacturers , others by what today we would call Chamber of Commerce " boosters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting of the Lunar Society and several of that organization 's members were also Smeatonians . British engineers manifested a propensity to splinter into camps professing subtle distinctions of approach , a characteristic of the profession to this day . The Royal Institution was founded in 1799 to facilitate " the general introduction of useful mechanical inventions and improvements . " The Society of Millwrights appeared in 1805 . In 1818 the Institution of Civil Engineers was formed , born of a revolt against the excessively scientific approach of the Smeatonians . The Institution of Mechanical Engineers , so the story goes , was founded in 1846 because of an alleged affront by the civil engineers to George Stephenson , a noted builder of locomotives . While British engineers were developing a sense of professional identity , certain social visionaries began to advocate scientific training for working artisans . By 1800 so-called " steamintellect societies " were being formed for this purpose and by 1850 there were 700 mechanics ' institutes in Britain catering to 120,000 students . There is little evidence that this education did much to improve the mechanics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation eventually benefitted when several of the institutes developed into notable engineering schools . Less auspiciously , the movement strengthened the popular perception that technological pursuits were most properly the province of the lower classes . The identification of engineering with lack of social status was reinforced by the religious prejudices of the time . In eighteenthcentury England religious non-conformists ( those individuals who were not members of the Church of England ) were barred by the universities and the learned professions and even ostra-  | cized in the older towns and cities . As a consequence , many independent-minded artisans set up business in the midlands and to the north , away from the centers of orthodoxy , and pursued careers in invention and manufacture . As noted by several historians of technology , the refusal to conform requires great determination , individuality , and strength of mind , the very characteristics that are required for success in technological enterprise . French science and engineering also were affected by policies of intolerance . After the revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685 , many skilled Protestant artisans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost three hundred years before that phrase was coined . The American colonies warmly welcomed skilled workers and professionals fleeing European oppression . History reveals among engineers a free-thinking , pragmatic streak of independence . When engineers are criticized for their willingness to cooperate with government authorities , it should also be remembered that they have often chosen to go where life is free and congenial , and to take their skills with them . In the contrast between France and Britain we see the seeds of dichotomies and debates that characterize engineering today . As if to prove that there is no one true road to technological superiority , France and England waged fierce battles ? both military and mercantile ? without reaching a decisive conclusion . In the short term England won . Napoleon suffered defeat at Waterloo in 1815 and the glory years of the British Empire followed . Much credit for this must go to British engineering and entrepreneurial genius ? as well as to the nation 's unique geography and its natural resources , particularly coal . But by the time of the Great Crystal Palace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great technological advances that nations of the Continent were making ; at the International Exhibition of 1867 , held in Paris , their concern turned to alarm . British products received a bare dozen awards . It was clear that  | the empiric skills of the British engineers were not adequate to the new era . Chemicals , steel , electricity ? these industries required an abundance of scientifically trained engineers . While practically all British engineers continued to be trained by apprenticeship ? the only university chairs of engineering were at Glasgow , Edinburgh , and University College in London ? the concept of the French polytechnique was taking hold throughout a technologically resurgent Europe . In Germany , especially , the changes were astonishing . That nation had , by the late nineteenth century , transformed itself from an agricultural backwater into a mighty power boasting four outstanding research-oriented institutions and a dozen engineering colleges , supplemented by mining academies , technical high schools , and military schools . The collaboration between German industrialists , engineers , educators , bankers , and government officials was unparalleled in human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and overthrew Napoleon III , Disraeli remarked , " This represents the German Revolution , a greater political event than the French Revolution of the last century . " 11 Unfortunately ? and not for the first time in history ? technological accomplishment was a prelude to military aggression . Britain ? fountainhead of the Industrial Revolution , home of Telford and Rennie , giants of bridge building ; Brunel , conceiver of steamships ; Stephenson , father of locomotives ; the native land of Smeaton , Watt , and McAdam ? had forfeited forever its preeminence . The very independence of its institutions , including the apprenticeship practices of the engineers and their societies , had impeded the requisite cooperative national effort . Not until 1889 did Parliament provide substantial funding for technical education , mainly through grants to city universities . Cambridge and Oxford followed reluctantly . A program in " mechanical science " was first introduced at Cambridge in 1890 ; a chair of " engineering science " was established at Oxford in 1909 . This foot-dragging is hardly surprising when one consid-  | ers that as late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newton became President of the Royal Society ? the " pure " physical sciences had scarcely gained a toehold in those hallowed halls . The economic decline of Britain demonstrates that engineering superiority can be lost as quickly as it is gained , and that in addition to energy , inventiveness , and good intentions , technological vitality can not be maintained without promotion of science , support for engineering education , and enlightened cooperation between government , industry , and academia . On the North American continent , technology evolved out of the needs of frontier living . Tools and techniques were brought from Europe , but the relative isolation and the immediate problems of pioneering early encouraged the flowering of " Yankee ingenuity . " Professional engineering was virtually non-existent . As George Washington told John Randolph , anyone wishing to dig a canal or build bridges " must invite a proper person from Europe . " 12 One of the earliest of such " proper persons " was William Weston , an apprentice of the English canal builder James Brindley . Between 1793 and 1801 Weston consulted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New York ; drew a plan for a water supply system for New York City ; made recommendations for the reconstruction of the Lancaster Turnpike ; and designed piers for the Market Street Bridge in Philadelphia . Another prominent English immigrant was Benjamin Latrobe , a student of John Smeaton , who worked on the Philadelphia waterworks , a Susquehanna navigation survey , and various canals , as well as acting as architect on many large domed buildings . Robert Fulton was born in Pennsylvania in 1765 , but studied and worked in Europe , returning to the United States at the age of forty to design his steamboat . When the Erie Canal was begun in 1817 , there were perhaps thirty men in the entire nation who considered themselves qualified as engineers , and a good number of these were little more than surveyors or builders . The commissioners entrusted with  | building the canal , unable to recruit a true professional either domestically or from abroad , decided that the construction of canals was " an art within the complete attainment of ordinary capacities " 13 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as engineers in charge . The work proceeded , willy-nilly , and during the next eight years a pattern was established for recruiting assistant engineers from within the ranks of the various surveying parties . The New York canal system became , in effect , an on-the-job training ground for engineers , a variation of the English apprentice system . By 1825 , when the Erie and Champlain Canals were completed , thirty more engineers had thus entered the profession , doubling the nation 's supply . Another engineering resource , as in France , was the army . The United States Military Academy was founded in 1802 as a school for engineer officers . ( An act in 1812 broadened its mandate to train officers for all units of the army . ) The Academy 's first superintendent , Sylvanus Thayer , appointed to the post in 1817 , traveled to Europe to study military engineering and education . He introduced a curriculum based upon the polytechnic concept , and soon the academy , was turning out engineers with excellent academic credentials . One responsibility of the Army Corps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and occasionally it was authorized to do surveys for roads and canals considered to be of national importance . But this work was limited due to congressional concern about using the army for civilian ? and often privately sponsored ? projects . Before long , however , West Point graduates , after retiring from the army , began working as civilian engineers , their number increasing from fifteen in 1830 to more than one hundred in 1838 . These ex-military engineers were useful , but the rapidly developing nation clearly needed civilian engineering schools . The example of Europe was not lost on intelligent observers , although as in England , the traditional universities were hostile to  | the concept . So were most of the practicing engineers who themselves had been trained in the field or in the shop . The initiative was left to civic-minded individuals like Stephen Van Rensselaer of Albany , land owner , capitalist , and leader in public affairs , who in 1823 took steps to establish a school at Troy " for the purpose of instructing persons who may choose to apply themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . " 14 Under the direction of Amos Eaton ? lawyer , engineer , and scientist ? the Rensselaer School , as it was first called , developed in the course of twelve years into a professional school of engineering , the degree of civil engineer being first bestowed on four graduates in 1835 . In 1849 the school was reorganized by its new director , B. Franklin Greene ? who , like Thayer at West Point , had traveled to Europe and been impressed by the French model ? and the name Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute was adopted . By 1860 , 318 RPI alumni were practicing professionals , along with almost 200 civilian graduates of the military academy . Slowly , the example set by Rensselaer was followed by other institutions . Union College introduced civil engineering courses in 1845 , and the University of Michigan in 1847 . In the same year both Harvard and Yale took steps to create schools of applied science , halting steps though they were . The Lawrence School at Harvard ? endowed by a manufacturer of woolen goods ? graduated only forty-nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an engineering educator , " in the face of an unconcealed disdain on the part of the regular faculty . " 15 This attitude helped prompt the establishment of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , which obtained land in a charter from the Massachusetts State Legislature in 1861 and opened its doors four years later . The big breakthrough in American engineering education occurred with the passage of the Morrill Act ( popularly known as the " land grants " act ) in 1862 . This legislation , passed in the midst of the Civil War , granted Federal aid to the states for  | founding colleges of agriculture and mechanic arts . Ironically , the bill had been pending in Congress for five years , and if not for the absence of the Southern states , its passage probably would have been further delayed . This legislation , coupled with the economic expansion that followed the war ? particularly the boom in railroad building ? inspired a period of spectacular growth in engineering education . Not only were new " land grant " colleges founded , but many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of schools teaching engineering increased to seventeen by 1870 , to fortyone by 1871 , to seventy by 1872 , and to eighty-five by 1880 . Still , among practicing engineers , the concept of academic learning was slow to take hold . In 1870 only one in nine American engineers was a college graduate , and as late as 1916 , incredible as it may sound , the figure was only about one in two . In many quarters , the school-taught engineers were regarded with suspicion by the old-timers . Another peculiar aspect of the growth in engineering academia is that it coincided with a decline in the social status of the profession , indeed in some ways contributed to that decline . Although RPI developed along the lines of the elite French polytechnics , its original statement of purpose spoke of " instructing the sons and daughters of farmers and mechanics . " The founding legislation of the Morrill Act mentioned " education of the industrial classes in their several pursuits and professions in life . " And the stress on vocationalism that prevailed in many engineering school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respectable but somewhat lowly occupation . Up to the mid-nineteenth century , engineering had attracted " many sons of leading American families , " sons of physicians , attorneys , judges , clergymen , academics , and wealthy businessmen.16 The engineers themselves were often intellectuals and social visionaries , living refutations of Plato 's stereotype . John Roebling , designer of the Brooklyn Bridge , and his son Washington Roebling , who completed the project , were multi-  | talented scholars whose erudition helped to make them widely respected public figures . This patrician quality was not shared by the young men who started to crowd into the land grant colleges . Ten years before the elder Roebling 's death in Brooklyn , Britain 's great railway engineer , Robert Stephenson , died and , according to L.T.C. Rolt , " the whole nation mourned him . " By special permission of the Queen , his funeral cortege passed through Hyde Park on its way to Westminster Abbey where his body was buried beside Thomas Telford , and the whole route was lined by silent crowds . In his home county @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tees , all work ceased in the towns and flags flew at half-mast .... It was as though a king had died , but where was his successor ? Never again would a British engineer command so much esteem and affection ; never again would the profession stand so high.17 Stephenson in Britain , the Roeblings in the United States , Eiffel of the famed tower in France ? a few such men of mythic reputation flashed across the pages of history . But , as civil and mechanical engineering became increasingly mathematical , and as chemical and electrical engineering burgeoned into new disciplines , the epic figure of the " chief engineer " faded from the scene . No single person could master more than a small portion of the exploding fund of knowledge . Engineering , by its very success , transformed itself into a group enterprise , without individual heroes . A number of supremely talented individuals continued to make unique contributions . Edison , Westinghouse , Bell , Eastman , Diesel , Marconi , the Wright brothers ? most of them inventors rather than engineers in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after them a curtain of anonymity  | settled over the profession . Herbert Hoover ran for the presidency as " The Great Engineer , " but that single event shed little light on other engineers and in the end very little glory on engineering . There is today a Hoover Dam , but few people can name its designer ? or the designers of the Grand Coulee Dam or the Verrazano Narrows Bridge , the creators of radar or the transistor , the developers of air conditioning or the space shuttle . The mighty corporations are famous , as are the laboratories and universities where the frontiers of engineering are expanding at an accelerating rate . Mention IBM , RCA , GE or Exxon , speak of M.I.T. , Cal Tech , Bell Labs or Los Alamos , and a light of recognition flares . But the leaders of these institutions ? even the Nobel Prize winners among them ? are scarcely known beyond the circle of their colleagues . For a while , even as individual engineers sank into anonymity , the profession as a whole retained an aura of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century , technology held the promise of wealth and ease for all , and engineers were the clever chaps who made technology jump through hoops . After World War II , however , as we have already noted , public perception of the engineer began to change . Nuclear weapons created a widespread malaise . The 1960s brought us Vietnam , napalm , and Agent Orange ; the 1970s featured environmentalism , asbestos , and toxic wastes . The changing public mood was influenced by the critiques of such disenchanted observers as Rachel Carson , Ralph Nader , and Barry Commoner . There was applause , to be sure , for moon shots , computers , and satellite-transmitted television , but the image of the engineer became badly tarnished . This decline in reputation was compounded by a loss of professional independence . As the corporate structure of American industry grew , more and more engineers became employees of giant organizations . An ever smaller proportion carried on as autonomous consultants , and hardly any continued to play the  | time-honored role of independent inventor . Still , the adventurous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the entrepreneurial Wild West of Silicon Valley . But the vast majority of today 's engineers find themselves in the midst of multitudes , worrying about workers ' rights or , at best , struggling up the slippery ladders of middle management . Given the nature of modern technology and the dynamics of corporate growth , it seems that events could hardly have been otherwise . Some commentators allege that engineers " sold out " to the corporations , becoming an exploited underclass . This view , I believe , mistakenly describes a spontaneous , natural process in terms of capitalist villainy . Nevertheless , the melancholy truth remains : as engineering grew and flourished , it forfeited autonomy and glory . This historical trend is especially poignant when one considers the attempts that were made to fashion a noble and independent profession . The loftiest aspirations were expressed by the founders of the various engineering societies , starting with The American Society of Civil Engineers in 1852 . The American Institute of Mining Engineers was established in 1872 , the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in 1883 , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Institute of Chemical Engineers in 1908 . Within each of these organizations engineers endeavored to elevate scientific and professional standards , emphasize ethical and social concerns , and garner a portion of public esteem . Battles were fought between those who sought to insulate engineering from business and those who believed that the profession 's proper role was to become part of industry , albeit in positions of professional leadership . Both views had strong and unyielding proponents who filled the professional journals with impassioned articles and letters . Looking back , one is inclined to conclude that both groups had much reason to be satisfied with their lot . Independent consulting firms prospered , while in corporations engineers advanced to positions of responsibility . By  | the 1920s , two-thirds of the graduates of American engineering schools were becoming managers within fifteen years of graduation . A survey of the profession reported " a healthy progression through technical work toward the responsibilities of management . " 18 It was not foreseen that industry 's appetite for engineers would become increasingly voracious , and that inevitably large numbers of engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willingly into the corporate jaws , entranced not only by attractive salaries and technical challenge , but also by visions of bringing " efficiency " to factory and office . In the current era of prestigeous business schools we tend to forget the brief but intense passion with which engineers claimed management as their own . Around the beginning of this century , Frederick W. Taylor , a mechanical engineer from a well-to-do Philadelphia family , studied the work habits of factory personnel and proposed methods of maximizing production . Known first as the " Taylor System , " these ideas were disseminated broadly as " human engineering , " " industrial engineering , " and " scientific management . " For a few years this new specialty ? remembered today chiefly for its time and motion studies ? achieved great popularity . But labor groups resisted what they considered to be an exploitive approach , and many engineers regarded the movement as a perversion of engineering methodology . By 1916 Taylor 's methods were banned in government-funded operations and the vogue quickly dissipated . Nevertheless , engineers continued to play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A course called Engineering Administration was established at M.I.T. in 1913 . In 1932 this specialty became a separate department in the School of Engineering . In 1952 , however , the department was transmuted into an independent School of Industrial Management . Today the growth of business administration as a separate discipline has served to draw a line between engineering and management , although the distinction can never be absolute .  | Out of this interest in scientific management grew the idea of utilizing engineering methods to solve social problems . Around the time of World War I , a few so-called " progressive " engineers met to discuss the possibilities of applying Taylor 's principles to the reorganization of society , but the group failed to make much of an impact on professional or political affairs . According to census reports , there were just 512 engineers in the United States in 1850 . By 1880 the number had risen to 8,261 . After this the census figures become deceptive because at various times they included locomotive engineers , mechanics , surveyors , and electricians . Other records , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers , and in 1930 , 230,000 . Even at that point , according to one study , " the profession remained tiny and elite . " 19 Today the figure has risen to well over a million and a half , with more than a hundred thousand college freshmen entering engineering programs each year . The unique role of yesteryear 's professional could scarcely be expected to survive under the crushing weight of such numbers . In many ways the American engineering profession today is riding high . And yet . . . When we think of the great numbers , the increased specialization , the faceless anonymity , and the submersion of engineering into corporate culture , we may well begin to yearn for days gone by . Whenever I find myself wishing wistfully for the engineering grandeur of the past , I remind myself of the time my wife and I were vacationing in Italy at the height of the holiday season . We joined a tour of the Vatican and as we arrived at the Sistine Chapel found ourselves jostled by an oppressive crowd . We , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disappointment and frustration . But our guide , an energetic little woman who carried on high a rolled newspaper to make sure we did not lose sight of her , insisted that we grasp the magic of the moment . " Look up , " she said . " Ignore the crush about you and concen-  | trate on the magnificent paintings that you see . Michelangelo created them for you , and they could not be any more divine if you stood here alone with the artist by your side . " Her admonition had its intended effect . The great paintings are there , and the feelings they elicit transcend time and circumstance . I look upon engineering and its history in somewhat the same way . The profession endures ? in all its essentials ? for those who would find in it pride and inspiration . Where do we come from and where are we heading ? There is no single truth that embodies the practice of engineering , no patron saint , no motto or simple credo . There is no unique methodology that has been distilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the essence of engineering lies in its need and willingness to embrace opposites . Empiricism and theory , craftsmanship and science , workshop and laboratory , apprenticeship and formal schooling , private initiative and government venture , commerce and independent professionalism , military necessity and civic benefit ? all of these and more have their place . And running through the profession 's richly textured history are those perplexing questions of class and prestige , the elite and the plebian . Engineering stands in the turbulent center of democratic life , thriving on variety , vital in the midst of paradox . If the past is indeed prologue to the future ? if simple craft can evolve , as it has , into engineering science ? there is ample reason to hope for the coming of ever more accomplished engineers , indeed for the coming of another engineering renaissance the nature of which we can as yet only dimly envision .  | What is an engineer ? The National Research Council 's Committee on the Education and Utilization of the Engineer recently framed a definition : Engineer . A person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . College/university B.S. or advanced degree in an accredited engineering program . b . Membership in a recognized engineering society at a professional level . c . Registered or licensed as an engineer by a governmental agency . d . Current or recent employment in a job classification requiring engineering work at a professional level . l Very well , then , what is engineering ? Again the committee provides an answer : Business , government , academic , or individual efforts in which knowledge of mathematical and/or natural sciences is employed in research , development , design , manufacturing , systems engineering , or technical operations with the objective of creating and/or delivering systems , products , processes ,  | and/or services of a technical nature and content intended for use.2 Quite a mouthful , and not really an improvement on Thomas Tredgold 's classic definition of 1828 : " Engineering is the art of directing the great sources of power in nature for the use and convenience of man . " 3 Engineers , as viewed by the public and as confirmed by selfimage , constitute a single profession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikingly diverse group . First of all , they differ by specialty in the following way : figure  | figure And even these categories do not begin to hint at the diverse social roles that engineers play . Consultants , researchers , and academics ; entrepreneurs and corporate executives ; public works officials and other civil servants ; a wide variety of quasiprofessional employees ? the spectrum is broad and getting broader as computer engineering attracts a new breed of bearded blue-jeaned mavericks . As for politics , there are rightwing engineers and left-wing , hawks and doves , pro-growth and anti-growth , pro-nuke and anti-nuke . Some engineers are ardent environmentalists ; others are hostile to environmentalism . Most engineers , like most citizens , hold many different opinions , some of them inconsistent and subject to frequent change . Needless to say , there are a variety of religious beliefs and ethnic affiliations . Engineering used to be something of an all-male association , but this is no longer the case . Even before the profession exploded into a myriad parts , engineers had difficulty in getting together ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might think that an engineer would be the quintessential organization person , but the truth is otherwise ( a fact touched on in the previous chapter in my discussion of the first British engineering societies ) . In the United States the splintering phenomenon started early and continues to this day . There is no powerful , central , national engineering organization comparable to the American Medical Association or the American Bar Association , and there are good reasons to believe that there may never be one . Since the founding of the American Society of Civil Engineers ( ASCE ) in 1852 , the main organizing thrust of the engineering  | profession has been along the lines of technical specialties . All efforts at profession-wide federation have ended in failure . The latest attempt ? the American Association of Engineering Societies ( AAES ) , instituted in 1979 ? almost succumbed to intramural feuding , and exists today as a coordinator of loosely affiliated member societies . " When we started , " says a member of the AAES board of governors , " we thought we would hire someone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was very difficult because the engineering community did n't have any discrete message . " 7 Beyond the hard facts of diversity , however , and overriding the details of definition , is there not for engineers a shared way of approaching the world , a common outlook that one might call " the engineering view ? " I suggest that there is . In seeking the essence of the engineering view it seems appropriate to begin with the scientific view . All contemporary engineers enter their profession by passing through the portals of science . In order to be admitted to an accredited engineering school , a young person must have studied science and shown an aptitude for it . To graduate from an accredited engineering school he or she must study a lot more science ? and , of course , the mathematics that is an essential element of science . Indeed , the almost exclusive criterion for entering the engineering profession is the ability to " do " science and to do it well . " Doing " science implies a belief in science , and I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the heart of engineering . The engineer does not believe in black magic , voodoo , or rain dances . The engineer believes in scientific truth , that is , truth that can be verified by experiment . The search for scientific truth requires that we disregard , so far as possible , our personal value systems ; yet , paradoxically , this approach creates its own values . As Jacob Bronowski has written : " Independence and originality , dissent and freedom and tolerance ; such are the first needs of science ; and these are the values  | which , of itself , it demands and forms . " 8 In the same vein , Bertrand Russell asserted that " those who forget good and evil and seek only to know the facts are more likely to achieve good than those who view the world through the distorting medium of their own desires . " 9 So this is the beginning of the engineering view : a commitment to scientific truth and to the values that the search for this truth entails . Occasionally our critics view this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " When one deals in hard facts it is easy for an observer to conclude that one has a hard heart . Using an even uglier metaphor , Theodore Roszak has said that scientists and technologists look at the world with " a dead man 's eyes . " 10 I find such criticism to be particularly irritating . There is a place in the world for poetry and sermons and for visions of " what might be " rather than " what is . " But there is also a need for facts and plain-speaking . As engineers we are pledged not to engage in merely wishful thinking . We are not the grasshopper ; we are the ant who knows that winter is coming . We are the grumpy little pig who builds his house out of brick while his friends play and sing " Who 's afraid of the big bad wolf ? " We do this because we know what the big bad wolf can do when he huffs and puffs . This does not mean that , as individuals , we can not love poetry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because we are committed to scientific truth , we believe that poetry and sermons alone are not an adequate foundation on which to build human society . The evidence convinces us that God helps those who help themselves . It does not follow that we are selfish . The evidence also shows that God helps those who work together cooperatively and provide for one another . There is a fringe benefit that comes along with our familiarity with science ? and with the technological applications of science ? and this is that it helps make us feel at home in the world . To the extent that the forces of nature have been comprehended , and the structure of the universe revealed , we share in the understanding and this gives us some measure of contentment . This  | comfort ? this inner peace , if you will ? is a basic ingredient of the engineering view . This does not mean that engineers are , or have any reason to be , smug . We are humble before the unknown and stand in awe of the unknowable . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they do , by the scientific advances of our age . And our message to our non-technical fellows is that to a certain extent this understanding ? and the peace that goes with it ? is available to all . Anyone who is willing to explore , however superficially , the findings of science , can share in this feeling of at-homeness in the world . The study of science , if it is to lead to professional competence , must entail hard work , and the engineering view accepts this . Engineers believe in hard work . We demand it of ourselves and require it of those who would join our ranks . We think that hard work is somehow treasured in the scheme of things . Knowledge and understanding are precious objectives worth striving for . The quest for excellence is a virtuous enterprise that needs no rationalizing . Although we are committed to scientific truth , there comes a point where this truth is not enough , where the application of truth to human objectives comes into play . Once we start to think in terms of utility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , take off our white coats , and roll up our sleeves . We are no longer considering theoretical forces and ideal substances . We are now obliged to work with materials that are real , impure , and sometimes unpredictable . Our aim is no longer to discern absolute truth , but rather to create a product that will perform a function . And suddenly we find ourselves under constraints of time and money . To a practicing engineer the search for perfection becomes self-defeating . In The Soul of a New Machine , Tracy Kidder recounts how the engineers designing a computer must forego the luxury of constant refinement of their work . Instead of trying to make the perfect computer , they strive to make a  | good machine that they can get " out the door . " They live for the moment when they can merely say , " Okay , it 's right . Ship it . " If engineers are not afforded the luxury of seeking perfection , it follows that they must be willing to risk failure . Indeed , the willingness to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most challenging aspects of the engineering experience . Engineers do not want to take chances . Prudence is implicit in our every undertaking . But as human societies seek to develop high civilizations , they inevitably strive to span ever wider chasms , build taller buildings and broader domes , create more sophisticated machines , and tap ever more elusive sources of energy . Citizens say to their engineers , " Do these marvelous deeds , but be careful . " Engineers accept this charge knowing full well that every time they undertake a new design they may be defeated by unknown causes . We talk lightly of gremlins and Murphy 's Law , but this banter is a manifestation of our underlying anxiety . Even the most cautious engineer recognizes that risk is inherent in what he or she does . Over the long haul the improbable becomes the inevitable , and accidents will happen . The unanticipated will occur . Not that it is difficult to design redundant safety features into a product ? it is merely expensive . It would be a lot easier for engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the paramount concern , whatever the cost . But the people do not say this . They want automobiles that are affordable and attractive ; they want airplanes that are light enough to conserve fuel , and power plants that will turn out cheap electricity . They appear willing to pay for relatively foolproof backup systems for space vehicles , but precious little else . In other words , people are willing to take risks , but , naturally , do not want to pay the penalty for taking those risks . In such a world it requires a certain amount of moral toughness , something that verges on bravery , to say , all right , I will take the responsibility , and if the worst should happen , I will accept the blame .  | Civil and mechanical engineers are particularly vulnerable since they have to cope with the devilish phenomenon of metal fatigue . There is no completely reliable way to predict how metals will behave when subject to vibrations and erratic stresses in changeable climate and over long periods of time . Sometimes the only way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institution of Mechanical Engineers published a fascinating volume entitled Engineering Progress Through Trouble . Reading this and similar works is a humbling and frightening ? but in the end exhilarating ? experience . To be willing to learn through failure ? failure that can not be hidden ? requires tenacity and courage . It has been said that doctors bury their mistakes and architects plant ivy . Most experts have a way of avoiding blame by claiming that their ideas were not given a fair trial . Economists are famous for this ploy . Politicians , as is well known , never make a mistake . Engineers have no such easy evasions . Well , so be it . Somebody has to step forward to do what needs doing . We ca n't all sit  --  around being critics , supervisors , and second-guessers . Thus a principal feature of the engineering view becomes the willingness to accept responsibility . Those citizens who take on responsibility make an implicit 5k , promise to their fellows to be dependable . You can count on us , we say to our neighbors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down . Let me be clear about what I mean by this . I do not believe that it is up to the engineering profession to decide what is good for society , to decide , for example , whether we should favor mass transit or individual automobiles , allow drilling for oil off our coasts , authorize the use of public lands for mining , or determine how much of our national product should be devoted to armaments . In other words , I do not believe in technocracy . ( I will return to this topic in the chapters ahead . ) What I do mean is that in the pursuit of goals established by the entire commu-  | nity , engineers should be dependable . This commitment to dependability is something that we share with all the professions . It is , in fact , the essence of professionalism and it underlies our system of accreditation and licensing . I once knew an elementary school teacher who said that whenever she wanted to make sure that a specific task would be accomplished ? erasing the blackboards after class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or bringing in the juice and cookies ? she would call upon , if possible , a red-headed boy . She did n't know why , but in her experience red-headed boys were always dependable . In my experience engineers are singularly dependable . The resolve to be dependable is another essential element of the engineering view . Obviously , engineering is dependent upon a society that functions effectively . Most engineers now work in large organizations and participate in mammoth undertakings . Thus , they learn to value cooperation and recognize that their work requires an established social structure . This is one way in which the engineering view differs markedly from the view of the artist . A poet ; can be a rebel ? indeed , one of the main functions of a poet is to be a rebel , to startle and to shock . But engineering and rebellion do not go together . If the power plants are to operate and the factories to produce , law and order must prevail . In this sense engineering is conservative . Engineering depends upon social stability and contributes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or nihilists ; that would be almost a contradiction in terms . There ca n't be any engineering in a chaotic world . But just because we believe in order does not mean that we , as a group , are committed to any particular type of order . It has been said that because so many engineers are employed by American industry the profession has become a tool of American capitalism . The people who make this charge conveniently disregard the many thousands of engineers who work for federal , state , and local government , overseeing the nation 's vast  | public works infrastructure and participating in essential regulatory activities . Increasingly , engineers are playing a role in public interest organizations , and of course many engineers are academics and private consultants . Even though engineers may agree that some organization is essential , it is clear that engineers have a variety of ideas about how society should be organized . Most engineers tend to be pragmatists rather than ideologues . Ideology , after all , does not cure diseases or provide food and shelter . As pragmatists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and as we observe how things are done in Japan , for example , our interest in the possibility of change is surely piqued . But we must keep reminding ourselves that though we are dedicated to the concept of order , political ideology has no place in the engineering view . Individual engineers may be ? should be ? political , but they have no right to expect that their colleagues , as engineers , will share their partisan commitments . Although engineering requires social stability and engineers are rarely found amoung the ranks of revolutionaries , technological progress has , in fact , contributed to the growth of democracy . Democratic ideals were expressed many centuries ago , but only modern engineering has made it possible for these ideals to be brought closer to fulfillment . It may not sound impressive to say that the goal of our society is " a car in every garage , " but this is merely shorthand for saying that one person is as good as another and that opportunity should be available to all . The accumulation of material wealth has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , radio , and television have made it possible and perhaps inevitable for the democratic ideal to spread and eventually prevail . Education and culture ? not just for the privileged few but for the many ? have followed in the wake of technological development . I do not mean to imply that engineers sally forth each day to save democracy . But in subtle yet powerful ways their work has served this cause . People have expressed  | concern lest high technology bring about despotism by making it possible for the few to dominate the many . But the evidence indicates that this is not happening and will not happen . The flame of freedom , once ignited , is almost impossible to extinguish . At least this is so where technology provides people with the basic necessities of life . Poverty and hunger serve the ends of despotism , and engineering fights the good fight against these scourges . Engineering serves the cause of democracy in another way by being in itself ? in its institutions and its personality ? democratic . As noted above , Jacob Bronowski has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and freedom and tolerance " ; engineering shares these needs . And in the United States most engineers have come from the middle and lower middle classes . Engineers are not snobs . We may sometimes be dull , but we are hardly ever snobbish . Speaking of being dull , there can be no denying that the engineering view is essentially serious . Engineering work involves logic and precision . Unfortunately , this can lead to coldness and austerity . Engineers have a reputation for being humorless , and I fear this reputation is not entirely unfounded . There is no sense pretending that engineering is fun and games ( although it often is fun ) , or that engineers are by nature jolly . We can certainly hope that our seriousness will be of good quality , that we will be earnest without being morose , sober without becoming glum . Maybe we can even try to become slightly more lighthearted . Although engineering is serious and methodical , it contains elements of spontaneity . Engineering is an art as well as a science , and good engineering depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Creativity and ingenuity , the playfulness of original ideas ? these are also a part of the engineering view . Since engineering is creative ? persistently and energetically creative ? it has quite naturally become identified with the concept of change . In the American mythos , the quality of life can  | be constantly improved , an outlook that both stems from , and contributes to , the engineering view . However , we are not as naively optimistic in this regard as we used to be . It is now widely recognized that not all change is for the better and that change merely for the sake of change is foolishness . Human beings , we now recognize , are resistant to extensive alterations in their patterns of life . Just a few years ago a typical vision of the future pictured puny people seated in front of glowing TV screens and taking their meals in the form of pills . What actually happened in this era of high technology was an astonishing growth in jogging , body-building , and exercising of all sorts , as well as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and do-it-yourself handicrafts . Sales of canned foods have dropped in the face of a renewed craving for fresh produce . This urge to preserve the best of the past does not mean that the quest for technological improvement will be curtailed . It is worth recognizing that today 's backpackers make grateful use of aluminum and nylon , both of which are products of energyintensive technologies . Engineering is committed to the prospect of new discoveries , and engineers still look eagerly to ever receding horizons . We are tinkerers at heart ; we can not keep our hands off the world . However , the over-optimism , and perhaps even arrogance , that had been creeping into the engineering view is being replaced by a more thoughtful but still enthusiastic commitment to change . These , then , are what I take to be the main elements of the engineering view : a commitment to science and to the values that science demands ? independence and originality , dissent and freedom and tolerance ; a comfortable familiarity with the forces that prevail in the physical universe ; a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but in the quest for knowledge and understanding and in the pursuit of excellence ; a willingness to forgo perfection , recognizing that we have to get real and useful products " out the door " ; a willingness to accept responsibility and risk  | failure ; a resolve to be dependable ; a commitment to social order , along with a strong affinity for democracy ; a seriousness that we hope will not become glumness ; a passion for creativity , a compulsion to tinker , and a zest for change . The reader may notice that I have not included a staple of much writing about engineering ? the urge to serve humanity . Most of the engineers I know are good people but truly no more altruistic than the average citizen , and I feel it is somewhat deceptive for us to imply that this is not the case . Engineers are not missionaries . As professionals we pledge ourselves to public service , but I think this is stating the case somewhat backward . By being hard-working , responsible , dependable , and creative we end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as enhancing our own pride and pleasure . This brings us to the fringes of engineering ethics , a topic I will address shortly . ( There is a difference between a general world view and a formal moral code , and for the moment it is the former that concerns me . ) The reader might also notice that I have not referred to the existential pleasures of engineering . This is partly because I have already written a book on that theme and discussed it in a previous chapter . But mainly it is because the existential pleasures ? the deep down satisfactions that stem from engaging in the technological work that human beings instinctively want to do ? are the reward we receive rather than the goal we seek . The engineering view is far from the only acceptable way of perceiving the world , and I hope that engineers will be receptive to various types of experience ? including the literary , artistic , and political . And , of course , I do not expect all engineers to see our profession exactly as I do . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyone to think in my terms if he prefers others . Let him clean better , if he can , the windows of his soul , that the variety and beauty of the prospect may spread more brightly before him . " 11  | Ethics : ( 1 ) Rhetoric and Good Intentions When engineers get together they do not usually start to philosophize . They are more likely to discuss technical matters ? in other words , to talk shop . Next , as with most professionals , the conversation turns to basic microeconomics ? how to make a living and protect one 's turf . In this regard , things are much the same as they were in the days of the medieval guilds ? except that the current agenda includes such matters as errors-and-omissions insurance , pension plans , and government policy toward immigrant engineers . Nevertheless , just as in the days of the guilds , after the discussion of privilege has run its course , the question of obligation is bound to arise . For what is professionalism if not a mix of privilege and obligation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a special body of knowledge , then builds itself with institutionalized education , accreditation , and self-regulation . Eventually the public grants to the specialists a sort of franchise . ( According to some observers the franchise is not so much granted as seized . ) In exchange , however , society requires that the experts demonstrate concern for the commonwealth . The professionals , for their part , are sensitive to the expectations of the public , and also respond to their own conscience . Engineering societies have traditionally treated questions of professional obligation under the rubric of " engineering ethics . " The topic receives far less attention than technical and economic concerns , but it makes up in passion what it lacks in priority .  | Whenever engineering ethics is on the agenda , emotions come quickly to a boil . During the early seventies , in the wake of Watergate and the environmental crisis , the moral aspect of engineering attracted increasing attention and moved beyond the meeting chambers of practicing engineers into the halls of public discourse . I consider the subject interesting and important , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many are the times that my earnest and well-meaning remarks have aroused the ire of earnest and well-meaning critics . As long as I sing paeans of praise to engineering , I have only friends for readers . As soon as I turn to ethics , however , I invariably find myself in an imbroglio . Yet the subject can not be avoided , at least not by anyone who seeks to explore the profession in any depth . After we have considered what we do , what we have done , what we think , and how we feel , the question arises , what ought we do , how ought we behave ? And so I return to this thorny thicket where I have struggled many times before . It is oh so easy to mouth cliches , for example to pledge to protect the public interest , as the various codes of engineering ethics do . But such a pledge is only a beginning and hardly that . The real questions remain : What is the public interest , and how is it to be served ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an " optimum technology " is one that " is directed towards the highest possible human goals , " ' or to proclaim that " engineers should make technology more humane . " 2 But it is frivolous to suggest that these goals ? and the means to attain them ? can be readily discerned by good-hearted individuals . A generalized commitment to do good is worthy ; it sets our sights high and puts us in a constructive frame of mind . But too often sermons , codes , and pledges go hand in hand with wrongdoing . There is a chilling moment in Puccini 's Tosca when Scarpia , the malevolent chief of police , voices his intention to ravish the  | heroine and have her lover executed . As he sings of his nefarious schemes , a religious procession appears and the music swells . Scarpia expresses his depravity in an ever more impassioned counterpoint until , just as the procession goes by , he crosses himself and joins in the prayers . This magnificent moment of grand opera reminds us that thus does many a blackguard hide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abound , so much so that expressions of virtue often trigger suspicions of hypocrisy . We have to beware of the cynicism that arises as a response to cynicism . When Samuel Johnson said that " Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel , " his friend and biographer , Boswell , hastened to explain that Johnson " did not mean a real and generous love of our country , but that pretended patriotism which so many , in all ages and countries , have made a cloak for self-interest . " 3 Even when there is no question of evil or deception , noblesounding words can become a soporific , a comfortable substitute for hard thinking , and so work against the cause they claim to serve . Having made this point ? which is an obvious one yet often overlooked ? the quest for engineering ethics becomes all the more challenging . How is it possible to move beyond plati-tudes ? In pursuit of the grail of professional morality , I have had a number of illuminating experiences , but none more intriguing than the Second National Conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The conference was hosted by the Illinois Institute of Technology Center for the Study of Ethics in the Profe. sions , and supported by a grant from the National Science Foundation 's EVIST ( Ethics and Values in Science and Technology ) . A group of more than a hundred and thirty attended ? a few practicing engineers , but mostly teachers of engineering ethics , about evenly divided between philosophers and engineering faculty . Several of the participants carried hot-offthe-press copies of the first issue of the Business and Professional  | Ethics Journal , with an eye-catching title emblazoned on its cover : " Engineers Who Kill . " The new periodical was sponsored jointly by Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute , the University of Delaware , and the University of Florida . Apparently , engineering ethics was very much alive and flourishing , at least in academe . As William James once said , " Philosophy 's queerest arguments tickle agreeably our sense of subtlety and ingenuity , " 4 and during the conference this comment came to mind repeatedly . I found myself enjoying presentations that seemed very queer indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an engineer 's right to refuse immoral orders can be derived from the basic right to behave responsibly , and that this can be shown to rest " on a solid normative base . " One of the professor 's colleagues commented that this approach was unhelpful , " since it takes us only to the edge of box one . " Another philosopher spoke of the need for engineers to become moral heroes . Claiming that the integrity of each engineer is likely to be put to the test , and alluding to unspecified instances of " spectacular corruption , " he insisted that young engineers be prepared to abandon their careers rather than abdicate their moral responsibility . The fact that this feverish picture of engineering life bore little semblance to reality was underscored by the report of two professors who had conducted an investigation of the Dupont Company textile plant in Old Hickory , Tennessee , and the Tennessee Eastman Company in Kingsport , Tennessee . It seems that the engineers interviewed at these two corporations claimed never to have encountered a conflict between their professional obligations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were convinced that such problems as might conceivably arise would stem from lack of competence rather than lack of scruples . The author of another paper asserted that government regulation could be radically reduced if individual engineers would be " ethically accountable " for the safety of manufactured products .  | He did not specify how this could be accomplished in practice . There was no shortage of such innovative and unworkable ideas . One speaker proposed that the engineering societies be given the main responsibility for regulating the behavior of engineers , disregarding the fact that only a third of American engineers belong to a professional society and that the courts have lately been restricting the power of such societies to regulate the activities of their members . Another speaker suggested that safety engineers within corporations be given " total autonomy . " Finally , as the hour grew late , historian David Noble startled the genteel assemblage with a frontal attack on what he termed " the bogus discipline of professional ethics . " He accused engineers of being uneducated elitists and called upon them to unionize and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ egalitarian " society . This awoke those of the audience who were beginning to get drowsy and proved a point that should have been obvious from the start , namely , that engineering ethics is less a discipline in which one can expect to see cumulative progress than it is a medium through which individuals can freely express their personal beliefs on almost any topic . ( Again William James : " The history of philosophy is to a great extent that of a certain clash of human temperaments. " ) 5 By coincidence , two days after the Chicago conference , the Ethics Committee of the American Association of Engineering Societies met in Washington , D.C. , trying once again ? in an endeavor that is decades old ? to come up with a uniform code of ethics that might be endorsed by all the major societies . According to reports of those who were present , the discussions lasted all day and consisted mainly of trying to accommodate the proposed AAES Model Code to a draft prepared by a task force from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted almost intact . Nothing to argue about there . In another area , where the AAES version said , " Engineers shall act in such  | a manner as to uphold and enhance the honor , integrity and dignity of the profession , " there was added , upon request , " and shall associate only with honorable enterprises . " Why not ? Even on the ticklish subject of whistle-blowing , tentative agreement was reached by adding innocuous language about engineers , upon discovering a danger to the public , advising " their employer or client and if necessary such public authority as may be appropriate . " The " if necessary " discreetly leaves the question open . But the IEEE draft contained many provisions that were not accepted : an appeal for activism , including supplying " voluntary professional services to worthy causes " and " seeking change through the legal process " ( a bit radical for some tastes ) ; an injunction to " disclose " potential conflicts of interest ( engineering codes have traditionally prohibited them ) ; a commandment to " neither offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blunt ) . And much more . Responding to a questionnaire concerning the proposed AAES code , IEEE members were predictably ambivalent . While 72 percent of the respondents agreed with the " fundamental principles , " and 65 percent found the code " acceptable overall , " only 45 percent were satisfied with the more detailed " canons. " 6 In December 1984 the AAES Board of Governors adopted a Model Guide for Professional Conduct , but as could have been predicted , this elicited further critiques from representatives of IEEE and the other societies. ? Where will it all end ? For the engineering societies there will be more meetings , negotiations , referendums , and perhaps some day an inoffensive unified code , although I would n't bet on it . Certainly a code with real meaning and teeth is beyond the realm of possibility . When Chemical Engineering presented its readers with a number of " Perplexing Problems in Engineering Ethics , " the letters in response were dramatically divided and philosophically widely diverse.8 Such an experiment is enough to indicate that the prospect of achieving homogeneity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .  | For academics , there will be more conferences and publications and courses in which everything gets discussed and nothing gets decided . In other words , engineering ethics is going in dialectic circles ? which is its saving grace . If I thought it were heading toward formal doctrine I would be concerned , for the prospect of American engineers thinking and acting in concert is a truly Orwellian nightmare . There is , however , little danger of this . Engineering ethics can not paper over deep and heartfelt differences of opinion . Inevitably , people of opposing views will each hold high the banner of professional morality , much as opposing armies used to claim that God was on their side . Nevertheless , the thrashing about , the impassioned and often silly debates , the search for virtues that nobody can define ? these sharpen our wit and enrich our spirit . Therein lies the value of anarchic ethics conferences , confusing ethics classes , and amorphous ethical codes . In engineering it is often the process rather than the product that captures our interest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering ethics . It is too bad that the " Boom in Ethics , " as U. S. World &; News Report called it in 1976 , has begun to dissipate . In the budgetcutting frenzy of 1985 , the National Science Foundation came close to eliminating the EVIST program that sponsored the Second National Conference on Engineering Ethics . A Third National Conference , entitled " Engineering Safety : The Value Dimensions of Controlled Hazardous Technology , " was held in May of 1985 , but funding for more such gatherings may be hard to come by . Although such conferences will not solve our problems in any definitive sense , a refusal to support them implies that we do not care and that the interest in professional morality was only a passing fad . There are other disturbing symptoms . Surveys of members of the American Society of Civil Engineers showed that from 1976 to 1984 there was a marked drop in concern for a code of ethics .  | In 1985 the IEEE 's Society on Social Implications of Technology suffered a precipitous drop in membership . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the times . Surely we engineers do not want the public to get the impression that we are losing interest in the moral aspects of our profession . More important , we must not permit such an idea to take hold in our collective psyche .  | ( 2 ) Illusion and Change Although engineers have irreconcilable differences of opinion on many important matters , there may still be some meaningful ethical principles on which they can agree . A time-honored way to approach a problem in engineering ? and in philosophy as well ? is by process of elimination . What if we were to apply this method to engineering ethics ? If we peeled away each of the concepts that ethics is not , we would eventually be left with the real thing . I have already noted that morality can not be achieved by making noble-sounding proclamations ? notwithstanding the value of nurturing noble sentiments . I have also rejected some of the more fantastical proposals of academic philosophers . The morality we seek should be founded in the real world and be capable of practical application . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will and good sense . To continue : I suggest that engineering ethics is not a set of guild rules . Once upon a time that is all that engineering ethics was . The original codes of ethics told engineers how they should deal with each other . Do n't compete for commissions on the basis of price . Do n't advertise . Do n't review a fellow engineer 's work without first getting clearance from him . For many years so-called violations of ethics were invariably breaches of such rules . Today we might call such admonitions professional protocol , professional manners , or professional decorum . But society at large will not accept them as having anything to do with real  | ethics . In fact , society at large , acting through the Department of Justice and the courts , has declared such restrictions to be in violation of antitrust laws . This occurred during the 1970s and radically changed the status of all professions ? not only engineering . What engineers used to call ethical behavior is now to a great extent illegal . I hope and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ladylike as the case may be . Certainly , cutthroat competition in engineering is not in anybody 's best interests , no matter what the antitrust laws say . But it is a fact that engineers can no longer hope to control their own profession totally from within . The law will not permit it , and in a democracy this is probably fitting as well as inevitable . The law has taken over many substantive areas that used to be the province of professional ethics . Confidentiality , industrial secrets , and proprietary interest in invention are defined by statute and legal precedent rather than by ethical codes . So are the norms of professional responsibility . For example , an engineer in New York paid invoices from a firm that had performed no services for him , and when it was discovered that this was done to make a covert political contribution , the Commissioner of Education suspended the engineer 's state license , an action that was upheld by the Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court . In Florida , a structural engineer 's license was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was found guilty of " negligence , incompetence , and misconduct in the practice of engineering . . . in violation of Section 471.033(1) ( g ) Florida Statutes . " 1 Among other things , this engineer had affixed his seal to incorrect design calculations without bothering to supervise or check the work of his subordinates . He also approved installations in the field without inspecting them as required by code . Naturally , it is unethical to break the law . But is this worthy of extended discussion ? Need we spend time teaching young engineers not to break the law ? Bertrand Russell once observed  | that some of the most interesting questions of classical philosophy have now been absorbed into modern science and hence no longer require the attention of philosophers . I believe the same thing has happened with engineering ethics and the law . Once an ethical imperative has been translated into a legal injunction we should be able to consider the matter settled . Will an engineer in the course of a career ever be asked to break the law ? Rarely , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an accountant , a warehouse foreman , a health department food inspector , or a president of the United States . The answer is the same in each case : Do not break the law ! There is no harm in repeating this occasionally , but such advice is not worthy of a prominent place in the literature of engineering ethics . Concepts of product safety also are moving out of the realm of ethics . Increasingly they are being absorbed into the province of government regulation . There was a time when the rule of , the land was caveat emptor , buyer beware , when Congress believed it was prohibited by the Constitution from telling manufacturers how to manage their affairs . In the 1830s , Senator Thomas Hart Benton , arguing against legislation intended to improve the safety of steamboat engines , proclaimed that the proper way to tell if a boat was safe was to personally inquire as to whether the machinery was in good working order.2 The " good old days " were really wild , woolly , and relatively lawless days . Robber barons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exemplified by the snake-oil salesman , plied their wares with little or no restraint . In such a climate , a conscientious engineer was sometimes the only protection the public could look to . Discussions of engineering ethics often revolved around the question of how engineers could maintain their independence from industry in order to safeguard society . The ethics of those relatively primitive times , however , will not serve as a model for today . As the nation became wealthier and better educated , the communal will decreed that laws be  | passed and rules and regulations established to defend the public interest . In 1852 Congress enacted a law that required the inspection of steam boilers . In the 1880s it passed railroad safety legislation . Between 1880 and 1906 , 103 bills were introduced proposing to control interstate traffic in food and drugs , until finally the Pure Food and Drugs Act was passed and signed by Theodore Roosevelt . The Federal Trade Commission Act was passed in 1914 , the Federal Power Commission founded in 1920 , the Federal Communications Commission established in 1934 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was a dramatic increase in government concern for health , safety , and environmental protection . A listing of some of the better-known protective measures tells the tale : Occupational Safety and Health ( 1970 ) ; Boat Safety ( 1971 ) ; Insecticide , Fungicide and Rodenticide ( 1972 ) ; Marine Protection , Research and Sanctuaries ( 1972 ) ; Consumer Products Safety ( 1972 ) ; Noise Control ( 1972 ) ; Safe Drinking Water ( 1974 ) ; Motor Vehicle Safety ( 1974 ) ; Hazardous Materials Transportation ( 1975 ) ; Toxic Substances Control ( 1976 ) ; Solid Waste Disposal ( 1976 ) ; Clean Air ( 1977 ) ; Mine Safety and Health ( 1977 ) ; Water Pollution Control ( 1977 ) ; Comprehensive Environmental Response , Compensation and Liability ( Superfund ) ( 1980 ) . The proliferation of these laws , and the agencies to administer them , is a manifestation of the public will and a splendid example of democracy at work . The legislation was not intended as an insult to engineers . In fact , engineers participated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body social from disease , injury , and disaster . I do not understand why so many people ? engineers and philosophers among them ? consider the growth of government regulation as a defeat for professional morality . I particularly do not understand why so many business executives think this phenomenon inimical to economic and technological progress . It is really a shame ? and a great danger ? that government regulation has , in our time , gotten such a bad name . We can not expect to enjoy the benefits of high technology and the  | fruits of a competitive economy without facing up to the complexity ? yes , the annoying complexity ? that is inherent in them . The industrial culture of which we are so rightly proud , and in which most engineers spend their professional lives , is called the world of free enterprise ? a euphemistic way of saying that it is something of a jungle . This fierce place is an outgrowth of the Darwinian jungle ? nature red in tooth and claw ? and also of thousands of years of ferocious human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the jungle is not just a remnant of our savage past . It is part of the carefully nurtured present , and our society goes to great lengths to protect it . We say that competition is good for the consumer . We say that competition nurtures innovation and promotes productivity . In America we are determined to foster economic competition at almost all costs . If executives from different corporations are caught coordinating their price lists we send them to jail . We recognize that this is not the ideal world of our dreams . The glorification of profit-seeking makes us uneasy . The tragedy of bankruptcy and unemployment is appalling . We deplore the extremes that we call " price wars . " We allow a certain amount of controlled monopoly , and we permit some cooperation between competitors . We even subsidize certain industries . But we do this uncertainly and grudgingly . The jungle brings such wonderful benefits to our society that we are determined to preserve it . Unfortunately , total freedom and pure competition ? intense life and death competition ? evoke a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can lead to shoddy merchandise , dangerous products , depleted resources , and a defiled environment . We attempt to deal with this problem by establishing rules and regulations . Naturally , as our technology becomes more advanced and our society becomes more complex , our rules and regulations become more numerous and our means of enforcing them more various . The proliferation of rules and  | regulations is one of our ingenious adaptations to jungle living , and is one of the glories of our civilization . Of course , the rules are imperfect and the administrators of these rules are often foolish and overbearing . We can agree that regulations must be made more sensible and agencies more effective , but this is not the same as saying that if engineers were more ethical the government would not have to create so many laws and agencies . The concept of industrial self-regulation does not bear scrutiny . When self-regulation is not enforced by some form of law it leads to the prosperity of those who choose not to join the responsible group . It rewards the renegades and rascals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not binding on his unscrupulous neighbor . Consumers are always ready to complain , but they have shown little inclination to reward wellintentioned businesses by paying more to buy their products . And nobody has suggested that corporations or engineers should be granted special permission to police their own industry . We do not countenance the punishment of people unless they have violated a law . To the contrary , we protect the rights of individuals against the pressure of their peers . In business we do this in the name of free enterprise . So self-regulation is reduced to the granting or withholding of the equivalent of a Good Housekeeping seal of approval . Even more telling , if society were to rely upon self-regulation ; ' according to what criteria would it be carried forth ? We all want I safety , reliability , an undamaged environment , and undepleted resources . We also want economy ? it is a moral imperative in that it means more benefits for people of modest means . By what mechanism would corporations and engineers decide on the many trade-offs that must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our lives be left to an unelected unrepresentative group ? Do we really want the automobile companies , for example , or the engineers in their employ , to decide in their wisdom whether a car should be safe when hitting a solid wall  | at 30 miles per hour , 35 miles per hour , or 135 miles per hour ? The public pays for safety ( not the corporations , who will make their profit in any event ) . So the public ? through its representatives ? should decide how much safety it is willing to pay for . It has been suggested that engineers may be pressured to violate ethical principles by managers who favor profit over public safety . In most cases , however , the problem is not a matter of ethics , but a matter of reasoned choice ? not what risk is moral , but rather what risk is acceptable , and this is a choice , I maintain , that should be made by society as a whole . If there are laws and regulations ? if there are standards and guidelines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be at odds with each other . Where they do differ , they will differ as individuals , not as ethical engineer versus amoral manager . Our society has painstakingly developed more than twenty thousand voluntary technical standards ? national standards ? and these constitute an engineering triumph ? another glory of our civilization , comparable to the development of our regulatory laws and agencies . In fact , these two marvelous phenomena are interrelated . Standards are developed by professional groups and then government agencies , when they see fit , adopt the standards and give them the force of law . Without these laws , regulations , codes , and rules , each engineer would be given unwarranted ? and unwanted ? powers ( and , incidentally , each engineering problem would entail reinventing the wheel ) . We must constantly work to make our regulatory apparatus more efficient . This is a special challenge for engineers who choose to go into government service . And we must constantly preach self-discipline . Even with laws we need self-discipline in the form of scrupulous compliance . But self-discipline is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew this and said it ? frequently and eloquently . Of course , it would be undesirable and impossible to subject every engineering decision to a written regulation . The next line  | of defense , however , does not then become the ethics of engineers , but rather standards of liability as made manifest by our courts . How safe is safe enough ? What is the expectation of the citizenry in the area of risk and responsibility ? When specific regulations do not apply , it is the decisions of judges and juries that best indicate what is appropriate . We do not say to industry , " be ethical . " That is too vague and permits an enormously wide range of individual response . It is an invitation to chaos . We say instead , " be prudent , and here are the standards by which you will be judged . " An industrial firm can be held liable for defective product design , defective manufacture , inadequate labeling , and faulty packaging . Liability losses can be suffered by companies that fail to keep proper records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate records of project failures and customer complaints . As stated by the authors of Product Safety and Liability : A Desk Reference , " The one choice engineers , designers , and their employers no longer have is whether or not to pursue safety goals . To ignore or pay only lip service to safety . . . can jeopardize corporate survival . " 3 Product safety is no longer a matter of conscience and good will . It is a professional specialty founded in knowledge of prediction techniques , fault tree analysis , failure modes , effects analysis , and the operator-design interface . Some experts have estimated that the cost of poor quality can amount to 25 percent of sales at manufacturing companies and up to 40 percent of operating costs at service companies.4 The American Society of Safety Engineers reports that its membership is increasing . Corporate ombudsmen solicit employee warnings . When it comes to establishing liability , worthy intentions no longer count . Tort law traditionally required that negligence be proved as a " proximate " cause of an injury , but since the 1960s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused by dangerous products whether or not negligence was  | involved . The situation has progressed to the point where corporate executives now claim to be the aggrieved parties . ( For example , an overweight man who suffered a heart attack trying to start a lawnmower won a $1.75 million award against Sears , Roebuck &; Company on the ground that the starter rope was too hard to pull . ) Industry leaders have appealed to Congress for protective laws , maintaining that the national economy is adversely affected by the ever stricter standards of accountability . ( For example , the FMC Corporation declined an opportunity to produce precision bearings for helicopter rotors because the potential profit did not justify the liability risk if the helicopters crashed . ) Insurance companies play an increasingly crucial role in business planning . For consulting engineers the situation has reached crisis proportions . In 1985 , insurance industry statisticians reported that such engineers have a 43 percent chance of having a claim made against them and that over half of these claims will result in a serious financial impact on the practitioner.5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were paying 4.1 percent of their gross billings for liability coverage , an increase of almost 50 percent in one year.6 Awards against industrial polluters are also mounting . Where government enforcement efforts are deemed insufficient , publicinterest groups have stepped in . Most of the major environmental protection laws contain provisions permitting private suits , and hundreds of these have been instituted , particularly under the Clean Water Act . However Congress and the courts eventually decide to apportion the costs of injury and environmental degradation , it is apparent that engineering ethics is not the main issue . At Quality College , a California institution whose program attracts hordes of anxious executives , four " absolute " commandments are posted on the wall . The first one states : " Quality has to be defined as conformance to requirements , not as goodness . " 7 * * *  | Finally , I suggest that engineering ethics is not , or should not be , a medium for expressing one 's personal opinions about life . I touched on this briefly in the previous chapter , but the matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are serious issues before us : safe products versus economical products ; protecting the environment versus exploiting our resources ; armament versus disarmament . Shall we explore space or use our money for supporting libraries or building day-care centers ? Shall we use pesticides that save lives at the risk of doing damage in the food chain ? Shall we drill for oil offshore at the risk of polluting our beaches ? Shall we build a dam or protect an endangered species ? These are essentially political issues , matters of choice for society , and for the most part they should be decided by the actions of officials we elect , by laws , by regulations , and by decisions in the courts , even occasionally by referendum . They certainly ca n't be resolved by engineers promising to be moral . Engineers do not have the responsibility , much less the right , to establish goals for society . Although they have an obligation to lead , like most professionals , they have an even greater obligation to serve . I may wish to build a cathedral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build an office building , or even a gambling casino , it is professionally proper for me to accept the commission . Naturally , I have my own conscience to contend with . A few years ago my company declined an invitation to bid on the construction of a building for the government of Libya . This was before that government was known as a sponsor of international terrorism , but it was reported to be sending assassins all over the world to track down dissident expatriates . These were bad people and we wanted nothing to do with them . However , if all American engineers refused to work for the Libyan government ? if engineers as a group engaged in a political boycott ? would that be a good thing ? I do not think so , particularly if the United States government approved of the building in  | question , believing that efforts should be made to encourage trade and bring that renegade government into the family of law-abiding nations . Let me use another example from personal experience . My wife and I have a weekend cabin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A few years ago the State Parks Commission decided that they would develop a lakeside beach , with bathhouse and parking lot , in a nearby public park . The homeowners association to which we belong retained an engineer to study the possible adverse effects that this development might have on our lake . A dispute ensued that was finally resolved when we got some concessions concerning sewage treatment and traffic control . For all I know , our engineer thought we were a bunch of elitist snobs trying to make it difficult for other people to share the pleasures we enjoy . And perhaps the state 's engineer was a nature-lover who thought it a shame to develop a public beach in our miniwilderness . But assuming this was the way they felt , I do not believe that these engineers acted immorally in working for causes they did not espouse . They were giving professional advice to people who were entitled to access to professional advice . It is marvelous , of course , if you can work for a cause in which you believe deeply . I hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or otherwise become involved in work to which they can give their whole heart . But the world being the way it is , this is not always possible , and the average engineer has no reason to feel apologetic or defensive about it . Thinking along these lines , we come inevitably to the subject of armaments . Is it not unethical to design or be in any way involved with weaponry ? I like to think of engineering as a life-enriching profession . Yet I recognize that technology can be applied to any human activity , and war ? or let us say national defense ? has been a matter of vital concern to practically every society throughout history . Unless I am a pacifist and believe in  | unilateral disarmament ? which I am not and do not ? it would be hypocritical of me to accuse engineers in the defense industry of being unethical . Are soldiers unethical ? Are the members of Congress unethical when they appropriate funds for the military ? Are citizens unethical when they vote for these representatives and support their policies ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility for the dreadful dilemma of armaments . Two-thirds of the engineers who work for the federal government are employed by the Department of Defense . Thirty percent of all American engineers perform work that is financed by the federal government , and a very large portion of this work relates to defense.8 In reply to a questionnaire prepared by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers , 68 percent of the respondents said that they had at some time worked on defense technology . Thirty-nine percent said they would prefer not to engage in such work , and if the weapons were nuclear the figure increased to 48 percent . On the other hand , 56 percent indicated they would be proud to work on weaponry ; for nuclear weapons this figure dropped to 42 percent . I do not see how one can conclude that all engineers have an ethical obligation not to work in the defense industry . On the other hand , engineers do have an ethical right to make such a choice as a matter of personal conscience . In 1981 a group called High Technology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its avowed purpose being to find nondefense-related jobs for its members while also educating the public about the threat of nuclear war . At about the same time , several electrical engineers in Stanford , California , formed Beyond War , an association devoted to finding ways of eliminating war and weaponry . Such organizations provide a means for likeminded engineers to express personal feelings about the uses to which engineering is put , feelings that usually can not ? and ought not ? take precedence in the workplace . It is perfectly proper ? let me say it again for emphasis ? perfectly proper for engineers as individuals to take political stands  | on technical matters . In the summer of 1985 several hundred scientists and engineers at Cornell and the University of Illinois , and subsequently on other campuses , signed a pledge not to work on " Star Wars " research and urged colleagues to join them in this stand . At the same time the office of the Strategic Defense Initiative of the Department of Defense reported that it had received twenty-six hundred applications from individual researchers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the IEEE sponsored an Electronics and Aerospace Systems Conference , several of its members protested that papers critical of the Strategic Defense Initiative were not accepted for presentation on the program , and the matter was debated in the pages of the organization 's journals.10 Debate is the very essence of a democratic society , and this applies to engineers as well as to anybody else . However , the line between wholesome argument and ruinous divisiveness is often exceedingly thin . As members of the U. S. Senate are wont to say when the debate becomes excessively acrimonious : " We are Americans on both sides of the aisle . " Just as a great nation must cope creatively with controversy , so must a great profession guard against corrosive internal strife . Inevitably someone will raise the example of Nazi Germany . Are not engineers at some point personally and organizationally responsible for their actions ? To which the only reply is that , of course , each individual is in the end accountable to an inner moral code . But it is neither fair nor rational to compare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry of a democratically constituted republic . Armaments are not the only morally ambiguous work in which engineers are engaged . I would not like to be called upon to design a cigarette-manufacturing machine . Yet I can not condemn those engineers who do so unless I am also willing to condemn tobacco farmers and the many thousands of my fellow citizens who sell cigarettes in grocery and stationery stores . It is the ultimate cop-out to blame individuals , including engineers ,  | for actions condoned by the commonwealth . And it is the ultimate folly to rely upon individual preference in matters that require communal decision . In some respects the obligations of an engineer remind me of the obligations of a judge . Irving R. Kaufman of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has stated the case as clearly as I have seen : In his decisions , a judge must be obedient both to the commands of law and to the dictates of the Constitution . We are not the arbiters of what , in our view , should be . We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and discretion , but it is imagination of an interstitial character that is required . When faced with a contrary legal mandate , a judge has no choice but to put aside his personal policy preferences . ) 1 Robert H. Bork , another U. S. Appeals Court judge , has said that " the morality of the jurist " consists of the " abstinence from giving his own desires free play ... " 12 Justice John Paul Stevens of the United States Supreme Court puts it more bluntly : " It is not our job to apply laws that have not yet been written . " 13 I suggest that in engineering there should prevail a doctrine equivalent to what in law is called " judicial restraint . " It is not the engineer 's job , in his or her daily work , to second-guess prevailing standards of safety or pollution control , nor to challenge democratically established public policy . As a citizen , to be sure , he may work for modification of such standards and policies . Judge Kaufman makes this clear about jurists as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am not cautioning against recommending candidates who have taken sides in national debates on pressing issues .  | Such participation does not augur bias , but rather a dedication to the commonwealth that should be encouraged in all public officials , judges included.14 Jurors , too , are traditionally admonished not to be swayed by personal sentiment but rather to decide upon the facts and then to apply the law as it is interpreted by the court . That is how society expects jurors to do their duty . Does all of this mean that the engineer is to serve his employer or his client " totally , " bound only by the limits of established rules ? Does it settle the matter to assume that the public interest is protected by the rules and the courts ? Let us seek another analogy in the third leg of the judicial triangle , the practicing attorney . Judge Kaufman , attending a symposium sponsored by the President 's Commission on Organized Crime , was dismayed to learn of the critical role played by lawyers in organized-crime syndicates . He speculated that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the lawyer 's role is , above all , to serve his client . " But , " Kaufman concluded , " unrestrained and overzealous loyalty to a client never is appropriate . Whoever the client , a lawyer always must serve another interest as well . " And what is this other interest ? " The law . . . the welfare of the legal process . " 15 Thus , in admonishing attorneys not to go beyond proper limits in serving clients , he does not direct them toward something as amorphous as " the public interest , " but rather toward a vital social institution that has been placed in the care of the legal profession ? the law as a philosophical construct ; the legal process . What comparable social institution has been placed in the care of the engineering profession ? After we have peeled away and discarded rhetoric , unworkable ideals , guild rules , illegality , selfregulation as opposed to guidelines established by the government , individual opinion as opposed to standards of liability evolved in the courts , whim and personal world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let us look further .  | Ethics : ( 3 ) Credo for a New Age It is difficult to acknowledge that the world has changed and that old verities may be subject to challenge . The concept of goodness survives , of course , but the way in which it manifests itself has been transmuted . Not long ago the cowboy in a white hat , walking down Main Street with guns at the ready , was a hero . Today he is a vigilante . Frontier conditions no longer prevail . A similar change has occurred in the world of engineering , and that we have been slow to perceive it is surely understandable . Most of the changes I alluded to in the last chapter ? antitrust restrictions on professional independence , vastly increased government regulation , broadened concepts of legal liability ? have taken place so recently that their significance has not yet become clear . The startling fact is , political and legal reforms have made much of the old engineering ethics moot . When Edwin T. Layton , Jr. , a respected historian of technology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " within corporate America , he demonstrates his failure to understand the nature of the new social order . ' I propose that the essence of engineering ethics be recognized as something different and apart from white-hat heroics . There is no single word adequate to define this " something , " but conscientiousness is fairly close to what I have in mind . In Chapter 5 I noted that engineers are accustomed to having their fellow citizens rely upon them . As a consequence , if engineers do their jobs well they are being more than competent ; in serving their  | " fellow humans , and serving them well , they are being good . Reliability is a virtue . Therefore , the conscientious , effective engineer is a virtuous engineer . If we relate engineering ethics to protection of the public interest , then clearly diligence is more moral than conventional morality . " A kindly , generous , well-intentioned , even saintly engineer may still be an inept engineer , that is , a " bad " engineer whose work does not serve the public well . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In technical work , competence is more good than " goodness . " In support of this somewhat paradoxical view let us look at some facts . In 1982 there was founded at the University of Maryland the Architecture and Engineering Performance Information Center ( AEPIC ) . Its initial funding came from a National Science Foundation grant , and subsequently it was supported by the university and corporate sponsors . The purpose of the center is to collect , classify , and analyze examples of technological failure . Data has been amassed on some forty thousand instances of structural , electrical , mechanical , aesthetic , or environmental failure in buildings and other civil works . A noted forensic engineer who has reviewed a sampling of this data and compared it with his own lifetime of experience reports that " probably less than two percent " of the failures relate to unethical behavior in the conventional sense , that is , greed or intent to deceive , and even these cases usually contain a quotient of sloppiness.2 Engineering avarice usually manifests itself in a reluctance to spend time ( which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again . Researchers at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich analyzed 800 cases of structural failure in which 504 people were killed , 592 people injured , and many millions of dollars in damage incurred . They concluded that " the causes of failures should be seen in human mistakes , errors , carelessness and so on .... " Where engineers were at fault , the " types of human unreliability " were itemized as follows :  | The findings indicated that most of the mistakes could have been detected in time by additional supervisory control . Even without additional control , however , " roughly one half of the failures could be avoided just by critical inspection of data , plans , etc. . . . by the person next involved in the planning and construction process . " 3 These statistics only bear out what we know through common sense and daily experience . Practically all disasters ? think of Bhopal and Chernobyl , the two most dreadful of recent years ? are attributable to one or another type of ineptitude . One can only conclude that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on competence . This is the human endowment , the vital social institution , that has been placed in the care of engineers , just as legal process has been entrusted to lawyers . In fact , the concepts of technical competence and political justice are related . As John W. Gardner wrote in his 1961 book , Excellence : The importance of competence as a condition of freedom has been widely ignored ( as some newly independent nations are finding to their sorrow ) . . . . Keeping a free society free ? and vital and strong ?  | is no job for the half-educated and the slovenly . Free men must be competent men.4 Other words come to mind : dedication , energy , self-discipline , caution , alertness , awareness ? and most of all , as I have suggested , conscientiousness . The greatest threats to moral engineering are carelessness , sloppiness , laziness , and lack of concentration . An engineer may start out honest and highminded but become immoral by falling prey to one or more of these sins . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end up by being honest , since competent engineering , excellent engineering , is in its very nature the pursuit of truth . A conscientious engineer , by definition , can not falsify test reports or intentionally overlook questionable data , can not in any way evade the facts . I do not suggest that engineers should be " blindly " conscientious . No whole person will do anything blindly . A principal purpose of this book is to encourage engineers to be introspective . But I do wish to call attention to evidence that I consider intriguing and important . This evidence , as reviewed briefly above , shows that society 's great need is for competent engineers rather than self-righteous ones . Even in the morally ambiguous field of weaponry , there is a crying need for competence . Perhaps the greatest danger to humanity is that devastation may come by way of technical error ? not by evil intent , but by miscalculation . While the headlines speak of hawks and doves , our best hope for survival may lie with the " owls , " those analysts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances of a major nuclear war . For example , the United States and the Soviet Union could place unmanned tamper-proof sensors in each other 's missile fields in order to increase confidence in the validity of early warning signals and reduce the chance of either nation reacting to a false alarm . It would also be helpful for potentially hostile nations to jointly establish rapid , reliable , redundant , and survivable systems of communication .  | It is not enough for us merely to avoid technological disasters , important as that may be . An equally pressing objective is to use the world 's resources so as to best meet the needs and aspirations of the global population . Here political and economic issues are at least as vexing as technical problems . But what society requires from the engineer , again , is conscientiousness . Consider a civil engineer I know who is remarkably adept at designing economical flat-plate concrete slabs for apartment houses . With careful study and hard work ( always staying within safety factors prescribed by code ) , he is able to develop plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four pounds per square foot , whereas an average plan might run over five pounds per square foot . I also know an engineer who designed a comparable building that turned out to have seven pounds per square foot . It was a hurried , lazy , unimaginative piece of work , and when I pointed out to him how costly his design would be he merely shrugged . He could not be bothered to invest the additional effort in a more cost-effective design . The difference between the two designs represented 3 percent of the total cost of the building , and since the projects I refer to involved housing for the indigent elderly , the harm done by the lazy engineer , or the good done by the diligent engineer , is self-evident . This is an aspect of engineering ethics that is too often overlooked . Concrete slabs in housing projects may seem a mundane consideration . But imagine effective engineering applied to all the world 's material needs : energy , food , clothing , and the rest . Seen in this context , an improvement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do his or her best becomes a sin against humanity . At this point something beyond care and diligence enters the equation ? let us call it inventiveness . Our concept of conscientiousness must be broadened to include innovative thinking . In a world of hunger and destitution , the creative engineer , along with the dedicated engineer , becomes a towering force for moral  | good . The oft-repeated statement that genius is nine-tenths perspiration testifies to the importance of pure effort in the inventive process . As for the final tenth ? the elusive quality of inspiration ? it , too , is associated in our minds with goodness . It is interesting to consider the ways in which competence and virtue are intertwined in our thinking . We say " good job " when we actually mean " well done job " or " competent job . " We use " conscientious " to describe a person who is diligent and hardworking , yet the word literally means " governed by the dictates of conscience . " There is a venerable philosophical tradition that equates goodness with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who thought the search for facts was a form of virtue . Practically speaking , people who start out to do a good job and people who start out to do good often end up in the same vicinity . Many different journeys can lead to the same shrine . I have debated ethical theory with certain individuals only to find that , given a real-life situation , we advocated the same resolution . Often , ethics is merely a question of emphasis rather than substance , not that this makes it unimportant . For poets , clerics , ethicists , politicians , and educators , there are a variety of moral roads to be followed and much to be said in favor of each . For engineers , however , the one true road must pass through effectiveness and creativity , and the ideal starting place is conscientiousness . There still remains the question of whether engineers , as the agents of technology and of technological change , do not have some unique responsibility for the direction that technology takes . If there are too many factories in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too many chemicals in our food , too many weapons in our arsenals , is there not always an instinct to blame the engineers ? I have argued that these are essentially political problems for society as a whole . Nevertheless , by stressing the importance of political decision-making in  | a republic , I do not mean to underestimate the special contributions ? beyond doing a good job ? that can , and should , be made by professionals . A most productive way for engineers to apply their talents to communal needs is in volunteer activities generally called pro bono . Although engineers are not uniquely qualified to plot the technological course for society , they are uniquely qualified to explain how technologies work and what their consequences may be . So part of the engineer 's responsibility to society should be discharged in education . Engineering societies have long recognized an obligation to commission studies , issue reports , set standards , schedule seminars , warn , lobby , and cajole . They have a quite respectable history of calling attention to technological problems : overexploited resources , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth. , They engage in such activities not only from altruistic motives but also because every new technological difficulty is a new engineering challenge , that is , a potential engineering job . Cleaning up oil spills , storing radioactive waste , purifying groundwater , preserving wetlands , designing disarmament techniques ? coping with the adverse effects of technical progress ? is just as much engineering work as drilling wells , building power plants , manufacturing chemicals , or developing weapons systems . Thus it is difficult to separate activities that are public-spirited from activities that further the cause ? and the employment opportunities ? of the profession . Overall , however , I believe that the societies work hard at being good citizens . William Lowrance has called upon professionals to provide " stewardship beyond narrow responsibility , " 6 and , however imperfectly , the engineering societies endeavor to respond to this summons . Unfortunately , no more than a third of the nation 's engineers belong to a professional organization . ' For the individual engineer , the opportunities are more limited and the responsibilities are less clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or more professional societies and play an active role in them . Then , engineers should serve on community boards , write letters to the editor , testify at public hearings , and generally contribute their talents to worthy causes . They should communicate with engineers in other lands and work toward international trust and understanding . They should in every way bring honor to their profession and make technology a force for good in the world . But here I am allowing myself to be transported into the realm of wishfulness . We may in theory make voluntarism a moral imperative . Yet , as a politician has said , we campaign in poetry but must govern in prose . Fine sentiments and exhortations do not often prevail over the pressures and temptations of daily life . It is the character and competence of individual engineers that will in the end make all the difference . Once we recognize this , we will devote less energy to composing codes of ethics and more to figuring out how best to educate the engineers of the future . We must create for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ era ? and then consider ways of making reality out of concept . At this point , however , I do not want to leave the subject of engineering ethics without making special reference to those engineers who work in the non-profit sector ? in academe , public interest organizations , and government . These engineers do a job and earn a salary , and in that sense can not be deemed more ethical than their counterparts in industry or private consulting . Yet they do work more directly ? more intimately ? on behalf of the public than do their fellows , and often at considerable financial sacrifice . Without granting them superior moral status , I would like to give them a modicum of special recognition , a tip of the hat , as it were . Teachers of engineering transmit the profession 's heritage from one generation to the next , frequently with enthusiasm , skill , and flair . Engineers in public interest organizations play an  | increasingly important role and are able to bring much-needed facts and logic to debates that are needlessly acrimonious . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who work for the federal government make incalculable contributions in the fields of defense , space , scientific research , national economy , and public health . Finally , the engineers who have made their careers in public works are the unsung heroes of a little-known but glorious saga . How the teeming , putrifying , corrupt cities of nineteenthcentury America were turned into the functioning metropolises of today is a tale waiting for its master historian . We take it so for granted ? the water , sewers , paving , transport , garbage disposal , zoning , building codes , parks , and the rest . But it took many brilliant , tenacious , visionary engineers to make it all work , and continue to work , every incredible crisis-filled day . A number of public works engineers have been moral giants , fighting vested interests and garnering support from enlightened citizens ' groups . Most have been solid , reputable proponents of the communal good . All , however , have needed to leaven their professional ethics with an abundance of common sense and political acumen , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not in themselves adequate tools for dealing with the public.8 Conscientiousness entails dedication ? not only or even mainly to an abstract public good ? but dedication to the cause at hand . This raises interesting questions concerning the meaning of loyalty , and it is to these questions that I would like to turn next .  | Loyalty , Or Why Engineering is Sometimes Like Baseball " What should I do if I am assigned work that I think is not in the best interest of society ? " The young man who asked me this question was an engineering student soon to graduate and embark on a career . He was frowning and looked deeply troubled . Even in this time of conservative self-interest , I have met a number of young engineers with similar misgivings . When I was in school we did n't worry about such matters . We had concerns aplenty , but they were of a different kind : What sort of work did we want to do ? What were we good at ? How could we best achieve success , whatever that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us that conflicts could arise . We assumed that an engineer was loyal to superiors , colleagues , and clients , and that service to the community came naturally as the result of a job well done . Today , in the wake of the environmental crisis and widespread doubts about technology , such a view smacks of insensitivity . If engineering projects can turn out to be harmful ? to the environment , say , or to public safety ? then it appears possible that one 's professional work might run counter to one 's obligation to society . Which gives rise to the question put to me by the frowning student . I did not think it appropriate to launch into the arguments to which I have devoted the past several chapters . This young man was thinking intently about his own personal future and his own very personal feelings . After a moment 's thought , I  | assured him that he was unlikely to encounter the moral crisis he feared . I could say this with some confidence because every engineer I have ever met has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though admittedly I had never given much thought to why this should be so . As I pondered the question , reflecting on the way most people manage to blend personal morality with loyalty and commitment , I found myself thinking ? of all things ? about the trade of Eddie Stanky . In the late forties Eddie Stanky played second base for the then Brooklyn Dodgers . He lacked outstanding talent but was known as a great competitor . He was feisty and inventive . He was particularly adroit in reaching first base by managing to be hit with pitched balls . One day I was horrified to learn that this dirty player , this bad sport , had been traded to the team I rooted for , the New York Giants . But then a strange thing happened . Once he was playing for my team he seemed morally reformed . We Giant fans no longer called him a bad sport or a dirty player . He was spunky little Eddie . He was clever little Eddie . He was resourceful little Eddie . That was one of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my questioner about this experience . It may seem frivolous to compare such an incident to the moral dilemmas of engineers , but I think the analogy is worth considering . Is it not true , at work or play , that we instinctively root for the home team ? Of course , we do not condone real knavery ; but we tend to view our own cause in a favorable light . An engineer who works for Exxon feels differently about offshore drilling than he would if he were employed as town engineer for a seaside resort . This has less to do with good and evil than it does with where one stands at a given moment . The petroleum engineer feels that he is called upon , both by his company and society as a whole , to provide an adequate supply of oil at a reasonable price . The town engineer is responsible for the well-being of the people who rely upon him to keep their community safe , clean , and prosperous .  | Obviously an engineer 's attitudes are in some measure formed by his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taste ( as I argued in Chapter 7 ) , but on the job he will likely find his fellow workers to be , by and large , decent people with whom he will want to join in common cause . From the outside , Exxon may appear to be a giant , heartless corporation obsessed with making profits . From the inside , Exxon doubtless is perceived as an association of earnest individuals working hard on constructive projects . " Groupthink " is a well-documented phenomenon from which none of us is immune . " But is n't this bad ? " the troubled student asked . " Not necessarily , " I replied . Nobody wants a professional to pledge blind allegiance to an employer or a client , but since the sine qua non of accomplishment is effort , society is clearly well served if most people approach their work with zest ? even if the zest is founded in something as apparently trivial as team spirit . The student and I did not have time to pursue the discussion further . Later , however , I wondered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the classic response in such an encounter has always been " To thine own self be true . " Yet I could not persuade myself that this was what one ought to stress to a young person preparing for a first engineering job . In addition to enthusiasm , the good work that assures communal well-being requires order and cooperation . Any group of people undertaking a complex task must establish an organizational structure . Without assigned responsibility ? without discipline ? large-scale technological enterprise is unthinkable . Accordingly , a young engineer will have to temper any personal misgivings , such as they are , with an awareness of the group 's needs for order . This may sound slightly unsavory , but only until it is considered in depth . Our daily lives teach us to live with disappointment . Our particular point of view can not always , or even usually , prevail . In politics we learn to accept this and proudly call it democracy . We do what we can to influence the  | tide of events without being excessively disruptive . It is called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work best when different groups , each energetically pursuing its own goals , clash and are obliged to resolve their differences . The term " healthy competition " has become a cliche , but it expresses a profound truth . Competition is healthy ? ecologically , politically , and , of course , technologically . Our society 's strength stems in no small measure from its multiplicity of often conflicting institutions : corporations , labor unions , bureaucracies , universities , trade associations , charities , foundations , political parties , and public interest organizations ( which often more accurately could be termed " private interest organizations " ) . In this respect the body social reminds me of the human body , in which health is maintained by a variety of defense mechanisms : antiseptic fluids , white blood cells , the lymphatic system , and an incredibly complex chemical immune system . Society 's interests are better served , I believe , by the resolution of conflict between organizations than by the disaffection of individuals within organizations . Let oil companies search for oil ? not recklessly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kind of inner dissension that results in paralysis . Let the rest of us establish the limits beyond which we do not want the oil companies to go . And let the same process apply wherever technological progress impinges on other values that society holds dear ? particularly public safety and environmental quality . When engineers are loyal , each to his own organization , the system works and the public is served . But more is involved than efficiency . The quality of communal life depends upon the trust and respect that prevails among families , friends , and coworkers . An abstract devotion to " the good of humanity " is no substitute for devotion to real human beings . Out of fruitful personal relationships comes the decency that sets the moral tone  | for the good society . A sociologist who interviewed hundreds of workers once told me that what Americans love best about their jobs is the social milieu in which they spend their days ? the relationships they establish with their colleagues . The Japanese have developed a sense of group harmony far beyond what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But even in our individualistic society , mutual loyalty and good faith in the workplace is a key to personal happiness , and productivity as well . Unfortunately , since the 1950s the concept of loyalty has been tarnished by too many loyalty oaths and abusive demands for conformism , just as the concept of patriotism has been sullied to the point where the term is on the verge of becoming pejorative. 4r The problem is as old as humanity : how to balance the rights of l the individual with the needs of the group . I do not advocate unthinking obedience to the group , obedience of a sort that was confronted and discredited at the Nuremberg trial of war criminals . And I do not say that whistle-blowing is never justified . It is , occasionally , not only justified but necessary and heroic . However , one can not endorse ? except in the most exceptional circumstances ? the betrayal of one 's companions for some " greater good . " Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini urges students to spy on their teachers and classmates and to secretly tell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in doubt . This is whistle-blowing of the worst kind , the other end of the spectrum from Nazi-type loyalty . Between the distasteful extremes of betrayal and servility each individual must make his own way . Happily , the need for engineers to make such choices is , to my best knowledge , exceedingly rare . If I were able to resume my discussion with the troubled young engineer , I would urge him to embark upon his career with great enthusiasm and not be overly apprehensive that his work might harm society . Naturally , he must follow his own star , but to a certain extent he has done this already by choosing to  | be an engineer , a professional who must work with others , rather than , for example , choosing to be an artist , who can work alone . There are still personal decisions to be made . If he is averse to armaments or nuclear power , by all means let him steer clear of these fields . If he is an ardent environmentalist , let him seek work in that area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him put his whole heart into it . He can maintain his values and sense of self without indulging his ego at every turn . If he wants to serve society , let him do good work . What if , in spite of the enormous odds against it , he does encounter base practices and experiences a crisis of conscience ? Loyalty to the group will require that he come down on the side of legality and prudence . No assemblage of engineers is well served by deception . And if the very worst should happen ? if he becomes involved in a situation that can not be honorably resolved within his organization ? then , speaking as a member of society , I would rather count on the righteous wrath of an engineer whose loyalty has been betrayed than on the pique of an engineer who was from the start a suspicious malcontent . It is a bittersweet paradox that new-fangled technology , because it depends so much upon group effort , should summon forth old-fashioned morality . The American philosopher Josiah Royce , writing at the beginning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to loyalty . " 1 The idea is worth reviving in our time .  | Some Thoughts About Income ? Monetary and Psychic Engineering is a profession , and this fact moves us to explore its ethical and humanistic aspects . But , like all professions , it is at some times and in some circumstances a business ? it is done for profit . What can we say about the relationship of profit to engineering , about the role of the " profit motive " in the practice of this learned profession ? This question came to mind repeatedly and with particular intensity a few years ago when I traveled to the Soviet Union , that strange and forbidding land where almost all technological work is performed in the name of the state . When Lincoln Steffens visited revolutionary Russia in 1919 , he was mightily impressed . " I have been over into the future , " he said to a friend , " and it works . " Whatever else can be said about the Soviet system today , it does not appear to be working , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ massive study undertaken by the Congressional Joint Economic Committee ( Soviet Economy in the 1980s : Problems and Prospects ) or read scholarly academic works ( for example , Marshall I. Goldman 's USSR in Crisis : The Failure of an Economic System ) . Or , as an ordinary tourist , one can simply look and see . In the wealthiest sections of the largest Soviet cities there are hardly any fruits or vegetables to be had . There are no lively cafes or pubs in evidence , nor any of the colorful window displays that are such a prominent feature of Western cityscapes . There are few cars in the streets , and most telling , very little merchandise in the shops . While walking through these grim  | metropolises , it is difficult to believe that one is actually in a so-called superpower nation . To be sure , the almost total absence of consumer comforts is partly attributable to policies of the Soviet government : the emphasis on basic heavy industries and armaments . Undoubtedly there are other factors involved , such as geography , climate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious , however , that the Soviet industrial system is badly crippled by the lack of economic motivation . Where the entrepreneurial spirit can not be rewarded , and where non-productive workers can not be discharged , stagnation will set in . Everything we know about human nature tells us this must be so , and these assumptions are born out by the frustrated statements of Soviet leaders as well as by the studies of Western experts . The tourist garners additional evidence as he encounters workers who are sullen and inattentive . In my own field , building construction , the lethargy is almost palpable in the air . I can spot a sick construction job from a quarter mile away , and I saw such sick jobs all over Moscow and Leningrad . Tall cranes tower over sprawling concrete frames , and somewhere , almost lost in the immensity of the structure , a few men putter away connecting pipes or laying masonry block . Obviously some critical materials have not arrived ? perhaps the door frames or the windows . Or maybe some crucial crew is not available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In free societies the marketplace would not permit such waste of invested capital . Bankers want their construction loans repaid and the interest clock runs without stopping . Manufacturers avidly pursue orders and workers seek employment wherever it is to be found . Contractors have learned to equate success with timely completion , and they dread the ruin that stalks the dawdler . In the Soviet Union , not only do buildings take too long to build , but many of them start to fall apart before they are finished . Spalled masonry and cracked concrete are as much a  | feature of Moscow streets as wall posters featuring red stars and pictures of Lenin . So widespread are the problems with post-war apartment buildings that even a stubbornly patriotic guide admits , " At first we concentrated on quantity ; now we must concentrate on quality . " But if nobody gains when quality is good , and nobody loses when it is bad , it is hard to see how concentration is going to help . In the marketplace of free nations , profit calls the tune . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the products that fill our sparkling stores are created by people thinking of gain . Each consumer 's desire ? or potential desire ? becomes an energizing force . Into every interstice of demand there is a rush of hopeful designers , manufacturers , and salespeople . And whatever products do not sell at retail quickly end up at an auction of remainders . No five-year plan can hope to equal such a super-sensitive organic system . At the heart of this system ? pulsing to the rhythm of profit and loss ? is creative engineering . Clever ideas increase earnings . this efficient system has its social costs . We pay a high price in the form of unemployment , bankruptcies , and anxiety ? and engineers bear their full share of these afflictions . The Soviet commitment to equality and full employment , however ineffectual it may be in practice , responds to human cravings for justice and security . Any capitalistic society that does not address such elemental needs can not be considered satisfactory , no matter how wealthy it may be . There is also a dark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we acknowledge in our condemnation of avarice . At what point does wholesome ambition become unwholesome greed ? Our uneasiness in the face of this moral issue is especially intense when we contemplate the professions . We recognize that doctors , lawyers , and engineers ? even ministers and teachers ?  | like money , but we find this disquieting . When IEEE 's Spectrum published an article entitled " How to Make it Big : Engineers as Entrepreneurs , " ' I read it with interest , indeed fascination , but also with a feeling of guilt . Every so often a story comes out of Silicon Valley ? another engineer has converted his brilliance into an instant fortune . We thrill to the news and yet in some recess of our mind we wonder . Is this what engineering is all about ? Even as we ask the question we know the answer . The quest for profit is not the essence of engineering . Indeed , there is ample evidence that most American engineers are motivated by other forces . The field of public works is populated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfaction in accomplishment and service . In academe and government many of the most accomplished engineers seek rewards that are inherent in research , discovery , and problem-solving . Even in the private sector , most engineers do not equate professional fulfillment with monetary gain . Dollar income is one measure of worth and reward , an important one perhaps , but by no means the only one . All engineers enjoy aspects of their work that have precious little to do with money . Very few engineers become entrepreneurs , and in fact the history of engineering is partly a tale of conflict between engineers and entrepreneurs . William R. Hutton , a leading railroad engineer of the late nineteenth century , resigned a top-level administrative position in protest against the chicanery of his business colleagues . John B. Jervis , a founding member of the American Society of Civil Engineers , threatened to withdraw as chief engineer of the Croton Aqueduct when its sponsors sought to use a mortar he considered inferior . Government engineers have long waged battle against industry , from the meat packers and gas companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the present . The dazzling accomplishments of free enterprise , however , give rise to the persuasive but mistaken notion that only profitmotivated endeavors will succeed . In the United States this argu-  | ment predates the Russian Revolution . At the beginning of this century there was a movement to put public utilities into the hands of private enterprise , on the theory that governments were by nature ineffectual and corrupt , and that government enterprise was accordingly suspect . An editor of Engineering News , in 1906 , felt moved to protest : " The old argument that municipal ownership was to be abhorred because it was a step towards socialism can no longer be used . " 2 In the ensuing years , government agencies have successfully undertaken many great works . Few people today suggest that our highways and water systems be turned over to private interests . With these thoughts in mind , I see that my initial reaction to the Soviet Union was somewhat simplistic . While it is obvious that consumers are ill-served by the dominance of government , it is equally obvious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well . The trains run on time . The subways are a showplace . And clearly there are competent people working in the fields of space and weaponry . As a tourist , one 's view is distorted . I was taken into ancient monasteries and czarist palaces but not permitted to see factories and shipping depots , not to mention laboratories and space facilities . I learned more about icons than about Soviet technology . I did gain entrance to the Technological Institute in Leningrad , thanks to a sleepy guard at the door , but once I made my presence known to the authorities , I was politely but earnestly urged to leave . So I gained no special knowledge about what motivates Soviet engineers . From what I have read , the best of them are granted perquisites that are the equivalent of handsome salaries in open societies . I have met a few traveling on government business , and they seemed cheerful enough , though not about to share with Americans their inner thoughts on career satisfaction . I suppose , like most of us , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reputation . And , like engineers in all places and at  | all times , they also must be motivated by the pure fascination of the task at hand . One can even speculate that their work serves to divert them , to help them forget the harsh realities of living in a totalitarian society . I am reminded of an imprisoned engineer in Aleksandr Solzhenitzyn 's novel The First Circle who becomes totally absorbed in the technical project assigned to him : " This capacity to devote himself wholly to his work , to forget about life , had been the basis of his engineering triumphs on the outside , and in prison it helped him bear his misfortune . " There is a dark fascination in speculating about the Soviet Union , but in the end that enigmatic culture defies the analysis of experts , to say nothing of presumptuous tourists . As for the relationship between engineering and profit , that too resists precise definition . Profit is a spice , a spark , a catalyst ? a crucial element of the technology that has flourished in capitalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet stores bear witness to the importance of the freedom to seek personal gain . But the achievements of engineers in socialist societies show that technology comes in great measure from creative wellsprings that have nothing to do with profit and recognize no political borders . Speaking of profit , should engineers become managers in industry ? The question invariably evokes feelings of ambivalence . According to one historical tradition , management is an integral part of technological creativity . For the fabled " chief engineers " of pyramids , cathedrals , bridges , and railways , design and construction were joined in a single organic process . In the shop also ? whether the product was a steel ingot , a steam engine , or an electric transformer ? conception and execution went together . In the early days of corporate industrialism , engineers saw management as an important aspect of their profession . Factory organization ? even worker efficiency and motivation ? were deemed accessible to technical analysis , giving rise to scientific manage-  | ment and industrial engineering . As I noted earlier , the author of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that two-thirds of all American engineers embarked on " a healthy progression through technical work toward the responsibilities of management . " 3 On the other hand , as engineering has become more scientific and specialized , and as business management has evolved as an independent discipline , complete with its own schools and trappings , a schism has developed . Many engineers have recoiled from the managerial role and sought to maintain in technical design what they perceive to be professional integrity . The characteristics of a good manager ? a feeling for people , politics , and the bottom line ? appear to conflict with the characteristics of a first-rate creative engineer ? a feeling for numbers , theorems , materials , and spatial relationships . One 's first instinct is simply to let each person find the niche to which he is drawn by his own peculiar talents and interests . Difficulties arise , however , when it turns out that managers earn more money , power , and prestige than their purely technical colleagues . The problem solves itself when engineers move willingly into management as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with technical work the result is often a festering resentment . They see rewards going to people who they consider to be less talented and who they believe , in the overall scheme of things , are making lesser contributions . For many organizations , both private and public , ill feelings among technical personnel create irksome problems of morale . In addition , when technically creative people move into management in pursuit of higher salaries and recognition , the loss of pure engineering talent is sometimes keenly felt . One possible solution to this problem , instituted in some corporations after World War II , is the so-called " dual ladder . " Where this system is in place , an effort is made to allow engineers to climb to the highest seniority levels by doing technical work , keeping pace with managers in a carefully planned schedule of  | promotions . However , according to a panel that studied engineering employment under the auspices of the National Research Council , this concept has not generally fulfilled its initial promise.4 It works well only in large organizations and for limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corporate Technology Center has been quoted as being pleased with the dual ladder at his company while noting that in many organizations " the dual ladder comes and goes . " " The dual ladder tends to flounder from an imbalance of power , " he concludes . " The real power is in management . " 5 On reflection we can see that any attempt to correlate income and prestige with " worthiness " is doomed to fail . There is a certain rough-and-ready democracy in the marketplace , but it does not correspond to the personal values of most citizens . It is no secret that teachers , judges , and nurses are underpaid while basketball players , negligence lawyers , and stockbrokers receive more than they " deserve . " Nor is unfairness limited to our own relatively free-wheeling society . In other countries , wealth and perquisites tend to gravitate toward commissars , generals , and black marketeers . Karl Marx said , " From each according to his abilities , to each according to his needs , " but a catchy phrase does not signify a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a utopia in which the distribution of tangible rewards is totally just . It is against this broad panorama of human civilization that the problems of the technically creative engineer must be viewed . There is a free market in job satisfaction as well as in dollar income . I am a civil engineer in the construction industry , and as such I have been a manager almost since the day I graduated from engineering school . I have had my share of compensations , but I note that when I and those like me meet with engineers who are instead engaged in design , we can not help feeling traces of envy . Like the blondes in old hair-rinse commercials , designers have more fun .  | On occasion , the technically creative engineer gets it all ? wealth and fame along with the satisfactions of invention , as witness the tycoons of Silicon Valley . And at certain times and in certain organizations , engineers are given a full share of fortune and glory for performing technical work . For most engineers , however , the move from scientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process , like aging , that has its rewards as well as its drawbacks . There will always be those who resist such a course , and I consider this a plus for society , the profession , and the human spirit . Still , I can not see how these people can be satisfied in every respect . The dual ladder is a concept , imperfect at best , not a constitutional right . Happily , as Emerson said , " The reward of a thing well done is to have done it . "  | Educating the Public : Biting Off More Than We Can Chew If the ultimate decisions about the use of technology are to be made in the political arena , then it follows that the public should know as much about technology as possible . I accept this as a given and believe , as I have already noted , that engineers are morally obligated to participate in the educative process . Yet , like most well-meaning ideas about the shaping of technology , this one ignores the complexities inherent in its application . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result of an experience that began in my dentist 's office . I had been informed that a cracked silver filling needed to be removed , and my dentist suggested that it be replaced with a gold inlay . I asked why the more costly material was to be used and was given various structural reasons that were more or less convincing . I agreed to the recommendation , and was about to drift into the trance that I try to attain in such situations , when the dentist added something that made me suddenly alert . " Besides , " he said , " these so-called silver fillings really are amalgams that contain a lot of mercury , and we 're beginning to wonder about the possibility of this mercury leaching into our patients ' systems . I 've been following the work of experimenters in Colorado , and pending further results I 'm being a little cautious about using the stuff . " When I told him that I had never heard of any such danger , he replied that it was not exactly the sort of information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The research is in its very early stages , " he said , " and we do n't want to frighten people unduly . " As he proceeded with his work , my mind started to race . A potential catastrophe ! Tens of millions of people ? one of them me ? with insidious mercury leaching from their teeth into their vital organs . And what a scandal ! Research being performed and the findings not publicized . By the time I left the dentist 's office , my alarm had subsided ; but I determined , nevertheless , to find out more about the subject . My research consisted of obtaining a newsletter published by the Toxic Element Research Foundation ( TERF ) of Colorado Springs . Its single urgent message was that toxic elements have no place in the mouth . The four-page leaflet seemed to be addressed mainly to dentists , but there was nothing in it that was technically obscure . Unfortunately , I could not tell whether it was the product of discerning professionals or the fantasy of eccentrics . I suspected the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consisted of an " unsolicited expression of appreciation " from a young man whose arthritic symptoms disappeared one week after two small amalgams were removed from his teeth . Yet the board members of TERF included a D.D.S. , an M.D. , a Ph.D . in biochemistry , a psychologist , and the president of a bank . I was feeling reasonably healthy at the moment , so I decided to forget about the whole thing . I could have pursued the matter , of course , but then how would I have found time to keep abreast of the latest information on acid rain , the greenhouse effect , recombinant DNA , nuclear waste , new drugs , new diets , and a myriad other technical matters that affect me and the society around me ? It is all very well to speak of an informed public , but in truth we spend our lives relying upon experts . This is not necessarily as distressing as it sounds . Lewis Thomas , writing about a newly implanted pacemaker , reported with suprise and amiable guilt that the theories he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patient . " Do n't explain it to me , " he said . " Go ahead and fix it . " ' A lot of people seem to feel the same way . The conventional wisdom about a technologically informed public was challenged effectively a few years ago by Leon Trachtman of Purdue University . After a quarter-century devoted to studying , teaching , and writing about science , Professor Trachtman ( in the quarterly Science , Technology &; Human Values ) questioned what he had come to think of as a " glib assumption . " Efforts to inform the public about science and technology were rarely effective , he concluded , either in improving individual consumer choices or communal policy decisions . " When there is a scientific consensus , " wrote Trachtman , " there is no need to inform the public except to recommend a proper course of action . When there is no consensus , why innundate the public with ambiguous and contradictory reports . . . ? " Furthermore , " Since the important issues are generally the ambiguous ones , more knowledge seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument impressed me very much , and brought me to the verge of changing my mind . But when I spoke about it to a few people I respected , they all warned me not to adopt an elitist position . Shortly after the visit to my dentist , an issue of The American Scholar arrived in the mail and in it an article by Jeremy Bernstein entitled " Science Education for the Non-Scientist . " Here it was again , the warning that unless we learn science , technological decisions will be made on our behalf ? and to our regret ? by others . ( Of course , as Bernstein pointed out , there are other reasons to study science ? not the least of which is pleasure . ) Bernstein expressed optimism about the ability of a scientifically literate public to make its own decisions ; yet what did he offer to support his conviction ? He told of teaching a course to fourteen science majors at Princeton and bringing in four experts in nuclear power ( both pro and con ) to address the class . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been converted from unthinking opponents of nuclear power to grudging advocates of nuclear for at least a partial solution to the energy problem . An interesting object lesson . And if science education for the masses could be based on this model , what a fine world it would be . But the trouble is that nuclear power is only one of hundreds of complex technological issues , and none of us can spend a semester on each . The obvious problem with letting the few make decisions for the many is that the many , if they knew more , might want to do something different . There is a further concern , however . Some people fear the coming of " a new kind of Dark Age ? a time when small cadres of specialists will control knowledge and thus control the decision-making process . " ( The quote is from Higher Learning in the Nation 's Service , cited approvingly on The New York Times op-ed page by the president of Cornell University . ) I do not fear the coming of a sinister technocratic cabal , mainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the politicians end up making the decisions whether they want to or not . ( Jimmy Carter complained about this in the final days of his presidency , and he was surely not the first , nor will he be the last , elected official to do so . ) Still , it would be nice to think that people could themselves make choices that intimately affect their own lives . The paradox defies resolution . A wide diffusion of knowledge is good , but the uncertainties are awesome , no citizen can be adequately informed , and perplexing technical reports lead to harmful anxiety and erratic political action . As the saying goes , a little knowledge is a dangerous thing . Ah , but this is not the saying , at least not as Alexander Pope coined it . Pope spoke not of knowledge , but of learning ; A little learning is a dangerous thing : Drink deep , or taste not the Pierian spring :  | There shallow draughts intoxicate the brain , And drinking largely sobers us again . Perhaps the semantic difference between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Learning is whatever can be acquired by systematic study , and a little of that ? a few undigested facts ? can indeed " intoxicate the brain . " Knowledge in the broad sense , however , implies understanding , discernment , and judgment , and no amount of this , however small , can be a dangerous thing . A knowledgeable public will not expect to resolve each technical issue by analyzing evidence , but will seek to establish a fruitful relationship with its experts ? and its politicians ? a combination of trust and suspicion , respect and obstinance , calculated to best translate social objectives into technical decisions . A frank appraisal of how each individual reaches decisions about technology reveals that it is largely a matter of deciding which experts are worthy of one 's confidence . This does not diminish the need for wide-spread education in science and engineering , but it does indicate the superficiality of many current pronouncements on the topic . Educators and science journalists will have to seek new ways to responsibly assist in the complex process of decision-making . I believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science education and the public . While I 'm rethinking the big picture , however , and resigning myself to reliance upon experts , I plan to keep asking my dentist what they 're discovering ? if anything ? about my fillings.  | The Fall of Rome ? According to the Press A CLUE TO THE DECLINE OF ROME . The New York Times headline captured my interest , as the paper 's editors knew it would . The decline and fall of the Roman Empire is a topic of perpetual fascination , and it raises further questions about technology and the public . One 's natural curiosity about Rome is heightened by the uneasy awareness that our own society is showing signs of decay . The headline was occasioned by newly discovered evidence that the ancient Romans suffered from lead poisoning . Dr. Sara C. Bisel , an archeologist and physical anthropologist , examined the bones of fifty-five victims of the Mt . Vesuvius eruption of A.D. 79 and reported her findings at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science . Dr. Bisel found that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per million , which , she concluded , was unusually high . ( The bones of typical contemporary Americans and Britons contain twenty to fifty parts per million ; in the remains of prehistoric Greeks , the figure has been as low as three parts per million . ) It has long been known that the Romans used lead for water pipes and kitchen utensils , and that much of their food and drink was contaminated . A few historians have suggested that this so seriously affected the health of the citizenry that it inevitably brought about the collapse of the empire . Because Romans practiced cremation of the dead , not many bones have been available for analysis . But , according to the Times article , the recent dis-  | covery of a large number of skeletons at Herculaneum , near Pompeii , provided the opportunity for the new study . The mention of Herculaneum and Pompeii piqued my interest even more , since I had visited those famous archeological sites just a few years earlier . At that time , it so happened , I had my own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are truly spectacular , bespeaking triumphs of ancient engineering , and they stirred in me strong feelings of professional pride . Most of my co-travelers , however , were nontechnical types who seemed more interested in myths and statues than lintels and paving stones . ( It is only fair to report that my wife and I were on a trip sponsored by a " Hellenic " association of London . ) Our leaders were classical scholars of great charm and erudition , but I thought their praise of ancient engineers excessively muted . " A nice piece of work , " one of them admitted to me as we stood in front of a tower that even today would challenge the skill of a master builder , " but , after all , they had all those slaves ! " At site after site , marvels of engineering were ignored in favor of architectural niceties , until at Pompeii we came upon lead water pipes , and then technology suddenly took center stage . Everyone started to talk about the danger to an unsuspecting populace that resulted from the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something different , you engineer chaps , " said one of my companions . " Tried to poison everybody in town , " said another , chuckling , " just like today . " It was all lighthearted raillery , but I felt as if my good nature was being tested to its limit . It is bad enough to ignore the vital contribution of engineering in the growth of classical culture and to speak as if the most significant feature of a great stone column is not the miracle of its quarrying , transport , and erection , but merely the carved decoration at its top . Having done this , then to imply that technological advance brought about the downfall of ancient civilization ? well , that is simply too much !  | This feeling of exasperation came rushing back to me as I read the Times article . The attribution of Roman decline to widespread lead poisoning has always seemed to me an untenable theory . The symptoms of the disease are the appearance of a blue line on the gums , weakness , anemia , colic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases , after massive exposure , there may be brain damage and death . If this condition was widespread in the empire one would think that the written record would be replete with examples , which it is not . Lead doubtless caused health problems , but there is no indication that the empire collapsed because of lead-induced illness or indeed any particular disease . If a health related lassitude is thought to be the cause of decline , then I find somewhat more convincing the theory that malaria was the culprit . But this is historical nit-picking . The great mystery about the Roman Empire is not why it declined , but how it lasted as long as it did . Rome collapsed because it grew old and could not cope with social change . Today we are grappling with the same problem : how to convert from a pioneer society to a mature one , or better still , how to maintain the vigor of the pioneer and apply it to a new array of challenges . Just as Rome did not collapse without being assaulted from outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rising demands of other societies . The problem in Roman times , as it is now , was never too much technology but rather too little to go around . If the tribes of the Asian steppes had been warm and well fed , they would not have invaded Europe . If , today , other societies were not competing with us over scarce resources and costly energy , we would certainly feel less threatened . Historians tell us how the barbarian tribes learned and adopted many of the customs of the Romans . Our " barbarians " ? and here the word is used in its original sense meaning " foreigners " ? have done the same . We , however , are doing something that the Romans did not . That is , we are studying our challengers just as they have studied us , and bid fair to adopt some of their techniques for ourselves . I refer not only to Japa-  | nese management systems , but also to Oriental methods of controlling personal stress , Third World alternative technologies ( such as small methane generators ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made somewhat easier in that we are not trying to stay at the very top of the world , as the Romans were ? we just want to maintain the standards we have achieved and protect our opportunity to improve them . We see the salvation of the world not in the exploitation of others , but in the improvement of conditions for all . There are a lot of things working for us that the Romans did not have : technologies beyond the wildest imaginings of the engineers of antiquity , statistics and theories from the social sciences , a tradition of justice more appealing than Rome 's , and , not least , some knowledge of history . If we divert ourselves with false historical theories , we reduce our capacity to address the problems at hand . If we think that Rome fell because of its plumbing and cookware , we will be less apt to think in terms of world commerce and global understanding . There is , to be sure , a valuable lesson in the Times article . It relates not to empires but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout history , technical innovations have had adverse consequences that were not anticipated . When pumps were developed , for example , the need for aqueducts diminished , as drinking water was obtained from rivers and wells near or in cities . As a result , contaminated water caused diseases that had not been a problem when the water came pure from distant mountains . Such predicaments bedevil us to this very day , and it is instructive to consider case histories wherever they may be found ? past or present . From a medical point of view , it is interesting to speculate , as some experts have , about the extent to which the eccentric behavior of some Roman emperors might have been related to the lead content of their wine . But when one considers the way these demi-monsters spent their childhoods , psychological theory is adequate to explain almost any aberration .  | I find no fault with the scientists who study the phenomenon of lead in Rome , nor with the science writers who report their , findings and their theories . But when a cautionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about history , I begin to fear that we are losing our sense of reality . Our civilization will survive only if we address ourselves successfully to the great problems of economic development , social justice , and political equilibrium . As for environmental pollution ? and nuclear proliferation , that other " technological " source of public anxiety ? engineering solutions are at hand , but political approaches are not . I hope that historians will not look back at us and find that we refused to face up to the challenges of our time , and that we fell into the habit of blaming technology for the very decline it might have helped to avert .  | The Fantasy of the Electronic Future For every article that equates technology with the fall of civilizations there must be at least two that portray it at the opposite extreme of human potential ? as a magic carpet to Utopia . Much as I enjoy reading about engineering marvels , I sometimes think that effusive optimism is even more misleading ? and more damaging in the long run ? than doleful pessimism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their publication 's first anniversary by inviting a number of noted scientists , engineers , and science writers to speculate about the future , and the resulting special issue was a striking example of the buoyant overconfidence that irritates me no end . Isaac Asimov , for example , predicted that microcomputers would make it possible to proceed with the total automation of society , " therewith removing the necessity for humans to indulge in dull and repetitious labor . " Ray Bradbury opined that space travel was " commensurate with the birth of Jesus , Buddha , or Muhammad . " Rene Dubos said that he saw no limits to " advances in technology and ways of thinking . " Various contributors spoke excitedly of solar energy , recombinant DNA , ultra-intelligent machines , the homeostatic handling of pain , and undreamed of breakthroughs in the physics of elementary particles . These visions made for stimulating reading . But as I sat in my armchair one evening , turning the glossy pages of the magazine , I felt as if I was drifting into a world of fantasy . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed somehow ethereal .  | Hopefulness is nice , particularly on an anniversary , but something important was totally absent from these visions , something I could n't quite put my finger on . The next day , as I drove my car on New York City 's West Side Highway , rattling over familiar bumps and crevices , I abruptly realized what was missing from Omni 's picture of the future . It is all very well to speak of computers , lasers , and genetic engineering , but every day the actual road to the future unfolds before us and anyone with eyes can see that it is full of potholes . The highway on which I was driving , built when I was a boy , had become a shambles of cracked concrete and rusting steel . Under New York 's patched streets , ancient water mains leak and occasionally break , loosing great geysers on the long-suffering public . The docks are falling apart and the subways are a disaster of mythic proportions . In aging buildings , roofs deteriorate , windows rot , and worn cornices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vantage point of a rattling automobile , the great scientific and technological challenge of the future has little to do with electronics , DNA , or space travel . Essentially , it is how to renew and maintain the engineering works that were put in place during the past century . I soon discovered that this insight was shared by many people in many places . The ink was hardly dry on Omni 's first anniversary issue when there seemed to sweep across the nation a wave of complaints and warnings about dilapidated public facilities . On all sides one started to hear the phrase " deteriorating infrastructure . " One focus of the widespread malaise was America in Ruins , a report issued in 1981 by the Council of State Planning Agencies . This study attracted media attention and inspired a feature article in Time magazine entitled " Time to Repair and Restore . " The facts were widely disseminated and discussed in a variety of forums . The nation 's 42,500-mile Interstate Highway System is deteriorating at the rate of 2,000 miles per year , and more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bridges  | requires major rehabilitation or total reconstruction . Half of our communities must cope with marginal water supplies and a third with inadequate sewage treatment facilities . Almost half of Conrail 's lines in the Northeast will probably have to be abandoned in the near future . Ports , prisons , dams ? almost all public facilities ? are in a deplorable state of decay . Since 1965 , the percentage of the United States ' gross national product invested annually in public works has fallen 52.8 percent , from 3.6 percent to 1.7 percent . Federal aid programs are being cut and the municipal credit market is in disarray . According to the Council of State Planning Agencies , this fast-developing crisis escaped broad attention partly because the federal government does not have a separate capital budget . Thus the decline in capital investment is obscured by the rise in annual operating expenses . The Comptroller General of the United States also stressed this point in a report issued in 1981 . The Office of Management and Budget , however , has resisted changes in this procedure , maintaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area , pressure politics would inevitably force the federal budget upward to unacceptable levels . It may be true that federal budgeting procedures contribute to the growing crisis , but it is equally true that states and cities , practically all of which do isolate capital expenditures , have neglected essential maintenance and renewal programs because of political timidity in the face of taxpayer revolts . Having neither glamour nor overt urgency , the problem will not be solved quickly . The National Council on Public Works Improvement , established by Congress in 1984 and charged with recommending new policies prior to 1988 , had barely gotten started before its operating budget was reduced by 75 percent . It is ironic that while public facilities are literally crumbling about us , the future of science and technology should still be seen in terms of glittering novelty . This view would be understand-  | able if our new techniques made it possible to forget our earlier creations , as when we built railroads and simply abandoned most of our canals . But this sort of thing is not about to happen again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home and communicating electronically . So far , people show no signs of being satisfied with seeing each other only on glowing screens . Not only do people want to move about physically , but the millions of tons of materials that form the basis of our civilization must still be transported by land , sea , and air ? from fields and mines to factories to distribution centers to consumers . One of the key arguments of those who decry present government policy is that future economic expansion will be inhibited by a deteriorated transportation network . The situation is made worse by the fact that new technologies create unforeseen maintenance problems almost from the moment they are introduced . Plastic water lines leak unexpectedly , foamed insulation proves injurious to the occupants of houses , newly created chemicals contaminate water supplies , offshore structures experience mysterious fatigue stresses , polymer gaskets in nuclear plants undergo unanticipated degradation when exposed to low-level radiation , and so forth . This is all very annoying , particularly to a society that is used to moving forward with its eyes on the stars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If into the foreseeable future we will be patching pavements and replacing gaskets , then robots are not about to take over and the age of the trowel and the wrench has not come to an end . Concerns about technological unemployment will prove to have been overstated . In science and engineering a host of new challenges are seen to exist . Just as doctors are beginning to rethink their attitudes about geriatric medicine , so will scientists and engineers see new opportunities in solving problems of preservation and renewal . This is already happening , although one would never think so by reading Omni. * * * r  | A good place to look for a different view is the monthly journal of the American Public Works Association . Here one can read about improving landfill techniques , rehabilitation of maintenance equipment , renovation of an old waste water treatment plant ( including new computerized controls ) , and the recycling of concrete pavement ( by fracturing it in place and applying a bituminous surface ) . Evidence of the new reality is beginning to accumulate in many places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a television-guided method of hydrologic back-filling of abandoned coal mines to arrest the subsidence of Pennsylvania towns . Chemical companies are hard at work developing epoxies , paints , and other substances that will patch , clean , cover , and generally preserve existing installations . Bridges are being resurfaced with polymer concrete , deteriorated sewers relined with polyurethane , old roofs surveyed from the air with infrared scanners . Recently the American Consulting Engineer Council awarded its grand prize for engineering excellence to a firm that purified ground water contaminated by vinylidene chloride and phenol . The project entailed pumping the water from purge wells into aeration ponds , then using carbon adsorbers , and finally utilizing spray irrigation into a marshy area . Other prizes were awarded for the rehabilitation of New York City 's Manhattan Bridge , the replacement of a railroad bridge in Chicago , a dynamic stability analysis for existing earth fill dams in earthquake areas , the cleanup and containment of PCBs around a General Electric Plant in Oakland , California , and a new bus maintenance facility for Houston . Even lowly potholes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they should considering that each year in the United States approximately two hundred million of them have to be filled . The problem has been studied at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory in Hanover , New Hampshire . One finding is that , in the long run , holes simply filled and compacted by hand cost five times as much as holes that are trimmed , cleaned , dried , lined with a  | tacking material , then filled and finally compacted by machine . This is not exactly the sort of discovery for which Nobel Prizes are awarded , but it is nevertheless something worth knowing . In facing up to the infrastructure crisis we will have to temper our futuristic zeal with a stolid sense of reality . This does not mean succumbing to contemporary despair , but rather acknowledging a certain wisdom of the ages . The lessons we are learning remind me of a painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder that I saw several years ago in Vienna . Entitled " The Tower of Babel , " this famous work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just touching the clouds . The architectural detail is magnificent and the depiction of sixteenth-century building techniques is exquisitely rendered . Obviously , the tower has been under construction for many years , probably generations . At the highest levels the new stone walls glow orange against the pale sky . The foundations , however , are dark and beginning to crumble .  | Down to the Sea in Print Newspapers and popular magazines are not the only places where one is liable to get a distorted view of technology . Within the engineering profession itself the electronic revolution has tended to obscure the more down-to-earth aspects of technical enterprise . Like most engineers , I receive in the mail many unsolicited bulletins and announcements . The folders , cards , and booklets come in a variety of shapes and sizes , and they arrive in large numbers . I read this literature with an intensity that I find difficult to explain . I suppose that in browsing through schedules and scanning the titles of lectures I expect to learn something by osmosis . It is also comforting to know a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even if the details remain obscure . Whatever the reason , these mailings afford me a good deal of interesting reading . Recently , however , this pastime has become less enjoyable . The change is related to the nature of the events that are being announced . The ubiquitous computer has taken over with a vengeance . Almost every gathering of technically trained people appears to be devoted to modeling , simulation , imaging , or optimization . Even in my own field , civil engineering , the emphasis is on the application of computers to drafting , estimating , and design . This is all well and good , except that engineers should know , better than anyone , that not all of our problems will yield to the application of software and microchips . Knowledge may  | be power , as Francis Bacon said , but power is only the potential to perform work ; it is not work itself . An information explosion is not a real explosion ; it does not blast rock for tunnels or foundations . The most brilliantly conceived computer will not raise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Occasionally , to be sure , I receive notice of meetings devoted to large-scale engineering , but these have become relatively infrequent . They also seem to be less buoyant and full of promise than they used to be . Instead of new projects and new techniques , increasingly they deal with structural failures , the problems of government regulation , and the rising cost of malpractice insurance . Then there are the short courses given one recent summer by the Federal Emergency Management Agency . The featured offering dealt with fallout shelter analysis , hardly the most up-beat aspect of engineering . And so it has been for quite a while now . Between the breezy promises of the electronic wizards and the often depressing problems inherent in macro-engineering , my pleasure in reading brochures about professional meetings has been greatly diminished . There has been one striking exception , however . On a cold winter 's day there arrived unbidden ? and from what mailing list I can not begin to guess ? notice of an Offshore Technology Conference scheduled to be held in the Houston Astrodomain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do with electronics , but nevertheless the program gave me a lift . For one thing , the cover , instead of showing the pattern of an integrated circuit ( a symbol of which I have grown exceedingly weary ) , featured a painting of the open sea , whitecaps breaking against an oil-drilling platform in the middle distance . Visions of the sea are enough to start the pulse racing in any person of feeling or imagination . I do not usually think of oceans in terms of engineering , but obviously this reflects my own limited horizons . As I learned  | from this slim booklet , the Offshore Technology Conference has been held annually since 1969 and is currently sponsored by eleven professional societies representing more than five hundred thousand engineers . The variety of subjects to be discussed at the conference was dazzling . One session would be devoted to the dynamics of offshore structures , others to foundations , platform construction , mooring and anchoring . Lectures were planned on seabed mapping and soil testing ; seismic and sonar surveys ; wire rope , anchors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abrasion , metal fatigue , and corrosion ; deep-water drilling , welding , and tools for divers . Meetings were devoted to such disciplines as marine geology , arctic operations , the analysis of wave forces , and the study of ice . Most of the announced participants were affiliated with the oil industry , as one would expect . But one session was allotted to " Marine Minerals Mining " and the lecturers came from institutions I never knew existed : Minerals Management Service , Lockheed Advanced Marine Systems Division , and the University of Petroleum and Minerals , Dhahran . One presentation , however , was to be made by three gentlemen from an organization I certainly had heard of Japan 's Ministry of International Trade and Industry , the formidable MITI . Their topic was " Research and Development Project of Manganese Nodule Mining System in Japan , " and it started me wondering about whether the United States might be falling behind in a technological field that is just about to come into its own . The program for the Offshore Technology Conference was captivating , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told me much about engineering activities to which I had previously given little thought . Of course , many brochures , catalogs , and menus promise splendors that in actuality turn out to be disappointing . Has the time for ocean engineering truly arrived , I wondered , or is the field ? aside from offshore drilling for oil ? still mostly dreams and hype ? I noticed that one of the sponsors of the conference was the  | Marine Technology Society , another organization whose name was new to me . Upon investigation , I discovered that the Society was founded in 1963 , has sixteen sections in the United States and Canada , fifty-seven institutional and industrial sponsors , and carries out its activities through four standing committees and twenty-seven professional panels . These panels are devoted to such subjects as Marine Food and Drug Resources , Marine Mineral Resources , Ocean Energy , and Coastal Zone Management . A typical issue of the society 's journal will carry articles on a revolutionary ship design ( featuring two torpedo-shaped hulls that are completely and continuously submerged ) , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antarctic krill ( the biomass of these minute crustaceans exceeds the world 's tonnage of fishery products ) , and the properties of electrodeposited minerals in seawater ( the immediate aim is to protect and enhance the strength of seawater structures , but the prospect of obtaining minerals from seawater by cathodic electrodeposition is mind-boggling ) . On March 10 , 1984 , the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announced the commencement of " The Year of the Ocean , " an eighteen-month period in which the marine community intended to draw public awareness " to the value of our coasts and the ocean as a multiple resource for the nation . " If there was any publicity I seem to have missed it . The March 10 date was selected to mark the anniversary of President Reagan 's proclamation of an Exclusive Economic Zone extending two hundred miles into the ocean from the coasts of the United States . This proclamation followed in the wake of our nation 's refusal , in 1982 , to endorse the international Law of the Sea Treaty , a fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cloudy prospects or not , investment in ocean engineering is a significant factor in the world 's economy . The worldwide market for businesses serving ocean industries exceeds $200 billion .  | Offshore oil accounts for much of this , but not as much as one might think . " Seventy percent of the dialogue , " says a publisher of Sea Technology , " but considerably less of the money . " I am no soothsayer , least of all when it comes to incipient technologies . I tend to side with those who challenge the prophets : " If you 're so smart , why ai n't you rich ? " Is nuclear power really on the skids ? Is the breeder reactor never to be ? Is fusion twenty years away , or a millenium ? How about solar energy or synfuels ? Is space the next frontier ? Will the great advances come in biomedical engineering , materials , transportation , environmentalism , or mainly ? as so many people seem to believe ? in electronics ? Or are we approaching the age of the oceans ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if I were starting my engineering career today I would be greatly tempted to look to the oceans . They are truly , literally , our next frontier . Their allure and the challenges they pose are unparalleled . At least that is the way I felt after looking through the program with the seascape on the cover . Who knows what the mail may bring tomorrow ?  | Disasters and Decision-Making In the best of all possible worlds , all engineers would be conscientious and all members of the public would be well informed about science and engineering . But even in such an ideal state it is unlikely that appropriate action would be taken to govern the course of technology . A missing element would still be , as it is so often today , that state of alertness ? vigilance if you will ? that underlies far-sighted planning . Without periodic shocks , people tend to become complacent , and complacency is the enemy of precaution . When , in June of 1983 , a section of Interstate Highway 95 plunged seventy feet into Connecticut 's Mianus River @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three people . If the bridge span had fallen during the day instead of at 1:30 A.M. , the carnage could have been horrible . Newspaper stories painted gruesome pictures of what might have been . Within a few days , however , public concern subsided , and since this nonchalance was clearly related to the low death toll , perhaps the blessing must be considered mixed . No right-thinking person will wish for casualties in order to make a point . ( I recall the revulsion with which I read an article by an anti-nuclear advocate entitled " What This Country Needs Is a Meltdown . " ) But there is no denying that in the absence of outrage many things are ignored that ought not to be ignored , and nothing produces outrage as readily as large numbers of simultaneous , accidental civilian deaths .  | From 1825 to 1830 there were forty-two recorded boiler explosions aboard American steamboats , each one killing an average of six to seven people . But when in 1830 more than fifty passengers were killed by one explosion aboard the Helen McGregor near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was obliged to take action . The result was the first technological research grant made by the federal government , followed in due course by regulatory legislation . Of course , the evolution of moral , social , and political values depends upon more than disasters . In mid-nineteenth-century America the idea of government responsibility for the safety of its citizens was just beginning to mature . But without attentiondemanding events such as the Helen McGregor explosion , the translation of concept to practice can be unduly prolonged . In our own time , the National Dam Safety Act of 1972 was passed after one hundred twenty-five lives were lost in the failure of a coal tailings dam at Buffalo Creek , West Virginia . As memory of the disaster faded , however , the inspection program mandated by the legislation was not funded . Inevitably , there was another catastrophe : in 1977 , thirty-nine students and teachers at a Bible college died in a dam failure at Toccoa , Georgia . Only then did Congress vote funding for the program it had authorized five years earlier . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its shock value . In May 1979 a piece of masonry fell from the facade of a building in New York City and struck a young woman on the head , killing her . The building was owned by Columbia University , and the victim was a student at Barnard College , which adjoins the Columbia campus . For several days the event made headlines . Stories about the tragedy were followed by reports about dangers inherent in the city 's aging buildings . Public concern led to demands for action , and early in 1980 the City Council enacted Local Law 10 . The statute requires owners of large buildings to have the facades inspected every five years by a licensed architect or engineer , and to promptly repair any  | potentially unsafe conditions discovered . In this case , although only a single life was lost , the " dread " factor was extraordinarily high . The death of a student at an elite women 's college ? all that vitality and promise snuffed out ? had news appeal . Also , every resident of the city walks its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another reason for the new law 's popularity was the fact that it entailed no direct cost to the taxpayers . All expense , naturally , is borne by landlords . Whatever the public chemistry of this event , it clearly led to action . In fact , as the repair program progressed , questions were raised about it being an overreaction . Hundreds of millions of dollars were allocated for the restoration work . Columbia University alone committed $17 million to the repair of its buildings . Real estate analysts warned that the additional expense might prove ruinous to some property owners . Aesthetes and preservationists complained as decorative friezes were hurriedly removed , often replaced with ugly patchwork stucco . Subjected to a cost-benefit analysis , Local Law 10 would surely fail . There is no logical basis for spending hundreds of millions of dollars to save perhaps one life every few years . Or , to put it more humanely , if we are interested in saving lives , there are far better ways of spending hundreds of millions of dollars . But we refuse to be intimidated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not tolerate buildings crumbling above our heads . And the death of that single Barnard student remained vivid in the communal imagination . So New York City 's buildings are being inspected and repaired , and the nation 's dams as well , each program the result of dramatic accidents that captured , more than fleetingly , the attention of a fickle public . In contrast , the collapse of the I-95 bridge was not an event of lasting traumatic impact . Although there were some negative comments about the span 's design ? a now obsolete method that relied upon a pin-and-hanger assembly ? the basic cause of failure was found to lie with inadequate inspection and mainte-  | nance , and that does not make very good newspaper copy . Only three people were killed ? a truck driver and two other men who nobody ever heard of . Public reaction centered around the traffic problems that developed while the road was out of service . It is true that the State of Connecticut resolved to improve its bridge inspection procedures , and across the nation there was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unchanged . According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , half of the nation 's 565,000 bridges are potentially unsafe . Indeed , about 150 bridges are washed away in floods each year and an equal number simply sag , buckle , or collapse . But these failures have occurred without loss of life ? at least they have since 1967 , when a span across the Ohio River between Point Pleasant , West Virginia , and Kanauga , Ohio , carried forty-six people to their deaths . The issue of maintaining bridges is so mundane that our society seems incapable of attending to it . Yet this very mundaneness is what makes the neglect so disgraceful . There will always be engineering failures . But the worst kind of failures , the most inexcusable , are those that could readily be prevented if only people stayed alert and took reasonable precautions . The inspection , maintenance , and repair of bridges is neither glamorous nor newsworthy . Yet it is appalling to think that this important work might languish until a suitably shocking disaster occurs . We need not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be deaf to reasoned warnings , responsive only to shock . Nevertheless , experience teaches us that society requires a cadre of concerned citizens ? engineers foremost among them ? to urge proper action and to persist when rebuffed . Where the community remains indifferent and politicians evasive , public-works engineers have no choice but to redouble their efforts , doing the best they can with curtailed budgets and inadequate staff . Engineers , being human , are also susceptible to the drowsiness that comes in the absence of crisis . Perhaps one characteristic of a professional is the ability and willingness to stay alert while  | others doze . Engineering responsibility should not require the stimulation that comes in the wake of catastrophe . Alertness , however ? important as it may be ? is only one component of a satisfactory technology policy . There still remains the question of how best , methodologically , to cope with technological issues .  | The Deceptive Allure of Risk Analysis Let us imagine that our dreams have materialized : engineers are conscientious , politicians are responsible , the public is wellinformed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we use to best achieve our technological objectives ? Much has been written in recent years about risk analysis ? also known as risk-benefit analysis , cost-benefit analysis , risk assessment , risk comparison , risk accounting , cost-effectiveness analysis . " Regulatory action , " proclaimed President Reagan shortly after taking office , " shall not be undertaken unless the potential benefits to society outweigh the potential costs . " Thus risk assessment was placed at the center of national policy . At about the same time , Congressman Don Ritter of Pennsylvania , one of the two or three engineer members of the House , was sponsoring legislation that would require all government regulators to be guided by standardized , stringently scientific analysis of comparative risk . In deciding to foster the cause of risk analysis , Mr. Ritter exhibited a political astuteness to match his professional credentials . ( He earned a doctorate in metallurgy from M.I.T. and taught for ten years at Lehigh University . ) At a time when the purported excesses of government regulation were the subject of intense interest and resentment , his proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large and attentive audience . The hearings on his bill ? which called upon the Office of Science and Technology Policy of the executive branch  | to " apply and promote " the use of comparative risk analysis by all regulatory agencies ? drew overflow crowds for two days in May of 1980 . " Mr. Speaker , " intoned Congressman Ritter in calling attention to the bill on the floor of the House , " comparison of risks is clearly an idea whose legislative time has come . ... Comparison of risks is a way for regulatory agencies to do a better job of protecting the public ? by targeting their limited resources on the most serious threats to health and safety instead of regulating ' blindly . ' Comparison of risks brings government regulation into the nineteen eighties . " ' Hear , hear ! I said to myself as I read these remarks . Yet the more I thought about this wondrous new analytic approach , the more uneasy I became . If there were truly reliable methods of analyzing and comparing risks , why would regulatory agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being resisted , perhaps they were not as wonderful as advertised . The few articles on the subject that I found in technical journals were bland and inconclusive . I decided that the best way to learn more would be to read the testimony of the people who participated in the hearings on Mr. Ritter 's bill.2 The hearings took place before the Subcommittee on Science , Research and Technology of the Committee on Science and Technology , and they started out promisingly enough for Mr. Ritter , as several of his colleagues showed up to laud his new initiative . Representative William C. Wampler of Virginia expressed the hope that risk analysis would eliminate the " confusion and chaos " of current regulatory practice , particularly the unwarranted curbing of pesticides and food preservatives . Mike McCormack of Washington warned that quibbling over the negligible risks of nuclear power was " keeping this country from moving forward . " Other representatives deplored the FDA 's conservative approach to the approval of new drugs and its attempt to ban saccharin , the EPA 's caution concerning diesel fuel emissions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gas into the atmosphere during the cleanup of Three Mile Island . It seemed as if the hearing had attracted every congressman with a grievance against a regulatory agency . Only Tom Harkin of Iowa , apologizing for being " a thorn amongst the roses , " counseled caution . Mentioning the examples of thalidomide and Agent Orange , he suggested that if we make mistakes it is well that we err on the side of safety . After the visiting representatives had chanted their prologue ? and then quickly scattered to various other hearings and meetings ? it was the turn of the invited technical experts . The first of these , Dr. James Vaupel of the Institute of Policy Sciences and Public Affairs at Duke University , sought to dramatize the benefits of risk analysis by evaluating the often-heard admonition against eating too many eggs . Although eggs are high in cholesterol , and in some individuals may contribute to atherosclerotic disease , the risk entailed in eating them has , according to Dr. Vaupel , been greatly overstated . By cutting in half the average American 's consumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that five thousand lives might be saved each year . Although this sounds like something worth doing , when stated in different terms it can be shown to be practically insignificant . For example , this proposed halving of egg consumption will extend the average American 's life expectancy by only ten days ; thus each egg consumed over an average lifespan of seventy-three years might reduce life expectancy by about a minute ; further calculation shows that eating a half-dozen eggs involves one chance in a million of a death per year , thus qualifying as a " micro-risk . " Other micro-risks , for the sake of comparison , are : smoking 1.4 cigarettes , living two days in the air pollution of New York or Boston ; traveling ten miles by bicycle or three-hundred miles by car ; consuming Miami drinking water for one year ; eating forty tablespoons of peanut butter ( due to liver cancer caused by aflatoxin B ) . These are the sorts of comparisons that Rep. Ritter would require regulatory agencies to consider and put before the public .  | Although the purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's bill ? and , incidentally , to ridicule what he called " the Humpty-Dumpty assault on eggs " ? its effect on me was to arouse a long-standing misgiving about the manipulation of statistics in public discourse . The next witness was Dr. Walter Albers , head of the Societal Analysis Department of the General Motors Research Laboratories , another booster of the Ritter legislation , whose testimony considered the comparative cost-effectiveness of several lifeextending programs . A coronary ambulance system , he noted , can save lives at a cost of $192 per person-year of longevity ; for highway rescue helicopters the estimated cost is $4,180 . By comparison , the cost of installing four headrests per car is $ 500,000 per person-year , and the cost per person-year of achieving EPA 's objective of 3.4 grams per mile of carbon monoxide in auto emissions is $27,500,000 . When Rep. Ritter asked Dr. Albers how he felt the regulatory agencies would respond to guidelines requiring them to utilize risk analysis , Dr. Albers responded , " I would think that there is a great deal of resistance to deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " it would be useful to have a directive that would help accelerate progress toward more analysis . " Up to this point , Rep. Ritter had heard exactly what he wanted to hear . The next witness , however , Dr. Howard Raiffa of Harvard , head of the National Academy of Sciences Study Group on Risk and Decisionmaking , made explicit what the previous two speakers had demonstrated in spite of themselves , that risk analysis is not the panacea that its boosters claim it to be . He stressed the complexity of the decision-making process and listed some of the important factors that do not lend themselves to numerical resolution : How is one to calculate public discontent and personal happiness ? Equity and justice ? Individual freedom and personal autonomy ? How is one to measure efficiency versus equity ? Short-term versus long-run consideration ? Man 's interest versus nature 's ? The United States versus the world 's ? And so  | forth . He also raised a point that calls into question the value of the entire risk-analysis enterprise : " The probabilities of various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experts disagree by orders of magnitude .... " This fact was emphasized by a following witness , David D. Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council . He noted that studies conducted by OSHA on the carcinogenic effects of vinyl chloride have shown a range of disagreement of more than a millionfold . Cost estimates are also subject to large differences of opinion . The estimated cost of complying with a new standard for coke-oven emissions was ten times higher when prepared by industry experts than when calculated by government specialists . Unfortunately , such uncertainties are usually most prevalent in matters of the greatest concern , such as PCBs , asbestos , radiation , and the chlorinated hydrocarbons in drinking water . This was emphasized by the next speaker , Dr. Nicholas A. Ashford of M.I.T. 's Center for Policy Alternatives . " The easy cases , " he said , " which exemplify the benefits of simple risk assessment , are n't the ones that give us problems ; those are n't the cases that need working on . " About halfway through the first day 's hearings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to issues of political and social philosophy . Speakers from the Monsanto Company and the National Association of Manufacturers commended Rep. Ritter and supported his initiative . In response , a representative from the United Steel Workers said that he was tired of being told " that we are safer in a steel mill than we are in our own bathtub , " and characterized the proposed law as " a barrier against further expressions of responsibility . " Finally , Rep. Ritter , like a host whose party is being spoiled by unruly guests , expressed consternation : " I think we are seeing here somewhat of a polarization . I think people have come into this room with certain values locked onto certain interests . I would hope . . . that we could somehow get away from that . " Mr. Ritter 's hope , however , was not to be realized . As the  | afternoon drew to an end , the hearings increasingly deteriorated into bickering between industry spokesmen on the one hand and representatives of labor and public interest organizations on the other . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various government agencies , was to see Rep. Ritter 's discomfort grow apace . First there appeared a representative from the Office of Science and Technology Policy to say that his organization wanted no part of the responsibility that would be delegated to it by the new bill , and indeed did not support the concept of centralized control over the procedures of the regulatory agencies . " It seems to me , " commented Rep. Ritter , " that this country could be a lot better off just with a little bit of additional rational decision processes brought about by an increased involvement on the part of the scientific community .... " He spent the rest of the afternoon hearing his ideas rebutted by distinguished scientists . Dr. Joseph V. Rodricks , a chemist with the Food and Drug Administration whose curriculum vitae runs to eleven pages , observed that the proposed legislation did not take into account the differences between the legislative acts under which Congress established the several regulatory agencies , and the different mandates that make a standardized procedure unwise , even within each agency . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and drugs according to three completely different standards . Food additives must be absolutely safe , and the burden of proving the safety of an additive rests with its sponsor . For a food contaminent ( such as PCBs and aflatoxins ) the burden is on the government to prove hazard to health , and acceptable levels must often be established on the basis of distressingly meager information . In drugs , the balance of benefit and risk presents an entirely different sort of problem . Congressional statutes are full of such terms as " generally recog-  | nized as safe , " " reasonable certainty , " " unreasonable risk , " " reasonable , technologically practicable and appropriate " ? terms that differ subtly but substantially from one another , and do not lend themselves to a unified mathematical standard . " No simple rules govern such complex problems , " declared Dr. Bailus Walker , Jr. , of OSHA . Dr. Peter W. Preuss , representing the Consumer Product Safety Commission , put the same message in more dramatic terms : " When comparisons are made among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Although statistical methods clearly are useful , " the commission 's overall approach for setting priorities is to rely on its collegial judgment rather than on any set formula . " Collegial judgment : I liked the phrase . In the Food Safety and Quality Service , according to spokesman Dr. Thomas P. Grumbly , risk assessment is used as an aid to decision-making , but its limits are recognized . " In many ways , " according to Grumbly , " it is no more precise a tool than its nineteenth-century precursor , Jeremy Bentham 's pleasurepain calculus . " The final witness , Dr. Richard Dowd of the Environmental Protection Agency , spoke in the same vein . " The diverse nature of the EPA 's responsibilities , " he observed , " would argue against changing the laws to set a common framework for regulation . " If Rep. Ritter found the opposition to his bill at all convincing , he gave no indication of this in his final remarks . " I would just like to say , " he concluded , " that Congress and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rebel against what they perceive to be an overly bureaucratic and dogmatic and perhaps dictatorial regulatory apparatus . " Although the hearing ended with expressions of thanks and mutual admiration , it was clear that the proposed legislation had provided a battleground for forces that were bitterly antagonistic . * * *  | I approached the subject of risk assessment with high hopes and a disposition to be persuaded . But after reading the transcript of the subcommittee hearings I could only conclude that Rep. Ritter 's attempt to apply mathematical consistency to the regulatory process was deplorably simplistic . Worse than that , it provided an opportunity for the industrial enemies of regulation to take " rationality " as their rallying cry , thus giving force to the long-standing charge that engineers are flunkies for the corporate establishment . Clearly , the public perception of risk , and the actual management of risk , are matters that deserve our keenest attention . Responsible experts in the field , however , consistently warn that risk assessment is a delicate tool that needs to be applied sparingly , not a machete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course , regulators need to be regulated . Each regulatory agency is properly constrained by the language of the statute under which it operates , by continuing legislative oversight and judicial review , and by the political realities of the day as perceived by the canny bureaucrats within the agencies . Add to this the judicious ( though not compulsory ) use of risk analysis and we have the basis for that " collegial judgment " upon which the regulatory process should properly be founded . On June 17 , 1981 , the Supreme Court ruled that in promulgating a cotton-dust safety standard , OSHA was not required to demonstrate a reasonable relationship between costs and benefits , since Congress had mandated a standard that would protect health " to the extent feasible . " " For deregulation , a detour , " grumbled Business Week , but " not a roadblock . " In a dissenting opinion , Justice Rehnquist complained that by using such vague language Congress simply abdicated its responsibility for the making of a fundamental and most difficult policy choice . " I have no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been required to choose whether to mandate , permit , or prohibit the  | secretary from engaging in a cost-benefit analysis , there would have been no bill for the president to sign . " 3 A telling point , yet in passing the ultimate decision along to the bureaucracy , Congress was in fact making a considered policy choice . On September 24 , 1981 , at a brief hearing before the Subcommittee on Science , Research and Technology of the House Committee on Science and Technology , the Ritter legislation suffered a serious rebuff . Dr. James C. Miller III , Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and former Director of the Presidential Task Force on Regulatory Relief , announced that , in view of other anti-regulatory actions already being taken , the Reagan Administration considered the Ritter bill to be " basically redundant . " This signaled defeat for the bill , though not for the ideas behind it . Just as the beginning of wisdom is self-knowledge , so is the essence of engineering rationality a recognition of its proper limits .  | Risk and the Loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete without reference to one of the most shocking technological mishaps of our time , the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger on January 28 , 1986 . From an engineer 's point of view , the loss of Challenger raises compelling questions which will continue to haunt the profession long after the nation 's bewilderment and grief have faded . In some respects the disaster was merely a classic example of engineering failure , an object lesson worthy of study by future generations of designers . Its emotional impact was extremely high , but other tragedies ? failed dams , collapsed buildings , burned nightclubs ? have also had their quotient of horror and sadness . What makes the event unique is the drama of the decision-making process and the ensuing debate about it in a national forum . First the classic elements : Once again a minute detail undid a grandly conceived technological project . The failure was traced to a seal between two segments of a booster rocket , or more precisely to a rubber gasket that was an integral part of that seal . Once again it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real rubber , putty , and steel ? not ideal materials whose behavior can be confidently predicted by scientific formula . The performance of these real materials in manufactured products can only be ascertained by testing , and sometimes it seems as if no amount of testing can ever be " enough . "  | We discovered anew that in complex engineering systems the possibilities of failure are compounded by a multiplicity of potential coincidences . Just when Challenger 's primary 0-ring gasket failed , allowing hot gasses to escape , a second adjacent 0-ring , designed originally for redundant safety , was unseated from its groove by the movement of the rocket casing under pressure . Small wonder that engineers speak of Murphy 's Law . As Herbert Hoover wrote in his memoirs , failure for the engineer " is the phantasmagoria that haunts his nights and dogs his days . " ' Of course , failure has always been an integral element of technological advance . When the first jet airliner , the British Comet , was put into service in 1952 , it had been test-flown for almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a plane inexplicably crashed into the Mediterranean near Naples . After being grounded for three months , during which some fifty modifications were introduced to anticipate every conceivable danger , the Comet fleet went back into service , only to have a second plane disintegrate in midair . Eventually the fault was found to lie in fatigue cracks in the corners of windows , a problem that at the time had seemed unthinkable in such relatively new machines . The space shuttle is more than just a new product ; it is practically a new technology , and viewed in the light of history , some sort of accident was almost to be expected . But the loss of Challenger differed from the Comet crashes , and other similar calamities , in that a number of engineers had predicted that it might happen and strenuously objected to the launch . The engineers at Morton Thiokol , Inc. , manufacturer of the rocket boosters , knew that cooling reduced the resilience of the all-important 0-ring gaskets , making them less efficient in sealing the gaps they were required to seal . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been fifty-three degrees , there was evidence that some gas had escaped past one of the rings . On the evening of the tragic flight , as temperatures at the Challenger launch site dropped into the low twenties , fourteen engineers at the Thiokol plant in Utah unanimously concluded that the flight  | should be postponed : the possible effect of the cold on the 0-rings , they agreed , created an unacceptable level of risk . This recommendation was transmitted to NASA officials and a telephone conference was set up to discuss the problem . The conference quickly became a confrontation . George Hardy , NASA 's Deputy Director of Science and Engineering , stated that he was " appalled " at the reasoning behind Thiokol 's stance . Lawrence Mulloy , NASA 's Chief of Solid Rocket Booster Program , protested that Thiokol was changing the flight criteria on the night before a scheduled mission and exclaimed , " You ca n't do that . " After a lengthy debate , a five-minute recess was called , which stretched on for half an hour . At Thiokol , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vice President Jerald Mason declared , " We have to make a management decision , " then asked Vice President for Engineering Robert Lund to " take off his engineering hat and put on his management hat . " Subsequently , Mason and Lund , along with Joseph Kilminster , Vice President for Booster Programs , and Calvin Wiggins , Vice President for Space Projects , approved the launch and so notified NASA . Much of the commentary after the event stressed that the findings of " engineers " had been overruled by the judgment of " managers . " According to The New York Times , " Company managers testified that the engineers had played no part in that decision , which was based on a poll of four Thiokol managers . " When Mason was asked what he had in mind when he told Lund to replace his engineering hat with a management hat , he said that he meant " it was going to take a judgment rather than a precise engineering calculation . " At first hearing , these comments might give comfort to anyone concerned with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comforted . The implication that engineering consists of precise calculation while " judgment " is left to another class of person is inaccurate ; further , it is demeaning to a profession that has always stressed art , imagination , and wisdom at least as much as  | exactitude . There are , as I have argued , many instances in which engineering facts can and should be isolated from business or political choices , but the Challenger launch was not one of these . The four so-called Thiokol " managers " are , in fact , engineers . Mason has a degree in aeronautical engineering , Lund in mechanical ; Wiggins has a degree in chemistry , and Kilminster a master 's in mechanical engineering on top of an undergraduate degree in mathematics . The two NASA " officials , " Hardy and Mulloy , who urged that Thiokol approve the launch , are also engineers , as are the key NASA people above them . These men were educated as engineers and had worked as engineers , eventually moving into positions of executive responsibility . They did not thereupon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes director of a hospital stops being a doctor . Were these engineer-executives under pressure to meet a launching schedule ? Of course . But pressure is inherent in engineering . It has often been said that engineering is doing for one dollar what any darn fool can do for two . It might with equal truth be said that engineering is doing in one year what any darn fool can do in two . Considerations of economy and schedule are inherent in all complex engineering projects . Given unlimited funds and time , the shuttle design could surely have been improved in many respects , but the engineers at NASA and Thiokol had no reason to expect either a blank check or freedom from a sense of urgency . Pressure goes with the job like the proverbial heat in the kitchen . It may help explain , but it can not excuse , an engineering mistake . On the other hand , after the event it was not reasonable for the public to say " safety first " while ignoring the other imperatives driving the space program ? national defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intangibles as community morale , all to be enhanced in a hurry for an affordable price . If safety was the overwhelmingly dominant consideration , we would never blast human beings into space on the top of rockets in the first place . ( There are some people who argue  | that all space projects should be unmanned , but they are clearly in the minority . ) Richard Truly , the new shuttle chief appointed after the disaster , promised a more " conservative " flight philosophy , but he put the dangers of the shuttle program in perspective : " The business of flying in space is bold business . We can not print enough money to make it totally risk-free. " 2 All we can fairly say is that safety was and is one very important aspect of the space program ? safety not only for the astronauts but for the public at large . ( The errant booster rocket was destroyed by remote control for fear that it might fall in a populated area . ) Numerous procedures were established long ago by NASA to assure safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign-off " before launch by each major shuttle subcontractor . The system is sound and it should have worked . Fourteen engineers at Thiokol recommended a postponement . Incredibly , four of the top executive-engineers at Thiokol , pressured by administrator-engineers at NASA , ignored the warnings and agreed to proceed . This was bad engineering as well as bad management . There were no precise facts to rely on . The rubber 0-ring gaskets had not been tested under flight conditions at temperatures as low as those prevailing on the fateful night . But the engineers knew that the colder it got , the less pliable the rubber and the more likely the 0-rings would be incapable of containing the hot gasses . One or two apprehensive engineers might properly have been disregarded . As a newspaper editorial observed after the tragedy , " with hundreds of engineers reporting , NASA can not allow the most anxious among them to veto a flight . " 3 But the unanimous recommendation of the Thiokol engineering staff should have carried the day . The presidential investigative commission eventually recommended that an independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safety considerations are adequately represented in future decision-making . This is not a bad idea .  | Safety engineering has become something of a specialty , and many large corporations isolate the safety function in the organizational structure . But any such change , whatever its merits , should not obscure the fact that the pre-existing system was not seriously flawed . The annual report of the Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel , written shortly before the Challenger accident , expressed general satisfaction with NASA 's attention to key safety concerns . The calamity stemmed not from an inadequate system but from human error . Should the junior engineers at Thiokol have " blown the whistle , " gone out of the chain of command , or otherwise publicly aired their concerns ? I can not fault them for doing no more than argue vigorously . They had no clear evidence , only clues and uneasy feelings . Most important , they were not reporting to politicians or non-technical administrators , but rather to sophisticated engineers like themselves , four in their own company and , to their sure knowledge , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the Thiokol managers and NASA administrators had not themselves been technical experts they would never have dared approve the launch . Don K. Price , former dean of Harvard 's School of Public Administration , has observed that " on the undefinable boundary between a profession and administration , the professional has a tactical advantage . " For administrators or politicians to go against the consensus of either a scientific discipline or a profession " is extremely hazardous . " 4 In his book The Scientific Estate , Price speaks of a social spectrum along which are situated four " estates " : scientists , professionals ( including engineers ) , administrators , and politicians , each with its own bases of power and ability to influence the others . Politicians usually have ample room to maneuver because technical experts are so often divided in their opinions . But in the case of a shuttle launch , no sane politician or administrator would go ahead without solid professional support . Public opinion would not tolerate it . This is why the White House was at such pains to deny that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision . And this is why it was such a serious error for the NASA engineer-executives at Marshall Space Flight Center not to tell their own superiors about the concerns of the Thiokol engineers . Whatever future institutional changes may be conceived at NASA , there will always be risk decisions to be made in the midst of uncertainty . In the post-accident hearing , there was talk not only about separate safety panels , but also about new techniques of risk assessment . It is tempting ? particularly after a dramatic failure ? to pin one 's hopes to a new methodology . But no technique or table or organization can take the place of the collegial judgment that , as noted in the previous chapter , was advocated during the hearings on Congressman Ritter 's bill . Such judgment was manifested in the unanimity of the fourteen Thiokol engineers the night before the ill-fated launch . Perhaps the Challenger tragedy will help restore respect for this timehonored aspect of professional practice .  | The Civilized Engineer : ( 1 ) The Concept Herbert Hoover said that during his lifetime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great profession . This was not completely accurate since the transformation of the typical engineer from independent consultant to corporate employee , which occurred during his years , can hardly be viewed as professional growth . Nevertheless , he had seen the foundations of engineering change from rule-of-thumb experience to formal science , and the apprenticeship system replaced by accredited university curricula ? including , wrote Hoover in his memoirs , " wider learning in the humanities . " 1 He also saw impressive growth in the professional societies and , along with other engineering leaders , he helped to elevate professional standards . Established in his early years as a successful mining engineer , Hoover gained renown leading American relief operations in Europe during and after World War I. This led to his appointment as U. S. Secretary of Commerce and eventually to his election in 1928 as president of the United States . He authored many technical papers , an important and successful textbook , and a number of well-written articles explaining engineering matters to the public . In collaboration with his wife , he translated Agricola 's De @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ servant/engineer think of his profession today ? Would he perhaps fear that it was reverting from a profession back into a trade ? He would be impressed , surely , by the growth of engineering science and by the wonders  | of contemporary technology . But how would he feel about the increasingly vocational nature of engineering education and about the constricted technical character of much engineering practice ? Would he not wish to regenerate a sense of pride , intellect , and cultural sensibility among his co-professionals ? I believe that he would . And in seeking to bring engineering to the highest possible level he would find himself in the company of many other engineers and engineering educators who are proud but concerned , self-assured but dissatisfied , wanting more for their profession than the situation that now prevails . Whatever its problems , past or present , the engineering profession in America has not suffered from want of attention . Although it sometimes appears as if we lurch from crisis to crisis ? and indeed our political behavior often reflects the human tendency to concentrate on the problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of technological competence have received much earnest study and support . From the nation 's early days , effective government enterprise has supplemented far-sighted private initiatives . The U. S. Military Academy was created in 1802 mainly to provide a professional education for home-grown engineers . The founding of the American Society of Civil Engineers in 1852 marked the beginning of formal organization among American technologists and the flowering of professional selfawareness . The Morrill Act , passed in 1862 , established the land-grant colleges , the main purpose of which was to provide instruction in the mechanical arts and agriculture . The following year Congress issued a charter to the National Academy of Sciences , a private , non-profit , self-governing membership corporation . ( The National Academy of Engineering and the Institute of Medicine became distinct affiliated entities in 1964 and 1970 , respectively . ) Although the Academy has retained its status as a private organization , it performs services for the government , primarily through studies commissioned by various  | federal agencies . The National Research Council , created in 1916 , is the operating arm through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , founded in 1951 , is an agency of the federal government whose primary function is to support worthy scientific and technical enterprise , primarily through academic grants . The Office of Science and Technology Policy is part of the executive branch of the government ; the Office of Technology Assessment serves the Congress . These and a multitude of other government agencies , academies , professional societies , foundations , and industrial associations make it their business to monitor , shape , and support engineering in America . The most comprehensive recent examination of the profession was conducted from 1983 to 1986 by the National Research Council through a Committee on the Education and Utilization of the Engineer . Entitled " Engineering Education and Practice in the United States , " 2 the study was funded by the National Science Foundation , the Departments of the Army , Navy , and Air Force , NASA , and the Department of Energy . Additional grants were provided by Eastman Kodak , Exxon , General Electric , IBM , Lockheed , Monsanto , and the Sloan Foundation . One element of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D.C. , featuring papers presented by numerous historians of technology . As a member of one of the subcommittees that participated in the project , I attended the seminar and , thinking back on the occasion , recall basking in an almost uninterrupted testimonial to the achievements of my profession . I do n't believe the historians set out to praise engineers , but the facts spoke for themselves . Whenever the nation has called upon its engineers , they have responded magnificently . For example , when the supply of German synthetic organic chemicals was cut off during World War I , research laboratories and manufacturing plants were speedily established , and academic programs in chemical engineering proliferated . While additional chemical  | engineers were being educated , scientists and engineers from other disciplines stepped into the breach . Not only were the needs of the nation attended to , but in short order the United States became a worldwide leader in the field . The early days of the petroleum industry reveal similar skill , adaptability , and cross-germination between specialties . In 1920 there were only two university @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , mining engineers and geologists , along with other engineers and scientists , did the work that needed doing . The supply of petroleum engineers gradually increased to meet demand . The 1973 oil embargo created another crisis that was met in the short run by engineers who moved into the field from related specialties . Other successful responses are to be found in the development of weapons , particularly in the atom bomb Manhattan Project , and in the fabulous Apollo lunar-landing program . Transport , water supply , sanitation , communications , manufacturing , building construction , computers ? it is difficult to think of an expressed societal need to which engineers have not responded with ingenuity , resilience , energy , and dedication . If engineers have not created Utopia , or even mapped out the road to that fabled land , this has less to do with their inadequacies than with the ever-changing objectives of our society as a whole . The competence of American engineers simply can not be questioned . It has been a significant national resource ? indeed , a national treasure ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the highest levels . In its development , the American engineering profession has drawn upon two competing yet complementary traditions : the hands-on , muddy-boots pragmatism inherited from Britain and the elite , science-oriented approach of the French polytechnique . Science and mathematics gradually have taken a central position , with emphasis being placed upon their creative application . The less theoretical " hardware " aspects of technology have been delegated in part to graduates of two-year technician courses and  | four-year programs in engineering technology . Pure science has been left to the scientists . Business management has developed into a discipline of its own , although economic parameters remain central to an engineer 's tasks . But while engineers have performed miracles , and seen their profession grow to ever higher levels of knowledge and skill , it has not been without cost . The increasing technical content of even the most elemental engineering education has inevitably changed the nature of that education , forcing out peripheral concerns and all but eliminating the liberal arts that once were the heart of the college experience . Inescapably , engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ background and interests ? in a word , less " cultured . " Engineering education in America came into being as undergraduate education , and its basic degree has always been the four-year bachelor of science . This differs from other fields ? notably medicine , law , and business administration ? in which a general bachelor 's degree is followed by two or more years of specialized graduate school . Many authorities have recommended that engineering adopt a minimum five-year course for entry into the profession . This has been tried from time to time at several institutions , but except for the Thayer School at Dartmouth College , all have reverted ? under the pressure of economic competition ? to the four-year program . A few engineering students voluntarily earn a bachelor of arts degree prior to the engineering B.S. But the vast majority take no more than a half-dozen non-technical courses during their undergraduate years , and of these most are likely to be in the " useful " social sciences rather than the " useless " humanities such as literature , history , and philosophy . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduates , are , of course , totally technical . ) A century or more ago it was possible to combine liberal learning with technical training in a four-year engineering curric-  | ulum . There were few texts , a shortage of qualified professors , and no great abundance of engineering substance to be taught . Moreover , early engineering educators ? Benjamin Franklin Greene at R.P.I. , William Barton Rogers at M.I.T. , Andrew Dickson White at Cornell ? perceived the liberal arts as an integral part of any engineer 's education . In 1867 , one-third of M.I.T. 's mechanical engineering program consisted of languages and humanities . However , with the exponential growth of engineering knowledge and the expanding technological needs of a young nation , the situation changed rapidly . Technical content increased , proponents of the four-year program stood firm against expansion of the course , and liberal education was perforce squeezed out . Eventually , to forestall complete vocationalizing of engineering education , leaders of the profession agreed upon a minimum 12 ? percent liberal arts component for accredited curricula . This translates into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while even this meager portion provided the young engineer with a slight introduction to the general culture , especially since broad survey courses such as Western Civilization or /-Great Works of Literature were widespread . Doubtless this is what Herbert Hoover had in mind when he wrote about " wider learning in the humanities . " But these courses fell into disrepute , scorned by students during the rebellions of the sixties , and readily abandoned by academicians who regarded them as superficial and lacking in rigor . Concurrently , the social sciences took over an ever larger portion of the liberal arts curriculum . So the plain truth is that most American engineers do not read the " great books , " do not study the history of their nation or any other , and are effectively cut off from humanistic , philosophical , civilizing education . While the scientific content of engineering grew , and the liberal element of engineering education diminished , the profession increasingly attracted the sons of rural and blue-collar families , young men to whom the arts and humanities held little appeal . Psychological research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personality and outlook . In the 1950s an analysis of several studies of engineers revealed an unsettling profile : Constricted interests are apparent in their relative indifference to human relations , to psychology and the social sciences , to public affairs and social amelioration , to the fine arts and cultural subjects and even to those aspects of physical science which do not immediately relate to engineering.3 At the same time , the vast majority of engineers entered the ranks of industry as employees of large corporations and the percentage of engineers in private practice dropped accordingly . The " status " of the profession declined . I regret the passing of the venerable engineers of the nineteenth century , the Roeblings and their ilk , men of learning and artistic sensibility , scholars as well as doers , leaders who gave the profession an aura of true nobility . Herbert Hoover and a few others carried this tradition into the middle years of our own century , though such patricians have become increasingly rare . I dream of their return , and I intend to plead the cause of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ashes of vocational training . Before I do this , however , let me give due credit ? indeed , let me pay homage ? to the " ordinary " American engineer of the past one hundred years . One need not be a broadly educated scholar in order to be a topnotch engineer . The evidence is clear : The technical feats recounted at the seminar I referred to a moment ago were accomplished mostly by engineers of little liberal education and , in some respects , in defiance of ancient cultural values . The humanities as we know them hailed from Europe , and a century ago Americans had good reason to question their worth . The Old World had created a civilization rich in beauty and intellect ,  | but only within a framework of rigid class structure , religious intolerance , and perpetual war . Traditional liberal education did not so much " liberate " men and women as it defined those who were rich , held political power , and dealt unjustly with their fellows . As the American frontier was pushed westward , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleeing poverty and oppression , there was little place for the niceties of Continental culture . The schoolhouse and the Bible traveled with the pioneers , but respect for learning was infused with respect for hard work and technical ingenuity . Where classical learning did take hold ? mainly in the Eastern universities ? the old Platonic scorn for craftsmanship , imported from Oxford and Cambridge , served to alienate engineers and inspire them to seek alternative values . As the engineering sciences became in themselves richer and more intellectually demanding , engineers developed new self-esteem and began to challenge time-honored definitions of " higher education . " Is not an engineering problem as complex , intellectual , creative , and existentially fulfilling as a sonnet or a philosophical theorem ? And is not culture , isolated from useful accomplishment , a false measure of social superiority ? As a network of railroads spread across the continent , soon to be followed by mines , factories , cities , and an electric power grid , engineers took on the aura of heroes . An indication of how they were viewed can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novel of 1911 : It was the last night out . Supper was over and the men , with their pipes and cigarettes , settled themselves in various careless attitudes of repose after the long day . . . . All were strong , clean-cut , vigorous specimens of intelligent , healthy manhood , for in all the professions , not excepting the Army and Navy , there can be found no finer body of men than our civil engineers. '  | It is not surprising that engineers proudly came to think of themselves as men of action . ( I say men advisedly , because practically none of them were women . ) This robust image , developed while building railroads and drilling for oil , followed them into factories and mills and even into laboratories and drafting rooms . They fancied themselves doers , not readers of poems or admirers of paintings . In 1916 a professor of English at M.I.T. observed that engineers viewed " culture " as " a pose , impressive perhaps with some women , but scarcely effective among men . " 5 As late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted that engineers tended to be " rough , tough spirits " who took " pride in cultivating construction camp and barroom manners rather than the deportment that would grace a drawing room . " 6 If this was the feeling in Boston and New York , one can imagine what it was like farther west , where many of the nation 's engineers were raised and got their schooling . ( Into the 1960s rural areas and small towns produced more than half of America 's engineers ; when large cities contained one-third of the population they were producing only one-sixth of the engineers . ) Asked why it was that small-town boys from the Midwest dominated the engineering frontiers , Robert Noyce , co-inventor of the integrated circuit , who grew up in Grinnell , Iowa , said it was because of necessity . " In a small town , " he explained , " when something breaks down , you do n't wait around for a new part , because it 's not coming . You make it yourself . " 7 High culture meant little to small-town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tom Wolfe has observed that most of the major founders of Silicon Valley were reared and went to college in small towns in the Midwest and West . As for the Apollo Project , notes Wolfe , " It was engineers from the supposedly backward and narrow-minded boondocks who provided not only the genius but also the passion and the daring that won the space race .... " 8 In the big cities , too , boy tinkerers turned engineers found little appeal in the liberal arts . I have reported how in college I  | ? a city boy ? was swept up in the fascination of mathematics and the engineering sciences . But for all the narrowness of their interests and the limits of their education ? and probably in some cases because of their intense focus ? American engineers have done marvelous deeds . Even the psychological inadequacies revealed in numerous studies ? and reaching new extremes in the computer " hackers " of today ? have played a positive role in sublimated creativity . Surely engineering work has provided satisfactions for people whose lives might otherwise have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have repaid society many times over for the opportunity to follow their own particular paths of interest . Most engineers have found a degree of fulfillment in their profession that is , or should be , a source of envy for others . A recent poll shows that 75 percent of electrical engineers are " quite satisfied " or better with their working lives . A second poll indicates that only 9 percent are less than " moderately content . " More impressive still , the polls reveal that such discontent as there is stems mostly from employment conditions that prevent individuals from doing real engineering work . As for honesty , conscience , and good citizenship , I believe that engineers stand up extremely well when compared with other groups , particularly groups such as lawyers and business executives , who have had the benefit of a traditional liberal arts education . There does not appear to be any correlation between morality and book learning . I have met hundreds of engineers and engineering students who for all their unfamiliarity with literature , history , and the arts , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Small wonder that so many engineers and engineering educators resent being derided for lack of " culture " and resist attempts to increase either the length of the engineering college course or its liberal arts component . The system works as it is , they maintain , and who can gainsay them ? Society is well served and can ill afford to spend more time or resources on getting the engineers it so desperately needs . Indus-  | try is well satisfied . And prospective engineers , anxious to get on with their careers , are content . Besides , comes the impatient retort , in a technological age it is the technologically uninformed who are the true know-nothings . Nevertheless , there are widespread feelings that something is amiss . Even if the system does " work , " and even if most engineers and employers of engineers see little reason to change , a large and vocal minority are not at all satisfied . Uneasiness about the vocational emphasis in engineering is nothing new . In the 1860s an R.P.I. professor expressed apprehension about a " professional learning " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ill-developed intelligence , rather than a crowning dome upon the capacious body of a wellproportioned mental structure . " 10 In 1902 the president of Stanford complained , " We can not make an engineer in four years if we do anything else with him , and there are very many things besides engineering which go to the making of a real engineer . " 11 By 1920 , Charles Steinmetz , the great electrical engineer and star of GE 's laboratories , was calling for the " broadness of view and common sense which only a broad and general education can give . " He warned that " special training rather tends to narrow the view and incapacitate the man from taking his proper position as a useful member of society . " 12 In recent years , two things have happened to give such misgivings added urgency . The first is practical and relates to the need for engineers to be able to " communicate " in order to be effective . Paradoxically , as the technical content of engineering has grown , so has the need for engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work with other people on a non-numerical plane ? to listen , understand , explain , persuade , and empathize . Engineering is more a group enterprise ? a team effort , if you will ? than it used to be . According to the president of the Bethlehem Steel Company , engineers " must be able to logically present their information , thoughts , and discussions , both orally and  | in writing to others . The best idea in the world is worthless unless it can be sold ' to others . " 13 A vice president of the Dow Chemical Company endorses this concept and notes that it applies to situations beyond the corporate walls : " The ability to write and speak clearly with people outside of your particular discipline is becoming more and more a requirement for success or survival . The technical graduate entering industry today will , in all probability , spend a portion of his or her career explaining technology to lawyers ? some friendly and some not ? to consumers , to legislators or judges , to bureaucrats , to environmentalists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of engineers agree with the executive vice president of Deere &; Company who says that " the engineers coming into our industry today are the best we 've ever had , " but goes on to note that in the future , " we 'll need engineers who are articulate , who can write and speak concisely , effectively and persuasively and who will not be subject to cultural shock if involved in projects in the Middle East , the countries of the East Bloc , or even the People 's Republic of China . " 15 Again and again one hears the message repeated : More is and will be required of engineers than technical skills . A recent study by AT &T; found that engineers are only half as likely to attain senior management status as liberal arts graduates . ' 6 The Edison Electric Institute surveyed twenty public utilities and found a nearly unanimous call for engineers with a broader background in the humanities . ' 7 A certain amount of this clamoring for well-rounded engineers is mere lip service . I once heard a highly placed executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one engineer out of twenty to be eloquent and imaginative . I ca n't use a whole division full of hotshots ! " As an employer of engineers myself , I knew exactly what he meant . But one in twenty or nineteen in twenty ? whatever the appropriate ratio ? there is clearly a need for more engineers with richer experience in writing , reading , speaking , and thinking in broad , humanistic terms .  | The other source of heightened interest in liberal arts for engineers is the fear and suspicion of technology which emerged with the development of nuclear weapons , and intensified in the wake of the environmental crisis of the 1970s . Although the neo-conservative mood of the 1980s has seen an abatement of anti-technological sentiment , the feeling has grown that engineers should be aware of the social consequences of their work . Sensitized and enlightened engineers , it is claimed , will create technological products that are environmentally benign , aesthetically pleasing , and socially beneficial . I put the argument this way almost twenty years ago : Someone must step forward to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little safer , " " Let us build a factory that is more attractive , " " Let us consider the possible harmful effects of that insecticide before we market it , " " Let us develop a plant process that will not pollute the water we use , " " Let us make that machine a little quieter , " " Let us not demolish that historically precious old building , " " Let us locate that dam , not only where it will generate the most power but also where it will serve the interests of the community ? aesthetically , politically and socially ... . This " someone " can not be an ordinary citizen of good will . He must be able to bolster his arguments with facts ? technical , scientific , and economic . Hunches and sentiments will not be sufficient . His recommendations , in order to be persuasive , must be founded in a knowledge of resources , materials , and energy conversion ; statistics , probabilities , and decision theory ; computers , controls , and systems engineering . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be articulate . He must be esteemed . And he must have a highly developed moral  | and aesthetic sensibility . In short , he must be a liberally educated engineer.18 As I have made clear in subsequent writings ? and in earlier chapters of this book ? I now believe such a view to be simplistic . Partly this is because the world has changed . Technology is much more democratically controlled than it was when I wrote those words . The control comes from new laws , new regulations and regulatory agencies , new legal concepts concerning liability , new legal constraints on the self-government of professionals , new interest and study by the press and media , and vastly increased concern and involvement by the general public . Partly , also , I have learned by living and by reading a bit of history that the tastes , prejudices , and moral beliefs of individual engineers are not the decisive factors in the shaping of technology . Finally , I have found that the linkage of a liberal arts education to social conscience and political awareness is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bok of Harvard has admitted : " Formal education will rarely improve the character of a scoundrel. " 19 Obviously people with no college education at all can have superior ideas about how life should be lived and more particularly about how technology should be used . Having said all this , I am nevertheless convinced that the quality of our technology , and consequently the quality of our lives , would be improved by the liberal enrichment of engineering education , by the broadening of horizons , the deepening of cultural awareness ? in short , by the civilizing ? of engineers . Engineers are already civilized , to be sure . More than this , engineers are civilizers , since civilization in its most elemental sense means bringing humans physically out of the state of primitive savagery . Engineers are also among the most civil of citizens . But if they do not partake of the most sublime creations of civilization ? the arts and intellectual discourse ? they are not as civilized as they might be . And if they have talent and intelli-  | gence ( as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so much uncivilized as they are anti-civilization . Of course , the same can be said of " intellectuals " who ignore the great achievements of science and technology . In trying to comprehend this elusive topic , the metaphor of organic growth seems to me particularly apt . The " roots " of a civilized society are the technical accomplishments that relieve people of brute effort and make humanity possible . When we speak of the " fruits " of our efforts , of the " flowering " of civilization , we refer to art , philosophy , and science . If the fruits and the blossoms are not returned to nourish the soil , then life loses strength and its flowering becomes less radiant . Which is to say that if engineers exclude themselves from the grand cycle , if technology is not enriched by new beauty and insight , then the growth that follows is less luxuriant and all of humanity is the loser . The resort to metaphor implies the inability to adduce proof , and I confess that in part my argument is intuitive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more liberally educated our engineers the better will be our society as a whole . Several years ago there was quite a bit of interest in something called transcendental meditation , and I was deeply impressed by a statement made by its supporters . They claimed that if just one percent of the people in a community were meditating regularly , this would yield measurable benefits such as a reduction of mental illness and crime . The serenity of the meditators ( so goes the theory ) is diffused by personal contact . Cheer begets cheer , calm begets calm , politeness begets politeness , and so forth . Although I hold no brief for meditation as a source of serenity , I find the concept of beneficial diffusion both appealing and persuasive . By analogy , I see the liberal education of engineers as a source of amelioration for our technology and for our society . Enlightened , sensitive , broadly educated engineers ? civilized engineers ? would endow their work with an additional touch of grace ,  | and in their contact with fellow citizens would create a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exists today . The exact process by which this would occur might be obscure , but the ultimate benefit , I believe , is certain . Descending from the level of long-term vision to that of shortterm survival , I suggest that liberal education for engineers would bring members of the profession into leadership roles from which they are presently excluded , and that this , in turn , would bring significant economic and political benefits . More than a generation ago James Reston of The New York Times expressed the problem in these words : The politicians , and even the statesmen , are merely scrambling to deal with the revolutions in weapons , agriculture and industry created by the scientists and the engineers . The latter have transformed man 's capacity to give life , to sustain and prolong life , and to take life ; and the politicians no longer find that they can deal with all the new complexities and ambiguities .... 20 Politicians are not the only ones who are perplexed and overwhelmed by the pace of technological change . The crisis extends to every area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts , and more . Engineers do not have answers to all the great questions , but their absence from decision-making groups clearly works to our nation 's disadvantage . Their use as sometime " advisers " only partly compensates for their absence as principals . In Japan half the senior civil servants and half the industrial directors have engineering qualifications ; in the United States the figure does not exceed 15 percent , and the engineers who make up this relatively small group are concentrated in technical positions . The leaders of our society are almost exclusively men and  | women who have received a liberal arts college education . This may be partly custom and snobbery . But it could hardly be otherwise . For it is liberal education that transmits tradition , history , ideas , broad understanding of the world ? the shared knowledge and values that bind us together as a society . In this technological age our society needs technically knowledgable people in its highest councils , and engineers ? or some of them , at least ? should be trained accordingly . This impacts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American commonwealth . Also important for the well-being of society is the role that engineers can play in vitalizing and transmitting our cultural heritage . Large numbers of the brightest young people today want to be engineers . This is fine , but if becoming an engineer means turning one 's back on literature , history , and the arts , then who will be left to nurture our great cultural inheritance ? I do not want to leave culture to academic specialists and latter-day bohemians any more than I want to leave the running of the world to lawyers and MBAs . As for engineers who are concerned about the social status of their profession , liberalized education certainly is a cause worth championing . It is galling to hear a public relations man refer to the typical engineer as " this kind of faceless , anonymous character , " 21 and to learn that three out of four journalists agree that engineers are " wooden . " 22 To the extent that representatives of the profession become eloquent , informed , and broadly cultured , the problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not just a matter of superficial refinement , equipping oneself for " parlor conversation . " It comes down to recognizing that words and ideas are worthy of respect , and that important things happen in the parlors of this world as well as in its laboratories and offices . And while we are thinking about the advancement of society and the reputation of the engineering profession , let us not for-  | get the welfare of the individual engineering student . For the young engineer , liberal education will bring delight in the arts and an introduction to those insights of literature , history , and philosophy that so many engineers in their mature years regret having neglected . In an age when an increasing number of engineers will spend their working lives in large organizations , they need more than ever the personal discoveries and philosophical self-reliance that lie at the heart of the humanities . I am convinced also , as I tried to show in Chapter 2 , that a humanistic education helps engineers to appreciate the satisfactions inherent in their own professional work . Finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellect and exercising the imagination , can make engineers technically more able . The importance of written and oral communication in modern engineering work has already been noted . But beyond this , in the non-verbal creative recesses of the engineer 's mind , I believe that flexibility and variety ? poetry , art , music , stories , myths ? have a constructive role to play . I recognize that this is difficult , if not impossible , to prove , and that a case can be made for the creativity of the obsessively singleminded engineer . Nevertheless , there are many examples of broadly cultured scientists and engineers who derived technical inspiration from humanistic or artistic thought . I speak from conviction and a lifetime of experience , and I believe that what I say makes sense and should be convincing . But one can go just so far on reasoned argument . Let us move , then , from deduction to the inductive mode , from logic to observation . Let us look at the world and at the real people in it to see if we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth .  | The Civilized Engineer : ( 2 ) The People When I consider the relationship of technical thought to art and general culture , I think first of the nuclear physicists who have done so much to change our world , conceptually and tangibly , by their unlocking of the atom . I think of Albert Einstein at the age of fifteen reading Spinoza , as well as Euclid and Newton , and immersing himself in Beethoven and Mozart . All his life this great scientific genius read history , biography , and philosophical essays , wrote beautiful , contemplative prose , and played the violin . I think of Neils Bohr , who said that he arrived at the concept of complementarity by speculating on the ancient theological dilemma of the impossibility of reconciling perfect love with perfect justice . Of Max Born it was written that " his talents were so various that he might well have become a first-rate pianist or author . " Werner Heisenberg read Plato and was thrilled by the atomic theories of the ancient Greeks . According to a friend , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reading Goethe and " in the intervals " developed his ideas on quantum mechanics " in a kind of intellectual intoxication . " Wolfgang Pauli was said to have conceived of the exclusion principle while attending a musical revue , although in later years he maintained that the idea came to him " during a simple promenade . " 1 One sees them all in the mind 's eye , promenading along the streets of ancient university towns or on long walks in the countryside , quoting poetry , debating philosophy , and at the same time working out mathematical and physical concepts of sublime                     