@@774182

txt  | To the east there is a relatively narrow strip of land beginning at the northern tip of the Persian Gulf and arching around to include most of the present state of Israel . The regularity and adequate amount of precipitation received in this region has given it recognition as the Fertile Crescent . The productiveness of this Fertile Crescent has contributed to the rise of many ancient civilizations . Another area of green in an otherwise brown landscape is to be found in the southern tip of the Arabian Peninsula in what is today the Republic of Yemen . Here again , population reflects the availability of life giving water . Further to the west lies the Nile Valley and its well watered flood plains which have formed both the past and present core of Egyptian civilization . Upon leaving the life supporting nurture of this river the land turns barren and lifeless except for the occasional nomadic herding groups moving from oasis to oasis in search for water . Water , or the lack of it , has determined the basic pattern of human occupation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many of the world 's great civilizations of antiquity . Unfortunately increasing population pressures and expanding herds of domestic animals have led to the collapse of many highly developed water management systems and ultimately to the abandonment of great cities . This gradual expansion of desert regions is not a phenomenon of totally historical significance . Desertification is taking place in many areas today as marginal land is over grazed and poorly farmed until it will no longer support vegetation . It is apparent that man has not yet won his battle with the desert in this region . Faded Glory Contained within this region are two of the major cultural hearths or initial core areas of major civilizations . The land between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers , Mesopotamia , saw the early domestication of plants and animals , thus giving birth to a highly sophisticated , urban-oriented , civilization . Large cities of over 10,000 population emerged under the leadership of priest-kings some 5,000 years ago . These urban concentrations , although not unified as a single political state , formed the nucleus for an advanced culture which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its crossroads position encouraged the diffusion of ideas and material items such as bronze tools and weapons over a vast area . Today the modern country of Iraq has brought unity to this hearth area and draws much of its national pride from a great but distant past . Egypt also has a past of greatness upon which to focus efforts toward the development of nationalistic pride . Again , urban centers reflecting a highly complex and specialized social/economic structure , emerged along the lifegiving Nile River nearly 5,000 years ago . The massive monuments remain in place today as reminders of this past glory and as a lasting enticement for  | world tourists . The ideas originating here have traveled far , and the concepts of science , philosophy , and political organization which led to this greatness may be found in many corners of the globe , forming the foundations of what is often called " western " civilization . While these two cultural hearths dominate the scene of this ancient land , nearly all existing modern nations in the region can point to evidence of past greatness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these great civilizations declined and their artifacts , or physical remains , surrendered to the ever-expanding deserts . Perhaps , as some believe , the gradually drying climate of the region forced the people to organize in order to meet the demands of ever-increasingly complex irrigation systems . Once losing this battle to overpopulation and overextension of a limited environmental base , they dispersed in many directions seeking the essentials of survival and leaving their once great cities to the sands . As power declined in this region , the vacuum was filled by a succession of influences originating further to the west . Much of this entire region was at one time dominated by the highly organized and politically efficient Roman Empire . Following the decline of Roman control , successive regional empires influenced , if not totally governed , the region until the emergence of the Ottoman Empire , which lasted until the end of World War I. Turkey , the political seat of power in the Ottoman Empire , sided with Germany and at the conclusion of hostilities the empire was dismembered and vast areas which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or British control . Syria and Lebanon joined the French colonies of Tunisia , Algeria and Morocco while the British administered Palestine , Iraq , Trans- From this rather recent European administration emerged the present political boundaries of the states within this region . This fragmentation into over two dozen independent countries , many with recently established and sometimes arbitrary boundaries , has set the stage for much of the region 's present conflicts and unequal levels of development . Black Gold ? Petroleum As the western world became increasingly committed to the internal combustion engine and the petrochemical industry , the importance and ultimate power of this region increased greatly . It is estimated that beneath the burning sands of this harsh environment lies over 60 percent of the world 's petroleum reserves . While the Arabian peninsula , led by Saudi Arabia , possesses the bulk of these reserves , Iran , Iraq , Libya , and Algeria all benefit from this rather recent source of wealth . ( Figure 8.2 ) This newfound wealth has proven to be a mixed blessing for these nations . Internationally , eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) nations are located here ,  | Figure  | but serious differences among the member nations have reduced this organization 's effectiveness in controlling both volume of production and price . Internally , this sudden wealth has placed serious strains upon traditional societies which are attempting rapid modernization . The fall of the Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi in Iran reflects at least partly the results of tensions resulting from sudden social/cultural change induced by oil wealth . Excessively rapid urbanization and inflation have further compounded the development problems of these countries and the gap between rural traditional living and modern urban life styles produced serious tensions . The developed world 's thirst for petroleum has also moved these nations into the middle of big power competition and they are finding it difficult to maintain a significant degree of self-direction . Increasingly , domestic problems have become the concern of external powers who find that they must exert varying degrees of influence within the internal affairs of the oil rich nations to assure their access to their critically needed oil supplies . In search of self-determination and regional identity , most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islam Islam , which means submission to the will of God ( Allah ) , is both a religion and the foundation for a total way of life . It originated in 610 A.D. when the prophet Mohammed began to receive visions from Allah 's messenger Gabriel while meditating in a cave near Mecca . The messages of Gabriel continued for a twenty-two year period and were recorded by a scribe to become the Moslem holy book , the Koran . The initial guidance called for the recognition of but one God and a simple , personalized and direct form of worship . Since many forms of idolatry and ritual were a profitable religious business in Mecca at the time , Mohammed quickly became unpopular with the wealthy power elite . Forced to flee Mecca in 622 A.D. he went to Yathrib , which later became known as Medina , " City of the Prophet " This flight , or hegira , marks the beginning of the Moslem era . After Mohammed 's victorious return to Mecca ten years later and the destruction of the idols at the religious center , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The expansion diffusion from this hearth , in what is today Saudi Arabia , spread Islam from the Atlantic coast of North Africa through the Indian subcontinent to the present state of Indonesia within four centuries . The uncomplicated nature of basic Islamic belief is reflected in the Five Pillars of Faith . These pillars or foundations are : 1 ) confession of faith by the acceptance of but one God , Allah , and his prophet Mohammed ; 2 ) dawn , noon , afternoon , sunset and nightfall prayers ; 3 ) almsgiving to the needy ; 4 ) daytime fasting during the ninth lunar month or Ramadan ; and 5 ) one pilgrimage or hajj to Mecca in a lifetime .  | Picture This basic simplicity made it possible for the average peasant to accept Islam and , along with a very aggressive , often forceful , approach to conversion , led to the rapid diffusion or spread of this religion . ( Photograph 8.2 ) This diffusion introduced Islam to many races and cultures where it was modified in practice , resulting in the wide regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originated from the death of the Prophet and the resulting dispute over his successor . One group of followers maintained that , according to their interpretation of his teachings , the new leader of Caliph should be elected . This group , known as the Sunnis , clashed with the Shia group who felt that direct hereditary succession should be followed . Today the Sunnis account for nearly 90 percent of the Moslem population , with the Shias concentrated in Iran and having minority status in Iraq and Pakistan . Today all of the countries which fell within the sphere of the " Islamic world " are building or rebuilding a new sense of national identity after centuries of western dominated colonial administration . Differing in race , language , economic and cultural backgrounds , these countries have found that Islam can form the basis for unique , non-western nationalism and to a lesser extent a thread of unity among themselves . The origin of Pakistan , the foundations for  | the new regime in Iran , the basis of the conflict with Israel , the conservatism in Saudi Arabia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a reawakening of Moslem awareness . Geopolitical Significance One of the fascinating aspects of geographic map study is to combine a known historical past and present economic/political fact with visible physical features and identify strategic locations . The Middle Eastern region is particularly illustrative of this concept . ( Figure 8.3 ) Looking at a map of this region , one is immediately struck by the number of narrow passages connecting major water bodies . The Suez Canal , after completion in 1869 , became a critical but militarily vulnerable connecting link between Europe and her Asian trading partners . Closure of this waterway would , and did , during the Israeli-Egyptian conflict of 1967 , force an expensive detour route around Africa . Once through this constricted passage , ships still had to navigate the narrow passage between the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden , also subject to possible closure . To the north , in Turkey , the Black Sea is connected to the Mediterranean by the narrow Straits of Dardanelles and the Bosporus . While not immediately appearing to be strategically significant , further observation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Mediterranean for both the commercial and military vessels of the U.S.S.R. The narrowness of this water passage , crossed by a bridge at Istanbul , makes them subject to strategic blockage at the time of any military disturbance and is a source of continued concern by the Soviet military leaders . While looking at this situation , you will also note that the Soviet controlled Caspian Sea has no outlet to international water bodies . Further to the east is the Persian Gulf , providing a highway for the supertankers transporting the essential petroleum from this oil rich area to Europe and Japan . As the Persian Gulf enters the Gulf of Oman and the Arabian Sea , the passage is restricted at the Strait of Hormuz . Any blockage of these straits would critically damage the industrial capacity of the fuel hungry developed nations by removing their primary fuel source . Political instability in Iran and the increasing Soviet presence in the area ( Afghanistan and perhaps Iran ) raise these straits to the level of international concern . Turning our attention to the land mass in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Arc of Crisis , " let us consider Iran and Afghanistan . The Soviet military presence in Afghanistan , beginning in 1979 , and its pro Soviet government has extended their strategic position one step closer to the warm water ports that Russia has sought for centuries . Afghanistan itself has existed as a mutually accepted buffer state , first between expanding Russian interests in central Asia and the British Indian colonial empire and later between the U.S.S.R. and western oriented Pakistan . Today that  | buffer has been removed and , from the standpoint of the United States , Pakistan has become a " frontline country . " It is feared by many geopolitical specialists that the political instability in neighboring Iran could lead to a rapid expansion of Soviet influence if not control in that country . Control of Afghanistan and Iran would place the Soviet Union in a position to dominate the critical Persian Gulf oil region while securing both a new source of petroleum and their long desired warm water ports . If this should happen , their control over the critical fuel supplies of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Arabian Sea and Indian Ocean greatly increased . Again , history , relative location and " big power " conflicts can move a poorly developed , remote country , such as Afghanistan into the forefront of strategic military and political planning . The Arabs and Jews One of the current points of conflict is the clash between the Jewish state of Israel and her Islamic Arab neighbors . With the fall of the Ottoman Empire after World War I , Britain was assigned control over the mandate of Palestine in the eastern Mediterranean . From that time , until the 1940 's , they quietly supported the concept for the establishment of a Jewish homeland as called for by an increasingly vocal Zionist movement . Zionists believed that they had a legal and moral claim to the territory of Palestine which the Jews had been forced to leave centuries before . When the facts of the Holocaust , or mass persecution and execution of Jews in Europe during World War II became known , there was a tremendous ground swell of support for the Zionists ' goals . In 1946 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of Jordan , and the territory of Palestine which was further partitioned by the United Nations . The United Nations partition allocated 55 percent of all Palestine to the rapidly growing Jewish population , displacing in the process many longtime Arab residents . This plan was never implemented and upon the declaration of the new state of Israel in 1948 , the surrounding Arab nations declared war . At the cessation of hostilities , Israel had not only protected itself but extended its territory further into Arab held lands . Since this initial clash , a state of hostile confrontation has existed between Israel and her neighbors . In 1967 and again in 1973 open conflict has broken out , each time with Israel expanding the territories occupied by her forces . Even with international efforts to achieve a solution to the confrontation , it appears that tensions will remain high for many more years . The Palestinian refugee problem is perhaps the most serious barrier to negotiated settlement . In the 1948 war , over 750,000 Palestinian Arabs fled from their homeland to the neighboring states of Jordan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed to return to Israel and not fully absorbed into their host countries , have formed several militant organizations seeking some form of restoration  | of their land . The Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) is the most vocal and recognized of these groups . Control of the holy city of Jerusalem has been another point of friction . As a holy place to Christians , Jews and Moslems , Jerusalem was to have been internationalized , but since 1967 has been under the control of Israel , a major source of irritation to the neighboring Moslem populations . Deep seated distrust , Palestinian refugees and control of territory seized in war have all combined to promote a strong and continuous Arab pressure against Israel 's very existence . To further complicate matters , Israel is one of the most modern and developed nations in this region . The influx of skilled labor , backed by substantial financial support from European and American Jewish organizations , has advanced the Israeli economic structure far beyond the very limited agricultural , mineral and fuel base of the country would suggest . Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raw materials and fuel in an area where such supplies are constantly threatened . To the immediate north of Israel lies another country which is both an exception to the Islamic nature of the Middle East and one of the most internally disturbed . Until 1975 , Lebanon and its capital Beirut thrived as a banking and trade center , establishing a very cosmopolitan atmosphere bringing Beirut recognition as the " Paris of the Middle East " This peace and prosperity was based upon a balance of power between the two religious factions established under the French in the 1930 's . In time Moslem population growth rates far exceeded those of the Christians , thus throwing the governmental representative formula out of date but not out of practice . In 1975 civil war broke out between the groups and governmental control further deteriorated . Fueling the fires of unrest , a large number of Palestinian refugees had entered the country from Israel and formed squatter settlements which often harbored guerilla forces , making them targets for Israeli air strikes and military thrusts . To bring some degree of stability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emerged . Unfortunately , this action has further disturbed Israel , who was constantly on the alert lest military forces move close to her borders . This situation led to the Israeli invasion of Lebanon in 1982 and the subsequent dispersal of the PLO based there . The future of this area is extremely uncertain and many armed and conflicting groups still vie for power . At the present , the country and Beirut are in an economic and physical shambles , with much of the former economic influence shifting to Egypt . Egypt and the Persian Gulf States The ancient civilization core of Egypt grew from the waters of the Nile River and was protected by vast expanses of desert . Today , with the advent of modern technology , Egypt is no longer able to enjoy the security of isolation from its neighbors , but the Nile still provides the foundation for survival . Nearly  | 95 percent of her population lives within the Nile Valley , drawing their existence from the irrigated fields which flank the river . Beyond this valley extend vast deserts unsuited to habitation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been able to maintain a high degree of leadership , partially from her central location and recently from the relative degree of political stability which exists within the country . The construction of dams , the largest of which is the Aswan High Dam , completed in 1971 , has significantly altered the use and productivity of the Nile Valley . This dam , and its reservoir Lake Nassar provide for controlled perennial irrigation . This form of irrigation is rapidly replacing the dependence on seasonal flooding to deliver water to the fields and has greatly increased the acreage of land under cultivation . This expansion of agriculture and food production is , however , threatened by a rapidly increasing population . Across the Red Sea lies Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf countries of Kuwait , Qatar , the United Arab Emirates ( U.A.E. ) , Oman , the Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen and Yemen . Thinly populated and , except for Yemen , extremely arid , this region has recently become the focus of much world attention as the source of the world 's major petroleum reserves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a land of sharp contrasts . Huge airfields , modern office buildings , and complex oil fields exist sideby-side with nomadic Bedouin tribes and centuries of tradition . Wealth also has placed strains upon the traditional feudalistic leadership patterns of the region as a new , educated generation moves from tents to computer terminals . Saudi Arabia is presently exploring her vast western regions for resources which could help diversify a nearly total dependence upon oil as a source of income . Even if anticipated sources of alternate mineral wealth are developed , it is unlikely that the vast interior expanses of desert will ever be heavily populated . It is within this setting that the major western powers and Japan must maneuver to secure and protect their vital sources of petroleum . Thus the region finds itself beneficiary to petroleum 's great wealth but also the focus of international tensions and conflicts of interest between major world powers . Northwest Africa ? The Maghreb Turning our attention to the extreme western area of this region , we find four Islamic countries of great variety . Libya , neighboring Egypt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite its vast land area . Further west lie the states of the true Maghreb : Tunisia , Algeria and Morocco . Experiencing a rich and turbulent past , these countries have been under the control of Phoenicians , Romans , Arabs ( which produced the Moors who invaded southern Europe ) , Ottoman Turks , and finally the French and Spanish . This last colonial period produced much of their promise for development .  | The Atlas Mountains , which parallel the coastline from Morocco to Tunisia , force the prevailing incoming air masses upward producing precipitation ranging up to 30 inches . This orographic effect has created valuable agricultural land , where at the end of the mountains in Libya there otherwise would be desert . This fertile land was rapidly taken up by the European colonial settlers who became wealthy landlords with vast holdings producing grapes , olives , citrus crops and dates . The native population became landless tenant labor on these farms . Upon withdrawal of the Europeans peacefully in Morocco and Tunisia and after an eight year revolution in Algeria , these farms rapidly declined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Poverty and underdevelopment are the present lot of the people . Oil , iron ore and other mineral resources have been developed in these countries for export to Europe , but the condition of the average peasant has changed little . Oil also has brought great wealth to Libya , who does not possess agricultural lands as do the other nations . This wealth and its small population have provided Libya with the means to become the financial backer for the more radical Islamic states while building a large , well equipped modern army . Transition Zone Stretching across Africa south of the Sahara Desert lies a zone of transition from the Islamic cultural traditions of the north to those of central " Black Africa . " This zone , while reflecting a historical and climatic transition between two distinctive life styles , is one of extreme fragmentation . Within the existing political states of Mauritania , Mali , Niger , Chad , Sudan , Ethiopia and Somali exist conflicting religious and tribal groups . Much of this regionalism is a result of political boundaries drawn by European colonial powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previously existing groups of homogeneous people were being divided . Upon independence , the existing boundaries were inherited by the new nations , along with the inter and intra nation conflicts which occurred . Today this zone is highly prone to regionalized military conflict while levels of economic development remain quite low . The increased threat of famine , as desertification expands the Sahara southward , and rapidly expanding populations further reduce the quality of life in this area . Unity and Diversity While no attempt has been made to detail the geography and economy of each country in this region , it should be apparent that levels of development vary considerably . Not all nations have oil fields and as a result do not have access to the sudden wealth , such as that found in Saudi Arabia . On the other  | hand , Israel has developed an advanced industrial and agricultural society based upon imported raw materials and extensive irrigation . Perhaps the most significant aspect of this region , the eastern section particularly , is its strategic location and general political instability . Areas such as this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power interests in the process . With the increasing revival of Islamic fundamentalism acting as a focus of nationalism , the entire region could remain in a disturbed state for many years to come . For Research and/or Discussion 1 . Using current news sources , attempt to define the United States and Soviet interests and relationships with each of the Middle eastern nations . 2 . Define the differences between " westernization " and " modernization " and indicate the role of Islamic revivalism in re-establishing national identity in the Middle East . 3 . Trace the history of Iran from the Persian Empire to the present and attempt to anticipate future changes . 4 . Gather data on the Nile irrigation and water use system and identify both the advantages and dangers present . 5 . Research and present state of knowledge and theory concerning climatic change in North Africa and establish a thesis based upon this information . Footnote  | South Asia is thrust into the underside of the Eurasian continent and is effectively demarcated as a sub-continent by rugged northern mountain barriers . Politically , it includes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nepal and Sri Lanka . This is a land of physical and climatic extremes . Some of the highest mountains in the world rise in northern India and Nepal , while lowland Bangladesh faces the constant threat of flooding . Lush green rice paddies of southern India cast a striking contrast to the dusty and arid Thar Desert . Searing temperatures of 130 ? F. stand in stark contrast to shimmering ice-capped mountains . ( Figure 9.1 ) As diverse as these physical features are , they take a poor second when compared with the bewildering array of cultures , languages and religions . Many of these differences form the foundations of recent political history and present tensions . In 1947 , the British colonial empire which had been expanding in power and territory since 1600 withdrew rapidly . With the removal of an external governing power , tensions long present burst to the surface in bloody conflict . As Hindu India , Moslem Pakistan and Buddhist Sri Lanka emerged simultaneously amidst the Cold War geopolitical struggles of Asia , this region assumed enormous strategic and economic significance . Physiographic Regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is difficult to generalize . It is possible to identify three broad physical regions . First are the mountains and highlands that begin in Baluchistan , curve into the Kashmir Himalayan ranges of the north and swing southward to the Bay of Bengal as the Asian uplands . This rugged band not only discourages easy flow of people from surrounding areas into South Asia , but encourages a fiercely independent , self-reliant attitude among the people who call it home . This independent attitude is particularly evident in the Northwest , where the colonial British , and today the Pakistani government , were never able to establish any significant control . The second broad region is the river valleys and plains which support some of the largest agricultural populations in the world . The Indus River may be  | traced to its headwaters in the Himalayas from the marshy delta on the Arabian Sea . Historically , this river has given life to such ancient cities as Mohenjo Daro and Harappa . Today , the Indus River and its tributaries provide the critical irrigation for the essentially arid land of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derives its water is the Ganges River . This river system has produced an agriculturally productive plains region of such importance that it has a sacred place in Hindu thought . The productivity of this region has encouraged one of the most densely settled regions in the world . As the Ganges swings sharply to the South and the Bay of Bengal , it is joined by the Brahmaputra River which has its origin in the northern valleys of the Himalayas . The Brahmaputra follows a course eastward until it abruptly turns to the southwest in Assam . It is here and in low lying Bangladesh that its waters contribute to agriculture and settlement , as well as disastrous flooding . The third major region is the triangular portion of southern India , known as the Deccan Plateau . This region rises very abruptly in the west along the Arabian Sea with a mountain range called the Western Ghats and slopes eastward until it reaches the Bay of Bengal . The coastal region of the west receives great amounts of orographic precipitation as moisture from the Arabian Sea is forced over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much drier and subject to periods of intense drought between monsoons . Climate Nearly all of this region is subject to the seasonal monsoons which form the dominant climatic influence . The term monsoon simply means a season which , in turn , is influenced by the direction of prevailing air flow over the subcontinent . In the winter season , the air moves from the interior toward the surrounding water bodies , bringing hot , dry conditions to the interior . In late spring , starting around June 1st , the winds begin to shift and blow inland from the coast . This warm , moisture-laden air brings welcome relief to the intensely hot and dry interior where temperatures reach 120 ? - 130 ? F. The influence of the summer monsoon gradually penetrates deeper and deeper into the land , reaching the foothills of the Himalayas around September . ( Figure 9.2 ) This moisture is the life-giving support for hundreds of thousands of agricultural people and a weak monsoon , or one that fails to penetrate far enough , produces famine and much suffering . Monsoons that come too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crops . Precipitation is so critical to survival that a dark , cloudy picture is viewed in South Asia with the same pleasurable feeling that a sunny scene is viewed in England , where water is always available .  | The monsoon pattern produces three distinct seasons : the rainy season , where daily , often heavy , showers are common ; the mild , green growing season ; and the increasingly dry and hot season which produces dust storms and great discomfort . Religion and History In South Asia religion has played a role of extreme importance in shaping the culture and political structure of the region . Hinduism , the world 's oldest functioning religion , is as much a total way of life as a religion in the more narrowly defined Western sense . Central to Hindu belief is the concept of Brahman , or Supreme Being . As the Supreme and all being , Brahman is beyond human comprehension in a real sense and is worshipped in many , more specific and understandable forms . Thus the Hindus do not exactly worship many gods , they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Power of great complexity . Ancient myths have these gods , particularly Vishnu , returning to earth in human or animal form to aid man with superhuman powers against the forces of evil or natural disaster . According to Hindu belief , each living animal and person has a soul . At death , this soul transmigrates or moves to another body and is born again ( reincarnated ) . The soul does not die , but lives on while the body , which has served only as a container for the soul , has no purpose after death . Cremation , where the body is burned after death , is viewed as a means of liberating the soul and removing an unclean , unnecessary body .  | Perhaps the most identifiable aspect of Hindu society to the Westerner is the " sacred cow . " In India the cow holds a position of great spiritual respect and practical service . As a provider of power , milk and ultimately leather , the cow more than earns her meager keep . Practically no land is devoted to the production of cattle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In a region of limited wood supply , the cow also provides a major source of fuel through manure which is gathered , dried in cakes and burned . The cow , in providing so much for the needs of the people , has repaid their spiritual respect as a " mother " image . Throughout the centuries Hinduism has exhibited a remarkable degree of flexibility and strength . Today it forms a common point of shared values and rituals serving to unite the otherwise extremely diverse people of India . The caste system also developed at this time . Beginning as a broad stratification of society , it became increasingly intricate and structured , determining and controlling all levels of society . Unlike the western concept of class , where upward or downward mobility is possible within a lifetime , the caste system is more rigid . One is born into a caste and remains in that caste until death . If a proper life has been followed , according to the restrictions of that particular caste , the spirit will be reborn into a higher caste . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spirit to achieve release from this cycle and to enter a state of Nirvana , comparable to heaven . Although officially frowned upon by the government , this centuries old system finds continued acceptance by the millions who find it a traditional way of life . Reacting against the restrictions of the caste system , and seeking enlightenment through withdrawal from the physical world , Prince Siddhartha , who became known as Buddha , started his teaching . Under the benevolent rule of Asoka ( 273 ? 232 B.C. ) Buddhism was vigorously disseminated to the outside world setting the basis for the present extent of Buddhist influence in Asia . When this empire collapsed in the second century A.D. , regional conflicts and general fragmentation resulted while Hinduism reasserted itself in the region of its origin . It was into this disorganized condition that Islam spread into northern India from Persia and Afghanistan in the 10th century . Highly organized and disciplined , the Moslem invaders quickly converted the local people to the teachings of Mohammed . In the Indus valley region , this conversion was nearly 100 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Upper Ganges Plains . The force of this Islamic impact declined toward the south and the dominantly Dravidian Hindu retained a hold on southern India . Islam , emerging from the Middle East , was an alien faith to South Asia and introduced further development of an already complex cultural , linguistic and religious structure . By the late 1600 's , the Mogul empire controlled nearly all of South Asia with the exception of the extreme southern portion of the Indian Peninsula .  | Picture Although this political control was reasonably stable , many conflicts of religion and culture simmered beneath the surface bursting forth from time to time , challenging the existing order . It was at this time that yet another influence impacted sharply upon the subcontinent . British merchants seeking raw materials for an expanding Industrial Revolution and potential markets for manufactured goods entered in the form of the East India Company . This trade oriented business enterprise rapidly capitalized upon the internal conflicts , particularly those between Hindu and Moslem , and established itself as a new political master of the area and in effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompanied by increasing difficulty in maintaining effective administration and in 1857 , a rebellion occurred which saw the removal of authority from the East India Company to the British government . From this time until 1947 , South Asia was governed directly as a colony by the British parliament and authority was maintained through military force . ( Photograph 9.1 ) By 1947 , South Asia had become a turbulent maze of religious , linguistic , cultural and historic patterns held in place by British force alone . Increasing pressures had been building during the 1900 's for independence from colonial  | rule . This movement was particularly associated with conflicting interests between Hindus and Moslems . In the 1930 's , a strong drive for a separate Moslem state was being led by Islamic activists . The western portion , including the Indus valley and western Punjab region , was predominantly Moslem as was the Bengali region at the mouth of the Ganges . The area between was an uneven mix of both Hindu and Islamic religions with Hinduism dominating . It was felt by the Moslem population that an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expense of the Moslems and that a separate Islamic state must be created at the time of independence . Political Structure On August 14 , 1947 , this independence was officially gained and the emergence of the Hindu state of India and the Islamic , divided state , of Pakistan resulted . Since the distribution of Moslems in South Asia was concentrated in two separate areas , to the west and east of India , Pakistan became a nation of two segments . The process of drawing boundaries was done quickly by a British commission and based upon 1941 census data . Obviously , this required the superimposition of boundaries through regions long settled by Moslem and Hindu alike . The result was mass migrations of people on a scale seldom seen in the world and the fires of distrust and hatred long smoldering produced one of the bloodiest civil conflicts in history . Having been born with questionable boundaries and in the heat of bitter passion , it should be no surprise that the relations between India and Pakistan remain strained even today with mutual distrust and frequent conflicts over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Pakistan and moist East Pakistan reached the breaking point . Linguistic , economic and cultural differences overcame the thin bond of religious unity and civil war resulted . East Pakistan , aided by an India anxious to weaken her neighbor , successfully separated from Pakistan and became the new nation of Bangladesh or " land of Bengalis . " The nation of India in the meantime had successfully forged a federal system of government recognizing internal linguistic and religious differences . Strong leadership and flexibility in regional autonomy allowed the dominantly Hindu nation to become the most populous democratic nation in the world . The small island of Sri Lanka ( formerly Ceylon ) is another independent country emerging in 1948 . Populated by people of North Indian Aryan origin , this country has maintained a predominantly Buddhist religion and a native Sinhalese language . The present south Indian Tamil-speaking Dravidian minority population was imported by the British to provide the much needed labor force for the island 's plantation oriented economy . Today , tea , accounting for nearly two-thirds of the nation 's exports , is followed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of agriculture , much of which is now under government control .  | Linguistic , cultural , and economic development problems continue to plague this predominantly agricultural nation . To the north , the mountain kingdoms of Nepal , Bhutan and Sikkim have all been struggling with high population growth and slow economic development . Sikkim has been absorbed by federated India for strategic reasons , while Nepal and Bhutan have experienced a form of democratic reform from their former princely status . At the present , tensions remain high between India and Pakistan on the border question , particularly in the long disputed region of Kashmir . The recent disturbances along Pakistan 's western border with Afghanistan and Iran have highlighted the common linguistic and ethnic interests of these tribes on both sides of the international boundaries and raised the possibility of the emergence of a separate and independent Baluchistan . Economic Status At the time of initial European contact with South Asia , there existed rather significant industrial development and extensive trade connections . The British , pursuing their own colonial interests , reversed this situation by taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own industries . Local crafts and manufacturers suffered greatly as manufactured goods from England began to flow into the colony . This decline in local industry and crafts led to low levels of production and " underdevelopment " at the time of independence . ( Photograph 9.2 ) In all fairness , it must be noted that the colonial administration did contribute a very extensive system of roads and railroads , thus establishing the basis of a transport infrastructure . Canal systems , bringing irrigation and agricultural productivity to many areas , particularly the Punjab , had made it possible for the region to support its increasing population . Such " modern " port cities as Bombay , Calcutta , Madras and Karachi are all products of the colonial period . The dense population of these cities as well as the high population statistics for the interior village areas is due in large part to the introduction of European medical and health procedures . South Asia , at the present time , is attempting to increase agricultural productivity , while reducing population growth rates which are high by world standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the levels of Japan or Egypt , the farmers are far less productive . The typical peasant farmer ( representing over two-thirds of the population ) is illiterate , poor and unable to easily improve his soils , tools or seeds . Farms are generally small ( 11/2 acres or less ) and are often owned by absentee landlords , a situation which acts to reduce the incentive of the farmer . The Green Revolution of the 1960 's introduced new strains of wheat and rice which increased crop yield , but required heavy use of expensive fertilizers and irrigation , seems to have reached its peak of effectiveness in the early  | Photograph 9.2 . Typical of the low paying , hand labor of India is this girl pounding coconut hulls to produce fiber from which rope is made . Scenes of this nature are common in Karala State in southern India . ( C. R. Scull ) 1970 's . Rice yields of even the more moist areas are low per acre when compared with world standards . Unless agricultural productivity is increased markedly , this South Asia region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development have moved slowly since independence . Political and economic conflicts in Pakistan and Bangladesh have seriously retarded investment . India , while enjoying reasonable political stability , has found it difficult to industrialize at a pace equal to its population growth . It has , however , been making significant efforts to manufacture a wide range of goods , thus reducing its need to import expensive items such as automobiles , electrical equipment and tools . Unfortunately , recent oil price increases have affected this region seriously , as oil imports have assumed increasingly large segments of import expenses . India is particularly fortunate in having some of the world 's largest reserves of high-grade iron ore located in a close relationship to easily worked , highquality coking coal fields ( Figure 9.3 ) This situation has given rise to several large steel plants located in the Chota Nagpur region of the northeast , frequently referred to as the " Indian Ruhr " after its German counterpart . Cheap labor from the Calcutta region , one of India 's most densely populated , further  | encourages the growth of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southwest India has recently developed several iron ore fields whose production , lacking major coal deposits , has been largely directed toward export to other Asian nations , particularly Japan . It would appear that there are at least two Indias , the commonly held image of poverty , starvation , and cows roaming the streets ; and that of a highly developed , technologically sophisticated , modern industrial India . The government is constantly faced with budget conflicts of priority . Should more money be directed toward relieving urban and rural poverty or should it be invested  | in a highly sophisticated space program which has designed , manufactured and launched its own weather satellites ? India has designed and tested its own nuclear explosive device and thus entered a very select " club " of nations possessing that capability , but many rural villages are without fresh water or electricity . Regardless of where the budgetary emphasis is placed , it seems that unless a rapid population growth rate can be curbed , the per capita Gross National Product ( G.N.P. ) will remain low for the country as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have forced these countries to export raw or semi-finished materials to more developed countries to secure the necessary credit for imported goods . Pakistan is in a particularly difficult situation with a slowly developing agricultural sector and a very limited base in industrial raw materials . Their cotton textile industry is quite important , but finds itself facing stiff competition with the production of synthetic fibers of the developed world . It was economic , political and cultural tensions that led to the 1972 war and to the successful separation of East Pakistan from its governmental ties with West Pakistan . Economically , Bangladesh is in an extremely difficult position and is presently struggling to re-establish its agriculture , principally jute and rice , as well as a fledgling industrial base . Geopolitical Aspects of South Asia The extensive coastline of South Asia has raised the interests of continental , land-locked Russia for many centuries . In 1904 , Halford Mackinder defined the heartland theory of geopolitical power in Asia , emphasizing that the country or people who controlled the core of central Eurasia would ultimately dominate the fringe areas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whoever controlled the rimlands of Eurasia would be able to control the heartland . These two theories are presently finding direct application in a very practical sense . After World War II , the United States adopted a containment policy which sought to forge a ring of economic and military solidarity around the Soviet Union from Europe to the Far East and to prevent Soviet access to warm water ports in the Indian Ocean . Today , Soviet military activity in Afghanistan and economic/military alliances with India would seem to indicate that the game is still being played . The continuing border disputes between western Pakistan , Iran , and Afghanistan further complicate this region . The political boundaries demarcating these present nations were drawn through a region possessing common linguistic , ethnic and historic roots . Thus , the Pathans ( an ethnic linguistic group ) of Afghanistan and the Pathans of Pakistan have more in common with each other than with the central political administration of their respective countries . Frequent calls for an independent ethnic state of Pushtunistan have  | produced unrest and tension . Much of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of the central government . Much the same situation exists between the Baluchi-speaking people further south . Here , long standing resistance to external control has converted a thinly populated , climatically inhospitable region into one of great significance to the national governments of Iran , Pakistan and Afghanistan as well as the regional strategic interests of the great powers . The Baluchi territory historically , and today ethnically , overlaps all three national borders and a successful independence movement would seriously damage the national unity of the existing states . Such an action would also provide possible access to the Persian Gulf and Arabian Sea by the U.S.S.R. It is into this simmering political scene that Soviet activity can interject significant stimulus to achieve their ultimate goal of breaking through the rimland to the sea . In northeast India , the valley of the Brahmaputra and Assam regions have undergone numerous disturbances as the people of this region attempt to achieve greater autonomy from the central government . To the west , in the Punjab of India , similar autonomous movements have produced serious unrest . In attempting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pakistan have been forced to rely on military aid and trade contracts with their huge northern neighbors . India has developed mutual defense ties with the Soviet Union , while Pakistan has established similar agreements with China and the United States . If China and the Soviet Union expand their conflict for power , it is quite possible that their smaller southern neighbors will be drawn into the conflict as third party pawns . It is apparent that South Asia is a critical region in terms of world economic and political balance , and that it is in the vital interest of the United States to maintain a close watch on developments in this area and to endeavor to maintain the independence and economic development of all the nations concerned . For Research and/or Discussion 1 . In view of the great diversity of languages and regional cultures , analyze the factors that seem to account for the political survival of the Indian democratic federal union . 2 . Using current news materials , evaluate the economic and political future of Bangladesh . 3 . Evaluate the sources of tension between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 4 . Trace the pattern of international relations between these South Asian countries and the United States , Soviet Union and China .  | 5 . After further research into Hinduism , Buddhism or Islam , attempt to evaluate the impact that these religions have on the values and daily living of people . Footnote  | Vast land areas , climatic extremes , intense pressure for agricultural 1 and historic global isolation mark the East Asian realm . Focused upon cultural hearth of China , from which the region draws much of its iden East Asia embraces the countries of China , Japan , North Korea and Sc Korea . China , as will be discussed later , is presently divided into main China or the Peoples Republic of China and the island of Taiwan administ ( as the Republic of China . The small but economically important colonial h ings of Hong Kong ( British ) and Macao ( Portuguese ) are also included in region . Regions of China The Peoples Republic of China ( P.R.C. ) is the world 's third largest na in land area after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billion easily places it as the largest in terms of human numbers . Stretching for 2,500 miles east and west and nearly the same distance n , and south , this nation encompasses landforms ranging from extensive des in the north and west to snow capped peaks of the Himalayas and the tropical regions of the southeast . ( Figure 10.1 ) For purposes of organization it is possible to divide the P.R.C. into tl major regions : North China , South China and Outer or Western China . boundary between north and south lies just south of the Huang Ho ( Ye River ) along the Qin Ling ( Tsingling ) Shan . In north China the predominant color is brown , reflecting the limited cipitation in both summer and winter . In the winter this area is strong ) fluenced by the severe conditions of a continental climate and the tempera frequently drops below 0 ? F. During the summer the temperatures can rc 100 ? F , while the year-round precipitation averages between 20 ? 25 inc barely enough to support the basic crops of wheat and millet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on both histoi and climatic factors . Manchuria , or the Northeast as the Chinese prefe call it , is a region of major industrial development and agricultural expans Here the climate is similar to that of North Dakota or the central prairie vinces of Canada . Wheat is the dominant crop and extensive farming p tices , including the increased use of large equipment , differs significantly f  | the intensive land use found to the south . Perhaps the most important aspect of the Northeast is its wealth of industrial raw materials and fuel . ( Figure 10.2 ) Large , easily worked coal deposits near Fushun have been used to exploit local iron ore deposits and produce the largest steel industry in China . Heavy industry is the basis of this region which was developed first by Czarist Russia and then Japan before 1949 . The Amur and Ussuri rivers along the northern and northeastern boundary with the Soviet Union remain , as has much of the present national border , disputed territory . The Chinese feel that these borders were forced upon them by Czarist Russia in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defend their rights . They refer to the resulting treaties as " unequal treaties " and , as their power increases , vow to seek readjustments . Northeast China is separated from the North China plains by the eastern terminus of the Great Wall , constructed over centuries to prevent raids from the nomadic horsemen of central Asia as they sought to enter the productive agricultural river valleys . The North China plains are home to millions of Chinese peasant farmers and the rich soils , when adequately watered , provide basic subsistence of wheat , maize and gaoliang . Traversing these plains , which it has created with its alluvial deposits , is the Huang Ho ( Yellow River ) . Frequent flooding of this river has earned it the reputation as " China 's Sorrow " as the resulting devastation has affected millions of people . Rising in the high Tibetan Plateau , the Huang Ho loops through an extremely dry zone of the country where it gathers a great amount of silt . Much of this silt is the yellowish brown wind-transported soil called loess which has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from its origins in the western deserts . This soil has a very fine " talcum powder " texture and although very good for agriculture , erodes easily giving rise to the name " Yellow River " as it is washed downstream . During peak flood periods this river has carried up to 47 percent yellow silt by volume . This heavy load of silt begins to settle to the river bed as the river enters the level plains region and its rate of flow decreases . The resulting rise in the river bed has caused increased flooding . To prevent such floods , large dikes have been built along the Huang Ho to force the waters to remain in their channel . As a result of centuries of diking , followed by siltation , followed by higher dikes , the Huang Ho flows well above the surrounding countryside posing a continual threat in the event that the dikes break during a flood period . Siltation of the channel has also reduced the effectiveness of this great river as a means of transportation . In South China the landscape turns green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with temperatures ranging between 50 ? F in the winter to 90 ? F in the summer and 50 ? 60 inches of rainfall each year makes it possible to produce two or three crops a year . Many rivers and lakes provide the basis of intensive irrigation and a water-based transport system . Rice , raised  | in paddies is the dominant crop , with tea being produced in the higher elevations of this rugged terrain . Careful labor-intensive efforts of the people are required to maintain irrigation systems , transplant rice seedlings and harvest the crop with little mechanization in use . Traversing south China is the Yangtze Kiang , China 's second major river and one of the world 's largest . Like its northern counterpart , the Huang Ho , the Yangtze has its origin in the snow capped mountains of Tibet . Flowing eastward through the mountainous region of central south China , it enters the East China Sea near the world 's most populous city , and major seaport , Shanghai . Due to dense vegetation and the absence of easily eroded loess soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that of the Huang Ho . While seasonal flooding in the lowlands remains a threat , the decreased siltation of the channel has allowed the Yangtze to become China 's major inland waterway with penetration westward as far as Chong Qing ( Chung King ) . Situated in the extreme western portion of this region , at the eastern flanks of the Tibetan Plateau , is the Red Basin of Szechwan Province . This basin area is surrounded by high mountains . The Yangtze passes through the southern edge of this basin cutting through the ridges to the east in a series of narrow gorges providing the only access to this very productive agricultural area . Ample water and a long growing season make the Red Basin one of the most productive areas of China . In the extreme south , the Hsi Kiang , the third major river of China , flows eastward past the tropical port city of Canton and enters the sea near Hong Kong island . Extending from Inner Mongolia and Qinghai ( Sinkiang ) in the northwest to the high plateau of Tibet lies Outer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hot , extremely dry summers , short growing seasons and a very sparse population of mostly non-Chinese origin . Long existing on the fringes of successive Chinese empires , the nomadic herding people living here must struggle for survival in this difficult environment . Outer China does hold promise of major contributions to the developing Chinese economy today since oil , natural gas , iron ore and coal have been discovered in the few locations that have been adequately surveyed . Distance from the eastern core region and a rugged , inhospitable terrain still pose major developmental challenges . Cultural Foundations of China The historic foundations of China have produced a culture in many ways receptive to the present economic and political structures of that country . Unlike Japan , China has never accepted the process of selective assimilation and has until recently maintained the ideal of nearly total self-sufficiency . Upon contact with western development , evidenced by the military , China turned to  | a centuries old policy of superiority and isolation . Refusing to believe that a " barbaric " outside people could offer anything of value to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the concept of their culture being the only civilized one and a reassertation of the idea of China as the " Middle Kingdom " and superior to all others . Further reinforcing this attitude were the rigidly accepted codes of Confucian origin which , while providing order to society , placed scholar philosophers at the peak of respect while relegating the workers , craftsmen and merchants to much lower ranks . Thus the western traders who first entered China found themselves automatically relegated to lower status and respect . China , unlike Japan , did not react in a constructive manner to the impact of western industrialization and militarization . Their social structure , organized in nearly the reverse of western values , remained unchanged while western powers continually expanded their influence in the country . Extraterritorial rights were continuously thrust upon the Chinese administration which was forced to relinquish increasing amounts of sovereignty and selfdetermination . The revolution of 1911 , under Sun-Yat-Sen did not significantly change these basic values although the aristocracy was overthrown and a republican form of government was established . It was not until the successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that significant social reform was initiated . Beginning in the 1920 's , this communist movement was aimed at the elimination of the Confucian elite and landlords who had dominated the society for centuries and the reversal of social status roles so that the peasant laborer became the most esteemed member of society . This revolution , taking place before , during and after the period of Japanese occupation , set the stage for the present social , economic and political structure in China . Significantly , however , it should be noted that this revolution reversed but did not change the social structure of society . Group organization , collective action and acceptance of strong qualified leadership are very much a part of Chinese values today . Confucian codes were more social in nature than spiritual/religious and the implementation of an atheistic , pragmatic , collective social structure is not truly revolutionary in nature . Thus the communist reforms of 1949 seem to have produced a social/economic reform similar to that of the Meiji restoration of Japan in 1867 . China today is developing rapidly and , since the death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and trade in an effort to facilitate this growth . Increasing emphasis is being placed on what is called " the Four Modernizations . " These include expanded education for the masses , increased application of technology to increase agricultural production , greater application of advanced technology in industrial production and the modernization of their defense force .  | Clearly China at this stage has far to go . Merely to feed , clothe and house their population of over one billion is a challenge of great magnitude . Defensively they have an extensive international border region much of which is under active dispute with the Soviet Union , while the presence of significant minority groups in the country produce a situation of internal tension as in the case of Tibet . To revitalize food production , a rapid series of agricultural reforms were implemented by Mao-Tse-Tung leading to the establishment of the commune system in 1958 which accounted for nearly 90 percent of the total agricultural land area . These reforms eliminated the powerful landlords and extended direct government control to the rural peasant . Under this system the farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized into production teams which made local decisions concerning crop management . Several production teams were organized into production brigades where more expensive investments in terms of time and labor could be initiated . Several production brigades formed a commune . The commune , while providing administrative structure for the most expensive investments , also served as a direct political contact with the central government . Most of this radical reorganization was aimed at an increase in agricultural efficiency by enlarging acreage tilled and increasing the effectiveness of the labor force . Labor became available for massive long-range projects such as flood control dams , irrigation development and road construction . Similar state supervised reorganization was directed toward the industrial labor force in an effort to increase production of critically needed manufactured goods . While this highly structured state-run system served to bring order to chaos in the early years of communist rule , there appears to be an increasing " liberalization " of policy since the death of Mao . Deng Xiaoping , Mao 's successor , has initiated a series of reforms aimed at reducing the rigid Marxist policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is giving way to greater responsibility placed with local agencies and businesses . While some would claim that he is following " the capitalist road " of the west , it is unlikely that the socialist structure of China will disappear . More rapid modernization is taking place as long closed trade contacts with the west are re-established and foreign joint investment encouraged . If these efforts to speed modernization are effective and lasting , China could become a formidable competitor for her neighbor Japan in the next century . Japan Lying off the east coast of China are the Japanese islands . ( Figure 10.3 ) This island chain or archipelago was thrust upward by dramatic tectonic forces as part of the unstable " Fire Ring " of the Pacific . The comparative recency of these islands is everywhere evidenced by rugged mountains and volcanoes  | which make up about four-fifths of the total land mass . Although Japan has a shoreline of one mile for every five square miles of land area , the coastal plains are very narrow and the population is forced to support itself on less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition for survival in a difficult land of steep slopes , vicious typhoons and earthquakes has molded the most distinctive feature of the Japanese culture , the exceptional cohesion of its people . Spanning nearly 20 ? of latitude , the Japanese islands experience a wide range of climatic conditions from the cold , snowy winters and cool , misty summers of Hokkaido to the subtropical conditions of the southern islands . Honshu , the largest and most populated island , experiences a generally temperate climate similar to the central east coast of the United States . A reasonably close climatic comparison can be made between Japan and eastern United States from Maine to Florida . The Japanese Megalopolis The second half of the twentieth century has seen the emergence of an urban/industrial concentration extending from Tokyo to Kitakyushu . This rapidly growing region reflects a concentration of a large part of the country 's population and economic activity . The term megalopolis , meaning huge city , was originally applied to the east coast of the United States from Boston to Washington , D.C. and fairly reflects a similar pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely high and industrial activity intense . Faced with rugged inland mountains and a narrow coastal plain many of the cities within this region have been forced to reclaim land from the sea and expand into newly created polders . This form of expansion has , in many cases , created a shoreline of warehouses , docks , petrochemical plants and steel mills while the city itself climbs up the inland slopes . As with the United States megalopolis , this region has not yet grown solidly together as a single urban/industrial agglomeration but present trends indicate that this will occur in the future . The megalopolis zone is anchored on four major urban concentrations : Tokyo Bay ; Nagoya ; Osaka , Kyoto and Kobe ; and Kitakyushu . Tokyo Bay is ringed by the capital city of Tokyo , Kawasaki , Yokohama and Chiba . The intense pressure for land here has led to several proposals for the filling in of the bay . Good port facilities , particularly at Yokohama , have encouraged an ever-increasing expansion of industry , enhancing both the congestion and the environmental pollution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Metallurgy , heavy industry and petrochemicals dominate this intensely developed area . Further west is the agglomeration of Kyoto , Osaka and Kobe . Here again the sea is being pushed back to allow for the rapid expansion of industry making this region second only to the Tokyo region in diversified industrial production .  | Kyoto stands apart from the other cities as it is inland and not a port and , as the ancient capital , retains much of the classic beauty of the past . In Kyoto tourism is the major commercial activity as Japanese school children visit their heritage while mingling with thousands of foreign tourists seeking " old Japan " At the far western extent of this megalopolis lies Kitakyushu . Formed in 1963 by the merger of five cities , Kitakyushu , connected by undersea tunnels to the island of Honshu , was the site of early industrial development in Japan . The availability of coal , limestone and fair port facilities encouraged the steel industry in the early 1900 's . Unfortunately this region is declining in production , just as many older American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technology and transportation channels . All of this megalopolis region is connected by a highly developed transport system . The well known high speed rail line , the New Tokaido Line , connects Kitakyushu with Tokyo while servicing all of the major urban cores . Air travel and electronic communication networks have been intensified to keep pace with the demands created by ever-increasing numbers of people and industries . As this region expands and intensifies , many rural farmers have left their small plots of land and have sought employment in the thriving industry which is producing everything from pocket calculators to supertankers . This rural outflow is leading to a gradual increase in farm size and greater per capita agricultural efficiency . Even so Japan must import food to feed its people while , through government support , it struggles to raise crops in a difficult physical environment . Fortunately rice , the staple food , has been improved in quality and yield , making Japanese production of this crop one of the most effective per acre . Rice , together with fish caught by a worldwide fishing fleet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restricted agricultural environment is only one of the problems facing the Japanese . Unlike China , Japan lacks nearly all of the natural resources to sustain the level of production which has made it one of the major industrial powers in the world . Iron ore must be shipped in from Australia and other sources while nearly all of their petroleum comes from the Persian Gulf states . This reliance on foreign raw materials and fuels has placed Japan in a very sensitive position in terms of international relations . Any disruption of the flow of these resources to her factories or a reduction in the export of manufactured goods could quickly lead to economic disaster . Japan 's spectacular rise to economic dominance is particularly striking . How can a country lacking adequate raw materials and hard pressed to find enough agricultural land to feed its population become the third largest industrial nation in the world ? The answer to this must obviously lie with the people and their culture . It appears that Japan 's success in the modern world is to be found in her past .  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese very early turned to tight , collective social behavior to survive . Group action and cooperation were necessary for survival and once this survival was assured the deeply established traditions remained . The role of the individual was suppressed , aided by the Buddhist teachings stressing the transitory nature of life . This religious philosophy expanded and reinforced the native religion of Shinto which emphasized the need for a close relationship between man and nature if survival was to be achieved . Emerging from this environmental/religious background , the Japanese of today still find themselves most comfortable as part of a group , be it family , business company or government agency . Collective thought , the emphasis on group consensus and the suppression of individualism are hallmarks of Japanese culture . The collectiveness of Japanese thought and action is often illustrated in the American media by the singing of company songs before the beginning of a work shift . Cast in light of the past , this behavior is not only understandable , but is to be expected . Along with the suppression of individualism , respect for authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary for survival and remain so today . Authority , however , also implies responsibility . It is the duty of the individual to support and remain loyal to those in authority be they senior family members , employer or government , but it is equally important that those in power tend to the needs of those under them . The typical Japanese economy has in the past assumed the status of a large family with both employer and employee cooperating in a mutually desired goal , the success of the company . This same relationship which extended from the basic family to industry also includes governmental functions . It was the government which effectively supported and encouraged industrial development in the late 1800 's and today maintains a very close interrelationship with private industry . The term " Japan Incorporated " is often used by western observers to reflect the close ties between the Japanese government and industry . Once again the element of mutual responsibilities set the foundations for efficient collective action . This sense of mutual purpose has allowed Japan to develop huge industrial combines . These combines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never subjected to the anti-trust type of thinking demonstrated by the United States government and its trust-busting ' attitudes . In Japan efficiency of competition , particularly international competition , overshadows the fear of monopoly and exploitation by large business . In fact , it is doubtful if such exploitation would develop to any great degree given the employer/employee relationships established . Dismembered by the American occupation forces after World War II , the large conglomerates have been gradually re-emerging so that today the bulk of Japanese production can be traced to a handful of huge companies .  | Picture Often cast as a nation of unoriginal copiers , the Japanese have historically welcomed new ideas and products . Their written language , art forms , architectural style , religious structure and governmental organization all have roots in China but they have been very careful to screen incoming ideas and to select and modify these outside influences so that the basic unity of their culture was not upset . ( Photograph 10.1 ) Selective assimilation of this type has allowed them to borrow the best from the world and to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrificing traditional values . A nation who " borrowed " its written language originally has found little problem in " borrowing " modern technology and fitting it into their culture . In Japan , modernization certainly does not mean westernization . Japan is a nation of great unity and cohesion which encompasses a unity of language , history and values . These values of collective action and thought and the acceptance of group membership as a way of life seem to be perfectly suited to the era of modern urban/industrial concentrations . In the West , values of individualism clash with the increasingly impersonal social and employment relationships which are a part of the modern industrial world . The facility to borrow selectively is deeply ingrained in their culture and has allowed them to move rapidly to the forefront of the technological revolution . In a very real sense , their culture is both modern and ancient .  | North and South Korea Extending from Northeast China toward Japan , Korea has experienced a history of conflict and foreign domination . Long a dependency of China , Korea became a colony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this control in 1945 , Korea once again fell victim to foreign influence when it became the scene of a power struggle between Chinese backed communist forces in the north and United Nations forces to the south . Since this bitter struggle in the early 1950 's , Korea has been partitioned at the 38 ? parallel into the Peoples Democratic Republic in the north and the Republic of Korea in the south . This partition of Korea into two competing political units has significantly upset what could be a strong complementary relationship between the two regions . North Korea , with its severe continental climate , is rugged and in hospitable to agriculture while the south enjoys ample agricultural land and a more temperate climate encouraging significant production of rice . The north on the other hand has significant deposits of coal and iron ore which , supplemented by extensive hydroelectric power development , have produced a major heavy industrial core extending from around the capital Pyongyang to the Chinese border . South Korea must rely on lighter industry and assembly operations capitalizing upon its much greater labor force focused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Pusan . Economically and culturally Korea is one country of complementary resources which has been caught in the great power spheres of interest since World War II . Perhaps some day this partition will be removed and a unified Korea will be able to capitalize more fully on its natural potential . In the meantime South Korea has been making major strides in both agricultural and industrial development . Having established a firm industrial base at home , based upon imported raw materials , South Korea is now competing successfully with Japan for a share of the world 's automobile , steel and construction market . At the present rate of growth South Korea could well be a major industrial power in the near future . ( Photograph 10.2 ) The Republic of China To the south of Japan , approximately 120 miles off the southeast coast of mainland China lies the island of Taiwan . In its mountainous topography , this island resembles those of the Japanese archipelago although its latitudinal location dictates a much more tropical climate . Under marginal Chinese control for many years , Taiwan ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1895 and remained there until 1945 when it was restored to Chinese rule . In 1949 the defeat of Chiang Kai-shek and his Nationalist forces on mainland China led to a massive retreat with Taiwan serving as a permanent refuge for the Nationalist supporters .  | Approximately two million troops and upper level , educated Chinese established themselves on the island . From that time to the present , Taiwan has remained under the Nationalist administration as the Republic of China . Over the years the Republic of China , with substantial aid and cooperation from the United States , has developed a strong and productive economy . As they move rapidly away from the initial stages of industrialization which emphasized such products as textiles and plastics , they are beginning to challenge Japan in the technologically advanced fields seen in the electronic and chemical industries . Politically neither the Nationalists on Taiwan ( Republic of China ) nor the communists on the mainland ( Peoples Republic of China ) will accept the valid existence of the other . The communist view Taiwan as Chinese territory and consider their government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since the communist revolution on the mainland did not completely eliminate the existing government , they are still the legal government of all China . This awkward situation has led to difficult foreign policy decisions by the United States . Having supported the Nationalists in their fight against the communist revolution and in establishing their government of Taiwan , the United States is committed to continued economic and political ties . These reponsibilities extend to the maintenance of Nationalists ' security through military aid . The leadership of the Peoples Republic naturally views this as a threat to their interests and has consistently challenged this policy as the United States seeks to develop closer relations with mainland China . In 1972 President Nixon paid an official visit to the Peoples Republic of China signaling a new era in our relations with that country . In 1979 the American embassy ( and official recognition ) was transferred from the Republic of China 's capital of Taipei to Beijing on the mainland . The ultimate resolution of this conflict would appear to be many years in the future . For the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taipei while exploring areas of cooperation with the mainland . Hong Kong and Macao Both Hong Kong and Macao are remnants of what at one time was a global colonial system established by European powers . Hong Kong , a British crown colony , consists of three parts : the island of Victoria , a small territory on the mainland known as Kowloon and further north the New Territories . British control of this colony dates back to the mid 1800 's as they attempted to establish themselves in what is one of the world 's best harbors . As trade flourished , the population increased to the point where the New Territories were leased from the Chinese to help relieve increasingly dense urban pressure . This lease is due to expire in or before 1997 . At this time considerable uncertainty  | exists as to the future of Hong Kong when the P.R.C. reclaims the New Territories . Hong Kong is presently very dependent on water and food supplies from Canton and the mainland even with the agricultural production in these New Territories and their loss can seriously affect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general uneasiness of the people and an increase in efforts to make arrangements for relocation before the treaty deadline . The internal political structure is further complicated by a growing communist movement in labor organizations and the continued existence of substandard housing for many " squatters " who spilled into Hong Kong after the communist takeover on the mainland . Despite these problems , Hong Kong has managed to develop a thriving and increasingly sophisticated commercial/industrial complex . The excellent harbor facilities , early recognized by the British , handle a steady flow of worldwide trade and stimulate growth in manufacturing . Macao , to the south of Hong Kong , is Portugal 's only remaining overseas territory . Consisting of Macao proper , a peninsula on the mainland and two nearby islands , this dependency is quite small . Secured by Portugal in the 1500 's as a trading base with Canton , Macao lacks the excellent harbor facilities of Hong Kong and the political stability maintained by the British . Since the population is almost totally Chinese , it would seem reasonable for the P.R.C. to assume control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the officials in Macao have offered to turn governance over to China , Beijing has refused , preferring to support an autonomous status for the colony . Economically Macao can not come close to the thriving development of Hong Kong and gambling , with other assorted vices , remains a major part of the economy . For Research and/or Discussion 1 . Taking into consideration such factors as labor force , raw material availability , transfer of technology and domestic markets , evaluate the future trade relations between China and Japan . 2 . Analyze the potential impact on both parties if China reincorporates the highly capitalistic territory of Hong Kong upon expiration of the present treaty . 3 . Compare the historic reponse of China and Japan to their initial contact with European powers . Consider how this affected present conditions in each country . Using current news items , assess the present direction of each country . 4 . Trace the circumstances leading to the emergence of Nationalist China and the resulting shifts in United States foreign policy . Using current news  | items , outline the present status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . 5 . After reconstructing the circumstances leading to a partitioned Korea , assess the present and future economic and political future of each state . Footnote  | Chapter 11 Southeast Asia Bounded by China to the north , India to the northwest and jutting southward separating the Indian and Pacific oceans , mainland Southeast Asia is a peninsular attachment to Eurasia . Extending from the peninsular tip of Malaysia and swinging toward the east , island Southeast Asia further augments the fragmented nature of this region . In viewing the map , the region 's physical exposure to outside influences becomes evident and it is this very factor that has given Southeast Asia its unique cultural , economic and political significance . Ethnic , linguistic , religious and cultural fragmentation resulting from external contacts has produced a region of unsurpassed diversity . Nowhere is there to be found a single dominant cultural core area that defines a clear cultural realm . ( Figure 11.1 ) This cultural fragmentation is further aided by the existence of rugged mountain barriers and dense tropical vegetation on the mainland which make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scattered islands forming the Archipelagos of Indonesia and the Philippines encourage cultural uniqueness . Physical/Climatic Elements A series of north ? south running mountain ranges serves to accentuate the cultural differences of mainland Southeast Asia . These rugged mountains serve to force the development of national core areas in the existing river valleys . It is in these valleys that the greatest , and most homogenous , population densities are possible due to the agricultural productivity of the rich alluvial soils . Thus in Burma , the Irrawaddy River forms the nucleus of Burmese culture while the surrounding highland region supports a wide range of diverse " hill people " who themselves are fragmented into small highly diverse groups based upon language , culture and a variety of local animistic religious beliefs . The Chao Phraya River of Thailand , the Mekong River of Vietnam , Cambodia , and Laos , and the Red River of northern Vietnam serve a similar nucleating function . Island Southeast Asia is dominated by sea waters and , with the rugged volcanic nature of many of its islands , finds a similar unevenness of settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plains while the mountainous interior of the islands are given over to scattered hill tribes who generally exist  | with a slash-and-burn , or shifting cultivation pattern . This form of agriculture , common in Southeast Asian hill areas , involves the clearing of hillside vegetation , the planting and harvesting of food crops and then relocation as the soil quality declines upon exposure to the leaching effects of the tropical rains . The equatorial location of Southeast Asia dictates a high degree of temperature uniformity throughout the year . Precipitation on the other hand can vary significantly , particularly from the marine influenced coastal regions of the mainland to the interior regions such as the Korat plateau of Thailand where seasonal droughts are common . As one moves away from the equator , which passes through Sumatra and Borneo , the influence of the seasonal monsoon patterns increases . This variation can be best noted in the orographic precipitation experienced by the windward facing slopes of the mountain ranges . Cultural Evolution Although archeological research has found indications that advanced agricultural and metallurgical cultures existed in Southeast Asia before those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ origins of the indigenous people . The dominant ethnic groups today have migrated southward from China following the longitudinal river valleys and displacing or mixing with earlier people . The result of this migration , caused in great part by the expanding territorial dominance of the Han Chinese , was an extremely complex ethnic and racial mix . ( Photograph 11.1 ) While traditional customs and beliefs are followed by these people , much of their present culture reflects the impact of four external influences . India , China , Europe and the Islamic world of the Middle East have all left a marked imprint on Southeast Asia . The Japanese presence during World War II and the later United States involvement in Vietnam left a more limited impression due to the brief and comparatively narrow focus of their contact . India had the earliest , and perhaps greatest , influence . As early as the 6th century , Indian traders were in contact with the western coastal areas of Southeast Asia and , as trade increased , established permanent residence in the region . Also , with their commercial interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural elements including a written language ( Sanskrit ) , architecture , religion and political organization . Perhaps the greatest " carriers " of Indian culture were Hinduism and Buddhism which were widely accepted , with Buddhism and Buddhist philosophy remaining dominant today . Chinese influence differed from that of India in nature and extent . Resulting from the continued territorial expansion of China , political control and cultural infusion were primarily extended into what is today Vietnam . While under Chinese control until 907 A.D. , this region absorbed many elements of the Chinese political organization , writing system and Confucian ethical standards .  | Picture Chinese impact in other regions is less clearly defined and lacking in depth . Chinese settlers and traders migrated to various parts of Southeast Asia locating particularly in port cities . These immigrants , motivated by economic interests , failed to assimilate into their host culture . Acting in a closed society , they tended to maintain their own culture while , as a result of their cohesiveness , they established themselves in a position of economic dominance . This situation has given rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numerically small but influential Chinese communities in many Southeast Asian countries . As these nations strive for greater unity and nationalism , this problem of " overseas Chinese " has become increasingly serious . Islam entered the region in the 13th century and spread from Java and Sumatra throughout the present territories of Indonesia and Malaysia where  | it remains the dominant religion . Carried by Indian and Arab traders , this religion , which encompasses a total way of life , has greatly shaped the cultural patterns of these countries . It was into this rich and complex cultural scene that the Europeans interjected yet another layer . ( Figure 11.2 ) This European intrusion began in the early 16th century when the Portuguese seized Malacca ( 1511 ) and established a series of trading posts . The Spanish , seeking control of the valuable spice trade , followed and by the middle of the 16th century had established themselves in the Philippines . Near the end of the same century , the Dutch moved into the region , organizing their efforts through the Dutch East India Company . Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Southeast Asia due to their conflicts in their North American colonies . Moving cautiously , Britain moved into Burma in the early 17th century while France , a few years later , entered the Tonkin region ( North Vietnam ) . While the initial purpose of this European intrusion into the region was access to the spice trade , territorial control soon followed . Declining value of the spice trade and a shift to commercial plantation items such as sugar and coffee dictated the need for greater control . Perhaps the most organized and complete example of this new emphasis was the Dutch " culture system " imposed on the " spice islands " or what is today Indonesia . These Hollanders , as they were called , established a harsh , but efficient system of compulsory cultivation of certain crops using forced labor . While the production of sugar , coffee , indigo , tea , tobacco , palm oil and manioc was greatly increased , food production decreased , causing serious resistance to the system both in Indonesia and in the Netherlands . By the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exception of Thailand , had passed into the control of European nations . Emergence of Modern States The lasting results of this European domination can be seen today and to a great extent defines the political , economic and social problems of the region . If Southeast Asia is to be considered a " pre-industrial " region before the European impact , it rapidly became an " underdeveloped " region afterward . In pre-industrial societies , the relatively stable economic , political and social systems developed internally , still function as they did in Europe prior to the industrial revolution . Under these conditions , which were reflected in Europe only a few centuries before , a form of unity exists . The impact of European industrial/commercial nations quickly eroded the traditional patterns of the region . Balanced food production gave way to excessive emphasis of commercial crop production for export . Rural agricultural villages lost their handicraft industries as imported , machine-made products were forced onto the market and rural underemployment increased rapidly . Village controlled agricultural land gave way to consolidated holdings under a new elite European  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole new socioeconomic hierarchy emerged . Rural to urban migration increased as the peasant sought employment in the commercial activities of the European dominated port cities only to find decreasing living standards and often minimal employment . Another major impact of European control was the fragmentation of existing ethnic units and the unification of many diverse groups . As territorial boundaries were drawn , little attention was paid to ethnically homogenous people and many cultural and linguistic groups found themselves divided between two or more colonial administrations . Conversely , many ethnic groups who previously exercised a degree of independence found that they were now part of an administrative territory along with other dissimilar people . One of the major internal problems of Southeast Asian nations today is the lack of unity within their borders which were inherited intact from the former colonial powers . Beyond the scrambling of ethnic groups , European colonial administration replaced the existing political system with a western trained and supervised bureaucracy , thus forming a new elite from which the leadership of the new nations was drawn after independence in the late 1940 's and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and social disruption was the reorientation of the economy . Colonies were , according to the mercantilist theories of the European powers , to supply raw materials to the " mother country " and to serve as markets for expanding industrial production . This theory led to an increased specialization and limited range of raw materials which were to be produced . The value of this production was determined in European markets over which the producer had no control . The development of local industry was discouraged since it would compete with the industries of the colonial power . Thus the colonial territories were forced into a total dependence upon the controlling European nation and placed in a situation where balanced economic development was retarded , if not impossible . After experiencing the domination of Japan during the 1940 's , the Southeast Asian nations found themselves faced with the efforts of seriously weakened European powers seeking to re-establish control . The steady rise of nationalism during the period immediately preceding the war , the shattering of Europe 's invincible image and vast amounts of military materials left by the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The period immediately after World War II saw the steady withdrawal of European power and the emergence of the modern political states of this region . Administratively , these new nations were governed by the western educated elite who attempted to model their political structures after their European tutors . Economic policy was often nothing more than the re-establishment of patterns developed during the pre-war colonial period while land ownership continued to shift into the hands of the privileged few . The major port city in each country  | Picture continued to expand in both wealth and population so that it became the uncontested primate city . These cities today account for the majority of development efforts and have become increasingly divorced from their rural agricultural surroundings in nearly every way . It is this rural/urban imbalance in development that characterizes most of the post-colonial territories throughout the world and one which provides fertile ground for those who would bring about radical social , economic and political revolution such as that achieved in China . ( Photograph 11.2 )  | Inherited Boundaries ? Inherited Problems Politically , Southeast Asia provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new nations . Political boundaries , drawn by former colonial powers , have eliminated the less definitive frontier zones which existed prior to the European introduction of the state concept with its specific and fixed boundaries . Not only did the " political mapping " produce unnatural divisions among ethnic groups , but it provided a clearly definable issue of conflict between nations . Thus we see new , poorly established national governments struggling not only with internal problems of unification , but external conflicts with neighboring powers . To compound these problems , one can add the unusual variety of physical shapes represented by these states . Of the five major shape categories identified by political geographers , four are represented here . Perhaps the most easily administered , at least theoretically , is the compact state , illustrated by Cambodia . With distances from the administrative center to various regions within the country nearly equal , it is possible to develop a stronger sense of unity . By contrast , Indonesia , the Philippines and Malaysia represent fragmented states . Internal communications and movement are difficult and expensive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Centrifugal forces tend to exert great pressure on the governments of these countries as distant island people may feel closer ties with a neighboring state than with their own government . Burma and Thailand represent yet another state shape posing administrative problems . These two states have the bulk of their territory located in a reasonably compact relationship with the national capital but with extensions leading a significant distance away . Both countries have been described as looking like kites with their tails running well south along the Malaysian Peninsula . The term for this shape is a prorupt state and the administrative problems here leave little to the imagination . Finally there is the elongated state , illustrated by Vietnam . The present problems of administration by the communist authorities reflect the difficulty of governing such a state . No matter where you locate your capital , it is going to be distant from portions of the country and when the territory to be governed is diverse in economy and culture , serious problems arise . The French governed their territory from Hanoi in the north , Hue in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) in the south . After the successful unification of North and South Vietnam , the communist government has been forced to reinstate a system of two administrative centers , Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi , after a brief but difficult time with Hanoi as the administrative center .  | Nations of Southeast Asia In shifting our focus from rather broad generalizations of the entire region and examining each nation in its present condition , the great diversity of Southeast Asia becomes more evident . Making no effort to group these countries on the basis of historical cultural imprints ( Chinese , Indian , Islamic ) , colonial experience ( French , British , Dutch , Spanish ) or present political alignment , we will look first at the nations of the mainland and then the island world . Burma , the most western and northern of these nations , achieved a high standard of living prior to the colonial era and became one of the more productive colonies of the British empire . From 1885 until World War II , the British introduced a number of reforms aimed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strict police system to maintain civil acceptance of colonial authority , a standard monetary and banking system , and the construction of transport facilities . While all of these elements stimulated economic growth , it was growth without modernization and based upon externally supervised administrative force . Upon achieving independence , Burma has been faced with the challenge of modernizing a social system little changed over the years while attempting to unify a nation with many independent regional groups . The main core of Burma focuses upon the central lowland of the Irrawaddy River which is navigable for nearly 900 miles from the coast to just south of the Chinese border . Situated here are the ancient sites of pre-colonial power near Mandalay . To the south , toward the British created port city of Rangoon , the Irrawaddy delta supports extensive rice cultivation which was greatly encouraged by the British . British colonial policy to develop this area allowed a substantial number of Indian businessmen to enter the region and control the economic system . By the 1930 's , it was estimated that over one-half of this land was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to farmers . At independence , the Indians were forced out but in leaving created an administrative void few natives were qualified to fill . Although the core of Burma is populated by a reasonably homogenous population , extreme linguistic and ethnic differences exist in the hill regions to the east and west and in the coastal strip extending southward . These hill areas are populated by tribal groups such as the Shans who are fiercely independent and make the unification of the country and the security of its boundaries extremely difficult . Today the Burmese government has sought to re-establish independence of foreign influence through the implementation of a uniquely Burmese form of socialism reinforced with practically no involvement with the outside world . At the present time it appears that the social integration and internal economic growth hoped for have not been realized .  | Thailand provides an interesting comparison to Burma . Thailand was known as Siam until the 20th century and has the unique distinction of having escaped the western colonial control imposed upon all the other nations . This freedom , earned through alert and efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gradually without destroying their traditional cultural fabric . As in much of Southeast Asia , agriculture , specifically in the form of rice production , dominates the economy . In Thailand , however , rice production has become the leading export commodity . Unlike most other developing nations , Thailand has been successful in diversifying its agricultural economy making it less dependent upon variations in market prices and improving the farmers ' profit . Thailand 's core culture area is focused on the Chao Phraya with the capital city of Bangkok forming the primate focal point . It is around Bangkok that people , industry and administrative power gather . Like the other nations , Thailand has remote areas , particularly the Korat Plateau of the northeast and the peninsular region to the south , which make national integration difficult . Present migration from Laos and Cambodia indicates how porous these borders are and how vulnerable to military action by neighboring states is this northeastern region . Thailand 's present military government has relied heavily on assistance from the United States in an attempt to defend itself from the tide of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The countries of Laos , Cambodia and Vietnam constitute the former colonial territory of French Indochina . These three former colonial possessions represent distinct ethnic groups , each with their own long and complicated history . It was inevitable that upon the forced withdrawal of the French in 1954 after years of bloody struggle , that they would emerge as separate nations . Ho Chi Minh , a communist independence leader from North Vietnam , consolidated his power and when Vietnam was divided in 1954 as the result of a Geneva truce conference , he was able to establish his leadership . This decision dividing Vietnam into north and south at the 17th parallel was to have been temporary until elections were held , establishing a unified government . Unfortunately , these elections were never held and the two portions assumed semi-permanent national status as North Vietnam , with a communist administration in Hanoi , and South Vietnam , under an authoritarian government in Saigon , supported by the United States . The United States , in an effort to prop up the embattled South Vietnamese government , increased its military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops were in the country by the late 1960 's . The revolution proved successful and the South Vietnamese government collapsed while the United States was forced to rapidly withdraw its forces . Since this forced reunification of Vietnam under the domination of Hanoi , economic development has been slow and it appears that the radical reshaping of the social , political and economic system in the  | communist world has not stimulated the progress and unity originally planned . Saigon has been renamed Ho Chi Minh City to further separate it from both its French past and capitalistic associations , but little of its former excitement and economic activity remain . Wild and rugged upland features support a patchwork of ethnic groups in Laos . Existing in a corridor position between China and the valley lands to the south , this country has little to encourage national unity . Economic development , nationalism , transportation and educational levels have been restricted by this ruggedness and ethnic diversity . Falling under communist control in 1973 , Laos has served primarily as a threat to Thailand 's northern border . Vientien , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities in Southeast Asia and in population and development reflects this country 's underdeveloped condition . South of Laos lies Cambodia , home of the Khmer people who today account for nearly 90 percent of its homogenous population . Following the end of the Vietnam War , a new government attempted to reshape the country into a rural , socialist agricultural society . The harshness of the methods employed led to an invasion of the country by Vietnam , the establishment of a new government and the renaming of the country to Kampuchea . The final outcome of this unsettled situation remains unknown , but it is certain that both the people and the land have suffered greatly . Extending southward and spilling over into the maritime world is the Federation of Malaysia . Emerging from a British colonial past , focusing upon the mining and the plantation cultivation of rubber , Malaysia exhibits a striking ethnic variety . Chinese and Indian labor brought in to expand the colonial labor force outnumber the native population in many areas and poses a serious challenge to the emergent nationalism . To offset the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enacted to guarantee the rights of the indigenous Malay ethnic group . This polarization of groups is reflected in political activism and has compounded the difficulty of economic development . The capital of Malaysia , Kuala Lumpur , was formerly a mainland tin mining center quite removed from the extended island realm of the present political state . Located here is one of the largest Islamic mosques in Southeast Asia , symbolically upholding the national religion of Islam . Singapore , Southeast Asia 's most prosperous city , is located on an island at the tip of the Malay peninsula . The city of Singapore , along with a cluster of smaller islands , separated from Malaysia in 1965 and established themselves as an independent republic based heavily upon a thriving industrial and commercial base . This bustling economic center is leading the nations of this region in development and is rapidly becoming a significant supplier of electronic and precision equipment on the world market . Across the Straits of Malacca lies Sumatra , the largest island in the Republic of Indonesia . South and east of Sumatra is the island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and favorable climate , is one of the most densely 152 populated regions on earth . Sprawling over 3500 miles from east to west , Indonesia is a vast island world of immense variety in climate and language . The central government , located in Djakarta , is faced with the problem of unifying a nation of islands where control of the sea is of extreme importance . Administered by the Dutch colonial authority which forced an effective but harsh plantation economy upon the land , Indonesia has emerged as a nation led by a small elite minority . Unity is tentatively maintained through the national religion of Islam , a common sea-based orientation and the absence of economic/population centers other than Java . Recently , petroleum production has become a rapidly rising factor in the economic picture , gradually replacing reliance on the plantation cultivation of rubber and palm oil . Much of this new industry has been nationalized and bureaucratic inefficiency has posed a continuing problem . The Republic of the Philippines is a unique nation in many respects . It is the only Christian nation in the area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also the only English speaking nation in the region resulting from American colonial control from 1898 to 1949 . This American influence greatly affected the education , governmental system and general outlook of the Philippino people , making it unique in its degree of westernization and closeness of economic ties with the United States . A fragmented nation similar to Indonesia , the Philippine Republic faces severe difficulty in achieving true nationalism . With over 7,000 islands and some 150 languages and dialects , social and economic inequalities tend to produce radical political factions with violence simmering just under the surface of daily life . Here , as in all of Southeast Asia , the land tenure structure produces the gap between the wealthy landholding minority and the poor landless tenant farmers who have little hope of self improvement under existing conditions . In Vietnam , this situation led to civil war , while in other countries it has created a breeding ground for radical political groups . Here also is found the commercial plantation system with the production of coconuts and sugarcane dominating foreign trade while the vast majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food production . The Future The strategic location of Southeast Asia between the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean is certain to play a major role in economic and political events in the region . As the world 's major powers maneuver to establish and/or maintain a degree of control along the Asian landmass , the Straits of Malacca and Sunda , critical access routes for commercial and military vessels will continue to be viewed with great concern . Internal efforts to establish a degree of national unity in each state , a difficult task in itself , will be made even more complex as the major world powers  | exert pressure to realize a political/economic system favorable to them . This external involvement can only increase as the resources of the region , particularly petroleum , are further developed . For Research and/or Discussion 1 . Analyze the strategic significance of Southeast Asia and attempt to construct policies and options which may be and are pursued by the Soviet Union and the United States . 2 . Trace the political evolution of Vietnam since 1954 and assess the role played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 . Construct a comparison chart of the Southeast Asian nations indicating levels of income , education and population growth rates . 4 . Evaluate the impact of differing colonial policies upon the present political states of the region . 5 . Consider the cultural , economic and political factors involved in the opium/ heroin production of this region which has reached international importance . Footnote  | The Pacific World Location and Early Settlement The Pacific World is a vast expanse of water occupying about a third of the earth 's surface . It is larger than all of the world 's land masses together . The region is bounded by the Americas to the east , Asia and the Indian Ocean to the west , Antarctica to the south and the Bering Sea to the north . Major land components of the region include Australia , New Zealand , Melanesia , Micronesia and Polynesia . ( Figure 12.1 ) Australia 's first inhabitants were the Australian aborigines who were a sparse and mostly nomadic population that had one of the most primitive technologies found among native people . They migrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived . In 1642 Tasman 's voyage took him to the western and southern coasts of Australia showing that Australia was an island continent . Captain James Cook found the eastern coastlands of Australia 130 years later . In 1788 a British penal colony was developed at Botany Bay and soon relocated to a new site at Sydney Cove in Port Jackson . The first settlements of the Maori people in New Zealand probably were established between 500 and 800 A.D. The Maori 's came to New Zealand from " Hawaiki , " the traditional home of the Maori , thought to be small islands in East Polynesia . Abel Tasman , a Dutch sailor , charted the west coast of both islands of New Zealand in 1642 and Englishman James Cook circumnavigated New Zealand in 1769 . However , it was not until 1840 that Great Britain officially annexed New Zealand . On February 6 , 1840 , the Treaty of Waitangi was signed by the Maori chiefs and British authorities , officially making New Zealand a British colony . The early European settlement took place north of Auckland but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wellington around 1840 . During the first decade of immigration , settlement was concentrated in coastal areas . By early 1900 , most of New Zealand had been impacted by European immigration and settlement . Indonesia was the meeting point of many racial types and formed a bridge from the Asian continent to the Western fringe of the Pacific . Over 25,000 years ago humans moved by this route to New Guinea and Australia . Negritos and Australoids , ancestors of the Australian aborigines , were able to move by rafts and canoe because the ocean level was much lower . Much later came the Papuans , who settled along the coasts after driving the aborigines into the  | interior . The Melanesians came after the Papuans and are most likely a mixture of Indonesian and Papuan blood . From New Guinea the Melanesians spread through the islands to the east , occupying New Britain , the Solomons , Santa Cruz and the Banks groups , and the New Hebrides . From here they branched south to New Caledonia and east to Fiji . Micronesia was settled by immigrants from Indonesia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of people to Melanesia and Micronesia can be traced with reasonable accuracy but the movement of the Polynesians in the Pacific is more controversial . Evidence suggests that the Polynesian people came from the west , from Melanesia , Micronesia and Indonesia . Food plants and animals taken to Polynesia originated from the west except the sweet potato which came from South America . The movement of Polynesians through the Melanesian islands appears to have strong evidence because of the tracing of Lapita ' pottery found throughout Melanesia . Radiocarbon dating of Lapita ' pottery shows a movement from west to east , with the Fiji pots dating back to 1290 B.C. Since Tongan and Samoan dates are later ( 1140 B.C. ) than those of Fiji , it is reasonable to assume that a pattern of migration passed through Fiji to establish the first true Polynesian settlement . The Melanesians ' ( black-skinned peoples ) darker skin and fuzzy hair contrast with lighter skins and straight hair of their eastern and northern neighbors . Anthropologists believe that the brown-skinned migrants from Indonesia , the Philippines and the islands off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original Melanesian inhabitants . The Polynesians came from a stock which remained longer in the Malay Peninsula and in Indonesia than did the Melanesians . Therefore , the Polynesians were subject to greater racial changes , emerging as a tall brown-skinned people with observable Asiatic features . Physical Patterns Structurally the Pacific World can be considered to have three parts : ( 1 ) the narrow eastern rim ; ( 2 ) the central Pacific ; and ( 3 ) the broad western margin . The narrow eastern rim of the Pacific bordering Anglo and Latin America extends without break as a high-elongated chain of young mountains . The cordilleras include the Rocky Mountains , the Sierra Nevadas , the Andean Mountains , and a series of coastal ranges from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego . The central Pacific is the largest geologic province occupying the Pacific Ocean . In this region , particularly the western half , volcanic activity has caused the area to be dotted with thousands of volcanic islands and coral atolls . The name andesite line or sial line has been given to the boundary between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These are located on the west-central side of the Pacific or referred to here as the central Pacific , and areas in which basalt is the chief lava of the east-central Pacific . In the opinion of many geologists the andesite line represents the farthest outer  | limits of continental mass that once extended into the Pacific and is the boundary between the continental blocks of Asia and Australia and the Pacific basin . All the islands in the central Pacific have a volcanic base even if the dark volcanic rocks are not always visible at the surface . Volcanic activity has formed a core of dense hard black rock called basalt which poured out in flows of lava from fractures in the deep Pacific . When the volcanic mass projects out of the water as an island or group of islands , these are simply called high islands . Examples of high islands in the central Pacific are the Samoan chain , the Hawaiian Islands and Tahiti . Some islands in the central Pacific with a volcanic core are coral islands . The coral islands , and especially the typical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original volcanic base has subsided with changes in sea level and a barrier reef of coral developed creating an atoll . Many low islands rise no more than ten or twenty feet above sea level and are difficult to sight from vessels . The western margin of the Pacific which includes Australia and New Zealand is quite complicated including portions of adjacent continents and a series of island arcs . Great mountain chains bound the ocean proper . Together these mountains rise from the ocean and stretch from the Aleutians to New Zealand . Kamchatka , Japan , the Philippines , New Guinea , the Aleutians and New Zealand are examples of such arcuate mountainous island groups . These island groups are referred to as continental islands . The arcuate islands of the western Pacific are geologically and structurally akin to the continental margins to the west . Australia has a variety of climatic types dominated by desert conditions in approximately 70 percent of the continent . The wet eastern margin provided a water supply for settlement and agricultural purposes . Climates range from " A , " " B , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominated by the Marine West Coast climate but considerable differences occur because of latitudinal extent and the windward and leeward sides of the islands . Temperatures on all but the largest Pacific Islands vary little throughout the year , rarely rising much above 80 ? F and rarely falling below 70 ? F. In such insular locations , summer and winter are not recognizable as they are on the continents and in higher latitudes ; the year is divided into only a dry season and a wet season . Between latitudes 30 degrees north and south , as far west as the Solomons and in the vast majority of Pacific World to the east , climates are controlled by the trade winds . To the windward side of high islands , winds bring heavy rain most of the year ; but there is a marked difference in the amount of rainfall occurring on the wet side ' ( windward ) and the dry side ' ( leeward ) of such islands . The northeast and southeast trades often come together near the Equator and blow parallel to each other or gently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northeast and southeast trades is called the intertropical front of zone of intertropical convergence . This front is best developed in the western part of the ocean , and it moves north and south with 158 the seasons . Rain associated with the intertropical front is restricted to a relatively narrow equatorial belt , a little to the north of the Equator in July and south of it in January . New Zealand New Zealand 's small area of about 103,000 square miles ( about the size of the state of Colorado ) , small population ( slightly over 3 million ) , and remoteness from major land areas of the world has had an influence on its development . The initial occupants around 500 A.D. were of Polynesian origin called the Maori people . They brought with them a limited range of food plants , a domestic dog and a species of rat in their large sailing canoes . The Maori relied mainly on foods from the forest , sea , river or swamp . The Maori practiced a type of shifting cultivation based on a subsistence crop economy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and harvested and then new areas were cleared for agriculture . The major cultivated foods were kumara ( a sweet potato ) , yams , gourds , taro and fernroot . The geographical limits of growth for these food crops tended to be the southern and altitudinal boundary of dense Maori settlements . Today , a Maori is characterized as patient , considerate , sensitive , handsome , fun-loving and spiritually and physically strong . For census purposes , a Maori is defined as a person of at least half Maori blood . Today , approximately 60 percent of the 230,000 plus Maoris are considered to be full Maoris . Maoris have entered almost every aspect of society and have adapted to technical changes caused by the European immigration . The Maoris retain great native skill in carving , music , and dancing . In the early 1790 's , Europeans arrived along the southern coast of South Island to set up sealing settlements . An early base for deep-sea whalers was developed at the Bay of Islands near Russell between 1810 and 1840 . Although the demand for whale oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zealand , a need for timber and flax brought traders to the Bay of Islands . The kauri tree north of Auckland provided both timber for spars and kauri gum for varnish making . The first mission was established in the Bay of Islands in 1814 by the missionary Samuel Marsden . The missionaries came with the hope of converting the Maori people to Christianity , but they also planned to set up permanent fishing communities and establish educational facilities for both European and Maori . The large scale migration from Europe to New Zealand occurred between 1840-1900 . Throughout the period of European settlement , immigrants have come primarily from the United Kingdom creating among the European majority a high degree of cultural homogeneity . Today about 10 percent of the population was born in the British Isles . The past cultural association must be added to the continued constitutional and political relationship with the  | United Kingdom within the Empire and more recently the Commonwealth . After 1840 , the primary economic function of New Zealand was to provide livestock farming products to the stores and mills of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with most of its semi-finished and finished manufacturing goods . The colonial relationship with the United Kingdom over the past ten years has been altered because of the United Kingdom joining the European Economic Community . Although the mother country still exerts strong influence in New Zealand , as the United Kingdom emerges closer with a uniting Europe and away from the Commonwealth , New Zealand has been forced to look to the countries of Asia for future trading partners . For future economic growth , New Zealand must assess markets and trading partners on economic relationships rather than on historical past dependence . The economy of New Zealand is characterized by a colonial structure based on a dependence of exports from the primary sector . About 80 percent of New Zealand 's exports by value comes from pastoral farming products such as wool , beef , Iamb , mutton , butter and cheese . About 12 percent of the working population of the country is employed in the primary sector which is dominated by agriculture . Through its export earnings , therefore , farming in New Zealand supports both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12.1 ) . Few countries of the world rely as heavily on grassland to supply the base for its livestock economy as New Zealand . The native tussock grassland and introduced pasture grasses feed almost all of the nation 's sixty million sheep and more than ten million cattle . The productivity of the country 's best pastures relies on the favorable Marine West Coast climate type . The moderating temperatures with high , relatively evenly distributed annual precipitation provide a suitable environment for the year-round growth of introduced clovers and grasses . Superphosphate and lime are fertilizers used to keep the grasses flourishing . On approximately 70 percent of New Zealand 's farms , dairy cows or sheep provide the main source of income . Dairy is New Zealand 's most specialized system of livestock farming and one of the most efficient in the world . The dominance of dairy livestock is highest in the Waikato , Bay of Plenty and Taranaki regions . Jerseys have traditionally been the main breed of dairy cows in the country because of the emphasis on butter production , to which the high butterfat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their general suitability to the local environment . Jersey cows are small , light animals , and so damage to pasture by trampling is minimized . Since the early 1960 's the increasing emphasis on complete utilization of whole milk has encouraged dairy farmers to adopt the Friesian-Holstein breed . Sheep farming has been the most important farming system throughout New Zealand 's development . Sheep remain the single most important item on farms , with over 60 million total sheep or 20 sheep to every person . The major  | Picture products from sheep farming include wool , mutton and Iamb , totaling together over 30 percent of the total gross farming income . New Zealand remains one of the leading trade countries in the world . With the advent of refrigerated shipping in the late 1800 's , exportation of pastoral farm products such as frozen meat , butter , cheese including the non-perishable commodity wool , have provided over 80 percent of exports by value . The principal imports of New Zealand have been machinery and transport , manufactured goods , chemicals , and mineral fuels and lubricants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Kingdom , the United States , Australia and Japan are New Zealand 's major trading partners in terms of imports and exports . New Zealand today is an independent state in the South Pacific developed as a self-governing community within the British Commonwealth of Nations . New Zealanders are both British subjects and New Zealand citizens . New Zealand is a democratic country that has incorporated a high degree of state control over transportation , utilities and health care . Citizens are highly taxed but receive many benefits such as uniform health care . In some ways , New Zealand can be considered a " middle class " country with most people sharing 161 in the rewards of society . Basic items such as food , clothing and shelter are quite reasonable , but luxury items are more heavily taxed by the state . Education is compulsory between ages of six and fifteen years . The educational system is very strong with the country having one of the highest literacy rates in the world . At present there is a concentration of over 70 percent of the people on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ populous but it is more urbanized than the South Island , with concentrations in large urban areas . Auckland is more than twice the size of Christchurch ; Wellington and Hutt are both larger than Dunedin , and together are larger than Christchurch . ( Figure 12.2 ) A great paradox in New Zealand is the fact that the country 's economic livelihood depends on the productivity of the rural primary industries , but the majority of the population lives in urban areas . In terms of population distribution , New Zealand is one of the world 's most urbanized countries with over 80 percent of the nation 's people living in urban places . Australia Australia is the sixth largest country of the world in terms of total area , while the population of about 15 million people is only comparable to such major metropolitan areas as Tokyo , New York , and London . People are concentrated along the margin of the continent , particularly the wetter Southeast Region . Among the larger countries of the world , Australia has a very high percentage of unproductive , arid land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gross national products per capita , is considered to be a very prosperous country . Since the early 1850 's , Australia 's economic development was rapid with gold leading the way . Gold mining brought people , wealth and capital equipment to develop the continent 's resources . The construction of railroads inland from ports made possible the cultivation of wheat on the better soils . Machinery for working virgin lands , fertilizers and new types of wheat were adopted to develop the dry lands . Refrigeration made possible the export of meat and dairy products . Pastures were developed to raise dairy cows and beef and for sheep fattening . Irrigation can be traced back to immigrants who came to Australia in search of gold . Irrigated land in the Murray-Darling Basin provided large scale cultivation of grapes , citrus and temperate fruit . The tropical climate of the Queensland coast was used to develop the cane-sugar industry around 1870 . Even with its outstanding technology in irrigation , Australia remains the most arid of all continents . Approximately 70 percent of Australia is classified as arid to semi-arid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been influenced by pastoral industries . Fine wool was the country 's first source of income and is still one of the country 's major exports . Wool became an early export item because of its imperishability , the absence of refrigeration , and the strong demand in the mother  | Picture country Great Britain . The pastoral industry has been successful because of the natural grazing land of indigenous grasses and shrubs . Unfortunately , variation in precipitation patterns makes for limited seasonal growth of natural pastures . There is a close relationship between climate , particularly rainfall , and the distribution of flocks . Sheep densities are greatest between the 15-inch and 25-inch isohyets in both the southwest and southeast of the country . A flock of 5,000 sheep is the minimum size unit with many flocks ranging from 10,000 ? 50,000 sheep . Large sheep stations , housing the more than 165 million sheep , have a minimum of fencing and the flocks are composed of medium fine-wooled merino sheep . Sheep farming in Australia is also concerned with the production of meat ? lamb and mutton . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the southeast , between western Victoria and Brisbane . This area has reliable rains and is close to markets and freezing plants . Not until after 1880 and the advent of refrigeration did cattle provide marketable export produce . Australia has more than 14 million beef cattle and 5 million dairy cows . Most of the beef cattle are raised on stations in the outback . They must be herded by drovers ( cowboys ) on horseback to railroad lines or coastal cities .  | The Australian wheat belt is divided into three parts , all of them between 10-inch and 25-inch isohyets . One of the three parts is in Western Australia , another is in South Australia , and the third is in Victoria and New South Wales . Wheat is Australia 's second most important agricultural product after wool . Special kinds of wheat have been developed for Australia 's generally dry climates . Australia is one of the most important wheat-producing countries of the world , exporting about 13 percent of the world 's wheat and wheat flour . Only the United States and Canada export @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and table grapes , sugar cane and cotton . Wool , wheat and beef account for about 50 percent of the agricultural output of the country . Exports of rice , cheese , sugar and live sheep have increased in recent years . Agriculture is no longer Australia 's major economic base . Since World War II , the economy has had many changes , particularly the growth of a large mining industry based on an extensive raw material base . ( Figure 12.3 ) Large deposits of bauxite , iron ore , coal , natural gas and uranium have provided the country with resources needed by industrialized countries in Europe and Japan . Australia now ranks with the United States , South Africa , the Soviet Union and Canada as one of the five largest mineral producers in the world . If the underground wealth of Australia is managed properly , it could help provide capital for the restructuring of manufacturing in the future . Mining provides a major linkage for the manufacturing sector with seven of the ten largest Australian firms , measured in market capital , related to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imports are clothing , chemicals , machinery , motor vehicles , and petroleum products . Major trading partners of the country are Great Britain , New Zealand , Canada , the United States and Japan . Australia is an independent nation officially known as a federal commonwealth . The country is a federation of six states and two mainland territories . It is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Queen of Great Britain is also Queen of Australia . In Australia approximately 70 percent of the total population lives in the dozen largest cities . State capitals average about 65 percent of the total state 's population . During the 1970 's the major urban changes included : slowed growth in major cities , development of new towns , fast growth in suburban areas , and some growth in small cities . Manufacturing centers such as Sydney , Melbourne , Adelaide , Newcastle , Woolongong and Geelong fell below the countrywide growth rate . Cities such as Perth and Brisbane , associated with cleaner , cheaper and more secure environments , had the highest metropolitan growth rate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth plans for the capital Canberra because of slowed growth and energy policies that will lead to more nucleated urban patterns . Associated with the high level of urbanization is the more than 70 percent of the work force  | employed in the service sector . Employment in the primary sector is between 7 and 10 percent with the rest in manufacturing . Like New Zealand , Australia has a very literate and highly skilled population . This skill has been applied to agriculture , to manufacturing and to the recent boom in resource development . Australia will continue to be one of the highly efficient economies of the world in the years ahead . Melanesia , Micronesia and Polynesia Melanesia lies to the northeast of Australia and includes New Caledonia , the New Hebrides , the Solomon Islands , Fiji and New Guinea . The physical environment in the large islands , with densely forested mountains and major river systems , makes communication and transportation difficult . Fiji is the one exception in Melanesia of a country having more contact with the outside and classified as a pluralistic society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ descent . Indentured labor was introduced in the nineteenth century from India to supply labor to work in the sugar industry . Today Indians and Fijians seem to live in harmony . Indians tend to control most of the commercial activities on the islands . Fiji was granted independence by the British government in 1970 . The period since independence has been one of racial harmony and a prospering economy . Sugar has long been Fiji 's main source of overseas income , with copra and gold playing lesser but significant roles . Recently , tourism has seen a significant increase in importance and forestry is showing signs of growth . Polynesia is defined by a rough triangle with Hawaii , New Zealand and Easter Island at its angles . The major island groups of Polynesia include the Hawaiian chain , the Society Islands , the Marquesas Islands , the Tuamotu Islands , the Austral Islands , the Samoan Islands , and the Tonga Island Group . ( Figure 12.1 , page 156 ) The interest of world powers in the region began to emerge after 1850 when France assumed responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society , Tuamotus , Austral , Mangareva or Gambiers , Cook and Rapa Islands . Hawaii and Tahiti ( the major island of the Society Group ) have developed a strong tourist industry . Ideal climate , picturesque volcanic peaks , beautiful beaches , tropical flora and fauna and underwater life are very attractive to tourists . Hawaii just recently broke the 4 million tourist count for one year . Honolulu and Papeete are the capitals and tourist centers for Hawaii and French Polynesia . Plantations of sugar cane and pineapples dominate Hawaiian agriculture . Macadamia nuts , kona coffee and flowers ( particularly orchids ) are important exports . The impact of military installations follows tourism in economic importance . Throughout Polynesia tropical agricultural crops are important to the economy . Coconuts , vanilla , sugar cane , breadfruit , taro , and bananas vary in  | significance from one island to another . Copra , the dried kernel of the coconut , is a very important crop on most islands for local food sources and as an export item . Micronesia is north of Melanesia and consists of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the western Pacific . The gross area of Micronesia is about 3 million square miles but the total land surface is only approximately 600 square miles . ( Figure 12.4 ) Three main island groups located between 5 ? N to 10 ? N latitude are included : the Marianas in the northwest ; the Marshall Islands in the east ; and the Caroline Islands in the center . Micronesia became a Trust Territory of the United States after Japan 's defeat in World War II . The United Nations transferred the islands to the United States as a strategic trust including seven districts : Marshall Islands , Ponape , Kosrae , Truk , Yap , Palau , and Northern Mariana Islands . Guam is not part of American Micronesia but an unincorporated territory of the United States which served as a naval base in the Marianas since before World War II . The series of high and low islands in Micronesia produces crops such as taro , yams , sweet potatoes , bananas and coconuts . In Micronesia , government employment is a very prestigious occupation . The Marshall Islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been testing nuclear weapons since the 1940 's . Tourism and commercial fishing are becoming more important in the region , particularly on islands such as Koror and Saipan . For Research and/or Discussion 1 . Why have New Zealand and Australia become such prosperous countries in such isolated locations ? 2 . What unique geographic environments are present in the region for economic development ? 3 . What strategic military role do islands of the Pacific play ? 4 . What future trading imports will be noticed in New Zealand and Australia because of the United Kingdom joining the European Economic Community ( Common Market ) ? 5 . Why is the Pacific World attractive for the tourist industry ? 6 . Why have leaders of Australia and New Zealand become so sensitive about nuclear testing and nuclear vessels in the Pacific ? Footnote 170 Chapter 13 Sub-Saharan Africa Introduction Sub-Saharan Africa is the region south of the Sahara Desert occupied by over 360,000,000 black-skinned Africans . The region , often called " Black Africa , " extends from the Sahara to the southern tip of the continent . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 34 ? S in South Africa . To the far south is Antarctica , to the north is the Sahara Desert , to the east the Indian Ocean and to the west the Atlantic Ocean . Sub-Saharan Africa includes over 6,000,000 square miles , encompassing over half of the African continent and approximately 12 percent of the total land area of the world . Africa straddles the equator , occupying a favorable location at the center of the land hemisphere . Black Africa is considered part of the Third World , struggling with change , growth and modernization while trying to combat population pressure on resources . Settlement and Colonization Sub-Saharan Africa was probably visited by people from Mesopotamia and the Mediterranean quite early . Around 600 B.C. , Greeks and Arabs sailed south along the Red Sea to African ports . Chinese porcelain has been discovered from the twelfth century at various places along the east coast of Africa , indicating contact with the orient hundreds of years prior to the arrival of the Portuguese . Portuguese Influence Portuguese sailors explored the west coast of Africa between 1430 and 1500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Indian Ocean . The 1497 voyage of Vasco da Gama traversed around the Cape , opening a sea lane for a new trading route to the east . This encouraged the development of settlements on the east and west coasts of Africa . A few missionary efforts were made to explore the interior of Africa , but eventually Portugal declined in power and her position in time was taken over by English , Dutch and French influence .  | Slave Trading African slave trade with America began when the Portuguese sent slaves to the mines and plantations of the Spanish West Indies around 1530 . Slaves were subsequently sent to Brazil , North America and Spanish South America . European maritime countries joined in competition for the slave trade while Britain , with her established shipping industry , benefited from transporting slaves to North and South America . Initially slaves were shipped from West Africa where there was a dense and virile population . Slave trade became the main economy of the European colonies in West Africa between the 1500 's and 1800 's , initiated by the Portuguese and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region between the Gold Coast and the Niger delta was known as the Slave Coast , and in time slave trading activities spread to Angola and East Africa . ( Figure 13.1 ) Explorers Although the coastal areas of Sub-Saharan Africa became well known to Europeans in the three or four centuries following the initial Portuguese explorations , the interior was almost completely unknown until the mid 1800 's . European explorers made significant penetration into Sub-Saharan Africa . Livingstone , Burton , Speke , and Grant explored the southeastern part of the continent between 1841 ? 1864 , and Stanley made his famous transcontinental trip in central Africa from 1871 ? 1877 . The explorations helped solve many problems associated with understanding the geography of Africa . Features such as the extent of river basins , major drainage divides and topographic features were discovered . Colonial Influence During the last century , Africa has had two distinct periods of political and geographical change . The initial period took place between 1884 ? 1894 when the continent was divided among European powers , the second occurring between 1956 ? 1966 when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continents , Africa was the most completely colonized . An understanding of the colonial process is vital to geographic interpretation of the countries of Africa . ( Figure 13.2 ) In 1884 the Berlin Conference was held in Germany to subdivide Africa among the major European countries . The main colonial powers in Africa around 1900 were Belgium , Britain , France and Portugal . Germany , Spain and Italy had some limited influence in Africa . Belgium had control over the Congo and the large territory in Central Africa ; Britain had possessions in West , Southern and East Africa ; France established colonial territories in North , West and Central Africa ; Portugal in Southern Africa ; Germany in West , East and Southern Africa ; Spain in the West and Northwest Africa ; and Italy in Eastern Africa .  | British basic colonial policy was to foster political change from colonial to commonwealth or independent status . French colonial policy was based on the principles of direct rule and political assimilation rather than future independence . Belgium 's colonial possession was one large territory , the Congo ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region but prepared the people for future self-government . Portugal accomplished very little political development in her colonial possessions in Africa since her countries were regarded as overseas possessions of the mother country with natives given very few opportunities to participate in the formulation of policies . The Spanish possessions in Africa were not extensive and policies tended to be similar to Portuguese colonial procedures . The considerable colonial territories controlled by Germany and Italy in Africa were very short lived because of the devastating defeats in World Wars I and II . All African countries except Liberia have been colonial possessions of one of the European countries . Over the years , Africans began to resist colonial rule and started asking the Europeans questions about why democracy was practiced in Europe but not in Africa . Between 1956-1966 , many African countries changed from a dependent colonial territory to independent states . Prior to the end of World War II only Liberia and the Union of South Africa were independent , with Ghana becoming the first new independent country after World War II in 1957 . By the early 1980 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Figure 13.1 , page 173 ) . Physical Patterns Landforms The major portion of Africa is made up of a series of plateaus known for their level to undulating topography . The plateaus are higher in the east and south and gradually become lower in the west and north directions . The plateaus have developed from extended periods of erosion that caused the reformation of large volumes of rock and soil from the continent to the oceans . Carved into the plateaus are a series of great river basins : the Niger , the Chad , the Nile , the Zaire ( Congo ) , the Zambezi and the Orange . The Zaire and Kalahari basins are structural depressions loaded with thick sediments deposited by the invasion of seas and rivers . ( Figure 13.3 ) Precambrian crystalline rocks provide the platform for the basic relief structure of Africa . These rocks are observable at the surface in sections of the continent but are mostly covered by sedimentary and volcanic material . High Africa includes Mount Kilimanjaro , a volcanic peak over 19,000 ft. located on the East African plateau ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and in extreme South Africa are located the folded mountains of the Cape region . The Cape mountains have been worn down and  | uplifted to form an intricate group of ranges attaining heights of nearly 8,000 ft . Outside of high Africa is the Cameroon , one of Africa 's largest active volcanoes , reaching a height of over 13,000 ft. , while West and Equatorial Africa are divided by the Cameroon Mountains . The Rift Valley of Africa is one of the most unique landform features of the world . It extends more than 6,000 miles from Turkey to South Africa . The region forms a long scar varying from 20 to 60 miles wide with steep , well defined sidewalls . The Great Rift is located in an area of the earth 's surface where lateral movements in opposite directions are creating tension . The Arabian and African plates are moving slowly apart causing seismic disturbances along lines of weakness . East Africa is the major area of volcanic activity in Africa . Mount Kilimanjaro , Mount Kenya , Mount Elgon , and Mount Meru are all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rift Valley is one of the major lake districts of Africa . Lake Tanganyika is one of the world 's deepest lakes and Lake Victoria ( one of the sources of the Nile ) is Africa 's largest lake that occupies a broad depression outside the Rift Valley . Africa 's coastal areas lack expansive coastal plains , and few deep gulfs exist for harbors . The coastline has few of the indentations that usually occur along coastal areas . Artificial harbors have been constructed in the last twenty-five years to alleviate port and water transportation problems . Climates Sub-Saharan Africa is located mostly in the tropics and is one of the largest areas of the world having hot tropical climate conditions . Elevation , ocean currents , the lack of extensive mountain systems and latitude are the major factors affecting the climate of the region . The Zaire River Basin and the Gulf Coast of Guinea are the major tropical rainforest areas of Africa . Continuous heat , high humidity , and little variation in temperature from month to month with constant rain are characteristic of the Tropical Rainforest Climate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above 64 ? F and annual precipitation exceeding 50 inches and often attaining over 150 inches a year . Here is found lush tropical rainforests of ebony and mahogany , both important for commercial lumbering . Dense jungles are found along river valleys and tropical birds , monkeys , snakes and an occasional rhinoceros dot the landscape . North and south of the tropical rainforest and the adjacent equator are the climatic zones called the Tropical Savanna . This climate is marked by a distinct wet and dry season . North of the equator the Savanna is called Sudan and south of the equator it is called the Veld . The Savanna region is composed of tough grasslands with scattered groups of trees .  | North of the Tropical Savanna is the Tropical Steppe grassland fringing the southern border of the massive Sahara Desert . South of the Tropical Savanna is the semi-arid Kalahari Desert with low grasses and shrubs . The Namid Desert is located along coastal Namibia and has one of the most arid conditions of any desert in the world . The desert location in the Kalahari anticyclone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great dryness , fog and cool temperatures . The southwestern tip of South Africa has a Dry Summer Subtropical or a Mediterranean climate . Mild wet winters and warm dry summers are characteristic of the climate . In the southeastern tip of South Africa is an area of Marine West Coast climate having mild temperatures , plenty of rainfall and a long growing season . A Humid Subtropical zone extends from the mouth of the Limpopo River southward for 250 miles . Summers are long and humid and winters are short and mild except for some of the colder mountainous areas . Highland areas are found in sections of Eastern and Southcentral Africa and extend into the very southern part of the continent . These highland areas have a significant impact on temperature and precipitation patterns influencing wet and dry conditions and temperature changes . West Africa The West Africa region includes all the countries from Senegal south and eastward to the Nigeria-Cameroon border . Economically the area has served as the main source of slaves for plantations in the United States and now provides a variety of agricultural and mining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oils , iron ore , oil , tin and bauxite . ( Figure 13.4 ) The region 's present population is over 144 million with an annual population growth rate of about 3 percent . Geographically , westward and southward is the Atlantic Ocean , northward is the Sahara Desert and eastward the Cameroon Mountains . Population Distribution The southern segment of West Africa is more densely populated than the northern region . The wetter , more productive agricultural lands of the forest in the south have been more conducive to settlement . The population growth in the south has increased considerably with recent economic and social advances in Ghana , Nigeria and the Ivory Coast . The dryness in the Savanna and Sahelian zones of the north have caused serious agricultural , animal and human losses ( Photograph 13.1 ) . Although the southern part of West Africa is more densely populated , there is a population pattern with a definite west to east arrangement . The Forest zone of the south has more reliable crop yield patterns than any other zone . The Sudan zone of the north is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cotton . The west to east population pattern is a remnant of past settlement patterns . The Hausa kingdoms have been built by pastoral and agricultural people from the high plains of northern Nigeria . They sow and harvest crops such as millet , cotton , peanuts , maize , sugar cane and sweet potatoes . The Hausa are very active traders throughout West Africa . Yorubaland is located in south-western Nigeria and consists of savannas in the north and rainforest to the south . The rainforest region , with highly leached lateritic soil , has been dominated by cacao trees , oil palms and kolas . Today the prosperous section of Yorubaland is the cacao belt on the northern and western sections of the rainforest near Ibadan . Both the Yoruba and Hausa are noted for crafts such as weaving and making gold knick-knacks . The Fulani are nomadic pastoral people of West Africa . They are the most highly dispersed group , residing primarily in the Sudanic and Salelian regions . The way of life of the various agricultural groups has provided the base for the generalized population pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tends to develop very high densities in some regions and lower densities in  | others . Soils , water supply , disease , and tribal patterns all have had an influence on the population distribution . Sub-Saharan Africa has been one of the least urbanized of the world regions . Starting in the 1930 's West Africa began urban growth . Today the region is considered one of the most rapidly growing urban areas of the world . In most of its countries , the capital cities have more than quadrupled in population over the past two decades . The capital city has become the largest city in most countries . Lagos , the federal capital and port of Nigeria , has a population of about three million . Ibadan , the capital of Western State in Nigeria , has close to one million people ; Accra , capital of Ghana , has about three-quarters of a million population ; and Dakar , Abidjan and Conakry , capitals of smaller countries , continue to grow in population . West Africa as a region is dominated by more than 85 million people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a Nigerian . With the country 's large size , large population and diversity of physical and human resources , Nigeria provides great potential for future economic leadership in the West Africa region . Economy Three types of cultivation practices are found in West Africa . Slash and burn agriculture occurs when a farmer cuts down trees and shrubs and burns the debris after the dry season , returning some nutrients to the soil from the ash . Farmers will work the land for approximately three years and then start the same practice on a new plot of land while the old fields reestablish their natural vegetation and fertility . A second practice is rotational bush fallowing where the farmer has a regular system of fallow land area that he rotates over the years . The fallow periods are limited in time so that trees do not take over the plot . By limiting use of a particular piece of land and rotation of crops , some soil fertility is maintained . This farming technique is the most widely practiced form of cultivation in West Africa . The third type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with fertile volcanic or alluvial soils can sustain this cultivation system over a number of years . Night soil , animal manure , household waste and crop rotation are used to promote permanent cultivation . Agriculture has been the economic mainstay of the West Africa region . Countries produce most of their own food by using subsistence agriculture . With this form of agriculture the farmer produces enough commodities for his family but does not sell products commercially . Important subsistence crops are millet , guinea corn , maize , rice , cassava , groundnuts ( peanuts ) , yams , beans and vegetables . Stock rearing is of some importance in the Sudan and the Sahel . Animals roam the land to eat what food is left in the fields or villages and are usually killed and eaten on special occasions . Zebu cattle , sheep , goats , pigs and chickens are the main source of meat .  | The development of commercial agriculture is an important economic component of West Africa . The primary producers of cacao are Ghana , Nigeria and the Ivory Coast . Palm oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . Coffee is a major export item of the Ivory Coast ; Sierra Leone and Liberia have been associated with exporting kola nuts . Groundnuts , or peanuts , have evolved from an important subsistence crop to a major export crop for Nigeria , Senegal and Gambia . Nigeria is the main exporter of cotton . Together these commercial crop exports are providing the region with essential economic and social development . West Africa is becoming a significant region of the world for raw materials such as iron ore , manganese , gold , diamonds , oil , bauxite , and phosphates . ( Figure 13.4 , page 179 ) Liberia , Sierra Leone , Guinea and Nigeria are sources of iron ore . Guinea and Ghana have bauxite deposits while Senegal is known for phosphate supplies . Gold mining occurs in Ghana . The Jos Plateau of Nigeria is a source of tin and Ghana is the main supply area of manganese for West Africa . Ghana , Sierra Leone , Liberia , Guinea and the Ivory Coast mine diamonds . Nigeria has plentiful petroleum resources . The manufacturing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's economy . It consists mainly of processing the products of agricultural and mining activities , light industries producing food , beverage and tobacco , and textiles . A high percentage of capital invested in manufacturing has been supplied by France , Japan , Britain and West Germany . The future economic growth of West Africa is very dependent on post-independence and agreements among countries of the region . A step toward regional cooperation occurred in 1975 when the independent states of West Africa formed the Economic Community of West African States ( ECOWAS ) . Lingering economic ties with former European colonial powers will continue to influence policy decisions of countries in the region . Economic cooperation among countries is an important step for future economic growth . Equatorial and East Africa Equatorial Africa Equatorial Africa is composed of Zaire , Congo , Central African Republic , Gabon , Cameroon , Equatorial Guinea and Sao Tome and Principe . ( Figure 13.1 , page 173 ) The entire region is dominated by one of the continent 's major drainage basins , the Zaire ( Congo ) . The Zaire was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement of the interior has progressed during the last century . Structurally , the Zaire basin is an alluvial depression , gradually increasing in elevation from 1,000 ft. to over 3,000 ft. at the plateau rim . The meanders , cataracts and tropical climate make navigation along the Zaire River quite difficult .  | Population and Settlement Climate , isolation , tropical vegetation , disease , slave trade and contact with Europeans all explain why Equatorial Africa has generally low population densities . Diseases such as malaria and sleeping sickness have retarded social and economic development . The low density of population has caused labor problems in agriculture , mining and plantation operations . An important component of the population in Equatorial Africa is the tribal composition . A variety of tribes such as the Bakongo , Lulua , Lunda and Fang are all classified as Bantu . The Bantu live in the tropical rainforest and savanna with settlements found near rivers . Slash and burn agriculture , hunting and gathering , and fishing are activities of the population . Some cattle are found in the savanna where the tsetse fly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over 60 percent of the present day population , but a mixture of ethnic groups such as the Fulani , Hausas , Arabs and Nilotic are in the region . The original inhabitants of the region , occupying the tropical rainforest of the Ituri Basin of north-east Zaire , are the Pygmy people . They are nomadic in nature but generally have been forced deep into the interior forests by the Bantu people . They are hunters and gatherers who eat nuts , berries , termites and snails , reflecting an almost perfect harmony with their environment . The Portuguese and Spanish colonized Tropical Africa . In the sixteenth century , Dutch , English and French traders began to enter the region . After the Berlin Conference ( 1884 ) , France established control north of the Congo River while Belgium took control of present day Zaire . After World War I broke out , Germany was forced out of African colonization and France and Belgium began to dominate Tropical Africa . British , Spanish and Portuguese attention was given to the northwest of the region because of the economic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tropical Africa is about 47 million . Annual population growth rate averages over 2.5 percent with only about 30 percent of the population living in urban areas . Kinshasa in Zaire is the major city of Tropical Africa with a population near 2.5 million people . The city is the center of river routes and is connected by rail to Matadi . Port Gentil in Gabon is located at the mouth of Ogowe and serves as the center for timber trade . Bangui in Central African Republic has served as an industrial center for flour mills , soap production , vegetable oil plants and diamonds . Brazzaville in the Congo is a growing city with access to the ocean railway and the port of Pointe-Noire . Douala , in Cameroon , is the most important port of the country . Economy Gabon has a very strong resource base . Manganese , uranium , petroleum , iron ore and timber provide the country with great potential for industrial development . ( Figure 13.4 , page 179 ) Zaire produces a variety of tropical products and crops such as rubber , ivory , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Picture and palm oil . The country 's hydro-electric power potential and resources such as diamonds , copper , cobalt , manganese , tin and gold provide a substantial base for economic growth . East Africa East Africa includes five countries Kenya , Uganda , Tanzania , Rwanda and Burundi . ( Figure 13.1 , page 173 ) The region is high , cool and dry and is a source area for the two great rivers of Africa , the Nile and the Zaire . The East African Plateau comprises the majority of the region and includes the Eastern or Main Rift Valley . A variety of economic pursuits is found in the region ranging from pastoral nomadic activities to plantation agriculture . Pests such as the tsetse fly , locust and mosquito have created serious health problems for the region . ( Photograph 13.2 )  | Population and Settlement East Africa has a total population of over 64 million . Uganda , Rwanda and Burundi have much greater density of population than Kenya or Tanzania . Kenya and Tanzania have large sections of land that have little rainfall and serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurred because of Arab slave trade before settlement by colonial powers . The region is a major ethnic mixing center . Rwanda and Burundi were settled by tall cattle-herding people , called the Watutsi , who moved in on the indigenous Bantu people known as Hutu or Bahutu . The Watutsi were supported by the Belgian leaders even though they made up only 12 percent of the combined population of the two countries . The Milatic tribe is found in northern Uganda ; the Half Hamites , of whom the Masai are the main tribe , are found near the Kenya-Tanzania border ; and the Eastern Bantu are the dominant group of people in other sections of the region . Rwanda and Burundi were once part of the German colony of Tanganyika , and after World War I were given to Belgium as the mandated territory of Rwanda-Urundi . Both countries became independent in 1962 . After World War I , Great Britain already holding Uganda and Kenya gained control of Tanzania from Germany , providing the British with direct control from South Africa into East Africa . East African towns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ethnic neighborhoods , industrial development , specialized services and political parties are emerging . Major cities are developing in the region such as Nairobi , Dar es Salaam and Kampala and many occupants of these cities are transplants from Europe and Asia . However , the majority are black Africans who could have a greater political influence in the cities but prefer instead to live in the security of outlying tribal groups . Many urban black Africans come to the city to work but keep family and children in secure and traditional rural tribal conclaves . Another feature of East African cities is the distinct Asian component . This occurred because Indian immigrants tended to be involved in trading and preferred an urban setting for living . In addition , many Indians were forced to live in cities because laws were developed that prevented them from owning land in rural areas . Cities are becoming very important education centers while , in rural areas , Protestant or Catholic churches tend to be the center of settlements . Economic Activities Hunting and gathering , and subsistence agriculture are practiced on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dry seasons , poor soil and the dreaded tsetse fly limit many agricultural activities . Bananas and maize are the two most important food crops of the region . Cash crops grown in East Africa have been influenced by settlement patterns and environmental conditions . The main cash crops grown by the people sac are coffee and cotton , introduced originally by missionaries . Cotton became an important source of supply for the cotton mills of Britain . Other cash crops of some significance are pyrethrum , tea and sugar . The chief mineral export of East Africa is diamonds mined in northern Tanzania . Another important export is copper from western Uganda . Southern Africa Southern Africa includes the countries of Angola , Namibia , Botswana , Malawi , Mozambique , Zimbabwe , South Africa , Zambia , Lesotho and Swaziland . ( Figure 13.1 , page 173 ) The total population of the region is over 75 million with an annual growth rate of about 2.5 percent . The country of South Africa has the largest population ( about 32 million ) and the highest per capita gross national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plateau averaging more than 1,000 feet above sea level . Much of Southern Africa is outside the tropical realm and with the higher elevations of the plateau the climate is not as warm as other sections of Africa . South Africa , Zimbabwe ( Rhodesia ) and Namibia are the three countries in Africa that have permanent white settlements more deeply established than the rest of the continent . Peopling of the Region The Bushmen were among the earliest groups to locate in Southern Africa . They were distributed over an expansive area from the Zambezi to the Cape Coast . Bushmen are classified as a late Stone Age people who are involved in hunting and gathering . The other group located in Southern Africa at the time of European settlement are the Hottentots . They are a mixture of early Iron Age Negroids and Bushmen that practice fishing and pastoral activities . During the same time period that the Dutch were moving into the South African Cape , Bantu-speaking Africans began moving from East Africa into southern Africa . The Bantu Africans were shifting cultivators and pastoralists that were organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ People from the Netherlands were called Afrikaners after settling the Cape of Good Hope in 1652 . The environment was found to be conducive for settlement and agriculture . Soon Englishmen began to come to South Africa and by the early 1800 's the British began to become more powerful than the Dutch . Britain was interested in controlling the Cape of Good Hope because of the many voyages taken to the British colony of India . When the British began to take over South Africa , the Afrikaners began to move toward the interior , an event referred to as the Great Trek . Gold and diamond deposits were discovered in the interior and again British interest for occupying more territory was stimulated . The Boer War from 1899 ? 1902 was fought among the Afrikaners , the British and the black Africans . The British won the war but the importance of South Africa to the British declined with the increased use of the Suez  | Canal for trade with southern Asia . South Africa was granted independence in 1910 . In addition to the Black Bantu Africans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ components of the population of South Africa . The Cape Coloured are primarily a mixture of European pre-Bantu people ( Bushmen and Hottentots ) and various Asian immigrants . A small group of Asians , particularly Indians who came to work on the British sugar plantations , make up the rest of the population . Apartheid is a policy of separation of whites and black Africans . Afrikaners feel there should be rigid separation of whites and black Africans and that tribal Homelands should be developed for the black African population to be isolated from established white areas . Apartheid is supposed to allow the Africans to develop their cultures separately and freely but the policy has continually worked against black Africans . Recent attacks have occurred in urban areas of South Africa against the white minority by the increasingly aggressive African National Congress . With the recent independence of Zimbabwe and tensions created by the apartheid policy , the entire region of Southern Africa is caught up in political tension and extremism . Economy The two major ports of South Africa are Cape Town and Durban . Crops and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , citrus fruits , grapes and raisins , wine and wool . Wheat is an important crop but not a major export item . South Africa is a major mineral producer of the world . ( Figure 13.4 , page 179 ) It leads the world in production of diamonds and gold and has great reserves of coal , iron , copper , manganese , uranium , chromium and tungsten . Iron and steel , food processing , metal working , textiles and the chemical industry provide the country with a strong manufacturing base . Zambia and Malawi are landlacked countries that have made use of the ports of Labito , Dar es Salaam , Nacala , Mombasa and Beira for exportation . Zambia 's major export is copper . Industrial linkages have developed in that country such as auto and truck assembly and resource-oriented industries . Malawi industry is based primarily on agricultural related items . Namibia has some of the world 's richest gem diamonds plus copper , lead , zinc , vanadium and tin . Zimbabwe is well endowed with basic raw materials such as gold , chrome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major export raw materials are copper , asbestos and chrome . The mining industry has not been a major factor in the economy of Mozambique . The country 's major exports are agricultural items such as sugar , rice , fruits , copra , coconut oil , cashew nuts , tea , tobacco and timber . Angola 's agricultural and mineral potential are still waiting for development . Important exports of Angola are coffee , cotton , sugar , maize , oil palm products and sisal . Angola has a rich mineral base with petroleum , iron  | ore , copper , manganese , sulphur , and diamond reserves . Agricultural and mineral resources of Angola need to be expanded and developed . Southern Africa has the mineral and agricultural resources along with human skills but is struggling with the clash of political and economic interests among various racial groups . Rising frustrations and violence in the region indicate that new approaches are needed to allow all members of society to participate in the decision making process . For Research and/or Discussion 1 . How were the countries of Africa prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you think has the most serious geographic problems ? What can be done to improve conditions in the region ? 3 . Explain the apartheid policy of South Africa . Review advantages and disadvantages of the policy . 4 . How do physical environmental characteristics of Sub-Saharan Africa influence economic activities ? 5 . Review the settlement patterns of Africa during the various time periods . What colonial power had the major impact on Africa ? Footnote  | Latin America Crossing the Rio Grande river to the south , there is a marked transition from the Anglo European cultural realm of North America to the Latin or Iberian influence of Central and South America . While not reflecting the same degree or intensity of the British influenced Anglo realm , this entire region does exhibit Latin imprint from its Spanish and Portuguese colonial masters which serves to set it aside as a unique cultural region . ( Figure 14.1 ) Unlike the British colonies , Latin America was more heavily populated by native peoples who remain , even today , a significant percentage of the population and in some areas a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arrival of the Europeans , they have retained much of their original culture while " blending in " linguistic and religious concepts of their former colonial masters . The result is a very rich and complex cultural hybrid . Even though settlement here preceded that of the English in North America by over a hundred years , large scale migration did not follow , leaving a small European minority in control of a native majority population , a pattern that has continued to the present . Climate and Landforms Latin America is a region of superlatives . The Andes constitute the longest uninterrupted mountain chain in the world while the tropical rain forest of the Amazon Basin is the most extensive . The Amazon River , third largest in the world , provides greater inland penetration by ocean going vessels than any other while sections of the Atacama Desert of northern Chile are among the driest in the world . Comparison with North America is possible when considering the climatic zones of Latin America because of the latitudinal range of both continents . This comparison must be tempered , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the landmasses involved . Nowhere in Latin America does one encounter the severe cold of polar continental winters of northern Canada as the equivalent latitudes of Latin America are occupied by a tapering landmass allowing greater marine influence and milder temperatures . Perhaps the most direct comparison can be made along the west coast of the continents . Here the direct influence of ocean . The arid coastal area of southern California , Mediterranean condition of the San Francisco Bay area and the marine West coast conditions of Washington and British Columbia are mirrored in reverse fashion as one moves along the coast of Chile . To the east of the Andes their moistureblocking effect is vividly illustrated by the arid region of southern Argentina . To the north of this arid area lies the Pampas , perhaps one of the most extensive and well endowed agricultural regions of the world . It is the agricultural productivity of the Pampas which has formed the basis for the large and prosperous population concentration around Buenos Aires . Middle and western South America have climatic zones greatly influenced by the mountain ranges . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each determined by elevation . ( figure 14.2 ) The lowest zone from sea level to 2500 feet is called the tierra caliente or " hot lands . " Here , in a climate inhospitable to man , banana plantations and other tropical crops dominate in the heat and humidity of the coastal plains . Above this zone is the tierra templada , with its more temperate climate encouraging the largest population concentrations and providing a suitable environment for the cultivation of coffee , corn and wheat . Further up the slopes is the tierra fria , or cooler lands of the high mountains . These lands , to 10,000 feet above sea level , present a harsh environment where only hardy crops such as potatoes and barley grow well . Above this zone  | Picture one enters the tierra helada ( or paramos ) where the vegetation yields gradually to the snowcapped peaks of the mountains . Seasonal pasturing is practically the only agricultural use to which this region lends itself . Colonial Impact At the time of initial contact with the Europeans there existed several highly developed Indian cultures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aztecs of south-central Mexico and the Incas of Peru , Ecuador , Bolivia and Chile . ( Photograph 14.1 ) Beyond these major empires , Indian population remained relatively small in numbers and widely dispersed with limited organization and development . Thus , the fall of each major Indian empire to the Spanish permitted control of extensive and previously organized territories , while the more primitive and widely scattered tribes are still present in many undeveloped areas such as the Amazon Basin . It is interesting to note the rapid collapse of both the Inca and Aztec empires upon contact with the Spanish . In both cases , a few hundred soldiers in strange territory and a great distance from home were able to conquer powerful and populous civilizations with a minimum of resistance . Apparently ,  | both empires were in a stage of decay and weakness at the time of this encounter . Hernan Cortez was able to stimulate revolt among the Aztec subject peoples , leading to the overthrow of the ruling class , while Fransisco Pizarro was able to seize upon the internal disorder of a too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the set of values carried by the Spanish and Portuguese conquerors . Lacking the religious and political ferment in northern Europe , Spain and Portugal retained a very traditionalist conservative feudal society , with the Roman Catholic church in a dominant position . The initial interest in the New World focused upon the rapid accumulation of wealth , particularly gold , and the religious conversion of the native population . These objectives encouraged the Spanish to rapidly seek out those centers of existing Indian power and wealth and to establish control in a highly feudalistic framework . The Indians , greater in number than those of Anglo-America , became serfs in their own land and were forced to work for the enrichment of their new masters . In the process , disease and starvation reduced the Indian population to a point where in those areas of plantation development they were replaced by large numbers of slaves imported from Africa . Latin America 's present cultural and racial mixture was thus established quite early . Mixed populations of white ( European ) , Indian and Negro have over the years mixed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and mulattoes ( Negro and Indian ) . Today , pure Indian blood descendants predominate in Guatemala , Ecuador , Peru , Bolivia and Paraguay while Argentina , Uruguay and Costa Rica are dominantly European in descendancy . Land Tenure and Settlement Throughout Latin America , the Spanish and Portuguese dominant minority focused their attention on the development of cities . These cities reflect their Iberian models , with the central core developed around a square or plaza and a cathedral often constructed in a massive and impressive style reflecting the power and wealth of the church . Beyond the city , European influence declined rapidly except for those areas immediately associated with large feudal estates or latifundo . These vast land holdings served , as did their European counterparts , more as a source of prestige than as a producer of wealth . Much land was held in an unproductive state while the landless Indian/mestizo population struggled to support itself at a subsistence level . Despite land tenure or ownership reform efforts , much of Latin America still reflects this extreme imbalance in the control of land and ultimate wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth set the pattern of settlement which has persisted to the present . Latin American cities and population clusters are , with a few notable exceptions , focused on the coast with little settlement in the interior and limited population contact with their  | neighbors . This settlement pattern encouraged the high degree of regionalism which today is evidenced in the national political structures . It also produced " hollow frontiers " in the interior where national borders run through extensive regions of thin or nonexistent population . Current population trends would seem to aggravate this situation even further . High rates of rural to urban migration have swelled the population of cities at a far more rapid pace than the development of jobs , housing and public utilities . Poor , unskilled rural families move to the cities in search of a better life only to find that they must live in squalid communities lacking water , sewer and housing facilities . Since the labor force thus generated far exceeds the available jobs , unemployment is common and dreams of a brighter future are replaced with frustration and bitterness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Instability Although the Latin American countries today resemble the political structure of the United States on paper , the realities of military dictatorships and political instability emerge in sharp contrast . The average North American is puzzled by the seemingly endless political turmoil of the region and its contradictions . To understand the basis of this instability , it is necessary to consider several historical elements which have given Latin America its present structure . In Latin America the authoritarian traditions of the pre-Hispanic period were reinforced by the divine right monarchs of the new colonial masters . Not having experienced the democratic revolutions of northern Europe , Spain and Portugal perpetuated the direct and total authoritarian feudal system with the ultimate power flowing from the crown . Little or no practical democracy was allowed nor expected . The colonial organization of the territories fell under a viceroyalty or a captaincy-general , with all key officers not only being appointed by the emperor , but actually remaining resident in Spain . Through this system , the seeds of democratic representative government lay dormant and the tradition of authoritarian paternalism established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English territory to the north , Latin America has little experience in , and perhaps a distrust of , open democratic procedures which have become firmly established elsewhere . A second major element in determining and maintaining this authoritarian nature of government has been the Roman Catholic church . After years of militant resistance to the Protestant Reformation sweeping Europe , the church viewed the New World as an opportunity to establish a vast Roman Catholic realm . Conversion of the Indians was to be total and no heresy was to be tolerated . Again , in religion , total authoritarianism was maintained through European based leadership . 196 Feudalistic social structure soon emerged in Latin America with the native Indian population on the bottom rung of the ladder and the mixed blood mestizos only slightly above them . Control of both the land and the government rested with a small minority of European born aristocrats who had little intention of relinquishing their power . This power was greatly reinforced by their direct contacts with the seat of authority in Spain or Portugal . As time passed , increasing numbers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but unlike their predecessors , they had limited contacts with the royal courts and resented the superior status of their European born countrymen . This friction ultimately led to the struggle for independence after which the colonial born Europeans were able to establish their firm and total control of the newly emerging nations . The wars of independence resulted in extensive regional fragmentation . Isolated by mountain barriers and dense jungles , the population clusters of the colonial period , led by local Spanish aristocrats , sought independent status as new nations . From the eight original Spanish colonies emerged eighteen countries . These wars also led to the rise of the military as a major power in each country . The authoritarian structure of the army blended well with both past tradition and the self-serving goals of the ruling elite and the role of the military became firmly established . Under such conditions , democratic processes can function only within the established framework of the ruling class and the military . Revolution after revolution has produced little change but to shift the mantle of power from one powerful family to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieved , while the financial burden of conflict has been borne by the non-benefitting masses . Mexico and a few other nations have experienced successful revolutions where the social , economic and political structures have been truly changed , but they remain the exception rather than the general trend . Political and Economic Development A number of diverse elements enter into the prospects for development in Latin America . Scattered population concentrations tend to make transportation difficult and expensive while thinly populated national interiors have hindered exploitation of available resources . Possessing some of the world 's richest deposits of iron ore , South America is notably lacking in coal . ( Figure 14.3 ) A long history of authoritarian values has suppressed a sense of selfgovernance among the masses while inequitable distribution of wealth serves to encourage a sense of elitism among a small percentage of the population . Availability of resources in demand by the industrial nations of Europe and North America has created an outflow of raw materials with limited reinvestment in local industries . ( Photograph 14.2 ) Plantation products , such as  | Picture coffee and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in regional politics while maintaining an unchanging socioeconomic system . Despite these restrictions several nations have achieved a level of development that is rapidly moving them into the ranks of developed nations . Brazil , Argentina and Venezuela have most notably capitalized on their resource base and have begun significant levels of manufacturing . Others have begun moving in this direction and , if they can overcome political instability , appear to be poised for major development . Mainland Middle America Mexico dominates Middle America in size , population and recent political stability . With its northern third arid and rugged , it poses a sharp contrast with the more highly irrigated lands to the north in Arizona and California . This northern aridity has forced the concentration of population toward the slightly more moist southern and central region between Mexico City and Guadalajara . This excessive concentration of population has led to extreme pressures upon the Mexico City government . As a primate city , Mexico City has no competition for leadership in the political , cultural or economic spheres  | and as such , tends to attract a steady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment , these landless peasants appear so suddenly in squatter settlements that they are called " parachutists " since they seem to have dropped from the sky overnight . Unfortunately , if this situation continues , Mexico City will become not only the world 's largest city , but a major urban disaster area . The Mexican economy has been moving away from an agrarian structure to one with greater emphasis upon diversified manufacturing , much of which is concentrated in Mexico City . The government controlled production of petroleum and natural gas has provided a valuable export and stimulated further industrial investment . Unfortunately even with the increased production of fossil fuels along with modern manufacturing and tourism , Mexico 's unemployment is still high due to a rapid population growth rate . While the Mexican government has managed to retain control over the petroleum industry , which is their largest export , the lead , copper and zinc mines of the northern region are still heavily influenced by foreign investment and control . Guatemala , Belize , Honduras , El Salvador , Nicaragua , Costa Rica and Panama constitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mosquito ridden coastal plains have forced the population centers of each country up into the zone of tierra templada . Dominated by a subsistence economy , these countries have become strongly influenced by two commercial plantation crops , bananas and coffee . Banana plantations , at one time practically monopolized by Standard Fruit and United Fruit Company , not only constituted a major element in the export trade but exerted a significant political control . Owned and managed by foreigners , these companies exercised great political power in the domestic affairs of these republics . Internal political discord served to further heighten their influence . While the banana plantations were dominated by North American influences , the coffee interests have been largely European . Unique among the Latin American countries is Costa Rica which has maintained a functioning democratic government independent , land owning , small farms , high literacy rates , high income levels , all in the absence of a standing army . The economic level and political stability of this republic have attracted many North Americans who wish to settle in its pleasant climate . Panama is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . Encouraging the region to secede from Colombian control , the United States immediately recognized it officially and contracted for a lease giving it a rightof-way across the isthmus . The construction of the Panama Canal in the U.S. controlled Canal Zone gave the United States great control over local politics and the future of the country . With its population concentrated almost entirely in the Canal Zone , Panama has now regained control of the canal and release from the direct foreign control which it has experienced since 1903.  | The Caribbean Rimland This island rim curving from the tip of Florida to the South American coast is known as the West Indies , reflecting the initial confusion of the early explorers who thought that they had discovered a sea route to the southeast Asian " Indies " or East Indies . While disappointed in their initial quest for gold , the European colonial powers did find wealth in the form of sugar . A high demand for sugar in Europe where it could not be grown , the climatic suitability of the West Indies and a sparse , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plantations . Wealth and prosperity were the rewards of the planters , while the native population earned poverty and slavery . As the plantations expanded , the increased demand for labor led to the importation of large numbers of slaves from Africa . It is this slave population that has formed the basis for the large Negro population in this region . Unfortunately , sugar became increasingly available as Europe 's colonial world expanded and prices fell dramatically , leaving the West Indies in an extremely destitute condition . Further stimulating this price decline was the development of the sugar beet industry in Europe and the United States . This industry is highly subsidized in both the United States and Europe and as a result has produced cries of protest from the cane sugar producers who rightly maintain that they can produce sugar more inexpensively . Aside from investment in sugar plantations , these islands held an important strategic significance for the European powers . The major sea lanes from gold rich Mexico and northern South America passed through this island arc . The nation controlling the islands and maintaining forts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Greater Antilles , composed of Cuba , Jamaica , Hispaniola ( Dominican Republic and Haiti ) and Puerto Rico constitute the bulk of the land area and population of the island rim . The Spanish were able to retain power in Cuba , the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico , while the British controlled nearly all of the Lesser Antilles , Trinidad and Jamaica . The French were able to exert control over Martinique , Guadeloupe and Haiti . The language and culture of these former colonial powers still dominates the respective islands . Haiti , with a predominantly Negro population , gained its independence in 1844 . The Spanish control of Puerto Rico and Cuba greatly outlived their mainland colonies and it was not until the Spanish-American War of 1898 that they relinquished control . Puerto Rico became a territory of the United States in 1917 and still maintains a close but self-governing relationship with the United States . This relationship has led frequently to cries for full statehood . Cuba 's return to local control was heavily influenced by commercial ties with the United States until the revolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poverty and political oppression of both Haiti and Cuba have led to massive flights of legal and illegal aliens to the United States . Puerto  | Ricans , taking advantage of their special immigration status , have been seeking employment in the United States for some time , with a substantial percentage located in New York City . Throughout the region poverty is extreme . Rapid population growth and limited resources beyond a depressed sugar market have served to maintain an economy predominantly subsistence in nature . Tourism is perhaps the only promising industry due to the pleasant climate and beautiful scenery . Tourism , however , provides employment for only a small percentage of the population . Inflated , tourist-oriented prices penalize the local resident . South America The continental area of South America is a land of contrasts . Its physical features range from the arid Atacama Desert to the lofty snowcapped peaks of the Andes to the steamy tropical Amazon Basin . Politically , its twelve republics and two colonies range in size from the tiny British territory of the recently disputed Falkland Islands to the vast reaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Andes , South America ranges from the tropics in the north to its cold , windswept southern tip of Tierra del Fuego . Colombia , Ecuador , Peru and Bolivia share in common their Andean location . Their narrow coastal plains , with the exception of Bolivia which lost its plains in a war with Chile , are hot , uncomfortable and for the most part unproductive . This has encouraged the development of isolated population clusters in the temperate highlands . Colombia , with its highland capital of Bogota , relies heavily on the production and export of coffee which is raised in the cooler templada in the Magdalena River valley . To the south , Ecuador secures a substantial percentage of its income from the export of bananas , of which it is the world 's leader , while cacao and increasing petroleum production serve to provide some diversification of this narrow economy . Peru , with its population concentrated along its narrow coastal plain , relies heavily upon the export of copper , lead , zinc and silver for its national income . Landlocked Bolivia struggles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by exporting tin , silver and petroleum . All four of these nations suffer from poorly developed transportation systems and remote location in reference to world trade routes . Bolivia also has highlighted the instability of Latin American political systems by becoming the world leader in governmental coups . Chile , stretching over 2,600 miles along the Pacific , from Peru to the southern tip of the continent , provides a challenge to its government which must rule a nation of an extremely elongated nature . Not only is the friction of distance great , but economic and climatic variations create at least three " Chiles . " In the north , copper is king . The Atacama Desert provides a rich source for copper mining which accounts for three-fourths of Chile 's export wealth . Iron ore , located in the southern Atacama also provides a major raw  | material export . Further south , in central Chile , the climate becomes Mediterranean in nature and it is here that the heaviest population concentrations are found . The capital city of Santiago is located in this dominantly Spanish cultural region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the westerly winds bring increased moisture . It is here that a substantial German population is found living much as they would in their climatically similar homeland . Isolated from contact from its eastern neighbors by the Andean mountains , Chile has preserved its unity by relying heavily upon sea transport but finds itself remote from international trade . In the far north of South America , Venezuela shares the terminating Andean ridges with Colombia as they descend rapidly to a narrow coastal plain . Lake Maracaibo , located in the country 's northwestern sector , is a shallow gulf of the Caribbean Sea which has provided Venezuela with its rich reserves of petroleum . Accounting for nearly 90 percent of its exports , petroleum has made Venezuela one of the richest nations of South America although the distribution of this wealth is still quite uneven , as can be seen in the extensive squatter population around the otherwise affluent capital of Caracas . Beyond the coastal range , in whose uplands the bulk of population is located , lies the llanos or vast savanna region of sparse population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region to settlement and agricultural development . Further to the east on the Orinoco River is Ciudad Guayana , a rapidly growing industrial city based upon the rich iron ore deposits of the Bolivar Range . The size , quality and accessibility of this ore deposit have served to balance Venezuelan dependence on petroleum and to stimulate industrial growth . Brazil is the largest nation in South America both in size and population and one of the largest countries in the world exceeded only by the U.S.S.R. , China , Canada and the United States ( Alaska included ) . Covering nearly half of the South American continent , its population is concentrated along the Atlantic coast near the cities of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo . The recently constructed new capital Brasilia was located inland in an effort to draw population and development further toward an almost empty interior . Nearly three quarters of Brazil is thinly populated by primitive Indian tribes . The Portuguese who developed sugar plantations in Brazil 's northeast were among the New World 's first , and for a period , the largest producers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1700 's , the mining of gold and diamonds in the interior west of Rio de Janeiro led to a rapid settlement of that area . As this mining wealth began to decline , coffee production began on the highlands near Sao Paulo and Brazil 's present world leadership emerged . In the Amazon Basin a similar rise and fall of fortunes was experienced as rubber production soared during the late 1800 's , only to collapse overnight when Brazilian rubber seeds were successfully transplanted in Southeast Asia where a more efficient plantation and transportation system was in use .  | Today coffee and soybean products constitute the bulk of Brazil 's agricultural exports while the role of raw materials has declined significantly . Unlike most of her South American neighbors , Brazil has developed a significant manufacturing sector with increasing diversification promising to provide the bulk of her domestic needs . Today the export of industrial products has exceeded that of coffee and is serving to secure a greater degree of economic stability and security , free from foreign financial influences . The Amazon Basin of Brazil represents that nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ populations of the southeast . A massive development scheme has been undertaken by the government to open this region to a form of homestead settlement . This program , the world 's largest resettlement plan , is aimed at developing an area nearly three-fourths the size of the United States . Perhaps the two most restrictive elements of this development are transportation problems and the nature of the soil . Not only are the distances to be covered by road and rail lines great , but they pass through a thinly populated region making them uneconomical to maintain . The soils tend to lose their fertility quickly when the rain forest ( selva ) is cleared for agriculture . This loss of fertility results from the flushing of nutrients from the soil by moisture , a process called leaching . Until these and many other obstacles are overcome , the success of the Amazonia project can only be speculative . Between Brazil and the continent 's next largest nation Argentina , lie the two small states of Paraguay and Uruguay . Landlocked Paraguay has a stagnant economy with the export of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ located on the coast , has a predominantly European popul-ation and has developed an agricultural processing industry based upon wool , beef and dairy products produced on the rich grasslands of the pampa . Northern Argentina shares this pampa region which surrounds the capital city of Buenos Aires and is the core area of Argentina 's predominantly agricultural economy . Meat , grain and wool dominate the export market while domestic food production makes Argentina one of the best fed countries in the world . Industrial development and diversification have advanced greatly and today Argentina produces a vast array of manufactured goods for domestic use and export . With such agricultural wealth and industrial production focused around it , Buenos Aires has become one of the world 's major cities . The population of the city reflects the predominantly European origins of Argentina with Spanish , Italian , German , French and English languages all in use .  | For Research and/or Discussion 1 . Analyze the particular interest of the United Kingdom and Argentina in the Falkland Islands which created the confrontation in 1982. 2 . Using contemporary sources attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American countries . 3 . Evaluate the current interest of the United States government in the Central American nations . 4 . Analyze the appeal of southern Chile and attempt to develop a few theories of the interaction between culture and environment . 5 . Construct a comparison chart listing the numerous factors accounting for the gap between those economically successful countries such as Brazil and the nations experiencing slow development . Identify the elements which apparently make a difference . Footnote  | Anglo-America is that area of North America which primarily bears the imprint of English ( Anglo ) speaking peoples in contrast to the Iberian ( Spanish and Portuguese ) traditions of the remainder of the " New World . " Although most of the political , social , cultural and economic patterns which dominate both the United States and Canada today may be traced to their origin on the Island of Great Britain , the region also reflects traditions born in other areas . Anglo-America has been characterized as a " melting pot " because of the variety and diversity of migrants from all parts of the inhabited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The region has also been characterized as a diversified zone in which specific groups retain many of their cultural identities ? The French in the Quebec Province of Canada , native Indians in the United States and Canada , Hawaii 's Asiatic and Polynesian peoples , Blacks in the American South and urban North and Hispanics in the southwest United States . The United States and Canada cover almost 7.5 million square miles and stretch across about 65 ? of latitude from the Hawaiian Islands to northern Canada and encompass over 136 ? of longitude from Newfoundland in the east to the Aleutians in the west . The region is larger than all of the continents except Africa and Asia . The Arctic Ocean separates Anglo-America from the Soviet Union ; the North Atlantic buffers it from Europe ; and the Caribbean divides it from Latin America . The total land area of the region includes approximately 14 percent of the world 's total area . More than 260 million people occupy the United States and Canada amounting to about 6 percent of the world 's total population . Settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the end of an Ice Age 25-30,000 years ago . Until the 1500 's , the region was the home of around one million American Indians who were descendants of the earlier migrants from Asia . Through a series of migrations and spatial movements they developed a wide variety of cultures , languages and economies . Closely associated with the physical environment , the Indians related economic activities to certain habitats . In the far north , the Eskimos lived by  | hunting , fishing and gathering while eastern tribes were hunters and growers of corn and squash . The Spaniards introduced horses to the Indians around 1600 . Mobility on horseback enabled bison hunting on the Great Plains and substantially increased the population of the region . The Indians provided early European settlers with a series of trails and settlements , knowledge of the land and crops , and labor for a variety of activities . Today there are over 700,000 Indians in the United States and Canada . Reservations cover about 55 million acres in the U.S. and 6 million acres in Canada . The Norse settled southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coastline before Columbus discovered the New World and serious European migration and settlement began to occur . Spanish In 1600 , Spain was the only colonial power in what is today Anglo-America . St. Augustine , Florida was built as a fortress and a group of missions was established northward along the U.S. coast for about 200 miles as far north as North Carolina but most Eastern missions outside Florida had been abandoned prior to English settlement . In the early 16th century , Spain began to bring blacks to the New World in significant numbers as agricultural laborers . A colony in Pedee , South Carolina around 1526 contained about 100 blacks . The first major black settlements occurred in important tidewater agricultural areas of North Carolina , Maryland and Virginia in the late 1600 's . By 1713 , expansion had been limited because of conflict with native Indians and because of limited Spanish colonial support . The approximately four thousand Spaniards were located in settlements in Florida , Texas , New Mexico and California . French The French came to the continent by way of the St. Lawrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the Great Lakes and the area drained by the Mississippi River and its tributaries . The main settlement corridor was along the St. Lawrence between Montreal and Quebec where French settlers farmed long narrow farms lying at right angles to the river called " French long lot . " Most of the territory claimed by the French was not settled by colonists but controlled by soldiers in strategically located forts . The French spread activities over a much larger area than they were able to permanently control . Great river systems travelled by Indians , fur traders and missionaries enabled the French to spread out over a vast region . English The English reaching Anglo-America after the Spanish and French concentrated on settling along the Atlantic coast from Nova Scotia to Florida .  | They were from north to south : Massachusetts ( founded in 1620 ) , New Hampshire ( 1629 ) , Rhode Island ( 1636 ) and Connecticut ( 1636 ) which made up New England ; New York ( Dutch colony until 1664 ) , New Jersey ( 1664 ) , Delaware ( 1664 ) and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Maryland ( 1634 ) , Virginia ( 1607 ) , North Carolina ( 1690 ) and South Carolina ( 1691 ) were the Southern Colonies . Negro slaves made up approximately half of the population in the South with the rest being predominantly English . Conflicts and tension began to build up between Great Britain and France as both countries tried to protect and expand territories . By 1750 , the two countries were struggling for control over the Ohio River Basin . The British were moving westward from their thriving colonies along the eastern coast and the French were trying to retain control over forts and settlements in the lower Mississippi River , Great Lakes and St. Lawrence valley . The British defeated the French in the important battle at Quebec City in 1759 . In 1763 a treaty gave the holdings of France east of the Mississippi to the British . Spain gave up Florida to the British but received all of the French land west of the Mississippi . British taxation policies and citizen concern regarding continued dependency on England resulted in the thirteen colonies declaring independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and helped solidify the former colonies under one military command . The United States of America signed a treaty with England in 1783 which gave all territory between Florida and Canada and east of the Mississippi River to the United States . After the battles ended , a major political revolution occurred developing thirteen autonomous units into a union . Canada began its existence as British North America in 1783 . The territory extended from the Atlantic coast to Lake Superior . Canada became a member of the British empire at the end of the French and Indian War and was intensely loyal to Britain . From the early 1800 's until the late 1950 's the spatial pattern of the United States and Canada was formed . Transformation and expansion developed through a series of acquisitions or purchases : Louisiana in 1803 , Florida in 1819 , Texas in 1845 , Alaska in 1867 and the Hawaiian Islands in 1898 . Settlers moved westward displacing Indians and establishing control over the Great Plains and the western United States . To the north , Canada was also expanding westward but at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Dominion of Canada was organized in 1867 . All land north of the United States was included under British North America except Newfoundland . Newfoundland was made a province of the Dominion of Canada in 1949.  | Physical Patterns Landforms The landforms of Anglo America can be arranged into three broad categories that tend to be oriented in a north-south direction the Appalachian Highlands ( Uplands ) , the Atlantic Coastal Plain and Interior Lowlands , and the Western Cordillera ( Pacific Mountain System ) . The Appalachian system located on the east reaches its northern limit in Labrador and its southern extremities in Alabama and Georgia . The Appalachian Uplands include the Blue Ridge , the Ridge and Valley Province and the Appalachian Mountains and Plateau . East of the Appalachian Uplands are the Atlantic Coastal Plain and the Piedmont . Moving west from the Appalachians are plains reaching from the Arctic to the Gulf of Mexico . They include the Great Plains , Interior Plains , Arctic Coastal Plain , the glaciated Canadian Shield and the outlier of the Appalachians the Interior Highlands . To the west @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ System extending from Central America to Alaska . The region is divided into the Pacific Mountains and Valleys , the Intermontane Basins and Plateaus and the Rocky Mountains . The physiographic divisions of Anglo-America will be reviewed generally from the east to the west coast of the continent . ( Figure 15.1 ) The Atlantic Coastal Plain extends from New Jersey to the mouth of the Rio Grande . ( Figure 2.7 , page 31 ) It blends with the Interior Lowland where the **25;1072;TOOLONG River systems merge . The low flat rolling region has sandy soil that is not particularly fertile but is supplied with plenty of moisture and has been made productive with chemical fertilizers . A wide variety of crops have been grown in the Coastal Plain ranging from garden produce in New Jersey to rice , cotton and sugar cane in Louisiana and Texas . The Piedmont ( or " foothill " ) region is composed of eroded crystalline and igneous ( Triassic ) materials , and extends from Trenton , New Jersey southwestward to Montgomery , Alabama . The line separating the crystalline materials of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called the Fall Line . ( Figure 2.7 , page 31 ) Many large towns and cities line the eastern edge of the Piedmont because of water power and transportation advantages for industry . Fall Line cities such as Trenton ; Philadelphia ; Wilmington ; Baltimore ; Washington ; Richmond ; Raleigh ; Columbia , South Carolina ; Augusta and Columbia , Georgia take advantage of natural water power at sites which are often the focal point of land transport . Specialized agricultural activities include dairying and grain crops in the north and cotton and tobacco cultivation in the south . The Appalachian Highlands are composed of three unique subregions ? the Blue Ridge , Ridge and Valley and Appalachian Plateau . ( Figure 2.7 , page 31 ) The Blue Ridge extends from Pennsylvania and Virginia southwestward through North and South Carolina to merge with the Great Smoky Mountains of North Carolina and Tennessee . The Southern Blue Ridge contains the  | highest peaks ( over 6,000 feet ) in the eastern part of the continent and is underlain by ancient crystalline rock . Orchards , lumbering , recreation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Ridge and Valley Province extends to the west from the Blue Ridge for approximately 60 miles in a series of northeast-southwest trending ridges . The surface of the region relates to the geologic structure and is shaped upwards and downwards into a series of anticlines and synclines . The first valley between the Blue Ridge and the Ridge and Valley Province is a dominant northeast-southwest trending valley extending from the lower Hudson River in New York to Alabama called the Great Valley . Local names for the Great Valley include Lehigh and Cumberland Valleys in Pennsylvania , Shenandoah Valley in Virginia and the Great Valley of East Tennessee . The Great Valley is composed of sedimentary material ( particularly limestones ) and the fertile soil has provided the base for grain farming and dairying . Tree fruit farming , beef cattle and vegetable farming are also found in the region . In southcentral Pennsylvania , the Ridge and Valley Province terminates at the eastern edge of the Appalachian Plateaus , a sharp cliff known as the Allegheny Front . From the Allegheny Front , the extensive Appalachian Plateau slopes toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Allegheny Plateau in Pennsylvania and New York or the Cumberland Plateau in the south . The plateau is highly dissected by streams and gives the appearance of an extensive area of low hills . North of Pennsylvania the underlying rock is crystalline and there is greater variation in the landscape . Mountain ranges such as the Adirondacks in New York , the Green and White Mountains in New England , the Notre Dame and Shickshock ranges in Quebec and the Long Range in Newfoundland become more dominant . The Appalachian Highlands are known for mines , forests and productive agricultural and industrial centers . The Interior Highlands Province is west of the Appalachians with less altitude and local relief . A dissected plateau with low hills and some linear ridges and valleys make up the Ozark section of southern Missouri and northern Arkansas and the Ouachita sections of western Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma . Crop growing and livestock raising are prominent economic activities in the region . The Interior Plains are an expansive region of gently rolling land covering much of the central portion of Anglo-America . The undulating nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this area one of the outstanding agricultural regions of the world . Wheat , corn , soybeans , dairy farming , and livestock are large-scale agricultural activities undertaken in the Interior Lowlands . The Great Plains start near the hundredth median and extend westward to the Rocky Mountains . Grazing and irrigated cultivation of wheat and corn occur in this dry steppe climate .  | The Arctic-Coastal Plain is found in two sections . One is an extension of the Interior Plains northward along the Arctic Coast of Alaska and the Yukon . The other section borders the Hudson Bay . The region can best be described as a treeless plain called tundra . Economic importance of the region has recently increased through development of oil fields and building of the Alaskan pipeline . North and northeast of the Interior Lowland lies the Canadian Shield occupying a huge area of northeastern Anglo-America . This region has some of the world 's oldest known crystalline rock . Except for eastern Quebec and Labrador , where rugged hills are found , the area is a gently rolling landscape with many outcrops of bare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continental glaciation during the last one million years . Most of the region is located in Canada with a small portion in northern Minnesota , Michigan and Wisconsin . Forests , mining and water power are the major economic activities . The western cordillera of the United States and Canada may be divided into the Rocky Mountains , the Intermontane Basin and Plateaus , and the Pacific Mountains and Valleys . The Rocky Mountains extend from Alaska to New Mexico to form one of the most spectacular land formations in the world . Reaching heights of above 14,000 feet , the mountains act as a barrier between the Great Plains and the Pacific Coast . They are characterized by great local relief , spectacular scenery and rocky ruggedness . The Rockies are famous for mineral wealth including gold , silver and copper , glacial features and beautiful national parks . The Intermontane Basins and Plateaus stretch from Alaska to Mexico and are bounded by the Rockies on the east and the Pacific Mountain and Valleys on the west . The topography is rough and rugged and is composed of a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and desert basins . The Colorado River is part of the region and deep gorges such as the Grand Canyon provide the base for an important tourist industry . Mining , grazing and irrigated agriculture dominate the economy of the region . The Pacific Mountain and Valleys region is located along the Pacific coast from Alaska to Mexico . The region is characterized by spectacular mountain ranges , coastal lowlands , and fertile river valleys . The Puget Sound Lowland and Willamette Valley are located between the Coast Ranges and the Cascade Mountains in Washington and Oregon . In California , the Central Valley divides the Coast Ranges and the Sierra Nevada Mountains . Fruits , garden products and irrigated agricultural areas like the Imperial Valley are found throughout the region . Climates Anglo-American climate is influenced by a number of climatic controls such as latitude , topography , ocean currents , land and water surfaces and wind and  | pressure systems . Combined with its size and latitudinal diversity , a great variety of climates occurs within the region . ( Figure 2.2 , page 21 ) Humid Continental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , northern Alaska and provide the dominant type of climate for Canada . The Kiippen-Trewartha climatic classification for humid continental climates includes Humid Continental Warm Summer , Humid Continental Cool Summer and Subarctic . Within Anglo-America , winters become colder moving north with summers becoming longer and hotter moving south . Humid continental climate is very changeable and unpredictable with adequate moisture and growing season . In the southeastern United States is found a humid subtropical climate . Summers are hot , winters are mild and rainfall is plentiful throughout . Some of the successful crops grown over the years are rice , peanuts , tobacco , cotton and corn . The one hundredth meridian marks the approximate boundary of the Steppe and Desert climates of the Great Plains and Intermontane Basins and the Prairie Provinces of Canada . Rainfall gradually decreases westward where the vast deserts of Arizona , Nevada and southeastern California begin . Climates of the Pacific Coast vary from the northwest where a Marine West Coast Climate extends from northern California to British Columbia . The climate is characterized by long , mild , wet winters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pacific Coast in California has a Dry Summer Subtropical or Mediterranean Climate with warm , dry summers and wet winters . Summer is almost completely without rain because stable high pressure conditions control the climate . Tropical Rainforest climate is found in the Hawaiian Islands . Here a continuous summer climate is found but the trade winds and surrounding oceans provide a moderating effect and great moisture variation occurs because of topographic barriers . The southern tip of Florida from the Keys to north of Miami has a similar tropical Savanna climate with a dry season in the winter . The diversity of climates and physiographic divisions provides AngloAmerica with a tremendous physical base . Crops such as citrus fruits , wheat , corn , cotton , sugar , middle latitude fruits and others stimulate prosperity and economic growth . Combined with a literate and skilled population AngloAmerica has the basic ingredients to lead the world in industrial development and economic attainment . United States and Canada The United States and Canada can be reviewed in terms of primary , secondary and tertiary functions of production . Considering the countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Primary functions are involved with activities that use the environment directly . Included in primary activities would be agriculture , forestry , fishing  | and mining . Secondary activities include manufacturing , and tertiary activities are services provided by doctors , lawyers , insurance agents , teachers , barbers , governmental workers , bankers and others . Primary Sector Agriculture in the United States and Canada is one of the major economic activities of the world . Both countries are major exporters of agricultural food products . Over the past few years the United States has exported between 40 ? 45 percent of the world 's wheat , wheat flour and food grains , while Canada has exported nearly 15 percent . This massive supply of food exported to the world population is provided by less than 4 percent of the total population of the United States and about 5 percent of Canada employed in farming . Mechanization has altered the character of farm work by increasing the need for technical skill and education while decreasing the need for numbers of workers . Agriculture is becoming more of an agribusiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over 60 percent of farm cash receipts in the United States came from less than 10 percent of all farms in the country . In the future , the world will depend more and more on Anglo-America to supply agricultural commodities . The use of commercial fertilizers , new animal breeds and hybrid crops , irrigation and increased output per worker all help to increase agricultural yields . Unfortunately , sometimes increased production and planting can lead to the problems of erosion and sedimentation presently being experienced throughout the region . There are some excellent examples in Anglo-America of variety of efficiency of various farming operations . ( Photograph 15.1 ) Aroostook County in northeastern Maine , despite a short growing season and silty loam glacial soil , produces nearly one tenth of the total potato crop of the United States . The Annapolis-Cornwallis Valley in Nova Scotia , a level sheltered valley , produces a large portion of Canada 's apples . The intensive cultivation of the soybean in the Middle Mississippi Valley and states that make up the valley ( Missouri , Arkansas , Louisiana , Mississippi and Tennessee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output . The soybean is a legume that has high yields and is used for meal and oil , silage and pasture . Tremendous harvesting of corn takes place in the Corn Belt of the United States from central Indiana to western Iowa . No other country in the world has the favorable conditions of soil , moisture , temperature and rolling topography over such a wide expanse of land . The United States produces over 40 percent of the world 's corn and the majority is grown in the Corn Belt . Two major wheat growing areas of Anglo-America are the Spring Wheat Belt in the Dakotas , Montana , western Minnesota and the Prairie Provinces of Canada , and the Winter Wheat Belt of Kansas , Nebraska , Colorado , Oklahoma and Texas . Large , highly mechanized wheat farms that can thrive in dry conditions with the occasional use of strip-cropping and irrigation are found throughout the Great Plains.  | Picture The Imperial Valley of southern California grows iceberg lettuce , alfalfa , sugar beets , and cotton and is a major beef fattening region . This irrigated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the best examples of intensive cultivation using double dropping , migratory workers and irrigation . The lower Fraser Valley of British Columbia produces whole milk for the Vancouver market and grows a variety of specialty crops such as fruits , berries , vegetables and flowering bulbs . Sugar cane production is a primary agricultural crop of the Hawaiian Islands . Approximately 30 percent of United States sugar output comes from the region . The scale of operation is very large and irrigation is heavily used to enhance cultivation . The importance of climate , landforms and cultural background have been very instrumental in developing such a strong agricultural base . Food products are the main export items of the United States and Canada . Over the past few years over half of all world food exports have come from the United States . The United States is the world 's major exporter of wheat , corn and rice . Soybeans , tobacco and cotton are other major export items . Canada ranks second to the United States in tonnage of food exports with wheat being the most important crop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , paper and veneer . Major forest areas are on the west coast of the United States and Canada  | and the southeastern United States . A small portion of the labor force ( less than 1 percent ) in both countries is involved in lumbering activities . Canada is a significant exporter of a number of raw materials and manufactured products such as pulp , lumber , iron ore , natural gas , copper , nickel and petroleum . ( Figure 15.2 ) The United States uses domestic raw materials to supply its large manufacturing base . The country , however , continues to be the world 's major exporter of coal . Less than 1 percent of the United States labor force is employed in mining and about 2 percent in Canada . Secondary Sector Manufacturing has been an integral part of economic development in AngloAmerica . Although the activity takes up a small amount of actual land space , manufacturing supplies about 20 percent of the total labor force in the United States and nearly 24 percent in Canada . The famous American Manufacturing Belt is an urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the west and from Portland , Maine to Baltimore on the east coast , including southern Ontario and Quebec in Canada . This region includes approximately 60 percent of factory production in the United States and 70 percent in Canada . Industrial growth over the years has generally tended to occur from east to west throughout the manufacturing belt . The Pittsburgh-Cleveland area is Anglo-America 's major producer of iron and steel and important for metal products , fabricated metals and machinery . Southern Michigan is the center of the world 's automotive industry . The Chicago-Milwaukee area concentrates on heavy industry led by the concentration of the steel industry at the southern edge of Lake Michigan . Chicago-Gary is an outstanding steel center with good lake transportation , proximity to raw materials and a growing market of the midwest . Tremendous industrial growth has occurred over the past thirty years along the southeastern coast of the United States . Many new highly mechanized plants were built in the region to benefit from raw materials such as natural gas , petroleum , sulfur and salt , natural gas for fuel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Houston , Beaumont , Port Arthur area . Petrochemical plants are located along the coast from Mobile to Brownsville with major refining areas along the Houston Ship Canal and between Baton Rouge and New Orleans . Canadian manufacturing is more highly localized than that in the United States . About half of the labor force of Canadian manufacturing is in Ontario and nearly one-third in Quebec . Services Services provide most of the employment opportunities in Anglo-America . Included in service jobs are government , education , retail and wholesale , recreation , health , social services , business services , research and development among others . The geographical location of services is generally aligned with  | Picture population distribution . Government centers , metropolitan areas , manufacturing districts and agricultural zones all need a tremendous supply of services activities to support their operation . Throughout Anglo-America the services provide the base for an efficient and productive economy . Population and Urbanization The main population zones in Anglo-America are the megalopolis region , the southern shores of Lake Michigan , southern Quebec and Ontario and Pacific coast areas such as San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fraser Delt-Puget Sound Lowland in British Columbia and Washington . Megalopolis defined in the early 1960 's by Jean Gottmann extends today from approximately Portland , Maine south to Richmond , Virginia . ( Photograph 15.2 ) Since the early 1970 's , the southern states and states west of the Rockies have experienced the greatest population growth rates in the United States . States such as Florida , Texas , California , Arizona , Nevada and Alaska have  | experienced steady growth . Canadian provinces such as Ontario , British Columbia , and Alberta have shown increased growth rates . Nearly 60 percent of all Canadians live in southern Quebec and Ontario . ( Figure 15.3 ) Although the United States and Canada have a strong rural tradition both countries today have over 70 percent of their population living in urban areas . Over 50 percent of the United States population lives in Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas ( SMSA 's ) of over 500,000 people and one in three Canadians lives in Montreal , Toronto or Vancouver . Anglo-America has some distinct concentrations of minority populations . The French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brunswick and Ontario , make up 30 percent of the national population . The region is dominated by the French language , Roman Catholic religion and distinct family life and food preferences . The question of French Canadian independence or separatism has created tension and fears that Canada could eventually be threatened with political division . The United States has two major minority populations Black and Hispanics . Over half of the black population is concentrated in the southern states . Blacks have become highly urbanized and dominate the population of many cities today . Over 25 percent of the population of center cities in the United States is Black . Hispanics are found in southwestern states such as California , Arizona , Texas , New Mexico , and Colorado , and in New York City and southern Florida . The total number of Hispanics is difficult to estimate because of the existence of illegal aliens . A rough estimate of the population would be fifteen million . Although most Hispanics can speak English , they retain the Spanish mother tongue . Conclusion The Anglo-American region is a dynamic area of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought skills from all parts of the world . The region with the diverse climates , resources and soils provides an ideal environment for implementation of new technology . A high level of material comfort has been achieved in Anglo-America by the blending of human skills and a favorable habitat . The United States and Canada have some of the highest gross national products per capita of any countries in the world and the future economic growth and development looks very promising . For Research and/or Discussion 1 . How have the physiographic provinces of Anglo-America influenced settlement patterns and economic development ? 2 . What is the future of agricultural production in Anglo-America ? Will farm exports continue to increase ? What are major export crops ?  | 3 . How have early settlement patterns impacted the cultural and physical environments of Anglo-America ? 4 . What future minority population will develop in Anglo-America ? Why ? Where ? 5 . Where will future employment opportunities occur in Anglo-America ? What types of jobs will be available in the region in the future ? 6 . Define megalopolis . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the region ? Footnote Chapter 16 Polar Region Introduction Polar areas of the world are characterized by high latitude , permafrost , the absence of trees , frozen lakes and seas , long winters and short , cool summers and low precipitation . ' The Arctic region is a semi-frozen sea surrounded by extensive tundra lands and bounded by the continents of North America , Europe and Asia . The major portion of Greenland is permanent ice cap or extensive glaciers from 4,000 to 10,000 feet above sea level . The Antarctic is almost a circular continent with the South Pole positioned near the center and much larger in size than either the United States or Canada . Political Geography and Resources The Arctic has become of considerable political and strategic importance since World War II . Political control over the Arctic has occurred by discovery , conquest , gift , purchase and peaceful occupation . Greenland was occupied by peaceful means and today is recognized throughout the world as a Danish territory . Great Britain discovered the , North-West Passage district islands and in turn gave them to Canada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union and the United States purchased Alaska from the Soviet Union . The League of Nations in 1920 allotted the Svalbard archipelago to the sovereignty of Norway . The oil of Alaska and coal of Svalbard have provided a continuing interest in the Arctic as a future raw material source . The seven countries of Argentina , Australia , Chile , France , New Zealand , Norway and the United Kingdom developed claims in Antarctica between 1908 and 1940 ( Figure 16.1 ) . The claims of Argentina , Chile and the United Kingdom overlapped . In 1959 , the Antarctic Treaty was signed to promote research , to prevent military activity , to define the region to include all land , islands , ice and water south of 60 ? S latitude and to preserve and conserve living resources . Belgium , Japan , South Africa , the Soviet Union and the United States joined the original seven countries in signing the Antarctic Treaty . The Treaty prohibits any territorial claims for over 30 years . Footnote  | Figure The current world interest in Antarctica has centered around its potential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presently supplies over 500,000 tons of fish and krill a year . East European , Japanese and Russian fishing fleets discouraged by the 200 miles international fishing law along world coastal areas are beginning to penetrate the fishing water south of 60 ? S. Krill sustain marine life in the region and are a species of planktonic crustaceans rich in protein . The three-inch long , shrimp-like zooplankton lives near the surface of the water and has the same protein by weight as lobster , shrimp or beef steak . The krill supplies the food sources for the depleted populations of  | blue , humpback , fin , and sperm whales . The Antarctic seals , birds and fish depend on the krill as a main source of food . Antarctica has more than 85 percent of the world 's fresh water captured in ice and snow . The concept of transporting icebergs to dry areas of the world is being studied as a solution to lack of drinking water . The region could become one of the major world areas in managing the hydrological balance of the earth . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future . Uranium has not been discovered in the region but radioactivity has been recorded by Norwegian and French claims . Geologists feel that Eastern Antarctica will be found to be one of the largest coalfields of the world . Most coal in Antarctica is bituminous with a high ash content . Iron ore deposits have been detected in Eastern Antarctica , Queen Maud Land and possibly the Pensacola Mountains . Raw materials such as gold , silver , manganese , copper , beryl , molybdenum , tin , chromium , nickel , cobalt and platinum have been found but in small concentration and in inaccessible areas . Rough estimates of oil reserves in the waters surrounding the continent are between 10 billion and 50 billion barrels . ( Figure 16.1 , page 224 ) . The development of raw materials into resources in Antarctica is not necessarily going to happen because of the harsh isolated environment and its impact on the cost of extraction and transportation . When world demand and technology provide a way to compensate for mining and shipment costs , Antarctica has the potential to become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For Research and/or Discussion 1 . What countries of the world control most of the polar lands ? 2 . Why is krill such an important foundation species for the Antarctica fishing waters ? 3 . What major raw materials might be found in the future in the region ? 4 . What are distinctive characteristics of the polar region ? 5 . Do you believe the Arctic and Antarctic might provide water for regions of the world in the future ? Footnote  | Chapter 17 The World Today The purpose of this text was to provide the reader with an expanded and enriched world view . While each region has been discussed separately the intricate and critical interactions between them should be emphasized . With the ever-expanding technology of communication and transportation the world today is becoming increasingly interdependent and events in remote and distant locations have direct implications for all people . As citizens of a major , democratic world power , it is critical for Americans to sharpen their informed awareness of the world . International news reports should be less " foreign " and , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will react to them with both greater interest and knowledge . Geopolitical tensions which may involve American military or economic responses must be more clearly understood . Famines in Africa must be viewed in their global setting of rapidly increasing population and the world 's struggle to feed itself . The petroleum crisis of the 1970 's serves to highlight the unevenness of resource distribution and the dependence of the industrial nations on distant sources for fuel and raw materials . Efforts to expand international markets for manufactured goods leads directly to the problems faced by less developed nations to develop their own economies and enhance the standard of living for their people . While this listing of global interactions could be continued it serves to illustrate the type of knowledge and thought that is required today of an effective world citizen . Hopefully this text has aided in this process . As expressed in a saying attributed to Confucius : " Learning without thought is labor lost ; thought without learning is perilous. "                 @ @ @ @ 