@@773646

txt 140 I Unseen worlds discover which slit it is passing through . When this is done , one part of the reality being recorded at the target is destroyed , and the wave pattern whose make-up we are trying to analyse into individual particle paths to the target is transformed into a particle pattern . Niels Bohr , one of the architects of quantum theory , with whom Heisenberg was working when he discovered the Uncertainty Principle , called quantities like position and momentum which could not be measured simultaneously with arbitrary accuracy complementary pairs . There exist other complementary pairs in Nature ? time and energy for example . We saw a manifestation of complementarity in the two-slit experiment when we tried to discover through which slit a neutron passes on its way to the wave-like interference pattern . The failure to do this reflects the complementarity of the wave and particle behaviours of the neutrons . One can either realize particle-like behaviour or wave-like behaviour , but not both . The measurement of one sort of behaviour ensures the non-existence of the other . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more radical than the pragmatism of the logical positivists who would maintain that it is meaningless to talk about quantities that can not be measured . Complementarity asserts that it is not just meaningless to talk about knowing precise values of momentum and position simultaneously : these quantities do not exist . The situation is definite . But Bohr took the concept of complementarity to have a far wider philosophical significance that its appearance as a rigorous mathematical deduction of quantum physics his own coat of arms even incorporated the oriental yin-yang symbol . He suggested that paradoxical aspects of human experience might fall within the encompass of analogous , but rather vaguer , uncertainty principles ' . Thus he suggested , for example , that the antithetical concepts of free will and determinism , or vitalism and mechanism , might constitute complementary pairs , so that if one adopts one of these views the other is rendered meaningless . This wider complementarity , like the failure to describe atomic systems precisely , he interpreted as the inadequacy of our primitive classical concepts to capture the nature of reality , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality . These applications of complementarity outside of quantum physics appear at first sight to be rather hopeful extrapolations from the precise quantum idea , but it is more likely that they were the motivation for Bohr 's stress upon complementarity in physics . Bohr 's father was a physiologist who had introduced this very idea of complementarity into his own subject in order to reconcile the conflict between teleology and mechanism in the description of biological phenomena . He argued that the validity of either view depends upon the question that is being asked about the world . One can sec how the presence of complementary descriptions in the biological and human sciences leads to uncertainty relations ' there also . In order to stud the physiology of a living animal it would have to he killed and dissected I he intervention of the observer alters the nature of the specimen irrevocably . This Unseen worlds I 141 type of observer-dependence also appears to be a major problem in anthropological field studies . It has been claimed in recent years that the classic studies of Pacific Island cultures made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaction to her own presence of the peoples she was observing . Philosophers appear to have paid little attention to Bohr 's ideas outside the arena of quantum mechanics . Certainly we are familiar with heuristic examples like trying to obtain a simultaneous appreciation of the detailed technical brushwork and the overall impression of an oil painting : the perspective necessary for one viewpoint excludes the very possibility of the other . Although it is interesting to note the existence of such complementary attributes outside of quantum physics , this has not led to any new knowledge of the problems involved . In the human sciences complementarity appears merely as a new label for an old problem , not as the solution of any problem . But in quantum theory it is a fundamental by-product of a precise theory with detailed observational consequences . It is not just a label . It solves problems , and it reveals new ones . Niels Bohr 's father was a member of a school of biologists who were later named the teleomechanists ' . They were followers of Kant in his opposition to those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . Kant stressed the role of purposeful action by living creatures as a necessary ingredient in any complete description of their behaviour . By analogy , a complete description of a computer requires some reference to the nature or purpose of the program it is running , as well as the purely mechanical workings of the hardware . The two are complementary in the sense that the presence of a complete understanding of the computer at the hardware level does not exclude the need for further , qualitatively different types of information to complete the description . Human beings are undeniably collections of chemicals at the hardware level , but it would be incorrect to conclude from this fact alone that they are nothing but ' collections of chemicals . Although the teleomechanists made a number of important discoveries in embryology , they faded from prominence because of their error in thinking that the small-scale purposeful activity seen in living organisms was evidence of some intrinsic life force ' . This view , known as vitalism , is rejected by modern biologists . Yet it was this area of conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the significance of complementary levels of explanation , and sow the seeds of revolution in his young son 's mind . But how curious and direct is the route from Kant to quantum theory . Waves of chance Erwin with his psi can do Calculations quite a few . But one thing has not been seen Just what psi really mean . Felix Bloch 142 I Unseen worlds The various strands of the quantum problems we have introduced were brought together by Erwin Schrodinger 's discovery of a differential equation ? now known as Schrodinger 's equation ? governing the behaviour of a quantity called the wave function ' . It is these that replace the equations of motion of Newton , and the positions and velocities of the particles regulated by the Newtonian laws of motion . The quantum mechanics ' that resulted from Schrodinger 's description introduces profound new features . Although Schrodinger 's equation is as deterministic as Newton 's ? given the exact specification of the wave function in space at one moment of time we can , in principle , compute its exact specification at any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because we can not observe the wave function directly . When we carry out a measurement on a physical system all that we can predict about its result using quantum mechanics is the probability of obtaining a particular result . From the human standpoint there is a breakdown of determinism in principle . It has nothing to do with fallibilities in our ability to measure with absolute precision . It reflects the intrinsic unpredictability introduced by the intervention of the observer : the irreducible level at which everything in Nature is coupled together . It is not a reflection of our adoption of an expedient averaged mode of description , as in the statistical description of thermodynamics . The exact deterministic laws of quantum mechanics turn out to govern a substratum of the world that is not directly accessible to us . It is unobservable . What is observable can only be predicted probabilistically . As the objects under consideration become larger their de Broglie wavelengths become smaller , they are more localized around their average values , and hence described with increasing accuracy by the classical mechanics of Newton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newton 's laws of motion . The probability distribution of the possible outcomes of a measurement made upon a quantum system in a particular state described by its wave function is determined by taking the squared magnitude of the wave function . This interpretation of the wave function was pointed out in 1926 by Max Born , and differs from what Schrodinger himself had imagined his wave function to describe . If we look back at Figure 3.17 , then the quantum description provides a wave function whose squared magnitude produces the probability ( or intensity ) of neutrons hitting different parts of the target . It is worth reflecting a little upon the wave nature of the neutron as it is manifested by Schrodinger 's wave function . The quantum wave of a particle like the neutron is not a wave that is like a sound or water wave . It is a probability wave : a wave of information . It tells us the probability of finding the effect which we associate with the presence of that entity we have come to call a neutron ' when we make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it more as a wave of hysteria than a water wave . If a wave of hysteria hits a particular area , then we are more likely to find hysterical behaviour there . Analogously , we are more Unseen worlds 1 143 likely to find a neutron at those places where its wave-function probability is greatest . In atoms , for example , the electron probability peaks at those places that we would have called the radius of the electron 's orbit if we had adopted the naive view of atoms being like mini solar systems , with nuclei surrounded by orbiting electrons at exact radii . Quantum laws have another striking property which sets them apart from their classical counterparts . In the Newtonian world , identical causes produce identical effects . Alas , this is not so in the quantum world . Like causes will produce like probability distributions for the results of measurements , but two identical measurements will not produce the same result . As we remarked earlier , if we conducted many identical two-slit experiments , and each fired only one neutron at its target , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when added together , they would produce a probability distribution with the characteristic form of a wave-like interference pattern . This is predicted by Schrodinger 's equation . There is beautiful agreement between these predictions and the observed outcomes of experiments . A further reflection about the breakdown of determinism is worthwhile here . We have grown accustomed to the classical brand of determinism , highlighted first by Laplace and Leibniz , in which the future is uniquely determined by the present . An alternative seems almost impossible to imagine . After all , what else is t here which could influence the future besides the present ? What determines ' the quantum future ? This new non-deterministic ingredient in our search for the laws of Nature turns out to be two-edged . Whilst it appears to introduce unpredictability everywhere in the microscopic world , it carries with it the key to the stability and predictability of Nature in the large . One of the consequences of the quantum theory of matter ? and the reason for its name ( quantum ' means amount in Latin ) ? is that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on any value . Rather , it can take on only particular discrete values . The energy levels of an atom live on the steps of a ladder rather than the surface of a slide . This is a radical departure from the classical Newtonian view that the energy of a system can take any value . The jumps between the allowed energy values are minutely small , and determined by Planck 's universal constant h . Thus , for large and everyday objects the jumps are not noticeable . But when we examine the world on the atomic scale , then the size of the quantum jumps in energy is not that different from the entire energy of the atoms . In such circumstances the fact that the energy of the atom can only reside in a set of very special pigeon-holes has important consequences . For example , take the hydrogen atom : it consists of a proton around which there exists an electron , which is found most probably in a single orbit . Since unlike electric charges attract in the same manner as unlike magnetic poles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal but negatively charged electron ( 10 not collide and annihilate into a burst of radiation ? Why do atoms exist ? The Uncertainty Principle provides an answer . As the position of the 144 I Unseen worlds electron becomes localized closer and closer to the proton , so its complementary attribute ? the momentum ? becomes larger and larger , and the electron moves so fast that it is impossible to confine the two close together . Quantization of energy levels is also responsible for the uniformity of Nature . If the orbits of electrons around the central nuclei of atoms were described by the classical mechanics of Newton , then the electron could orbit at any radius if its speed were appropriately chosen . This would mean that whenever an electron was bound in orbit around a proton it would , in practice , have a different speed and radius of orbit . The consequence : every time you would have a configuration that is different , and so every hydrogen atom would be different . But in quantum mechanics , the fact that the total energy can only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electron into an orbit around one proton there are not an infinite number of possibilities . There is a minimum radius which the electron can take up , in which its wave-function probability is peaked . Once in this ground state , the energy can not change gradually because of the constant buffeting of the electron by light . It will only change when a perturbation occurs which is large enough to change its energy by a whole quantum . As a result , atoms are stable against the sea of tiny buffetings , and not continually changing their intrinsic properties . The quantization of energy is the reason why all hydrogen atoms are the same . If energy were not quantized every one would be different , and the uniformity of Nature an unrealized idealization . The nature of quantum reality Naive realism leads to physics , and physics , if true , shows that naive realism is false . Therefore naive realism , if true , is false ; therefore it is false . Bertrand Russell Nothing could appear to be simpler than the picture of a neutron leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon a photographic plate . Such is the pre-quantum view of the world . After we have encountered the quantum laws of Nature , the neutron 's adventures become deeply perplexing . For we are forced to believe that this entity we call the wave function propagates a neutron probability wave through space , in a way that is precisely determined by Schrodinger 's equation . This wave of neutron-ness ' will be concentrated primarily in a small region , so conveying the impression that the neutron is a localized concentration of something which we call mass . But the neutron wave will still actually be spread everywhere , albeit with a very low intensity far away from the main local concentration , and this reflects the fact that there is a nonzero probability of finding the neutron anywhere . When a measurement is made on the system for example , when the photographic plate is put in place , and hit Unseen worlds 1 145 by the neutron ? then the wave function must undergo an instantaneous change if it is still to tell us the probability of finding a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now at one definite place : the place where we can see the mark on the film . The measurement process , therefore , appears to be in some way distinct from the other physical processes that quantum laws describe . The ongoing quest to interpret and understand the quantum theory , rather than simply exploit its marvellous precision and power to describe correctly the way in which the world works , is at root an argument over whether or not quantum mechanics is a description of everything in Nature , including the measurement process , or not . The ' EPR paradox ' Paradox : a statement that is seemingly contradictory or opposed to common sense and yet is perhaps true . Webster 's Dictionary Throughout the whole of his amazing early career as a scientist who consistently produced the deepest and most far-reaching insights into the structure of the laws of Nature , Einstein maintained a resolute opposition to the ideas of quantum physics . Although his own discovery of the photoelectric effect paved the way for the idea that energy comes only in discrete quantum packets , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary ingredient of the quantum laws . His oft-quoted refusal to believe that God plays dice with the world reflects his distaste for departures from the traditional realist approach to the laws of Nature . He believed that the task of science was to provide an accurate description of an independent and objective physical reality . Bohr 's doctrine of complementarity he saw as a rejection of this fundamental tenet , and merely a reflection of an overly positivistic approach to science , in which only what was measured was allowed to possess any meaning . The degree of his opposition to the quantum picture , and its predictions of probabilities rather than certainties about Nature , is revealed in a private letter to his friend James Franck : I can , if the worst comes to the worst , still realize that the Good Lord may have created a world in which there are no natural laws . In short , a chaos . But that there should be statistical laws with definite solutions , for example laws which compel the Good lord to throw dice in each individual case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to undermine Bohr 's quantum theory by constructing ingenious thought-experiments designed to exhibit an internal contradiction within the theory . All are generally considered to have failed ; but // all had a deep and lasting effect upon attempts to interpret the quantum theory . The most profound challenge to Bohr 's picture of physical reality came in 1935 , and was provided by a scenario composed by Einstein in collaboration with two of his colleagues Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen ; it has come to be known as the EPR Paradox , after their initials , and appeared under the title Can Quantummechanical Description of Physical Reality Be Considered Complete ? ' . Its aim was to challenge Bohr 's interpretation of quantum reality as a revelation that no phenomenon could be said to exist until it was observed : that it is wrong to think that physicists are concerned with discovering what reality is , as opposed to what we can say about it . Einstein , by contrast , favoured the traditional view that the nature of things existed independent of whether or not they were observed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined a physical quantity as possessing an element of physical reality if , without in any way disturbing a system , we can predict with certainty ( i.e. with probability equal to unity ) the value of a physical quantity ' . Einstein and his colleagues believed that Bohr 's position could be undermined , and the quantum description of reality revealed as incomplete , if it could be shown that unmeasured quantities would have certain values whether or not they were measured . The essence of the EPR experiment is to examine the decay of an unstable elementary particle ( an electrically neutral one , for example ) into two photons . When the decay occurs , the photons will move off in opposite directions with equal momenta in order that the total momentum be conserved . These photons will also both possess an intrinsic spin , and if one spins clockwise then the other must spin anticlockwise in order to conserve the total spin of the system during the decay process . By considering the complementary attribute to this spin , EPR were able to produce what they regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a complete description of what was occurring . When the particle decays we can not predict which residual photon will be found spinning in the clockwise direction . There is an equal probability for either the clockwise or the anticlockwise direction . But even if we let them fly apart to opposite sides of the Universe , as soon as we measure the spin of one of them we should know , without any shadow of a doubt , that the spin of the other will be found to be equal and opposite to the one we have just measured . This we will know without having measured it . Thus , EPR claim that the unmeasured spin of the other photon must be regarded as real according to their definition of physical reality , because it is predictable . It must , therefore , be related to some element of an observer-independent reality . The reason why such a set-up attracts the designation paradox ' is that somehow it appears that the second photon has to know ' what the measurement on the first photon 's spin will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to take on the opposite value when it is also measured , even though the second measurement can be performed so soon after the first that there is no time for a light signal to pass between the sites of the two measurements . There is no Unseen worlds I 147 question , therefore , of the second photon being got at ' by the first one : they are incommunicado . The new facet of the laws of Nature this experiment reveals is that the inevitable effect of the act of observation can be non-local ; that is , it has effects upon events that are far away , in the sense of being outside the influence of light signals , and hence of any means of information transfer . The measurement of the spin of the first photon instantaneously brings into being the spin value of the second one . This seems completely contrary to common sense . We recall that one of the reasons why Newton 's original theory of gravitation was unsatisfactory was because it demanded instantaneous effects arising on things here as a result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect has been demonstrated in a series of real EPR experiments by the French physicist Alain Aspect and his colleagues in 1982 . They , in effect , changed the initial spin state every ten billionth of a second , and in the meantime made measurements on the equal and opposite spins of the decay products when they were separated by four times the distance that light could travel in the time interval since the initial spin was altered . The predictions of quantum theory were confirmed . One loophole in the case for complementarity is the possibility that there exists some other set of quantities which are always precisely determined , regardless of the measurement process , and it is these hidden variables ' that play the primary role in the laws of Nature . In experiments where we find the measurement of position and momentum to be limited simultaneously by Heisenberg 's Uncertainty Principle , there may exist some other unknown quantities which we could measure precisely , and from which we could calculate the position and momentum exactly . In terms of these quantities , quantum-mechanical reality might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Bell , a British physicist working at CERN in Geneva , showed that any theory purporting to describe the reality behind experiments like that proposed by Einstein and his colleagues must possess non-local features if a simple arithmetical conditions is satisfied . Quantum mechanics meets the Bell conditions for there to exist nonlocal interactions . The flawed idea that the uncertainties of quantum measurements are just manifestations of the observer 's ham-fistedness in disturbing the state under study fails the Bell test because it is a local explanation . Quantum ignorance goes deeper than its classical counterpart . The quantum laws of Nature must possess acausal non-local features . No present or future theory that does not contain non-local influences can be consistent with experiments . What is most striking , and quite unique , about Bell 's proof is that it demonstrates a necessary logical property of any theory of reality , not just a property of its observed manifestations as do all other theorems of mathematical physics : if your view of reality is the right one , then it must be a non-local one . Yet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to he connected to each other by a faster-than-light signal . The instantaneous non-local influences that must he present in any quantum laws of Nature are not // in contradiction to Einstein 's theory of special relativity . Einstein 's theory places a limit only upon the speed at which information can be transferred . For example , suppose that we assemble thousands of robots in a long line , and program each one to illuminate its monitor at a precisely specified time . We could prearrange the specifications so that each robot lights up after its right-hand neighbour , but so soon after it that to the uninitiated observer it appears as if a faster-than-light signal is propagating from one end of the robot file to the other . But this is not a challenge to Einstein 's theory : no information can be transmitted along the line by this faster-than-light phenomenon . If the robots wanted to transfer information to each other along the line they would need to communicate by radio signals , say , from neighbour to neighbour . Since such signals move no faster than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way that information could be transmitted between them at faster-than-light speed . We were able to create a faster-than-light phenomenon by pre-established correlations between independent events . There is no law of Nature against this . This type of correlation in which there is no transmission of information is what exists in the EPR experiment . We recall that simultaneity is a concept that depends upon the motion of the observer . Three observers could be arranged to move relative to each other and the EPR experiment so that one sees the measurements of the two spins made simultaneously , whilst the others see one or other of the spins observed first . If one really were causally determining the spin of the other by transmitting a signal to it , then we could change the order of cause and effect in Nature by our relative motion with respect to the quantum events being witnessed . The acausal element of quantum reality can not be exploited for the transmission of faster-than-light communications : EPR is not ESP ! If hidden variables ' did really exist , then faster-than-light signalling would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there exists a hidden quantity which is affected by the measurement of the first spin , and which then propagates an influence to determine the value of the second spin to be measured , even if it is measured simultaneously . This is an unappealing feature of hidden variables , and puts their existence in conflict with Einstein 's special relativity . However , the confirmation of special relativity in every high-energy physics experiment ever performed can not be taken as a refutation of the existence of hidden variables , since we have not been able to make any measurements of hidden variables . At the time , Bohr 's reaction to the original proposal of EPR was to remain unimpressed ; he simply did not accept the EPR definition of reality ' . Rather than retain the conventional way of thinking about reality , and force quantum theory to bend before it , he accepted the results of quantum theory , and regarded its success as a challenge to determine what the consequences are for the traditional realist view of the world . He maintained that it was meaningless to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not talk in a meaningful way about some property of a quantum system without reference to // the observer : he is part of the phenomenon . Indeed , in a definite sense he creates it . According to Bohr , there does not exist any reality or any laws of Nature independent of the observer . Although the two spinning particles can not seemingly influence one another , they are connected , he claims , by the presence of an observer who decides to learn about the spin of the second particle by making a measurement on the first . This makes him an inseparable part of the whole system . One can not think of two spins as independent entities until after the intervention of the observer who separates them by the act of measurement . The result of the first and second measurement can not be predicted before a measurement is performed . Bohr amended EPR 's definition of reality to encompass the entire experimental arrangement . The quantum-mechanical description of reality was not incomplete , as EPR suggested , merely non-local , and wider in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is interesting to recall how important the idea of an isolated ' system was to the development of science . The process of idealizing a particular physical situation to produce an approximation to it in mathematical language that captures the essential features , and ignores external influences , was the secret of the success of Galileo and Newton . Ancient holistic ideas provided no methodology for developing understanding , because they outlawed the concept of cutting Nature up into manageable independent pieces that could be understood individually . The isolation of the observer from the observed was a key element in this divorce . It worked so well because the observers ( us ) , their observing instruments ( eyes ) , and the data-processing machines ( brains ) are large objects for which the quantum-mechanical influences of observership are imperceptible . If we had been microscopic intelligences we would not have found the idea of an external objective world a useful one . The history of philosophy would have been strikingly different . It is worth remarking at this juncture that the fashionable association of Eastern mysticism with quantum-mechanical ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Dancing Wu-Li Masters is based upon a confusion . During the period when we have no instruments to observe microscopic reality , t here is no reason to develop a holistic rather than a mechanical view of reality . In such circumstances a failure to separate the observer and the observed leads to a stagnation of inquiry into the natural world , and an inability to extract reliable and useful information about the laws governing its workings . It is the application of a philosophical holism that appears to have contributed to the lack of scientific progress in the Eastern cultures with a strong mystic tradition . The more recent discovery of an holistic ingredient in the microscopic world of quantum physics , and the observation , retrospectively , of its connection with mystic intuitions about the world , would never have occurred in any culture subscribing to these intuitions about the world ab initio . In quantum theory we face the problems that confront the necessary abandonment of such a view . The observer can not he isolated in any sense from 150 I Unseen worlds what he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact , the external world ' is actually external to . Bell 's demonstration of the inevitability of nonlocal influences seems to place no bound on the extent of the complete ' system of apparatus plus observers on which Bohr laid such continual stress . How do we tell what distant observations are not affecting a state ? Bohr 's once-revolutionary view has become known as the Copenhagen interpretation ' of quantum mechanics , because it was conceived by Bohr when working in Copenhagen where he had gathered around him a school composed of many of the greatest physicists of his day . Whilst others worked furiously to achieve remarkable successes with the new quantum theory , and explain many of the basic properties of matter , Bohr thought deeply about the interpretation and meaning of the quantum laws of Nature . The Copenhagen interpretation is what most quantum physicists would subscribe to if pressed to opt for an interpretation of this most successful of all scientific theories ? although they might be outnumbered by those with no interest in such a question . It maintains that there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , only a description of it . The reality that we observe is determined by the act of observation . It really exists when it has been measured ? it is not an illusion ? but there is no sense in which we can say that it exists in the absence of an act of observation . We must recognize that things ' like photons and neutrons can not be real ' in the same way that we think that chairs and tables are real . They are more like shadows : arising from a combination of light and the observer 's situation . Shadows are real enough , but they do not exist in the sense that a book does . The element of reality that Einstein associated with the photon because it possesses a predictable property can mean nothing more concrete than the occasional manner in which it manifests its measurable attributes . One might call this quantum idealism ' or even quantum positivism ' , depending upon one 's perspective . According to this interpretation , the complementarity epitomized by the uncertainty relations reflects the inability of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quantum world . The reason they are found wanting in the task is because , like all classical ' concepts , they assume properties to be defined in the absence of an act of observation , and such a world does not really exist according to Bohr . It is meaningless to talk of a particle having an unmeasured spin , or to think of the reality of the measured spin as created from some other underlying reservoir of reality . If Bohr had been asked to interpret the wave-like pattern formed by the neutrons in the two-slit experiment , and the particle-like pattern created when one attempts to determine through which slit the neutron has passed , he would have pointed to it as an example of how the type of measurement that an observer decides to carry out determines whether the neutron will be found to be a wave or a particle phenomenon . It makes no sense , he would have argued , to talk about what it really ' is , or to think that measurement somehow disturbs it from exhibiting what it really is . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That crazy mixed-up cat Like the waters of a river That in the swift flow of the stream A great rock divides , Though our ways seem to have parted I know that in the end we shall meet . Twelfth Century Japanese verse Many physicists do not find Copenhagen ' quite so wonderful . It still leaves embarrassing gaps in our understanding of the quantum world . We are asked to accept that a measurement has non-local influences . But the most awkward problem for the Copenhagen Interpretation is more basic : what is a measurement ? We recall that , according to Bohr , when a measurement ' is made the infinitely dispersed wave function must collapse ' to a definite , but unpredictable , state at a particular place ? that place where a particle is found to have hit the film in the two-slit experiment for example . The transition from the quantum to the classical picture is sudden and mysterious . Is the wave function of a neutron collapsed by the record made on the film playing the role of an inanimate observer , or is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the combined system of the neutron wave function and the film interacting together ? Where and when does the wave function ultimately collapse ? The problem for Bohr 's interpretation is that it does not really claim to describe what quantum states and measuring devices are : only the nature of their interrelationship . This is rather puzzling . For there appears to be nothing special about measuring devices like geiger counters and sheets of photographic film . They are themselves , at root , composed of quantum particles like neutrons . Bohr 's interpretation must regard a particular class of physical processes called measurements ' as something special , because they collapse wave functions instantaneously . Yet , it does not seem possible to find a good reason for regarding these measurement ' processes as being special in any way . However , it is none the less clear that the process of measurement has a number of properties that are quite the opposite of those possessed by the deterministic evolution of the quantum wave function in accord with Schrodinger 's equation , in the absence of a measurement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuous , local , and recognizes no preferred direction of time , the measurement process is quasi-random , nonlinear , discontinuous , non-local , and irreversible . No two phenomena could be more dissimilar . The ambiguity between the quantum evolution of wave functions and the delnite act of measurement was beautifully captured by an imaginary experiment conceived by Schriidinger in 1935 . He wrote that he was motivated by reading the article of Einstein , Podolsky , and Rosen which appeared earlier that year . Like Einstein and his colleagues , Schriidinger never accepted the Copenhagen 154 Unseen worlds detect from distant stars are quantum waves whose wave functions are collapsed to classical certainty by the detectors and the astronomers who observe them . Does this mean that in some sense we bring these astronomical objects , and even the whole Universe , into being when we observe them today ? The most awkward problem of the consciousness-created reality school of opinion is its kinship with a form of quantum solipsism ' , in the face of the unanimity of our observations of the world . How is it that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything from wallpaper to welfare payments are in complete agreement ( as far as we can ascertain ) about the observed facts of quantum reality , about the results of the two-slit experiment , about what the stars look like , and the difference between dead cats and live cats ? The most awkward problem from Bohr 's observercreated reality , on the other hand , is articulating how it actually differs from consciousness-created reality except in name , because of the special status it gives to a class of processes called measurements ' . How many worlds do we need ? I think that it is quite likely that at some future time we may get an improved quantum mechanics in which there will be a return to determinism and which will therefore justify the Einstein view . But such a return to determinism could only be made at the expense of giving up some other basic idea which we now assume without question . Paul Dirac The quantum laws of Nature arose from the study of physical reality ; they produced staggeringly accurate descriptions of atomic structure ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion that the reality from which they were born did not exist in a naive realist 's sense . The creation of reality by the act of measurement has produced two awkward problems : what is a measurement , and how does the dispersed wave function collapse instantaneously to produce a single definite location when the position of particle is measured ? In 1957 , Hugh Everett III , a graduate student of John Wheeler 's at Princeton University , took a radical but logical view of the problem . What happens , he asked , if you take the quantum formalism at face value ? Suppose that it describes everything ? even the measurement process . What if the wave function never collapses ? The result is the nearest we can get to a realist interpretation of quantum mechanics , but the price to be paid is considerable . In order to maintain this realist position selfconsistently we must dramatically revise our picture of reality . According to Everett , when a measurement takes place the observer 's state splits into each of the options that populate the set of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture leads to a breakdown of Unseen worlds 1 155 determinism because one can only predict the probability of a particular measured result on the state being realized , Everett insists that complete determinism is maintained : each of the possible results really occurs . None has a status any different to the others . All are equally real , as real ' as anything we experience or measure in the laboratory . Each possible sequence of paths through the sequences of allowed outcomes is disjoint from the others . We experience a history composed of just one of them . This extraordinary Many Worlds ' interpretation of quantum mechanics is taken seriously for only one reason : it follows undeniably from the mathematical formalism if quantum mechanics is held to apply to everything in Nature . To avoid its conclusions one must assume that quantum mechanics does not describe the measurement process . We can see that the Many Worlds interpretation is deterministic in principle . As the wave function evolves forward in time , we can predict all the future states that could arise by the splitting of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish the past evolution of our state because we can not know all the other branch paths that our state has not followed during its evolution . We can predict the effects of quantum causes , but not find the causes of quantum effects . The logical appeal of the Many Worlds interpretation to its supporters ( who include amongst their ranks some of the world 's greatest quantum physicists ) is the avoidance of any mention of consciousness ' , or observers ' , or scholastic distinctions between systems and measuring devices . Presumably , all interactions between elementary particles must create branchings of their universes , and not just those interactions that are observed ' in Bohr 's sense . Seen in this light , the Bohr interpretation appears slightly pre-Copernican because it gives us a special status that Everett denies us . Indeed , it is a form of vitalism . Everett 's interpretation of the Cat Paradox is simple . As a result of the experiment there exist two equally real states of the observer : one sees a live cat in his box , the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are equally real . We experience only one of them . The Many Worlds interpretation regards the wave function as providing a description of the definite state of the neutron as it moves towards a target film in the two-slit experiment . The wave function splits into all possibilities , instead of just collapsing into one . Instead of acts of measurement there just exist correlations between different states . For Everett , the idea of wave-function collapse was simply a consequence of our inability to interact with the totality of quantum reality , confined as we are to meandering along a single branch of our ever-splitting schizophrenic reality . This scenario has extraordinary consequences : like a world designed by Borges , everything that logically can happen does happen . There are worlds in which we never die . The evolution of life in the Universe , no matter how improbable , must occur . Each of us will continue to exist for as long as there is space and time , for even if we die in this world there is another where we do not , ad infinitum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable in the 156 I Unseen worlds one interpretation of quantum mechanics that does not require it in order to create quantum reality . It is also true that the Many Worlds interpretation of quantum reality is the only doctrine on offer which requires no non-local interactions : Bell 's theorem does not apply . But the existence of the many worlds could hardly be called a local phenomenon . Simple as the Everett interpretation is , it requires just as major a suspension of disbelief in order to swallow an unlimited multiplicity of real worlds as it does to swallow Bohr 's claim that there is no real world at all . It poses puzzling problems : why should conscious minds be aware of only one of Everett 's branches ? Can branches that once split ever reconvene with observable consequences ? Can we interact with the other worlds ' ? The reason Everett 's view plays a growing role in fundamental physics is because cosmologists have begun to join forces with elementary-particle physicists . Their common goal is a quantum theory of gravitation . This synthesis appears at present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property of general relativity that the presence of mass and energy in space produces its local geometry and the rate of flow of time . General relativity lacks the intrinsic uncertainty and complementarity of the quantum world . How unusual any new unified theory of these two great physical theories might prove to be can be gauged by pondering the consequences of their marriage . General relativity tells us that it is the presence and motion of masses in space and time that determine the structure of space and the rate of flow of time . Yet quantum theory tells us we can never know the position and motion of any mass in space and time simultaneously with arbitrary precision . How , then , can we know the space and time continuum into which we want to introduce the masses ? We are caught in a vicious circle . Despite this problem , preliminary attempts have been made to produce hybrid theories of quantum gravity . The principal application of this new synthesis will be to provide a quantum theory of the entire universe in the way that we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give a non-quantum cosmological picture . It is here that the Everett interpretation becomes essential , for without it we are left asking the question who or what collapses the wave function of the universe ? ' ? some Ultimate Observer ' at the world 's end , or outside the Universe of space and time altogether ? It seems more natural to some to believe that quantum wave functions never collapse . It is no coincidence that all the main supporters of the Many Worlds interpretation of quantum reality are involved in quantum cosmology . Another deep problem of principle in any application of the quantum theory to the Universe as a whole is the unusual status of time in the quantum theory . The steady-state solution of Schrodinger 's equation for the wave function of the Universe does not contain a quantity that we could call time ' . Unlike in the old pre-quantum theories of motion , there seems to be no natural way of introducing the concept of time into the picture . All through the applications of quantum mechanics to the world time appears as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 157 characterize pre-quantum laws of Nature . There exist versions of Heisenberg 's Uncertainty Principle which tell us that simultaneous measurement of energy and time are impossible with accuracy better than Planck 's universal constant . But this only places a limit upon measures of time that are defined intrinsically by the state being observed . There is no limit to the accuracy with which a simultaneous measurement of energy and time could be made if some external standard of time were employed to measure it . The quantum legislature If I get the impression that Nature itself makes the decisive choice what possibility to realize , where quantum theory says that more than one outcome is possible , then I am ascribing personality to Nature , that is to something that is always everywhere . Omnipresent eternal personality which is omnipotent in taking the decisions that are left undetermined by physical law is exactly what in the language of religion is called God . F. J. Belinfante The laws that have been found to describe the quantum world are fantastic in many senses of that word . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the successful description and prediction of the workings of Nature . In some cases the agreement between the theory 's predictions and what we measure are good to better than one part in a billion . Yet when those laws are explored down to their foundations they force us towards possible views of reality that are totally at variance with all our intuitions and common-sense notions about reality . They reveal a remarkable depth of structure and novelty that lay latent within a mathematical formalism developed with other , more pragmatic , ends in view . The profundity of our ignorance about the interpretation of quantum theory might be thought to presage a . disaster in our ability to use it successfully . Nothing could be further from the truth . As yet , the radically different quantum ontologies have not led to a different prediction for the result of any experiment . The expectation of non-locality has been confirmed experimentally by Aspect 's experiments . The Copenhagen and the Many Worlds interpretations seem totally at variance with each other , yet it is a widely held prejudice that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be false . Recently David Deutsch has proposed that one day it will be possible to design quantum computers whose operation will depend on whether the Many Worlds interpretation is true or false . Quantum computers are a fascinating prospect because of their intrinsically parallel information-processing capability . If the quantum computation resulting from one hour of running is equivalent to two 158 1 Unseen worlds computer-hours of non-quantum serial processing , then Deutsch argues that we must conclude that these computations must have been performed in the other worlds . The novelty of his detailed proposal is that it exploits the property that it is possible to design a quantum computer which splits reality into different worlds ' and subsequently recombines , and which remembers that it has split . This property ensures that any quantum computer will be able to carry out computations faster than its non-quantum counterpart . This distinguishes the Bohr and Everett interpretations . The most obvious difficulty with this exciting idea is that , although a reconstitution of the quantum system may be possible on paper , it is still necessary to get the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical demonstration . At some level the experiment becomes limited by the nonquantum problems of getting the information in and out of the quantum computer without altering it in dramatic and irretrievable ways . There is one last response to the dilemmas of quantum reality which is in accord with the attitude of many of the old masters ' responsible for its development : quantum mechanics may not be true . Quantum mechanics has never been found to disagree with experiment ? indeed , by this criterion it is the most spectacularly accurate theory of Nature that we have ever possessed . It leads to a prediction that the magnetic moment of the electron is 1.001 159 652 46 and the latest experiments find a value of 1.001 159 652 21 with uncertainties in the last two digits in each case . This is accuracy to within one part in ten billion ! Clearly , if quantum theory is wrong ' then it fails either in an environment that is quite foreign to our experience , or it is in some way inappropriate when systems of large size or complexity are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spontaneously . This is the classic situation in which venerated laws of Nature are found to be inadequate . Newton 's laws of motion and gravitation remained undoubted for nearly two hundred and fifty years before they were revealed to be but first approximations to more complicated laws when large gravitational fields and high-speed motion was subjected to very accurate observation . Einstein , Podolsky , and Rosen questioned not the correctness of quantum mechanics as a description of observation , but its completeness as a description of all aspects of reality . Schrodinger did not believe that his equation could be applied to things that possessed the vast complexity of a cat . It is possible that he was right . The Schrodinger equation , with its linear , time-reversible evolution of the wave function , may be but an approximation to a more complicated nonlinear equation whose solutions are irreversible , and so possess the essential features of the measurement process . In the future it may he possible to scrutinize this possibility by employing the discovery of quantum behaviour in relatively Unseen worlds I 159 large systems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still , we suspect that the quantum theory will experience some unusual modification when it is synthesized with the theory of gravitation . These modifications will have deep consequences for our understanding of both cosmology and elementary particle physics . It is to the far reaches of inner and outer space that our story now turns . 4 Inner space and outer space The true , strong and sound mind is the mind that can embrace equally great things and small . Samuel Johnson Setting the scene Physics originally began as a descriptive macrophysics , containing an enormous number of empirical laws with no apparent connections . In the beginning of a science , scientists may be very proud to have discovered hundreds of laws . But , as the laws proliferate , they become unhappy with this state of affairs ; they begin to search for underlying principles . Rudolf Carnap The development of relativity and the quantum theory during the early decades of this century laid the foundation for a deeper understanding of the astronomical realm of the Universe and the microscopic world of subatomic elementary particles . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effected a radical change in our understanding of Nature 's laws . Quantum theory revealed that the deepest laws of the micro-world govern strange and unobservable things . It marks the end of visualization and common sense ' as trustworthy guides to the frontiers of knowledge . No longer could we have confidence in the Victorian belief that everything can be pictured in terms of simple mechanical models ? atoms do not behave like little cricket balls , nor does space lie flat and true like the top of a billiard table . The complementarity manifested in quantum laws reflects the inability of our classical concepts to accommodate the richness and subtlety of the world , and removes the Cartesian divide that insulates the observer from the observed . Naive realism is dead . Relativity showed us that the bedrock of our experience ? the space and time within which we find ourselves immersed and swept along ? is as malleable as anything else we know . Space and time are not just fundamental categories within which we must organize our experience : they are influenced by those experiences . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; both are determined locally by the material within the Universe . We can not distinguish between the // curvature of space and the masses that effect it . They are equivalent ways of describing the same phenomenon . Traditionally , the domain where the effects of Einstein 's picture of space-time are of practical importance is the astronomical one . It is only over large distances , and in the vicinity of the largest aggregates of matter , that the subtle effects of Einstein 's elastic space-time show themselves to an extent that lies within the sensitivity of our present-day instruments to detect . By contrast , the quantum theory is of practical significance in the world of the very small , where the de Broglie wavelength of particles is comparable or larger than their physical size . Quantum theory is an inessential detail to our description of just about everything larger than small numbers of atoms . Throughout most of our experience , and even that of experimental physicists , the domains over which general relativity and the quantum legislate with influence are curiously disjoint . We live in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too sluggishly for the effects of relativity to be overt , yet are too big for their quantum ambiguity to be perceptible . We are fortunate to stand on this middle rung in the ladder of Nature ; the physical world seems simpler for the bourgeoisie who inhabit this in-between world betwixt the devil ' of the quantum world and the deep blue sea ' of curved space . The complications that arise there are those spawned by the collective behaviour of many atoms and molecules . One of the most appealing of these complications is the helical structure of carbon , hydrogen , nitrogen , oxygen , and phosphorus which we call the DNA molecule . From its subtleties has arisen the phenomenon we call ' life ' . Its structure is not simple . Were it so , we would be too simple to know it . The units of measurement that we have adopted and inherited bear witness to our parochial considerations . Many are anthropomorphic ? the foot , the yard , the cubit , the span ? and arise from the dimensions of parts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the year , are dictated by the periodic motions of the Earth . Our modern metric units , like the gram or the centimetre , originate from their handy description of everyday quantities . When told that the Universe is 15,000,000,000 years old , or that the nucleus of a hydrogen atom weighs about 1 , **31;244;TOOLONG times less than a gram , it is natural to feel stupefied , but the significance of these huge numbers is their revelation of the peculiarity of the human position straddling the immensities of outer space and the microcosm of Nature 's innermost workings . It is not that the size of the Universe or the atomic nucleus is peculiar ; rather it is our own intermediate situation that makes both ends of reality seem so far away . There are about as many stars in the Universe as there are atoms in a sugar cube . But the cutting - cdge of modern research into the ultimate laws of Nature has sought out a situation in which the laws of the very large and the very small must collide . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how complex , or how simple , are the most basic laws of Nature . It is this collision course of inner 162 I Inner space and outer space and outer space , and the laws that govern them , that we shall be concerned with in this chapter . It will take us to the frontiers of modern physics , and reveal new challenges to any simple description of Nature and Nature 's laws . Our story begins with the Universe in the small . A world within the world If that this thing we call the world By chance on atoms was begot Which though in ceaseless motion whirled Yet weary not How doth it prove Thou art so fair and I in love . John Hall The idea that matter is composed of indivisible microscopic units is an old one that originated amongst the Greeks as part of their rationalization of natural philosophy , but it then subsided until resurrected by William of Occam in the Middle Ages . In ancient times there neither was , nor could there have been , any experimental support for such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within a wider view of things , rather than a scientific theory in our sense . Greeks like Aristotle , who opposed atomism ' , equated it with a blind desire to abnegate the governance of Nature in favour of pure chance . Atoms required no divine assistance . They had existed from a past eternity . Their motion did not derive in any way from inherent properties of themselves : they possessed no final causes . Such accidental ' properties were , like material causes , of secondary status in the Aristotelian view . The essential features determining motion and material composition were the formal and final causes . Aristotle was also convinced that human knowledge must be grounded in sensations . His thoroughgoing empiricism recoiled from the atomist assumption that reality is grounded in unobservable microscopic entities . For centuries the term atomism ' was equated with atheism and the worst form of materialism , and aroused the sort of passions that evolution ' still evokes in the southern states of America . It suggested chance and disorder , the very state that the Creator had done away with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wherein everything is reduced to atoms , and as a result is judged to be nothing but ' atoms . Such a view found its most eloquent statement in Lucretius ' On the Nature of Things , wherein the mortality of the mind , body , and soul of man was the conclusion to be drawn from their atomic composition . The other atheistic association of the early atomic doctrine was its claim for an infinity of worlds , each formed by the random coalescence of atoms . Such a cosmogonic extravagance appeared to diminish the magnificence of the created order in our own world . Inner space and outer space I 163 Atomism was not an idea that emerged with force in the East . It arose briefly in the writings of Hui Shih , a philosopher of the fourth-century BC with a penchant for paradoxes of the infinite reminiscent of Zeno , which introduce the notion of the ' Small Unit ' : the smallest entity in Nature which contains nothing within itself . Such ideas had little survival value in the Chinese intellectual environment , and , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , physicists would not regard mathematical paradoxes of infinite divisibility as even relevant to the issue . The distinction between mathematical and physical divisibility was first considered and appreciated by the twelfth-century Arab philosopher Averroes , who considered the concept of infinite divisibility to be unphysical because it could not be realized in practice . The holistic bias in oriental thought favoured a view which envisaged the basic elements of Nature to be wave-like , antithetical influences , from whose conflation visible objects and structures would effortlessly emerge . The Chinese viewed the Universe as a seamless whole ; although there existed individual objects and pieces to that whole , they had meaning only through their spontaneous and harmonious participation as individual chords in the great symphony of Nature . Atomism would have been an offence against their faith in the ultimate continuity and homogeneity of Nature . By contrast , the Arab and Indian cultures were sympathetic to ideas having much in common with Greek atomism . In Islam there were often considerations of a theological character motivating adherence to an atomic view of matter . In particular , atomism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order that God could bring all things systematically to account at the Last Judgement ( it is interesting to note that the modern Cantorian notion of a countable infinity , rather than finiteness , is what is actually required for this systematic accounting ) . The Greek idea that matter was composed of indivisible basic particles first arose in the fifth century BC in order to explain how it could be that things undergo small changes , and yet maintain their essential identities . Everything material and spiritual , even the gods themselves , were supposedly made out of ' atoms ' , and the Greek word atomos ' means indivisible or uncuttable ( by the Middle Ages this word became latinized , and meant only the smallest unit of time ) . Later , the desire to equate the indivisible atoms ' of matter with the infinitesimal geometrical points introduced by the Pythagoreans spawned controversy , and led to Zeno 's well-known paradoxes of the infinite with which he sought to show that Nature possessed an underlying continuity in space , rather than the discontinuity implied by the existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early Greek atomists required their atoms to be necessarily minute in size . They just needed them to be indivisible ? a property that did not exclude the possibility that they possessed a structure of some sort . Nor were they assumed to he identical . They were imagined to exist in a variety of shapes and sizes , but those of one variety could not he transmuted into those of any other . Always in motion , they were not necessarily concentrated together , but separated 164 I Inner space and outer space by a void ' . The properties that these atoms possessed were regarded as the only real ' features of matter . Others , like colours , tastes , or smells , which arise in large aggregates of atoms , were regarded as secondary constructions of the human senses . So , for example , the fact that some substances possessed higher density than others could be explained by their containing a larger number of atoms , and their resistance to fracture by the distribution of voids within them between the atoms , and so on . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but were used to confirm it . The division between atoms and void was significant in that it attributed existence to empty space for the first time . This was necessary in order to explain motion . For , if all being consisted of atoms , then because atoms could only influence one another by contact , they would have to pass from being into non-being in order to move . There was no analogue of the notion of an influential force whereby a particle could exert an effect on others without contact . That is a comparatively modern idea that even Newton was uncomfortable at having to employ , and only did so in the spirit of the instrumentalist . The atoms themselves were made of some mysterious primary material , and from their determined but apparently random motions the four elements of earth , air , fire , and water were believed to have condensed out of vortices spun by the wakes of atomic collisions . It is curious that , although the original picture of Democritus and Leucippus portrayed the atomic motions as deterministic , the later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reverence for the freedom of the human will . To this end they introduced the idea that there exists an intrinsic randomizing factor , called swerve ' , which influences the motions of the atoms in an unpredictable fashion . The greater the total swerve ' content of an entity , the more spiritual and less material was its nature . At the pinnacle of this spiritual hierarchy of capriciousness was the seat of the will : the human soul . Despite his opposition to the atomist doctrine of reality , Aristotle proposed a theory of minima ' for living things . He claimed that no body could be dismembered into an infinite number of parts . Each will possess smallest parts , but they will be determined by the nature of the type of matter involved , and unlike atoms , these minima were subject to change and decay . Thus , the minimal parts were those below which a further division would cause a loss of identity . Curiously , Aristotle 's ideas seemed to be preserved and perfected during the Middle Ages , and were incorporated into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were opposed . In this way the idea , if not the vocabulary , of the atomists was preserved . Although the atomist views might now appear to have been far more promising a basis for science than their more metaphysical competitors , they did not become a significant influence in the ancient world ; that place was taken by the Aristotelian system . After the Middle Ages the belief in the ' atomic ' divisibility of matter was rehabilitated by European scientists like Copernicus , Sennert , Basso , // Van Goole , Gassendi , Huygens , and Boyle , following the rediscovery and reprinting of ancient atomist texts in the early fifteenth century . Again , the adoption of the atomic view was primarily an outgrowth of a particular philosophical view. * It was merely convenient to view Nature as composed of solid , imperceptible building blocks . The atoms played no part in any definite theory , nor were they observable ( in Gassendi 's day the smallest observed objects would have been about one thousandth of a millimetre across ) . They were necessary to allow one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and motion could none the less be manifestly different . Francis Bacon regarded them as extremely useful in the exposition of Nature ' , regardless of whether they existed or not . Against this instrumentalist view was ranged the contrary Cartesian doctrine of the infinite divisibility of matter . Faced with little hard evidence either way , an important impetus to the atomist view was undoubtedly provided by the publication of Hooke 's Micrographia in 1665 . In its pages , the intricate images of tiny life-forms revealed by the recent invention of the microscope were open to public view for the first time . This helped to displace the popular sixteenth-century view of atoms ' as a deep fantasy beyond human ken ? a view well illustrated by Shakespeare 's line in As You Like It that It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the propositions of a lover ' . Two years after the appearance of Hooke 's opus , Robert Boyle published his influential work Sceptical Chymist which marks the beginning of modern chemistry . Boyle argued that only by laying hold of atomist ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed from the subject . From now on chemicals were to react by definite dynamical laws , rather than by strange affinities and incantations : oratory was at last shooed out of the laboratory . This approach was only completed in the late eighteenth century when Antoine Lavoisier finally rid chemistry of the phlogiston concept , which regarded heat as a material substance whose migration in and out of matter had been invoked to account for chemical changes without any use of the concept of smallest particles . In physics Huygens attempted to explain natural phenomena in terms of changes in the speed and location of microscopic atoms , subject only to the conservation of extrinsic properties like energy and momentum . It is significant that , whereas past 166 I Inner space and outer space atomists have looked to universal properties intrinsic to the atoms themselves for an explanation of the regularities of matter and motion , Huygens sought an explanation of those regularities in the existence of conservation laws which the atoms obeyed . Newton placed limits on the size of the smallest natural objects of about one hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thickness of fine soap films . He ignored past prejudice that belief in atoms was ungodly in some way , and stressed the Deistic vision of a world composed of atoms that had been brought into existence and set in motion by an act of God . In his Opticks Newton conjectures that it seems probable to me , that God in the Beginning form 'd Matter in solid , massy , hard , impenetrable , movable Particles , of such Size and Figures , and with such other Properties , and in such Proportion to Space , as most conduced to the End for which he form 'd them ; and that these primitive Particles being Solids , are incomparably harder than any porous Bodies compounded by them ; even so very hard , as never to wear or break in pieces ; no ordinary Power being able to divide what God himself made one in the first Creation . Newton was of the opinion that these solid basic components of matter were held together by very strong attractions ' . The systematic revelation of these very strong attractions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been the great success story of twentieth-century physics . Inevitably , Leibniz was in disagreement with Newton over the atomic doctrine . We saw in Chapter 2 something of the importance that Leibniz attached to the continuity of Nature . For this reason he found it shocking to contemplate a discontinuity marked by atoms of finite size which , if they formed the basis of all microscopic motion , would also require discontinuities in their velocities at the moments of collision with other atoms . Consequently , Leibniz maintained that matter was infinitely divisible and the Universe infinitely extensive , so completing the continuous spectrum of Nature from the infinitesimally small to the infinitely great . While not denying that there might be evidence for very small particles of matter , Leibniz believed that they would each be found to contain a world full of an infinity of different creatures ' . The idea that atoms mark an end to the subdivision of matter he believed to be a depraved and seductive illusion : Atoms are the effect of the weakness of our imagination , for it likes to rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or analyses ; this is not the case in Nature , which comes from the infinite and goes to the infinite . Atoms satisfy only the imagination , but they shock the higher reason . Whereas disciples of Aristotle opposed the existence of actual or achieved infinities and infinitesimals in principle , Leibniz welcomed them , and indeed expected to find them everywhere in Nature as a witness to the infinite perfection of her Creator . Inner space and outer space 1 167 Despite our familiarity with the concept of atoms as building blocks of matter , this idea did not come easily even to early twentieth-century scientists . In the opening years of the nineteenth century the idea had been used to good effect by pioneering chemists like John Dalton , Amedeo Avogadro , and Stanislao Cannizzaro . Dalton was born in 1766 , and spent most of his scientific career in Manchester . His first scientific work , the discovery of colour-blindness ( from which he suffered ) , sprang from his own deduction that he did not see colours in the same way as others ( in France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful work on vision Dalton turned his interests to meteorology , and even took the time to publish a work on the Elements of English Grammar ' , before having his curiosity widened by a public lecture and demonstration of the chemistry of gases . His chemistry displayed a deep commitment to atomism , and was inspired by reading Newton and the Greek atomists . It brought about two lasting innovations in the study of chemistry . Dalton introduced the practice of constructing Lego-like ' models of compound atoms by joining together coloured wooden blocks , and he was the first to use a comprehensive written system of chemical symbols to codify combinations of atoms . He introduced his atomic theory between 1808 and 1810 , primarily in a major work entitled A New System of Chemical Philosophy , in which he argued that all matter was composed of indivisible atoms of finite size . These atoms were unchangeable and identical ; they could be rearranged into different combinations by chemical reactions , but never created or destroyed . This picture thereby provided a simple explanation for the conservation of mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Lavoisier . It had a further great success in establishing the law of multiple proportions for chemical reactions . Dalton 's significance lies primarily in the fact that he supposed atoms to have very definite properties which he elucidated by observations of how chemical changes took place , rather than as a result of some traditional philosophical inclination of his own . His theory was based upon the observed facts , although not grounded entirely upon them , because of the unavoidable historical influence of the atomist tradition . Dalton distinguished between atoms and ' compound atoms ' , the latter being what we would call molecules . The molecule was the smallest amount of a chemical compound which could exist . A water molecule could be split into hydrogen and oxygen atoms , but it would lose its identity as water in the process . The atoms of hydrogen and Oxygen , on the other hand he believed to be indivisible . By the end of the century j , 1 Thomson would reveal that atoms could also be divided into parts . Dalton believed that atoms and molecules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Italian contemporary Amedeo Avogadro , who maintained that molecules Were separated by distances which were very large compared with their sizes ? a ' kw reminiscent of the ancients ' atoms in the void . As we have already seen , the early thermodynamicists like Maxwell and Boltzmann implicitly gave credence to the atomic idea by treating gases as 168 I Inner space and outer space though they were mechanical systems of microscopic masses . Maxwell , who had a penchant for putting his scientific ideas into semi-serious verse , explained the historical process which culminated in this view as follows : In the very beginning of science , the parsons , who managed things then , Being handy with hammer and chisel , made gods in the likeness of men ; Till Commerce arose and at length some men of exceptional power Supplanted both demons and gods by the atoms , which last to this hour . Even pragmatists like Faraday were attracted by the notion of small particles of matter , despite the worry that they might be no more than a heuristic . Maxwell laid great stress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referred to what we would term atoms ) . He made accurate estimates of their maximum possible sizes , and regarded them as universal and immutable ? vital elements in his belief in the design of Nature , and an indication that Darwinian evolution was limited in its extent . The spectroscopic properties of atoms led Maxwell and like-minded proponents of the atomic view to expect that the indivisible atoms would possess some form of internal structure , so that each variety would respond in a different way to being perturbed ? a view also in essence not dissimilar to that of the ancients . None the less , the strong influence of empiricist and positivist philosophy at the end of the nineteenth century carried with it a notable body of eminent scientists , men like Mach , Ostwald , and Duhem , who opposed the atomic doctrine on philosophical grounds . In the absence of direct observational evidence for the existence of atoms , they regarded the introduction of the entire concept as a theoretical device which should find no place in a philosophy of Nature founded upon observed fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ key role in maintaining his religious and scientific views in peaceful coexistence . By arguing that all scientific laws ' offered useful descriptions of observed facts which merely saved the appearances ' , he could claim that true reality was only touched on by the Catholic faith in things unseen . Wilhelm Ostwald contrived to write an entire chemistry text which studiously avoided all mention of the atomic concept , despite its having now assumed fundamental importance within the subject . A statement he made in 1895 during a lecture on his anti-atomist philosophy is instructive because it displays his opposition to all alternatives to it which involve entities that do not reveal themselves directly to the senses : Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness of anything ! Our task is not to see the world in a more or less clouded mirror , but to see it as directly as the constitution of our being will possibly allow . The task of science is to put realities , demonstrable and measurable quantities , into definite relation with one Inner space and outer space ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by applying some hypothetical model , but solely by the evidence of interdependent relations between measurable quantities . Ostwald developed thermodynamics and physical chemistry into a combined approach to Nature based upon energetics ' . He regarded energy as the only physical reality ( he even called his house Energie ' ) , with matter just a secondary derivative from it . He also opposed any form of mechanical explanation , and rejected the kinetic theory of gases developed by Maxwell and Boltzmann . Eventually , his views were plainly discredited by Planck 's demonstration that the Second Law of thermodynamics could not be explained solely by use of the energy concept . Even in 1906 these opponents still maintained that the atom was nothing more than a symbol for representing facts . They would not attribute reality to anything that had not been seen . Later , when direct observational evidence of atoms became available , they generally converted to the atomic view ? with the exception of Ernst Mach , who never accepted the atomic doctrine . He retained his instrumentalist opinion of the atomic doctrine , firm in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the competitors vying to match the facts . Mach , like Ostwald , also denied the pre-eminence of mechanical explanation . He argued that the dominant role of mechanical models and modes of explanation was an historical accident rather than a necessary prerequisite for mature natural philosophy . The Machian view of reality that underpinned his proposition to unobserved and unobservable concepts was founded upon the precept that only our sensations are real . This sensationalism ' was strongly proposed by convinced atomists like Boltzmann , who maintained that the type of purely energetic ' explanation for chemical and gas dynamics preferred by the sensationalists was equally reliant upon unobservable elements . It involved appeal to the flow of energy governed by thermodynamics and differential equat ions ? all concepts possessing unobservable aspects ? and made full use of a manifold of mental pictures . Sensationalists claimed to believe only what they saw , but in fact they were rather better at believing than seeing . For , if one does not believe in atoms because of direct visual evidence , why believe that stars are huge astronomical bodies ? As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of light about the same size as small pieces of matter ; but neither Mach nor anyone else would treat them as really ' being the same size as fireflics , or other local sources of light of the same apparent size . Hence , some other consideration is being employed to add to the information available to the senses alone in placing the stars so far away despite their small visual appearance . No observations or other varieties of sense data can avoid the association of contextual elements that weave them into the coherent picture of Nature , nor can they be fitted into that picture if there is no theoretical understanding of the intrinsic biases inherent in the processes by which observational data are collected . There simply are no hare facts . // One can see that an over-enthusiastic adherence to the positivist dogma was likely to become a considerable handicap for a physicist in the early years of the twentieth century . This suspicion has led to the intriguing suggestion that there may exist a connection between the sudden demise of French science in the early years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture of matter . As the focus of science turned upon the microscopic world , and found there things that defied visualization , so a greater premium was placed upon the flexibility of mind of a Maxwell than upon the rigid formality of a Duhem or a Mach . To the modern scientist these metaphysical disputations seem extraordinary . We are used to the facts ' of science setting the pace for natural philosophy to follow . But nineteenth-century philosophers did not assume such a secondary role . They did not take the data and the theories of the scientists as the starting point of their philosophical speculations about science and Nature , in order to seek out the basic metaphysical problems . They had already inherited those problems in their traditional forms along with the basic philosophical stances of the Kantians , Hegelians , and positivists . The appropriateness of a particular view for resolving scientific questions would be judged primarily by its success in resolving these traditional philosophical issues . Dissecting the atom We now know , it is true , that the often expressed skepticism with regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the wonderful development of the art of experimentation has enabled us to study the effects of individual atoms . Niels Bohr From the middle of the nineteenth century onwards there grew up a belief amongst those of the atomist persuasion that there existed a close relationship between atoms and electricity . Faraday had demonstrated this connection most strikingly . Common salt was believed to be an electrically neutral combination of sodium and chlorine : one negatively charged atom of chlorine combined with one positively charged atom of sodium to produce a neutral molecule of sodium chloride . Faraday showed that when a positive and a negative electrical terminal were immersed together in some salt water to complete a circuit , then the positive atoms of sodium were attracted to the negative terminal whilst the negative atoms of chlorine migrated to the positive terminal . Moreover , the total amount of each type of atom that accumulated at the terminals was found to increase iq direct proportion to the quantity of electricity applied . This type of phenomenon indicated that single atoms and molecules , although individually neutral , must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some fashion . These transitory atoms that have in some way lost o // gained additional electric charge were called ions ( after the Greek verb to wander ' ) . By 1833 Faraday was led from these observations to the idea that atomism extends to electrical charges as well as the components of matter . Furthermore , these basic electric charges appeared in some way to be part of the atom , or at least an adjunct to it . As early as 1848 Weber had suggested that the electrical properties of metals might be explained by the motion of a collection of negative and positive charges within them , but it was not until 1874 that the Irish physicist George Johnson Stoney suggested that there must exist a basic unit of electric charge to explain experiments of the sort conducted by Faraday . Two decades later he proposed that this basic charge be called the electron ' ( a direct transliteration of the Greek for amber ' ? a material that was often employed in electrostatics experiments because it readily displays a negative static electrical charge when rubbed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six years later the existence of the electron was demonstrated experimentally by J. J. Thomson in Cambridge . Thomson then tried unsuccessfully to rechristen it the corpuscle ' , but it is Johnstone Stoney 's terminology that has stuck . There were several imaginative attempts to build a specific picture of an atom of matter as a result of this discovery . The attempts all bear witness to the realization that atoms were not the indivisible pieces of structureless matter once envisaged , but possessed an internal structure all of their own . The crudest early picture , proposed by Lenard , envisaged the atom possessing thousands of pieces each possessing equal positive and negative charges , held in balance by the electrical forces of attraction and repulsion . A little-known Japanese physicist , Nagaoko , suggested a central positive charge surrounded by Saturnian rings of negative charge , whilst the most influential view was that of Thomson himself , who proposed a homogeneous sphere of positive charge populated with electrons , like a raisin pudding . He even allowed for the possibility that the electrons might maintain a stable configuration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth about a state of equilibrium . By 1910 Ernest Rutherford and his collaborators at Manchester had interrogated an atom by bombarding it with heavier particles . By examining the manner in which the incident particles were deflected from atoms they were able to deduce that the bulk of the mass in the atom was concentrated in a tiny nucleus ' of positive electric charge , with the electrons of negative charge distributed around it at assorted distances . Later , Rutherford suggested that the nucleus was composed of massive particles called protons ' , each of which was to carry an equal and opposite charge to the electron , but have a mass about 1836 times greater , together with hypothetical particles of similar mass to the proton but possessing no electric charge . These , he suggested , should be called neutrons ' . In 1932 , tweIve years after Rutherford 's prediction , neutrons were discovered by James Chadwick . There followed a spectacular development of the now standard picture of // atoms composed of massive nuclei no more that 10-13 centimetres in diameter , surrounded by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central nucleus , and whose detailed arrangement creates the chemistry of the atom in question . When these pictures were merged with Bohr 's principle of energy quantization they produced a model of extraordinary precision , able to predict the detailed properties of all types of atom . The subjects of chemistry and physics were now simply defined . The chemists were interested in the arrangement of the electrons in atoms : the subtleties of the electron patterns determined how atoms could link together into molecules and compounds . Physicists focused their attention upon the structure of the nucleus and the properties of its constituent particles . In the period from the 1920s until the present , the physics of elementary particles has assumed major importance . It has become the most fundamental , the most expensive , and the most enticing area of physical science , and continues to attract the most able mathematical physicists . Experiments have long outgrown the domain of a single scientist . They have become huge international collaborations involving hundreds of scientists , technicians , and computer experts . The leaders of such enterprises require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the politician ( some say even of the mafia boss ! ) , and the personnel manager in order to succeed . The Italian Nobel laureate Carlo Rubbia , who has a reputation for combining all these attributes , has gone so far as to compare the achievements of modern experimental particle physics with those of the Renaissance . In centuries to come the unravelling of the elementary constituents of matter may be seen as the greatest achievement of our civilization ; our particle accelerators great standing-stones and secular cathedrals to the human spirit . Brave new world An explicit scientific world view may arise by a higher specialization of the same basic grammatical patterns that fathered the naive and implicit view . Thus the world view of modern science arises by higher specialization of the basic . Benjamin Lee Whorf When the twentieth century began we knew of only two types of natural force : gravitation and the intertwined influence of electricity and magnetism . This knowledge has come to be labelled classical physics ' to distinguish it from the quantum revolution that followed it . Some groups at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to know about the world . This over-confident negativism is something that resurfaces every so often when scientists have had a successful period . People worry that they might he so Inner space and outer space I 173 successful that the subject could be finished and the book closed . In the year 1880 the director of the Prussian patent office asked his government to close his department on the grounds that there was no conceivable thing left to be invented ! In 1894 , Albert Michelson , one of the leading physicists of the day , claimed that The more important fundamental laws and facts of physical science have all been discovered , and these are now so firmly established that the possibility of their ever being supplanted in consequence of new discoveries is exceedingly remote . . . Our future discoveries must be looked for in the sixth place of decimals . o some extent such pronouncements witness merely to the parochial view of hysics at the time . It was perceived to have a very limited domain of relevance , and to be quite disjoint from chemistry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Michelson were oblivious of the huge gaps in physics at the time . Little or nothing was known about the properties of materials , the nature of light , the nature of the heavenly bodies . There was a simmering conflict between the hyscists ' view that the Sun was powered by heat generated by its gradual ntraction under the force of gravity , and the requirement that it had existed g enough to allow Darwinian evolution to occur . The seeds of a revolution rc beginning to poke their heads through the ground , but few paid much heed . ' thin fifteen years of Michelson 's statement would come Einstein and Bohr , aging with them relativity and the quantum , turning the world upside down . Since those days when the way of the world was fashioned by electricity , vity , and magnetism , our experimental investigations have identified two further basic forces of Nature : the strong ' , or nuclear ' , force which is responsible r binding atomic nuclei together , and the weak ' force which creates some types radioactivity . Whereas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the distance over which their influence is significantly felt , the bong force has a range roughly equal to the size of the smallest atomic nucleus , tut 10-13 of a centimetre , and the weak force 's range is one hundred times to still . The details of how these influences work can not be elucidated with apples and magnets . They require the creation of special circumstances and environments in which the signatures of the microscopic forces reveal themselves sensitive devices . But their effects are by no means hidden from us . They hide the atom bomb and the Sun . It was soon discovered that the proton , the neutron , and the electron are not done . The elementary particle club did not appear to be terribly exclusive . A steady flow of new discoveries continued : in 1936 the muon , in 1947 the chargcd pion , in 1950 the charged pion , and in 1956 the long-sought neutrino redicted by Pauli in 1931 . During the 1950s and 1960s the construction of the test machines able to accelerate protons to very high energies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gave rise to a population explosion of 174 I Inner space and outer space elementary particles . In the end several hundred such particles were found . What had begun as an exclusive club had burgeoned into an all-corners bazaar . Incestuous matter ? So , Nat'ralists observe , a Flea Hath smaller Fleas that on him prey , And these have smaller Fleas to bite ' em And so proceed ad infinitum . Jonathan Swift From the debris surviving the collisions between protons at higher and higher energies during the 1960s there flowered for a time two radically different philosophies . The first , in accord with the ancient atomist intuition , held to the view that matter was divisible into particles like protons and neutrons , and that these in turn contained a small number of elementary constituents which might in their turn contain smaller components . Eventually one would encounter the bottom line ' to this divisibility , and the elementary particles , finite in number , out of which all matter would be additively constructed , would be revealed . The second view , in complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harks back to the oriental intuition for holistic interaction between all the elements ol ' Nature and Leibniz 's prejudice for the infinite divisibility and continuity of matter . It maintained that matter is indefinitely divisible into an infinite number of elementary particles which are all composed of each other in a well-defined sense . This incestuous arrangement became known as the bootstrap theory ' in celebration of the eccentric Baron von Munchausen who claimed to have lifted himself up by his own bootstraps ! It differs from the first picture in the following ways : if we take a box of material particles , and heat them up , then the first picture predicts that eventually the material within the box will break up into its most basic constituents , and these will continue to rise inexorably in energy and temperature as the box is heated . The second picture leads to the conclusion that as the box is heated , so energy is channelled into producing more and mo different types of an infinity of possible particles having higher and higher mass and so requiring greater and greater energies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not continue to rise . One of the striking predictions of the early bootstrap theory was that there must exist a maximu possible temperature of about a trillion degrees . We know now that this type bootstrap theory is in conflict with the facts , and much higher temperatures that its suggested limiting temperature are attained in particle accelerations , but it still possible that there does exist a bootstrap structure to matter at a rim microscopic level than has been probed so far , and with a vastly higher maxima temperature . // The very entertainment of the notion that everything is made of everything else ' sounds like a mystic aberration , but it was in tune with what was seen in particle physics experiments . The smashing of protons was seen to produce yet more protons rather than collections of internal constituents . Given three different elementary particles ' Tom ' , Dick ' , and Harry ' , one could reconcile what was seen with an intransitive bootstrap picture which had Tom ' made of ' Dick ' and ' Harry ' , and Dick ' made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made of ' Tom ' and Dick ' . Such a dilemma appears to be inevitable when one considers what must happen when an attempt is made to split a proton or a neutron into pieces . All such pieces must be bound together by nuclear forces that are so strong that when the binding is broken the energy released is sufficient to make new rticles , in accord with Einstein 's famous mass-energy equivalence E= me 2 . The ncept of an elementary particle becomes a little nebulous in such circumances . It is akin to trying to break down a bar magnet into more elementary gle magnetic poles by cutting it in half . Instead of making single North and uth magnetic poles we produce two magnets ( see Figure 4.1 ) each with a pair of gnetic poles . In some sense magnets are made of other magnets . The bootstrap picture gradually faded away as evidence emerged for a very lhtite type of substructure within protons and neutrons . Quarks Three quarks for Muster Mark ! Sure he has n't got much of a bark And sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But 0 , Wreneagle Almighty , would n't un be a sky of a lark . To see that old buzzard whooping about for uns in the dark And he hunting around for uns speckled trousers around by Palmerstown Park ? James Joyce 176 Inner space and outer space During the 1960s theoreticians began to make sense of the pretenders to elementarity . Murray Gell-Mann and George Zweig showed that a beautifully simple picture could explain all the known particles . They proposed that particles like the proton , the neutron , and the mesons , which feel the strong nuclear force , are not elementary particles at all , but possess internal constituents . These GellMann called quarks ' and Zweig aces ' . It is Gell-Mann 's literary allusion to James Joyce 's three quarks for Muster Mark ' that has stuck ( in Joyce 's Finnegans Wake the three quarks appear to be the three children of Mr Finn . On some occasions the concept of Mr Finn is represented by himself , but on others that role is played by the three young quarks ) . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mesons , and leptons . The leptons ( ' lepton ' means light ' or little one ' in Greek ? it was the widow 's mite ' in the famous New Testament gospel story ) feel the influence of gravity along with the weak and electromagnetic forces . The baryons ( barys ' is the Greek for heavy ' ) feel all the forces , but possess a conserved quantity called baryon number . The mesons also feel all the forces but do not possess baryon number . The proton and the neutron are baryons ; the electron , the muon and the neutrino are leptons ; whilst the pions are mesons . For some time after its discovery the muon was referred to as the mu-meson because it was mistakenly believed to be a meson . In recent years evidence has steadily accumulated to confirm the idea of Zweig and Gell-Mann that protons and neutrons are not elementary particles . In scattering experiments they behave as though they contain three microscopic constituents , which reveal themselves through the pattern of scattering that takes place when protons and neutrons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these quarks of which all matter is made . Why not ? Quarks carry two types of charge . Beside the ordinary electric charges carried by electrons and protons they possess another variety which has been termed colour ' ? although it has nothing whatsoever to do with the hue of things . Like electric charge , this colour charge appears to be conserved in Nature . That is , when particles interact and transform their identities in collisions , it is possible to redistribute the colour charge but not to alter the total amount of it when the final book-keeping is performed . Now , just as particles possessing electric charges feel an electromagnetic force of attraction or repulsion between them , so particles possessing the colour attribute exert forces upon one another . This colour force ' between the quarks that constitute nuclear particles is the origin of the nuclear force seen between the nucleons , just as the electromagnetic forces between protons and electrons give rise to secondary chemical forces between molecules and compounds . Nuclear power is the process by which we can extract energy from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as you and me . Yet the colou force is distinctly odd . Whereas the forces of gravity , electricity , and magnetis all weaken in strength as the inverse square of the distance between the pa rtid Inner space and outer space I 177 volved , the colour force gets stronger as the distance between quarks increases . I i is like an elastic force . And it keeps quarks bound within baryons and mesons . Quantum fields The laws of Nature give a fundamental role to certain entities . We are not really sure what they are , but at the present level of understanding they seem to be the elementary quantum fields . Steven Weinberg he basic characteristics of the four known forces of Nature are listed in able 4.1 . We have found that all these forces are best described by a merger of the classical concept of a continuous field ' of force introduced by Faraday , with the quantum ambiguity of Nature . The offspring of this union is the quantum field . We recall that the classical field of Faraday was an unspecified something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collection of attributes that could be described by numbers . These numbers give its strength and direction at each point of space . The electric , magnetic , and gravitational fields provided the classical examples . like lord Kelvin , one insists also upon a picture , then that of a flowing liquid filling all space is a good analogy for certain fields . Each field of force is viewed as a different such fluid . Quantum fields manifest the probabilistic element introduced by our measurement of them in accord with Heisenberg 's Uncertainty Principle . They can be viewed as a turbulent flow of liquid in which the chaotic fluctuations get larger as one examines the fluid with a magnifying glass on a finer and finer scale . Yet , over a larger finite region the microscopic fluid turbulence 178 I Inner space and outer space averages out to produce a relatively smooth flow in the same way that the ocean surface appears smooth from a distance . Quantum field theories are mathematical descriptions of the average properties of force fields over finite regions of space during finite intervals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and how they interact one with another . Whereas a classical scalar field will be specified by an intensity at each point , a quantum field will be specified by a set of probabilities ; they will tell us the likelihood that the field will be observed to take a particular value at a certain time and place . All our successful laws of Nature 's elementary constituents are quantum field theories . Quantum field theories differ radically from their classical predecessors . The most important manifestation of this difference is the picture they present of the vacuum . To the pre-quantum student of Nature nothing could be simpler than the vacuum ? it 's nothing , pure and simple . But the quantum view of the world forbids us the sort of precise knowledge that would allow us to say that a box contains so definite a thing as nothing ' . A measurement introduces radiation . Electromagnetic radiation is everywhere . The quantum vacuum is alive with activity . It is distinguished solely by being the lowest energy state in which the entire system can reside . We picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disappearing pairs of oppositely charged particles ( see Figure 4.2 ) . Each of these pairs is individually unobservable , in accord with Heisenberg 's Uncertainty Principle , if it possesses an energy AE and exists for a time At such that These are called virtual ' particle pairs . Although individually unobservable , the collective effects of virtual particles produce tiny but measurable changes to the energy levels of atoms . Later , we shall see that the existence of an active quantum vacuum has important consequences for the structure of the world . The image of virtual particles also dictates the picture we have of how forces of Nature act . Whereas Newton was forced to adopt a model in which forces acted instantaneously over great distances by some unknown means , the quantum vie s requires that an interaction be mediated by the exchange of a carrier ' particle . In the case of the electromagnetic interaction between electrically charged particles this carrier particle is the photon of light ; the strong nuclear interaction between quarks is mediated by particles called gluons , and the weak interaction by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detected in colliding beam of high-energy particles at CERN in Geneva ; finally , the carrier of th gravitational interaction is called the graviton . Heisenberg 's Uncertainty Principle gives the relation between the mass of the carrier particle and the ran of the force it mediates . The range is roughly equal to the de Broglie wavelength the carrier particle , and hence is inversely proportional to the mass of t appropriate carrier particle . Thus , the massless photon and graviton mediate t infinite range forces of electromagnetism and gravity respectively . The very sho Inner space and outer space 1 179 Figure 4.2 The quantum vacuum : this space ? time diagram illustrates the spontaneous Production of a particle ? antiparticle pair . The pair subsequently annihilates after a time interval so short compared with the mass-energy required for their creation that the process is unobservable by the constraint of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle . Such in unobservable process is called a virtual process . Under certain circumstances the cannihilation can be prevented by the imposition of some external force field in which case the virtual particles become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an infinite sea of virtual processes . This picture is none the less subject to direct experimental test . Range of the strong and weak interactions are reflections of the very high mass of it carrier particles . The fundamental legislation of inner space I am inclined to think that scientific discovery is impossible without faith in ideas which are of a purely speculative kind and sometimes quite hazy ; a faith which is quite unwarranted from the scientific point of view . Karl Popper Physicists have deduced mathematical laws which describe how the different forces of Nature behave at a microscopic level . Each theory is internally consistent , useful for practical work in elementary particle physics , and by any pragmatic criterion ' successful ' , but particle physicists are far from content . There bath a number of unanswered questions which illustrate modern prejudices or expectations concerning the laws of Nature : ( 1 ) Arc there simple principles which dictate what forces and particles exist in Nature and how they interact with one another ? fli ) Is there a single unified law of Nature : a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forces of Nature have the strengths they do ? 180 I Inner space and outer space ( iv ) What are the ultimate constituents of matter ? the most elementary of elementary particles ? ( v ) What are the ultimate principles which we should employ to discern laws of Nature ? The fact that such questions are asked is evidence of our deep faith in the simplicity and unity of Nature . Physicists believe that the degree of rationality already discovered in the make-up of Nature is a strong evidence for a deeper and all-encompassing rationality governing its most basic entities . The burning question remains ? what are those basic entities ? On what do the laws of Nature act ? The development of the scientific laws we have followed so far , be they Newtonian , relativistic , or quantum in character , has displayed a common imperative . Rules are sought out which dictate or describe how physical phenomena will behave elsewhere and in the future , if they can be specified here and now . The extension of this approach into the world of elementary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us how the most basic bits of matter behave . But this is only half of the truth . The study of elementary particle physics wants to do something extra that no other physical science aims at . I t wants the laws of elementary particle behaviour to dictate what elementary particles there are . The student of Newtonian mechanics has no interest in cataloguing all the objects in Nature which obey Newton 's laws of motion . He has learnt the lesson of Galileo , that the specific identity of bodies does not affect their response to forces . Moreover , every macroscopic body he encounters is different . The particle physicist , by contrast , has found that elementary particles fall into a finite number of identical sorts . Everywhere we have looked in Nature there exists an entity called the electron , defined by a small number of properties like its mass , electric charge , spin , and so forth . Every electron appears to he identical to every other electron : once you 've seen one electron you 've seen them all ' . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nature ' ( John Wheeler and Richard Feynman were once so struck by this situation that they suggested there may exist only one electron , whose influence can be propagated forwards and backwards in time in an infinite number of ways to give the illusion of there being many different identical electrons ! ) . If we accept that the most basic elements of matter come in collections of identical members , then next we would like to know whether there exist laws which restrict the number of different types of particle . To some extent this has , been achieved . Modern theories of elementary particles and of their interactions with on another are members of a breed called gauge theories . The first such theory w Maxwell 's theory of electromagnetism . Today 's best working descriptions of a the known forces of nature ? gravity , electromagnetism , and the weak and th strong forces ? are all gauge theories . Such theories are predicated entirely upo symmetries . We recall from Chapter 3 how the presence of a geometric Inner space and outer space 1 181 symmetry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular attribute of the system under study in the face of general changes . For each symmetry there exists an associated conserved quantity . This property is maintained even when the symmetries involved are more esoteric than simple geometrical translations and rotations . These additional symmetries are called internal symmetries , and correspond to invariances under various re-labellings of the identities of particles ? for example , swopping the identities of all the protons and neutrons in the Universe . Like the geometrical symmetries , these internal symmetries also give rise to conservation laws ? the conservation of electric charge arises in this way . Gauge symmetries are rather different . In particular , they do not lead to conserved quantities in Nature , but the requirement that a particular gauge symmetry be maintained by , say , the electromagnetic interactions in Nature places very powerful mathematical restrictions upon its detailed structure . So , for example , the requirement of the gauge symmetry of Maxwell 's equations and their quantum edition forbids the existence of a photon possessing a mass , and it dictates the precise way in which electrically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such considerations is even deeper than this . The simplest ' geometrical symmetries we mentioned in Chapter 3 were all examples of what are called global symmetries . Suppose we take some object , your hand will do , and transform its position in some way so that every point of it is transformed in an identical fashion . The result is simple : the hand just moves bodily to a new place in space . It looks the same in every respect . But physicists wish the laws of Nature to be unchanged under far more general changes . It is unnatural to expect an variance under changes that are required to be the same everywhere . If a change airs on the other side of the Universe , how can electromagnetic phenomena here and now know instantaneously how they must behave in order to keep in step , and maintain the global symmetry ? The finite speed of light seems to forbid it . W hart we would require to avoid this difficulty is invariance of the law of Nature under changes which could be different , and completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called a local gauge symmetry . Whereas the geometrical and internal symmetries were invariances that existed when you changed things in the same way everywhere and everywhen , local gauge symmetry requires invariance after you have done different things in different places at different times . At first sight this appears an impossibility . If every bit of my hand is allowed to move in space in a different and arbitrary manner , then the form of the hand can not be maintained . It will be dispersed into bits and pieces going their separate ways . There is only one way in which the form of the hand can remain intact and unaltered in the presence of such unbridled changes : forces must necessarily exist wtih a form that constrains how different parts of the hand can move . Trivially , we might imagine elastic hands placed around our fingers to prevent their dispersal in the illustration given above . What this means is that the imposition of // a more general , or local , gauge symmetry actually dictates what forces must exist between the particles involved . Einstein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this sort . The laws of motion that Einstein framed to account for uniform motion at constant speed constitute the theory of special relativity . They have the same form for all observers in constant relative motion . The only way in which the form of the laws of motion can remain the same for all observers in arbitrary accelerated motion relative to one another ? in which case they feel forces ? is if the gravitational force field exists to cancel them out . The reason that elementary particle physicists are fascinated by gauge theories can be traced to these remarkable properties . Given a particular symmetry , this can be used to generate a complete theory of one or more of Nature 's interactions in a way that contains very rigid constraints upon the types of particle that can exist within its domain , and the forces that can act between them . The gauge age has reduced laws of the micro-world to symmetries in a systematic and powerful fashion . Whereas the laws of classical physics were recognized only in retrospect as being associated with the maintenance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be derived ab initio from the belief in the universality of symmetry . These considerations appear , for the first time , to present physicists with a trustworthy guide to extending our knowledge of Nature 's laws without having primary recourse to observation . If gauge symmetry is the master-key to the basic workings of Nature then it appears that we possess a systematic method for generating new laws of Nature which can then be put to the test of observation and experiment . However , this is some way from the true state of affairs . In particular , although gauge theories prescribe what type of particle is allowed , they do not specify how many varieties of each allowed particle exist . So , for example , we have evidence for three types of neutrino and their associated charged particle ( electron , muon , and tau ) , but the stipulation of the gauge symmetry of the associated interactions does not tell us how many other undiscovered neutrino types there may be . Nor does gauge symmetry tell us the particular masses of the elementary particles and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain things are proportional to others , but it does not fix the values of the proportionality factors . It tells us something of the pattern of the laws of Nature , but not the population of particle types , nor the values of the constants of Nature . These defects are not ones which could bring the known gauge theories into conflict with observation . These are questions that are beyond the scope of the current edition of these theories to answer . They reflect the fact that these gauge theories are not the ultimate descriptions of Nature . This we might suspect from the simple fact that there exist so many of them . The successful working gauge theories of the different forces of Nature are all distinct , self-contained , and insulated from each other . We believe that the basic laws of Nature are not like this . Rather , there should exist some deeper description in which the many interactions of Nature appear as different // manifestations of a single force . This quest is an old dream , but has only begun to be investigated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recognize that contemporary particle physicists are dissatisfied with the current editions of their theories , even though each appears to work perfectly as a description of its own area of jurisdiction . The search for bigger and better theories is not motivated by the contradiction between the status quo and experiment . Rather , there is a philosophical dissatisfaction with the scope and lack of universality of the existing theories . They are evidently incomplete , and lack unifying connections with each other . The engine of progress here is not a shattered Kuhnian paradigm , but a desire to join together what Man has put asunder . Before we turn to the question of whether there exists a sweeping unification of all the laws of Nature ? a single all-encompassing symmetry ? it is well to be aware of one profound fact about the symmetries possessed by the laws of Nature . It is this fact that makes the deduction of natural laws from observations of the world so difficult . When we say that Nature possesses a certain symmetry , what we mean in practice is that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in mathematical language , and from which we can generate a collection of differential equations which will also possess this symmetry . For all practical purposes these equations are our laws of Nature governing the entities under study . However , what we see in the real world are particular events and interactions described by particular solutions of the equations embodying those laws . But the solutions of the equations need not display the symmetry possessed by the equations themselves . Consider a simple example . If we support a pencil balanced on its point , then the law of gravity which governs how it falls when released is symmetrical in the sense that it does not favour one direction in space over another . The mathematical equations of Newton or Einstein make no explicit mention of direction in space . However , the pencil must always fall in some direction when released . In other words , the symmetry of the law is broken in particular realizations of it . With a little thought this is obvious . I am sitting at one particular place in the inverse at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the laws of Nature less an invariance that makes them the same to observers at every place . This metry gives rise to the conservation of linear momentum . The only way in which such a space-blind set of laws can be reconciled with the fact that they it me ( and you ) to reside at particular places in the Universe is if the ( workings of symmetrical laws do not necessarily reflect the same invariance maples . Another example we might take is the fact that human beings have its on the left of their bodies . There is no deep symmetry in Nature that ars to require this . We could all have our hearts on the right of our chests , e our mirror images , and our bodies would function identically . Presumably , lust humans to evolve had this ' left-heartedness ' , and the effect then ) snowballed through hereditary reinforcement . We could not deduce anything // about the left-handedness of the fundamental laws of Nature from the fact of our own left-heartedness . Hence , our study of Nature is difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular asymmetrical outworkings of underlying laws which may be symmetrical . The true symmetries are hidden . They govern laws , not their consequences ; we are able to observe only the consequences of broken symmetry . When a gauge symmetry is broken in a particular realization something unusual occurs . The carrier particle of the force of Nature that is required to implement the local gauge invariance will take on a mass . This mechanism is believed to be the origin of mass . There is , in effect , an underlying energy field called the Higgs field ( after Peter Higgs , an Edinburgh physicist ) permeating every point of space , and this induces the presence of a mass for the carrier particle when the symmetry is broken . Some gauge symmetries , for example those that give rise to the electromagnetic and gravitational force fields , are not broken , and hence their respective carrier particles , the photon and the graviton , remain massless . But the gauge symmetry giving rise to the weak force is broken , and the carrier particles , the W and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ littered with the corpses of dead unified field theories . Freeman Dyson The dream of a single , all-encompassing , law of Nature spanning the whole of fundamental physics , showing the dissimilar forces of Nature to be but different manifestations of one underlying influence , has risen many great physicists from their slumber of contentment with the status quo . Eddington and Einstein are the most famous pioneers of a grandiose theory of everything ' uniting electricity . magnetism , and gravity , from whose synthesis would be revealed , behind the inner logic , the peculiar values of the constants of Nature . Although , with hindsight , we see that these imaginative pioneers were searching in the wrong place for this Holy Grail of physics , and attacked the problem at a time when w lacked even the knowledge of what it was that needed to be unified , they created vision that has remained as the ultimate theoretical challenge in physics , await in another Einstein to take it up successfully . Since 1975 there has again been serious work on the problem of unifying the known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as it has beet in known . Spurred on by the evident exploitation of gauge symmetry by Nature theoreticians have attempted to embed the known symmetries separate ) respected by the strong , electromagnetic , and weak forces into a larger al encompassing symmetry . The form that this unifying symmetry can take constrained in a number of important ways , in order that the sub-symmetric Inner space and outer space 185 within it in a logically consistent fashion . Roughly speaking , it must be to mathematical symmetry operations what a prime number ( like seven or eleven ) is in arithmetic one must not be able to factor it exactly into pairs of subsymmetries . These requirements generate a collection of candidate symmetries , cach of which must then be fleshed out with a physical outworking to see if it produces a correct description of the world . At first it seems strange that any such unification of different natural forces can even be contemplated . How can one expect to unify gravity and electromagnetm with the weak and strong nuclear forces , when each of these forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times weaker than electromagnettn ! Moreover , the heterogeneity goes farther : the different forces have been and to act upon different and exclusive classes of elementary particles . When instein and Eddington sought unified theories of Nature , the richness of the mentary particle world lay unexplored . When its complexity was revealed ere was no rush to create new unified descriptions because of these basic ohlems : the different forces of Nature appear as qualitatively and quantitaely different as any four things could be . 1 ) cspite these obstacles , unification is gradually proving possible , piece by c . We possess a unified theory of the weak and electromagnetic forces whose dietions were beautifully confirmed by experiments at CERN in recent years . c next step is to incorporate the strong interaction into this synthesis . The final p the addition of gravity is the most formidable conundrum engaging the entions of theoretical physicists today . 1'hc problem of merging together interactions which appear to have such crcnt strengths has been overcome by our understanding of the properties of quantum vacuum . In the pre-quantum picture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like two similar magnetic with a force that is a measure of the intrinsic strength of the romagnetic force of Nature , and which does not depend upon the raturc of the environment in which the interaction takes place . But place a d particle in the quantum vacuum and things become dramatically nt . The sea of virtual particle pairs contains electrons and their particles ( positrons ) continually appearing and re-annihilating into radiaWhen a real negatively charged particle is introduced into this sea it tends to I all the oppositely charged members of the virtual particle sea , and so es surrounded by a shielding cloud of virtual particles with positive s , Hence , any approaching charged particle will be repelled rather weakly proaches with low energy , since it will only reach the outer sea of shielding s , whereas a rapidly moving particle will penetrate the shielding cloud and enough to the centre to feel the full negative charge within . Thus , the Ike energy of the incoming particles , the stronger the electromagnetic own it feels . A helpful analogy is to imagine two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If these fluffy objects are Inner space and outer space I 187 propelled towards each other , then the force with which they rebound is strongly dependent upon the speed of collision . At slow speeds there is only a weak interaction between their woolly exteriors , whereas at high speed the hard cores meet and rebound strongly . Likewise , the effective strength of the electromagnetic interaction between elementary particles depends upon the energy and temperature of the environment within which it is measured . As the temperature rises the interaction becomes stronger . When the same reasoning is applied to the strong and weak forces of Nature something more complicated occurs . The strong interaction occurs between particles which carry the attribute called colour ' charge which we introduced earlier . Where the quantum theory of electromagnetism is a description of how electrically charged particles interact with light , the quantum theory of the colour force describes how quarks and their gluon carrier particles interact with each other . The interaction of two quarks sitting in a quantum vacuum is rather different from that between two electrons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuously appearing and annihilating virtual pairs of quarks and antiquarks , ml virtual pairs of gluons and antigluons . But the gluons are unlike the carrier rticles of the electromagnetic force which appeared along with the virtual cctrons and positrons . Photons do not possess electric charge , but gluons do rry the colour charge whose influences they mediate . Whereas the virtual tiquarks tend to attract to the quark in the vacuum , so shielding its colour force , the gluons congregate preferentially around quarks of the same colour urge , and thus tend to smear out the central colour charge over a wider volume . is trend opposes the segregation of the colour charge created by the virtual tiquarks . Who wins ? If there are fewer than eight different varieties of quark , n it is the colour smearing by the gluons which prevails . In this case , the higher energy of the environment so the higher the energy of one quark as it proaches another , and the closer they will be able to get to each other 's centre . but the closer they get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge be , and the weaker the resulting interaction . This effect is completely opposite that which occurred with the . electromagnetic force , and it means that the tong interaction will become progressively weaker at higher energies of ruction . This trend is called asymptotic freedom , to stress the fact that , as the pies get higher , the interactions get progressively weaker , so that the particles behave asymptotically as though they were free from the influence of any forces . filar considerations to those we have just given show that the weak force changes in effective strength as the energy at which it is measured increases . Thus , the strengths of the electromagnetic , weak , and strong forces depend n the energy at which they are measured . At the ambient temperatures where Is possible the strengths of these three interactions look very different and badly un-unified . But as the temperature rises the strong interaction weakens , de the other two interactions strengthen at different rates . The weak and 188 1 Inner space and outer space electromagnetic forces become of equal strength at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they should only become similar in strength to the strong interaction at an energy of about 1015 GeV ? far beyond the reach of direct experiments on Earth . Thus we see how the low-temperature environment which physicists necessarily inhabit biases the picture they have had of the forces of Nature . The quantitative problem of unifying forces of apparently different strengths is resolved by the properties of the quantum vacuum . But this still leaves the qualitative problem . According to our conventional wisdom , quarks carry a conserved type of charge called colour ' ; leptons ( like the electron and the muon ) , do not . So experience had convinced us that there is no way in which a quark can transform into a lepton and vice versa . In order to unify the forces of Nature governing the interactions of quarks and leptons , it would be necessary for there to exist some undiscovered type of elementary particle in Nature which could mediate interactions between quarks and leptons . These particles should appear in profusion only at the very high energies at which the unification takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy roughly equal to the unification energy , This state of affairs makes it very unlikely that the effects of this unification would be significantly manifested at the low energies of everyday life ? even that of particle physicists . A similar logic was applied to the well-studied case of the weak and electromagnetic unification which occurs at energies close to 90 GeV . Fo this unification to be manifested there must exist three new elementary particles with masses very close to the electromagnetic weak unification energy . The . Inner space and outer space I 189 three particles were discovered a few years ago ? with masses just as predicted ? and are called the W+ , W- , and Z bosons . The analogous heavy bosons associated with the grand unification at 1015 GeV can only be detected by their indirect effects , if our present ideas are correct . Their most striking consequence should be that the proton is unstable to decay into leptons , mesons , and light . One can think of this as a new type of radioactivity . It is expected that the proton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This lifetime corresponds to about one proton in the reader 's body decaying in his or her human life-span . This is an extraordinarily long time ; but the huge number of protons in large bodies means that it is practical to detect such decays from aggregates of matter containing a thousand tons of water or iron buried deep underground . There , surrounded by particle detectors , and shielded from the effects of confusing cosmic rays by the Earth 's crust , these tell-tale decays could be detected . Despite a number of experimental searches , this characteristic signature of grand unification has yet to be seen in more than one experiment , and so far we can only Conclude with certainty that the proton has an average lifetime exceeding 1032 cars . Grand Unification ' may or may not be true . Richard Feynman has some pithy comments regarding the direction of these uests for symmetry in Nature , and the significance of the finds already made . We ve good gauge theories of the different interactions of Nature ; they possess a mpelling similarity in structure . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of physics so similar in structure ? There are a number of possibilities . The first is the limited imagination of physicists ; when we see a new phenomenon we try to fit it into the framework we already have ? until we have made enough experiments , we do n't know that it does n't work . So when some fool physicist gives a lecture at UCLA the local rival institution to Feynmann 's ! in 1983 and says , This is the way it works , and look how wonderfully similar the theories are ' , it 's not because Nature is really similar ; it 's because the physicists have only been able to think of the same damn thing , over and over again . Another possibility is that it is the same damn thing over and over again ? that Nature has only one way of doing things , and She repeats her story from time to time . Another possibility is that things look similar because they are aspects of the same thing some larger picture underneath , from which things can be broken into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand . This quest for a unification of all the forces of Nature has continued to develop a technical fashion , but has yet to arrive at an experimentally verified symmetry that does the trick . It is not our intention to provide a detailed description of these developments , but merely to indicate new aspects of the laws Nature that are suspected . The most striking new development has been the Img-off and revamping of an old idea . 190 I Inner space and outer space A new dimension The idea of achieving a unified field theory by means of a fivedimensional cylinder world never dawned on me . . . I like your idea enormously . Albert Einstein to Theodor Kaluza In 1919 , soon after Einstein 's revolutionary general theory of relativity had been developed , Einstein received a letter from Theodor Kaluza , an unknown mathematician at the University of Konigsberg where Immanuel Kant had lived and worked . Kaluza noticed that if Einstein 's theory of gravitation were formulated for a universe possessing one more dimension of space than our own , then it became mathematically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together with the electromagnetic field of Maxwell . By adding an extra spatial dimension to the world one could reduce electromagnetism plus gravity to gravity alone . The abstract symmetries that gave rise to the conserved quantities of electromagnetism became simply the conditions for the four-dimensional gravity theory to be generally covariant ; that is , for the equations to have the same form in all co-ordinate systems after the manner that Einstein had demanded of all physical laws . This idea seemed so outlandish to Einstein that he kept Kaluza 's paper for two years before giving it his final imprimatur . But eventually , in 1921 , it was published by the Prussian Academy . Few took this idea seriously . Indeed , even fewer were in a position to do so ; the mathematics used in Einstein 's theory of general relativity in just three space dimensions was beyond the ready grasp of most scientists of the time . The addition of extra dimensions was an even worso abstraction . Furthermore , Kaluza offered no observational support or possible test of his theory . It was just a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretty mathematical ideas . In 1921 this susceptibility was not quite so well developed . In order to make sense of Kaluza 's idea one had to explain where the extra dimension had gone . Why do we not experience it ? Why does the Univer appear three-dimensional if it is in reality four-dimensional ? Kaluza had suggested that the extra dimension of space might differ from the other three in some fundamental way . In 1926 , the Swedish mathematician Oska Klein developed this suggestion in a way that connected it with physics . Klein showed that if it mediated the connection between electromagnetism and gravit then it was natural for the extra dimension to have a minute extent maybe small as 10-33 centimetres so we would be unaware of it both in everyday experience and all scientific experiments carried out hitherto . We would he t position of flat insects spending our lives walking over the flat Earth unaware the dimension of height extending above us . Although our experience of the surface of our Flatland ' could extend far and wide , that of the orthogonal that dimension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     