@@774190

txt  | aspects such as public involvement or mediation . Inferences about " stirring things up " made it clear that some officials felt issues were being created rather than simply identified . Continuing communication with elected county officials was problematic ; because information was expected to be channeled through their representative on the Joint Review Committee , communication became unwieldy and too removed for the amount and sensitive nature of the information we possessed . Citizens were generally very supportive of the issue-centered process , especially because many felt ignored in the first review . As is typical of many development settings , however , those people in favor of the project had very little incentive to stay involved . Though contact with people in favor of the project was maintained , the people against the project were most interested in the SIA process as a vehicle for addressing their issues . As a result , we found it difficult at times to counter the perception of taking sides or of supporting a few malcontents . Nevertheless , both groups moderated their positions through this process , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Without question , " business as usual " was changed in the process of making this decision . Those typically uninvolved became involved ; impacts ignored in the previous assessment were identified and assessed ; and involvement became more focused and issue centered , less characterized by emotion , personality conflicts , and politics . In general , those groups with vested interests in maintaining status quo decision-making were most threatened by the issue-centered approach . The Anthropological Difference The outstanding anthropological contribution to social impact assessment is the manner in which fieldworkers enter into a community , understand cultural dynamics , and translate cultural understanding to decisionmakers . Clearly an issue-centered approach to SIA is not only product oriented but process oriented . In addition to the rigor of analysis and the benefits of a scientific approach that characterize other social science approaches , it can be argued that the manner of relating is at least as important . The way in which citizen contacts are handled and the ways in which their input structures the assessment process are absolutely critical . The gathering of quantitative data then becomes technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the assessment . Other writers have noted the importance of the insider/outsider perspective in the social sciences and the value of both a qualitative and a quantitative approach in social research ( Geertz 1975 ; Gold 1977 ) . Some years ago , Marvin Harris ( 1979 ) distinguished between conceptual  | categories of information generated in social science . Emic categories are those people use themselves to describe their environment , whereas etic categories are those that describe relationships more easily discerned by objective criteria , such as by a stranger to the culture , particularly one with scientific training . In the issue-centered SIA process , both categories of data become critical for a scientifically as well as politically sound assessment . Issues in this context are the emic categories that sensitize the field team to the values , concerns , and social meanings of affected people . Quantitative data gathering , by contrast , reveals etic categories that can be verified by objective , statistical methods . Anthropology is unique in its commitment to the emic , or insider 's , point of view . This objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the local setting , engage in local routines , and attempt to experience events as a local resident would . Participant observation adds a critical and much needed dimension to social impact assessment and mitigation . The tendency has been to use a " number crunching " or " boiler plate " approach to SIA in which a predetermined checklist of social variables is inventoried to assess impacts of specific development alternatives . Strong evidence indicates that this approach is inadequate primarily because it fails to consider the unique social conditions of each study area . Officials of local jurisdictions and federal agencies are insisting on SIAs that are practical and understandable to lay people and that provide management direction . Citizens are insisting that they participate in decisions , and they have successfully demanded SIAs that identify effects on specific individuals , groups , and communities and that do not gloss over significant impacts with statistical generalizations ( Francis 1975 , Kinney 1982 ) . An example in the Adam 's Rib case is transiency . Local residents were angry that the first assessment did not include an analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local lifestyles were critical . The turnover in the local population was increasing because of the resort nature of the economy ? higher prices , the lack of housing , and the seasonal nature of employment . High costs were forcing old people from the community ; teacher turnover in schools was very high ; informal caretaking was disappearing because people knew each other less ? people began to rely increasingly on formal services for support such as child care and welfare ; and an unstable work force increased the time and cost of worker training . People were concerned that their rural lifestyle of personal relationships and informal caretaking was being threatened by the urbanization of the county brought about by resort development . Participant observation revealed this dynamic in the community and people 's concern with it long before it would have shown  | up statistically . This early information shaped and directed the assessment in socially responsive ways . The concept of social network is a valuable contribution of social science and a central methodological principle in issue-centered SIA . A network is defined as an arrangement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their commitment to a common purpose , their shared activities , or their similar values . Networks are the vehicle by which issues are expressed and communicated in the community . Routine contact with informal networks of people who make up neighborhoods and communities reveals the full range of interests and concerns people have in relation to a development project . The network approach is a way to get accurate information about a project into the community and to facilitate participation of citizens in the decisionmaking process . Each network has gathering places for routine contact such as a home , school , cafe , or feed store . Relating with people in natural and comfortable settings improves the quality of the information received . Because it is unobtrusive , the network approach also helps reduce the emotional aspects of issues and helps people focus on their substance . By including the question , " Who else should I talk to about this issue ? " networks can be mapped out in lines ( or circles ) of increasing inclusiveness . Remarkable convergence occurs in a short time about respected informal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reveals key informal leaders in the community , appropriate communication channels for each network , and opportune times for continued contact . Network analysis is an extension of anthropological work in smallscale societies . After Radcliffe-Brown 's early and initially unheeded suggestion ( 1952 ) that social networks constitute the focus of anthropological studies , Barnes ( 1954 ) and Bott ( 1955 ) published seminal works on the subject that have stimulated a generation of research ( Rogers and Kincaid 1981 ) . This chapter shows the practical and operational utility of that research . The final anthropological contribution is the value , if not always the practice , of citizen advocacy which has been the hallmark of anthropological tradition since its inception . The issue-centered approach outlined here has become a means to institutionalize citizen interests more effectively into public decision-making . The issue-centered assessment process has been used in numerous development settings in the last several years . In addition to Adam 's Rib , which resulted in a " no " decision during our involvement but ultimately in a " yes , " two other examples are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One was the Beaver Creek Ski Area , an expansion of Vail , Colorado , in 1972 ( Kent and Bailey 1973 ) . The first social mitigations in the nation tied to a Forest Service special use permit were included in the approval of Beaver Creek . They called for the construction of employee housing and a career conversion program that helped local residents manage changes created by the rapid growth of the recreation industry . The second assessment is the Kahuku Windfarms development in Hawaii in 1982 , which won the Citation Award from the American Association of Human Geographers for outstanding contribution ( Casino et al . 1981 ) . In a development setting characterized by disruption and controversy , the Kahuku Windfarms project was the first major development approved on Oahu in nearly eight years with citizen support . Trends in the SIA field indicate a continued demand for practically oriented documents , broad-based citizen involvement , and decisions responsive to public issues . The demand for professionals capable of serving as a resource to citizens as well as to government and industry officials is growing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to respond to the growing importance of SIA in the overall EIS decision-making process . This case study has shown that the application of anthropology in the field of social impact assessment , and in economic development generally , has processual as well as analytic aspects . Analytic components of social science contributions may include implementing a random sample survey or analyzing how economic changes will affect lifestyles or how various alternatives may affect demographic variables . Processual aspects may include a broad-based assessment of public issues , the facilitation of communication between conflicting parties , mediation regarding particular mitigation measures , or the training of corporate and agency personnel in methods of direct contact with citizens as part of an ongoing management system . The current application of anthropology in development settings far exceeds the legal mandate for social impact assessment and includes a range of activities affecting development decisions . Corporations and government agencies are utilizing strategic planning and social trend analysis as well as social and political risk analysis . Many corporations are now developing social policy , and some have whole divisions devoted to it . FUND @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; these have lasted from three days to five years , they have included corporations as well as agencies and city governments , and they utilize participant observation as a central datagathering method .  | The processual demands of applied work should encourage anthropologists not to abdicate the strong qualitative and holistic tradition in favor of the quantitative priority in anthropological training advocated by some ( for example , van Willigen 1982 ) . Such an abdication will preclude our greatest contribution . The present era is characterized by greater diversity , increasing decentralization , and stronger values for self-sufficiency . Anthropologists capable of building cultural bridges between groups with differing perceptions and interests ( such as corporations , governments , and citizens ) will be in high demand and offer capabilities unduplicated in the social sciences . This chapter has presented an argument for the " native 's point of view , " a sound position not only from an ethical standpoint but also from a practical one . Sensitivity to local interests and a professional means to accomplish it can save money , improve project design , and lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social science could not be wished for . References Barnes , J. A. 1954 . Class and Committees in a Norwegian Island Parish . Human Relations 7:39-58 . Bott , Elizabeth . 1955 . Urban Families : Conjugal Roles and Social Networks . Human Relations 8 ( 4 ) : 345-84 . Casino , Eric S. , Myongsum Shin , and James E. Freeman . 1981 . Kahuku Windfarm Project : Social-Economic Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures . Honolulu : FUND Pacific Associates . Francis , M. 1975 . Urban Impact Assessment and Community Involvement : The Case of the JFK Library . Environment and Behavior , September , 373-404 . Gallegos , Robert M. , Jr. , and Kevin Preister. 1980a . Social Impact Assessment Adam 's Rib Recreational Area Report No. 1 : The Current Situation ( with James Kent and Kathi Cannan ) . Denver : Foundation for Urban and Neighborhood Development ( FUND ) Inc. , March . . 1980b . Impact Questions Regarding the Lower Eagle Valley : A Summary of Issues , Concerns and Opportunities to be Used in the Review of Adam 's Rib @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Development ( FUND ) Inc. ( with the Joint Review Committee ) , October . . 1981 . A Future in Motion : Social Impact Assessment for Adam 's Rib Recreational Area . Denver : Foundation for Urban and Neighborhood Development ( FUND ) Inc . Geertz , Clifford . 1975 . On the Nature of Anthropological Understanding . Amer . Scientist 63:47-53 . Gold , Raymond M. 1977 . Combining Ethnographic and Survey Research . In Kurt Finsterbusch and C. P. Wolf , eds. , Methodology of Social Impact Assessment . Stroudsburg , Pa. : Dowden , Hutchinson and Ross .  | Harris , Marvin . 1979 . Cultural Materialism : The Struggle for a Science of Culture . New York : Vintage . Kent , James A. , and Jean Bailey . 1973 . Major Recommendations Based on Phase I of the FUND Descriptive Study of Redcliff , Gilman and Minturn Areas . Denver : Foundation for Urban and Neighborhood Development ( FUND ) Inc . Kinney , Everett . 1982 . Assessment of Geothermal Development Impacts on Aboriginal Hawaiians . Hawaii : Puna Hui Ohana Organization . U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , James III , and Thomas Dietz. 1977 . Handbook for Environmental Planning : The Social Consequences of Environmental Change . New York : John Wiley and Sons . Preister , Kevin , and James A. Kent . 1984 . Clinical Sociological Perspectives on Social Impacts : From Assessment to Management . Clinical Sociology Review , vol. 2 . Also in Social Impact Assessment Newsletter , no. 71/72 , NovemberDecember 1981 . Radcliffe-Brown , A. R. 1952 . Structure and Function in Primitive Society . London : Oxford University Press . Rogers , Everett M. and D. L. Kincaid. 1981 . Communication Networks : Toward a New Paradigm for Research . New York : Free Press . van Willigen , John . 1982 . The Great Transformation ? Applied Training and Disciplinary Change . Practicing Anthropology 4 , no. 3 and 4 , summer .  | The problem was death ? the highest infant death rate in the United States . In Washington , D.C. , babies were dying in their first years of life at the highest rate for any large American city , and nobody could figure out why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became a political issue in the campaign of Marion Barry , who promised to appoint a special blue ribbon committee to search for possible solutions . He won his first race and continues to head the city government ? although infant mortality has proved to be a more stubborn problem than anticipated . This chapter describes an unusual research and public policy project in effect from 1979 to 1980 that remains important in today 's efforts to reduce teen pregnancy . During these years the Mayor 's Blue Ribbon Committee on Infant Mortality actively reviewed the city 's policies and programs for pregnant women . My work on the infant mortality problem was funded separately by the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) , so it was first and foremost a scientific research project . However , it also included a strong effort to make research results known to political footnote Dr. Boone pursued the activities reported in this chapter from 1979 to 1980 while at the District of Columbia General Hospital , with support from a public service science residency grant from the National Science Foundation , OSS-791726 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and do not necessarily reflect those of NSF . Boone conducted a follow-up survey on the same samples of inner-city residents for the U.S. Census Bureau in 1983-1984.  | participants . The result was a shift in the definition of the infant mortality problem away from a strictly medical model and toward a broader framework that included a better understanding of social and cultural behavior . Infant mortality was a good issue for a Black mayor because Washington has one of the largest , most concentrated Black urban populations in the country . Not only was it the first U.S. city to have a population that was 50 percent Black , but it also was the first big city encountered by north-bound Black migrants from the Carolinas and Virginia during the first sixty years of the twentieth century . Washington has a strong Black middle class that thrives , as do whites , in a city that is almost recession-proof because of the federal bureaucracy . Although in many ways it is a model Black city , the indicators for its Black health problems are consistently bad . Infant mortality in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the large and increasing number of disadvantaged Black women ? initially Southern and rural but now more often Northern and urban ? whose infants are born too soon and weigh too little to have a good chance of survival . The low-birthweight rate for Blacks is the highest of any U.S. racial or ethnic group : Black infants die at almost twice the rate of White infants . Infant mortality is a minority health issue that joins medicine , politics , demography , and health in a powerful , complex web of causation . It has been a subject for research by epidemiologists , clinicians , and sociologists but rarely by anthropologists . Even during the year of intense effort by the mayor 's blue ribbon committee to understand Washington 's infant mortality problem , there was a growing conviction that the city 's crisis was essentially unsolvable . This belief was founded on the premise that the problem involved large numbers of disadvantaged Black women whose health status was connected to their socioeconomic condition . No one saw their health behavior as also being culturally based and therefore able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was this : If culture played a role , then what was it ? Who wanted that question answered and why ? Who would sponsor complicated and controversial research to discover the possible cultural causes and solutions for infant mortality when it was much easier to continue after-the-fact medical care or social welfare as solutions ? The problem was more than money ; it was behavior . Who would champion policy and program change directed at behavior ? As it turned out , many people favored that kind of change , but they needed solid evidence from a scientist who specialized in cultural behavior . The client who originally sponsored the sociomedical project on infant mortality in Washington , D.C. , did so less because of specific concerns about infant  | mortality and more because of general concerns about the role of science in government decision-making in the mid-1970s . In February 1979 , I called a reporter at the Washington Post because I thought that I had found an issue that involved the public understanding of science in an article he had written on the city 's infant mortality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a university , having graduated two years before with a PhD in cultural anthropology and an emphasis on urban studies and women . I wanted to direct my career into two areas : health and statistics . I reasoned that there would be money in health for at least the rest of this century and plenty of it as the baby-boom generation aged . And , I had found a funding program at the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) that intrigued me . It gave postdoctoral fellowships to different kinds of scientists to serve in public interest or action groups : for example , a physician in a migrant farmworkers organization in California , a chemist in an environmental group in the Midwest , and an anthropologist in an inner-city hospital . ' The purpose of the grants was to increase public understanding of issues involving complex scientific information . NSF funded scientists in organizations in which they were not usually found and then encouraged them to make what they knew ( or could find out ) available to everyone involved in a particular public policy issue . The obligation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the usual scientific research project ; it required outreach . The Washington Post reporter sent me to the new medical director at the city 's only public hospital . It had a largely poor , Black service population and was the only acute-care facility required to provide medical care regardless of a patient 's ability to pay . On the telephone to the medical director I began , " Now I know I 'm calling you clear out of the blue .... " But he listened . Later I met with him and we developed a proposal , which was funded that spring by NSF . I spent a year and a half at the hospital trying to understand the sociocultural basis of poor maternal and infant health among inner-city Blacks and brokering that understanding to people in Washington who could change it . I completed a research project that combined a medical record review , statistical analysis ( with computer facilities at Georgetown University ) , interviews with women whose infants had died , and , above all , daily working experience at one of the most important " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of my residency , the medical director and I testified together before the District Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives on the infant mortality problem in Washington , D.C. , and the reporter I had talked to originally covered that hearing . This presentation began for me a long series of public speeches , meetings , reports , and public policy work on the infant mortality  | problem that continues at this writing . Three years after the residency , I was back at the same hospital in a follow-up study for the U.S. Census Bureau on another public policy issue involving inner-city Blacks : the undercount in the decennial census . ' The National Science Foundation funded my research and public service residency at the hospital . However , in the following years the clients , broadly speaking , came to include many units of federal and local government , as well as private groups like the Children 's Defense Fund and the National Academy of Sciences . They and many others sought me out as part of their own work to bring down the country 's embarrassingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but also among rural Blacks , Mexican-Americans , American Indians , and other minority and refugee groups . Ultimately , the clients for all my activities were inner-city Black women and other minority women at high risk of poor pregnancy outcome , as well as the health care providers who deliver services to them and who are themselves at high risk of chronic burnout , and finally the American taxpayers who shoulder most of the burden for poor minority health . Process and Players What did I do every day at an inner-city hospital that served disadvantaged Blacks ? I had written a proposal broad enough to support a wide range of activities , with the overall goal of investigating the sociocultural basis of poor maternal and infant health . As I look back , I see that my role as a medical anthropologist was defined more by the requirements of other people than by myself and more by real health policy needs than by any preconceived advocacy stand of my own . Some individuals in city health and at the hospital knew what an anthropologist was ; many knew what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a college teacher . Many people in the District of Columbia were glad to see the social science perspective represented in the policy review in 1979-1980 . Many felt that a sociological examination of Washington 's infant mortality problem was needed . However , at that time most people still believed that medical care for newborns was about as good as anyone could do . Social and health programs were considered too expensive to be feasible for more than a handful of women . Yet , they were glad to see that the social science perspective was represented . In a positive sense , I was willingly " co-opted , " and my skills were used to the maximum , especially at the hospital . For example : 1 . I designed a case/control study3 and collected all the data for it on women in two equivalent samples . I then statistically examined social , health , and medical care variables familiar to physicians and  | epidemiologists . I planned interviews with women and conducted them . I supervised the research assistants who helped me . I conducted an indepth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information that would give me clues about the origins of poor maternal and infant health . 2 . I served on the hospital 's Internal Review Board ( that year and for four more years ) , reviewing social and psychological research proposals submitted to the hospital , as well as medical research projects on maternal and infant care . 3 . I went on rounds and to case presentations with staff psychiatrists and saw some of the effects of chronic alcoholism , poor social support , and mental illness in an inner-city Black community . 4 . I spent long hours working in the Obstetrics Service , defining my sample , collecting data , talking to patients , nurses , social workers , and physicians ? especially those who worked in the intensive-care nursery . 5 . I became a familiar face in the medical records department and worked to maintain good relations with the staff there and with all the other support staff ? secretaries , clerks , custodians , and administrative staff . 6 . I almost always ate lunch in the hospital 's staff cafeteria and usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems and attitudes . I enjoyed the mixture of cultures and styles they represented . The medical officers came from all over the world , and they were eager to talk about their own reactions to the inner-city Black community they confronted . 7 . Away from the hospital , I met with members of the Mayor 's Blue Ribbon Committee on Infant Mortality , its representatives from the Centers for Disease Control , representatives from other hospitals , and other public and private health policy organizations , reporters , and staff at the District of Columbia health commissioner 's office and at other city health programs for pregnant women . When my research results began coming in , I gave presentations on my project at the District of Columbia 's health commission and the Medical Society and to academic colleagues . The people who worked at the hospital and the people in city government and health services that I met during that time insisted on placing me within their own familiar frames of reference . In response , I constructed a set of roles ? colleague , friend , investigator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intersected with my own research needs and with my own determination to participate in the policy debate as an expert rather than as a political activist or health advocate . Above all , I remained an anthropologist ? a teacher , a researcher , a writer ? a scientist like the many other scientists in the hospital . That stance paid  | good dividends , but the entries in my log still sound like the field notes of any anthropologist going through initial culture shock . In the first month , I wrote : I do not find the hospital a special world because it is " Black , " but because it is a hospital . I am beginning to feel like I am visiting a special village whenever I go over there . But I am beginning to feel comfortable walking down the halls . I got my hair cut . I look different , but do not don the white coat of the physician . I should try that some time just to see what difference it makes ... . I also had an office at Georgetown University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was constantly running back and forth between the computer and my research assistants at one end of town and data collection and fieldwork at the other end . Each day I confronted the jarring difference between rich and poor . Less than a week after I wrote the previous comment , I wrote this : I am finding it a relief to be over here at school for the day . Every day at the hospital is a strain . I feel a stranger , on " my best behavior , " and more than anything , pushing to get the data I need . . . . Above all , I am tired . I feel overwhelmed on several fronts . I feel overwhelmed by the research angle to the project , and I feel overwhelmed by the multiplicity of roles at the hospital .. . . But only through that working experience did I come to understand better the world that disadvantaged Black women face : the frustration , the image of limited good , the good humor and good will in the face of insurmountable obstacles , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laissez-faire attitude that was unavoidable sometimes when they just got too tired . These insights gave an invaluable background to the long interviews I had with women whose infants had died . Results and Evaluation Some of my results were expected ; some were not . Some were controversial and some were not . In many cases , no one had ever thought of asking the questions I asked in the interviews . ' As expected , measures of previous poor pregnancy outcome ( infant deaths , miscarriages ) , absence of prenatal care , smoking , and alcoholism characterized the women who bore low-weight infants or infants who died . However , drug abuse did not because it was high in both samples  | of women ? those with normal-weight infants and those with low-weight infants . Previous abortions did ? a controversial finding in light of the high rate of abortion in Washington , D.C. ( higher than the live-birth rate in the years of my study ) and the widely ? if covertly ? acknowledged need to provide abortion as back-up contraception . Qualitative factors also set apart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hospitalization , evidence of violence ( beatings and accidents ) in their personal lives , ineffective contraception , and very rapidly paced child-bearing beginning in the teens . Case histories documented a " multiple-abuse syndrome " in which several harmful drugs were used together . Three-quarters of the women in all samples were unmarried at the time of delivery , and the average age for first pregnancy in all samples was eighteen years . The reproductive population was young ? thus the later importance of the results in discussions of teen pregnancy . The results of interviews were disturbing , especially the histories of chronic difficulties in the use of all forms of contraception and the number of times women had been pregnant and failed to deliver because of either miscarriage or abortion . There were no indications of planned pregnancies , although on the surface it seemed that many , many attempts were made in that direction . Attitudes toward men ranged from suspicion and manipulation to outright hostility ; yet women remained romantically convinced of the desirability of the conjugal union . Men were very important in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give . Surprisingly , mothers of women did not provide the emotional support expected , but girlfriends did . The predominant emotion toward the remembered infant death was disappointment rather than open grief . Women usually became pregnant again soon after an infant death . The attitudes toward physicians and nurses were also disturbing : The women were afraid of doctors and resented nurses who left them alone and handled them roughly . The result that caused the greatest stir was the strong statistical relationship between alcoholism and prematurity . This finding was headlined in the Washington Post the day after the hearing on infant mortality in May 1980 . There were many subtle , negative feelings expressed toward this finding by the hospital staff , although nothing overt . To this day , most people are convinced that heroin abuse is far more important in the District of Columbia 's infant mortality picture , even though a special alcohol program began at one of the clinics ( and has since closed ) and public service announcements starting in the early 1980s always mention the dangers of alcohol abuse for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public service activities is always difficult when the goals are broadly defined and the definition  | of achievement is abstract . To determine whether a research project has achieved a practical impact depends on the definition and measurement of " impact . " I have previously noted that Measuring the results of an individual 's or a group 's involvement in a health policy issue is extremely difficult because it requires assessment of public sentiment and political trends whose origins are complex . It is easier to trace bureaucratic efforts , such as a decision to change a regulation or fund a program . To a degree , the impact of my participation in the infant-mortality debate in Washington , D.C. can be determined by asking some questions : Do public health policy makers show any interest in research results ? Were congressional testimony and scientific papers picked up by the national and local press ? Have any research results sparked public debate and strong reaction ? Do privately funded policy reviews quote and publish the results ? Do health planning agencies request detailed information for their use in policy recommendations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by newspaper coverage and private contacts , changing from a strictly medical model ? . . . The answer to all . . . is yes . ( Boone 1985:120 ) More specifically , the change toward a sociomedical redefinition of the infant mortality problem is evident from the comments returned to me on evaluation forms that I sent to major policy participants right after my residency at the hospital in 1981 . A physician from the Centers for Disease Control observed that The infant mortality problem in the District is well known yet little concerted action has been undertaken . Dr. Boone 's work is of high quality and has helped to focus much of the recent discussion concerning possible approaches . She has used the innovative position of an anthropologist on a hospital staff well , both in the quality and impact of her work and in her choice of issues , i.e. , one with social , medical and anthropological facets . A statistician in the District of Columbia 's government ? who made available to me the city death certificate data so I could track the deaths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Dr. Boone did a very thorough study , made excellent use of the Division 's data , and contributed significantly to our understanding of the causes of infant mortality . The anthropological approach was much needed ? opened new perspectives . " The District of Columbia 's health commissioner in 1981 wrote :  | I have been aware of Dr. Boone 's efforts and have been most impressed with her enthusiasm and commitment to the project . I believe that her findings will contribute greatly to the formulation of strategies designed to reduce the infant mortality rate in the District of Columbia . In particular , it has surfaced a number of misconceptions that have been widely held pertaining to the specific make-up and behavior patterns of maternity patients at greatest risk . The chief of psychiatry at the hospital said this : Dr. Boone 's research at the hospital has been extremely useful in giving the physicians a better understanding of the social characteristics of their patients and thus allowing for a more comprehensive and holistic approach to patient care . Dr. Boone was especially helpful to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our educational program and brought new insights into our understanding of psychopathology and patient care . Dr. Boone 's understanding of the social and cultural aspects of normality , pathology , and patient care was appreciated by staff members , psychiatric residents , and medical students , alike . Equally important was a note written at the bottom of a letter I received five years later in 1986 , inviting me to a reception at one of the private programs for maternity care now in Washington , D.C. Its director wrote : " Come see ! After all , you helped shape the Program ! The head of NICHHD will be another speaker along with the Mayor . " However , more significant than any of these comments was a statement sent to me by one of the women I interviewed . When asked if she had learned anything in the interview , she wrote : " I learn that Many Dr. or a wear of How uncomfortable I am after Heving 1 . Abortions 1 . Stillbirths 3. miscarraige one Live son Bore Blue . " The Anthropological Difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the literature and a wide range of methods . However , from beginning to end it was based on my background in anthropology . This approach can be seen most clearly in four areas : ( 1 ) the design and analysis of the interviews with women who had infant deaths , ( 2 ) the selection of some variables and derivation of others for quantitative and qualitative analysis , ( 3 ) the reliance on my working experience at the hospital to understand better the sociocultural basis for infant mortality among inner-city Blacks , and ( 4 ) the use of information brokerage to satisfy the requirements of the original client .  | The Interview Difference A broad understanding of natality , human reproduction , population dynamics , and social structures to support pregnant women can all be gained from any good introductory coursework in cultural and physical anthropology . It is surprising that this understanding has not yet been widely applied to the sociomedical problems of inner-city Blacks ? problems such as high rates of infant mortality , childhood disease , teen pregnancy , drug abuse and alcoholism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropology in the maternal and child health area has been carried out among Mexican-Americans in California and Texas and in developing countries . The ethnographic and theoretical work on inner-city Black culture is far from complete , but it is not insubstantial . In fact , two ethnographies are specifically devoted to Washington , D.C. , Blacks , mostly males : Liebow 1967 and Hannerz 1969 . Fieldwork in other cities such as Chicago has given rise to fascinating , in-depth explorations of Black male ethos ( Keiser 1969 ) . Anthropological understanding of Black females is more often restricted to rural or Southern groups , except for the excellent extensive work by Snow ( 1974 , 1977 , 1978 ) and the classic study by Stack ( 1974 ) . Using these works and others by sociologists Ladner ( 1971 ) , Rainwater ( 1960 , 1965 , 1966 ) , and Seeman ( 1959 ) , I developed a large set of YES/ NO response items to explore the attitudes and beliefs of women who had suffered infant deaths . I pretested them on obstetric inpatients at the hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had lost their infants . No one had thought of asking them about their feelings of alienation ( expressed in familiar idom ) , their attitudes toward men and children , their feelings about the rightness or wrongness of contraception , and their abstract conceptions of birth , death , and lifecycle . I also asked them about their pregnancy histories : each time they had been pregnant , the type of contraception they used between pregnancies , and the outcome of each pregnancy . Questions on their familiarity with contraceptive forms were adapted from the World Fertility Survey , with the substitution of " partner " for " husband . " The former term seemed more appropriate in a community where 75 percent of the women are not legally married at the time of delivery . Finally , I asked them about their social relationships and psychological state during pregnancy . Interview results ? in combination with the review of secondary sources and the statistical analysis ? gave a historical portrait of the reproductive lives of inner-city Black women . It brought into sharper focus what the medical records had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chronic difficulty in carrying an infant to term because of abortion , miscarriage , or other poor pregnancy outcome .  | Taken together their stories were revealing and disturbing , but they had a certain internal consistency . They were understandable in light of the women 's histories of poor interpersonal relationships , substance abuse , anxiety and depression , and some of their cultural values and conceptions . For example , the following cultural factors may well play a role in their reproductive lives : a belief in a birth for every death ; a high value placed on children ; a value on gestation without necessarily any causal or sequential understanding of the children it will produce ; a lack of planning ability ; distrust of both men and women ; and a separation of men 's roles from the process of family formation ( Boone 1985 ) . The integration of all aspects of their histories within the context of their attitudes and beliefs represents one important element of the anthropological difference in the infant mortality project . The resulting portraits have an ethnographic quality of compelling realism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this type of material in public policy work should not be underestimated , especially if it is presented along with quantitative data and alongside statistical tests of variables that are more familiar to practitioners in the field ? in this case , physicians and epidemiologists . Presentation of ethnographic material by itself is not particularly useful in policy-related work because it looks so unusual . It can confuse other practitioners or simply look foolish . Similarly , the use of terms with good , reliable meanings for anthropologists ? but emotional overtones for nonscientists ? can be counterproductive and " turn off " a nonanthropologist bureaucrat or policymaker . I used terms like " population regulation " and " infanticide " in my congressional testimony but would not use them again in that context . In the infant mortality project , most material ? especially the case histories based on interviews , medical records , autopsy reports , and death certificates ? had to be presented with a dry , scientific style or it could easily be seen as sensationalist . The right balance between scientific report styles can sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or italicized blocks of text ) which sections of writing are reporting and which are ethnographic . A Difference in Variable Selection The anthropological difference in the infant mortality project was also evident in more fundamental ways such as the choice of variables for transcription and analysis . A background in anthropology shifted the focus of the infant mortality project from medical care to health and social factors known to be related to health . However , I was careful to use variables that have already been proved to be related to infant mortality , as well as new and more experimental kinds of variables .  | For example , I took pains to note whether each woman had any prenatal care ( from a medical history form in her chart ) and how many years of education she had ( from the birth certificate worksheet ) . Both are known to affect pregnancy outcome in the general U.S. population . In this inner-city community , I found that prenatal care was indeed significantly related to pregnancy outcome but years of education were not . Use of these variables made the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ context they were willing to consider other variables based on anthropological and sociological theory . For example , the concept of a woman 's source of social support was operationalized from notes on the responsible person she listed on hospital admission . An analysis of stability of social support was possible by examining the responsible person for three hospital admissions ( in the follow-up survey ) . Similarly , residential stability was analyzed by examining three consecutive addresses over a six to seven year period . The hypothesis that stability of lifestyle and social support affects pregnancy outcome comes directly from studies in the sociology and anthropology of health . The notion that disadvantaged women may receive less support from society during pregnancy comes straight from the theory of social stratification , as well as from physical anthropology , which clearly demonstrates among nonhuman primates that a female 's status affects her offspring 's chances of survival . The Difference Experience Makes No matter how sophisticated the statistical analysis or the construction of the interview instrument , my basic understanding of reproduction in an inner-city Black community comes from daily working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death ? the hospital . It is a large , complex institution , much like the small society pictured in other anthropological studies of hospitals . It is a symbol for inner-city Black residents , but it also represents the larger society in many of their dealings with it . It serves as a conduit for knowledge and action , connecting disadvantaged Blacks with networks at other levels of medicine and society . Thus , the hospital serves the dual function of community center and cultural broker for the larger society , much the same way that the church and priest serve as brokers for peasants in the villages of developing countries . Because of the complexity and intensity of the inner-city hospital 's functions , I was able to talk with a large number of inner-city Blacks and hospital employees about their experiences and attitudes . Every working day was an experience in classic participant observation ? one of the very few sources of ethnographic information . Because of the  | multicultural nature and the multiple social classes of the staff , I was constantly forced to make more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of styles and mechanisms for coping with fatigue , burn-out , and material shortages and with people from other cultures and classes . Not all of it was attractive or flattering , but it was all comprehensible and it was all set in sharp relief by the inevitable crisis nature of much of the action at an acute-care facility . Among staff , patients , and physicians , an anthropologist in an inner-city hospital can see people at their worst and at their sterling best . My year and a half of experience at the hospital made the largest anthropological difference . Science Brokerage Anthropological knowledge of culture and class brokerage confers an enormous advantage in disseminating results widely ? the original requirement of my NSF grant . Knowledge of sociocultural sensitivities can aid information exchange by helping an anthropologist know , for example , when to make research results known to the press or to a political leader ; when to leak or suggest a result so that more information will be requested officially ; when to write a thank-you letter or make a keep-in-touch call with an important information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's results under wraps . The type of scientific information anthropologists can offer is extremely valuable when couched in terms that are acceptable to the public and to political players . If , as an anthropologist , you become convinced that part of your obligation to society is to disseminate your research results widely , then it makes good sense to use the principles of social interaction that you know to do the best , most helpful job possible in brokering that knowledge . The Rewards of Successful Practice Now , seven years after the infant mortality issue emerged in Washington , D.C. , medicine seems to have done about all it can . The infant mortality rate has fallen but still remains the highest in the country . The neonatal mortality rate ( in the first twenty-eight days of life ) has also fallen but principally because of improved care in the newborn , intensive-care nurseries of the city 's hospitals . The low-birthweight and fetal death rates ? which reflect maternal lifestyle ? remain steady and high ( Fig. 4.1 ) . So the social scientists and the social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has been a hard-fought battle to redefine Washington 's maternal and infant health problem as sociomedical rather than strictly medical and as sociocultural rather than simply and overwhelmingly socioeconomic . Changes toward this definition of the problem began to speed up back in 1979 but should have begun much sooner . figure  | As had been evident for a long time in the lives and health behavior of disadvantaged Black women , socioeconomic status and culture have combined in ways that have hindered health progress . The results of the project on infant mortality in Washington , D.C. , have been good . Policies and programs have changed and sociomedical explanations have been adopted ? if only by default after a strictly medical model was exhausted . But the option had been provided . A different , more complicated definition of the infant mortality problem was available and waiting when the overreliance on medical solutions was finally acknowledged slowly over the past seven years . After hightech equipment had been provided and staffs trained , the infant mortality and low-birthweight rates were still high , and people were anxious to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are slowly beginning to understand which social and cultural characteristics are connected to poor Black health in the inner city , and from that understanding , service delivery solutions are emerging . Notes 1 . The research and public service project described here was funded as a Public Service Science Residency from the National Science Foundation 's Office of Science and Society , Grant No . OSS-7917826 . The views expressed in this report are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of NSF . The Office of Science and Society is no longer in existence . 2 . This was the " Inner-City Hospital Feasibility Study , " which I directed at the U.S. Census Bureau in 1983-1984. 3 . A case/control study statistically compares cases ( usually of a disease , condition , or other health factor ) with equivalent controls ( which have an absence of the disease , condition , or factor ) to determine correlative ( and hypothetically causal ) factors . 4 . A limited number of copies of the Attitudes and Beliefs Section of the interview schedule is available from Margaret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ References Boone , Margaret S. 1982 . A Socio-Medical Study of Infant Mortality Among Disadvantaged Blacks . Human Organization 41(3):227-236. . 1985 . Social and Cultural Factors in the Etiology of Low Birthweight among Disadvantaged Blacks . Social Science and Medicine 20(10):1001-1011. . 1985 . Policy and Praxis : Anthropology and the Domestic Health Policy Arena . In Carole E. Hill , ed. , Training Manual in Medical Anthropology . American Anthropological Association Special Publication no. 18 , pp. 111-129.  | Boone , Margaret S. , and S. A. Roman . 1980 . Statement Before the Subcommittee on Fiscal Affairs and Health of the Committee on the District of Columbia , U.S. House of Representatives , Ninety-Sixth Congress , 2nd Session , May 7 , Serial No. 96-15 , pp. 29-32 . Colen , B. D. 1980 . Alcoholism , Premature Births , Linked in Study at D.C. General . Washington Post , p . B7 , May 8 . Hannerz , Ulf. 1969 . Soulside . New York : Columbia University Press . Keiser , R. Lincoln . 1969 . The Vice Lords . New York : Holt , Rinehart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Tomorrow . New York : Doubleday . Liebow , Elliot . 1967 . Tally 's Corner . Boston : Little , Brown . Rainwater , Lee . 1960 . And the Poor Get Children . Chicago : Quadrangle Books . . 1965 . Family Design . Chicago : Aldine. 1966 . The Crucible of Identity . Daedalus 95(2):783-791 . Seeman , Melvin . 1959 . On the Meaning of Alienation . American Sociological Review 24:783-791 . Snow , Loudell F. 1974 . Folk Medical Beliefs and Their Implications for Care of Patients . Annals of Internal Medicine 81:82-96 . Snow , Loudell F. , and Shirley M. Johnson . 1977 . Modern Day Menstrual Folklore . Journal of the American Medical Association 237(25):2736-2739 . Snow , Loudell F. , Shirley M. Johnson , and Harry E. Mayhew. 1978 . The Behavioral Implication of Some Old Wives ' Tales . Obstetrics and Gynecology 51(6):727-732 . Stack , Carol B. 1974 . All Our Kin . New York : Harper and Row .  | Sorghum and millet are important food grains in many lesser developed countries ( LDCs ) ; yet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This chapter describes the contribution of a group of economic and ecological anthropologists based at the University of Kentucky to a multilateral agricultural research project sponsored by the U.S. Agency for International Development ( AID ) . Our special contribution has been to study the farming systems of smallscale , limited-resource agricultural producers who are highly dependent on sorghum and millet as food . In response to the so-called New Directions Mandate passed by Congress in 1975 , AID created a number of collaborative research support programs ( CRSPs ) . These CRSPs are long-term , multidisciplinary research efforts primarily organized around staple commodities and are collaborative with LDCs . Because of the great importance of sorghum and millet as food grains in some of the poorest countries of the world , the second CRSP created was the International Sorghum/Millet Research Project , or INTSORMIL . The project involves a consortium of eight U.S. land grant universities formed to undertake the task of improving the worldwide production and utilization of sorghum and millets . The participating institutions were selected on the basis of a competitive submission of proposals in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agronomy , plant pathology , plant physiology , food chemistry , and socioeconomic studies . Our responsibility at the University of Kentucky was to use the field research techniques of the anthropologist to gain first-hand knowledge of the socioeconomic constraints on the //  | production , distribution , and utilization of sorghum and millets in selected areas of the world . The lion 's share of INTSORMIL 's research budget has gone to support technical agricultural research ; only a small proportion of funds has been allocated to support social science research . The University of Kentucky received only minimal support for its participation in INTSORMIL at the beginning of the project ( July 1979 ) , but by 1984 its budget had grown to about $200,000 per year as respect for our input grew . The first year or two were somewhat frustrating for INTSORMIL institutions and scientists because AID missions in LDCs were hesitant to surrender some of their turf to allow CRSP entities to establish working relationships . This problem arose because of the dual structure of AID . In the past , AID missions were accustomed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were creatures of AID headquarters in Washington , D.C. The unprecedented nature of the CRSPs caused some confusion , therefore , and some time was required to assuage uncertainty of mission officials . The first AID mission to allow an INTSORMIL team to visit was in Sudan . In November 1980 , Ed Reeves was a member of the team that established a working relationship with USAID mission Sudan , the University of Khartoum , the Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project , and the Agricultural Research Corporation of the Government of Sudan . Similarly , Bill DeWalt was a member of the team that visited Honduras in March 1981 . This trip ultimately led to an agreement with the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Honduran Institute of Anthropology and History . These agreements made it possible for INTSORMIL scientists to begin research operations within LDCs . This project was extremely important because the promotion of in-country , collaborative research was the objective when the CRSP was created . In both cases the negotiations revealed that government officials and agricultural scientists were anxious to benefit the poorer farmers in their countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of limited-resource farming systems . A major provision in both agreements authorized University of Kentucky anthropologists to begin field studies of farming systems in the two countries . Simply stated , the objectives of the anthropologists were ( 1 ) to obtain an understanding of the immediate and long-term constraints faced by farming families in areas of southern Honduras and the western Sudan where reliable information on this was lacking and ( 2 ) to communicate the findings to INTSORMIL as well as to scientists and government officials in the host countries in ways that would most effectively direct research and development efforts .  | The perspective adopted ? that of farming systems research ( FSR ) ? is a holistic approach to determining the techniques limited-resource farmers use to cope with the social , economic , and ecological conditions under which they make a living . ' FSR can be distinguished from conventional applied agricultural research because it does not focus on single crops or types of livestock and because it is not concerned with isolated agricultural constraints such as a type of pest or disease . Instead , FSR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different crops and livestock ) are integrated and managed as a system . It also attempts to relate farm productivity to household consumption and offfarm sources of family income ? issues rarely addressed in conventional production-oriented research . FSR has been hailed as a breakthrough for dealing with the problems of farmers whose marginal financial and biophysical resources have left them unable to take advantage of the many technological advances in modern agriculture . Moreover , we chose the FSR perspective because it is looked upon favorably by agricultural development agencies and because it serves to translate the anthropological perspective on human adaptation into terms familiar to agricultural scientists . Process and Players The anthropologists at the University of Kentucky participating in INTSORMIL include the authors , who are the principal investigators , and a number of graduate students . Collectively we identified ourselves as the Farming Systems Research ( FSR ) Group . The primary interest of the Kentucky FSR Group has been to conduct socioeconomic studies of the production , distribution , and nutritional systems of selected parts of the world in which sorghum and millets are important food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been ( 1 ) to identify the principal constraints on increased production of these grains , thus identifying priorities and directions for agricultural research efforts ; ( 2 ) to identify the perceived needs of farmers regarding the aspects of new technology that might be of greatest benefit to them ; ( 3 ) to suggest how new varieties and/or technologies might most easily and beneficially be introduced into communities and regions ; and ( 4 ) to suggest the long-term implications that changing production , distribution , and consumption patterns might have on these communities . Two primary means that we use to accomplish our aims are cultural brokering and good ethnographic field research on the client as well as on the farmers and their setting . The most productive agricultural research efforts come about when there is constant dialogue between the farmer , who can tell what works best given the circumstances , and //  | agricultural scientists , who produce potentially useful new solutions to old problems . For agricultural research to be effective , therefore , the lines of communication must be open between farmer and scientist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmer and the scientist speak different languages , literally and figuratively . A major part of the FSR Group 's role has been to learn the conceptual systems and languages of both the farmers and agricultural scientist collaborators so the beginnings of a dialogue may be established between the two . To realize these objectives the FSR Group has established close relations not only with INTSORMIL agricultural scientists and with the farmers in developing countries but also with government agencies , research organizations , international agricultural research centers , and multilateral and bilateral assistance agencies . Projects in Sudan and Honduras In June 1981 , members of the FSR Group began research in the elObeid region of the western Sudan and in southern Honduras . In Sudan Ed Reeves was the field director of a team that included an American PhD student ( Tim Frankenberger ) and several Sudanese university students who were research assistants . This fourteen-month project was undertaken in cooperation with the Agricultural Research Corporation and the Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project . These organizations were building several agricultural experiment stations in the western region and had asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and infrastructure . To fulfill these obligations we did participantobservation and in-depth interviewing in eighteen villages prior to survey interviewing 166 limited-resource farmers and fifty-eight village merchants and middlemen . Bill DeWalt directed the field research in southern Honduras in which six anthropology graduate students and a number of Honduran research assistants worked for various periods during 1982-1984 . The goals of both field research efforts have been to understand the existing farming systems in these two regions and to determine the principal constraints that would have to be overcome to allow the farmers to be more productive and achieve a more secure livelihood . The main assumption guiding both projects was that the INTSORMIL agricultural scientists , who are generally acknowledged among the best sorghum and millet researchers in the world , would be better able to direct their research efforts if they were made aware of the numerous difficulties faced by LDC farmers . These scientists were unaware of many of the problems because they had not spent much time working on LDC problems and the unique nature of limited-resource farming ; their  | previous efforts had been more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and millet farmers in the United States . Five technical reports were published in the years 1981 to 1984 : three on Sudan ( Reeves and Frankenberger 1981 , 1982 ; Reeves 1984 ) and two on Honduras ( DeWalt and DeWalt 1982 ; Thompson et al . 1983 ) . These studies contained detailed descriptions of the agricultural , marketing , and nutritional conditions in the research areas and made recommendations for the initiation of host country programs and new thrusts for INTSORMIL research . Realizing that we were providing important , relevant information , INTSORMIL and the collaborating institutions in Sudan and Honduras started to commit additional personnel and resources to bolster the research effort with biotechnical expertise . And our role expanded somewhat from one of strictly conducting research to one of making sure that collaborating agricultural scientists understood how local farmers view their opportunities and constraints . In early 1982 , an INTSORMIL plant breeder was posted to the experiment station at La Lujosa in southern Honduras . The Ministry of Natural Resources ( MRN ) of the government of Honduras assigned a counterpart breeder , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Vehicles and other equipment in short supply were also committed . The experiment station has gradually been transformed from being overgrown by weeds to a productive research facility . Research goals for the scientists focus on the farmers ' needs and constraints that were identified by the DeWalts and their research team . These include sorghums that can be intercropped , that have good food quality in the grain and good forage quality in the stalk , and that are resistant to damage by grain weevils when stored . The scientists have adopted as specific goals the breeding of varieties ( as opposed to hybrids ) because varieties fit better into the intercropping system of hillside farmers ( see DeWalt and DeWalt 1982 ) . Varieties generally have a higher tolerance than hybrids for the conditions usually associated with marginal farming . They are better adapted for intercropping ( simultaneously planting more than one crop in the same hole ) , planting on hillsides or in low-fertility soils , midseason drought , and resisting weeds . Finally , the use of varieties does not require the establishment of a national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agronomist was assigned to the newly constructed experiment station at el-Obeid , Sudan . The Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project , the Sudan Agricultural Research Corporation , and the Kordofan Regional Extension Service assigned counterparts and collaborators to the station . Again , work focused on the factors identified as important to farmers in our reports ? drought tolerance ; intercropping ; early maturing varieties of sorghum and pearl millet ; labor-saving technologies for the operations of land preparation , //  | planting , and weeding ; control of the senta ( a damaging insect pest about which very little is known ) ; bird resistance ; fodder quality of sorghum stover and construction quality ( for houses and fences ) of millet in the stalk ; and the extremely limited financial resources of the area 's farmers ( see Reeves and Frankenberger 1981 , 1982 ) . In both Sudan and Honduras our long-term field studies made it clear that , although INTSORMIL scientists could provide important backup work with their research on experiment stations in the United States , this style of research , which is preferred by U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Real progress in addressing the needs of small farmers in the Third World called for promising innovations to be tested at village sites and on farmers ' fields under conditions that closely approximated those which the farmers experience . Our FSR group 's role expanded a second time to include the negotiation of collaborative agreements and involvement in the planning and budgeting process of INTSORMIL . INTSORMIL is required to engage in collaborative research with institutions in LDCs . As a consequence , the negotiation of agreements with collaborating institutions is a key to the success of the program . Bill DeWalt was the principal negotiator and signed the agreements between INTSORMIL and the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Government of Honduras , the Honduran Institute of Anthropology and History , and the Interamerican Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture ( Costa Rica ) . He was also involved in negotiations with the Tropical Agronomic Center for Research and Teaching ( CATIE in Costa Rica ) and the Universidad Autonoma Metropolitana in Mexico . Ed Reeves was a principal figure in negotiations for INTSORMIL 's collaborations with the University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Agriculture , the Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project , and the millet/sorghum breeding programs of the International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics ( ICRISAT ) in Sudan . In all the negotiations we as anthropologists shouldered the responsibility of representing the interests of small , limited-resource farmers . To do this effectively we had to understand and transpose between three subcultural settings : the goals and adaptive strategies of the farmers themselves , the bureaucratic setting of policymakers in the host countries , and the unique subculture of agricultural scientists with its long-standing bias toward solutions to agricultural production problems that are unsuited to the capacities of limited-resource farmers . The FSR Group has also been involved in policy-making for INTSORMIL since Bill DeWalt was elected a member of the Technical Committee in 1982 . The six-member Technical Committee is elected by  | the more than fifty principal investigators of the consortium . The Technical Committee is the main policy-making and budget-making entity of INTSORMIL . In 1983 , DeWalt was elected chairperson of this group . In this capacity , he represented INTSORMIL ( along with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Despite being the only social scientist on the Technical Committee , DeWalt has received the respect of the agricultural scientists ? further evidence of the good reputation which the FSR Group has achieved in INTSORMIL . As chairperson DeWalt was able to influence the selection of countries in which INTSORMIL worked , the level of funding for projects , and the creation and implementation of goals for INTSORMIL that would have the greatest benefit for the small farmer . As an example of his effective leadership , DeWalt argued for the importance of looking at the relationship between small farmers , nutrition , and sorghum production in Mexico . Mexico is considered by AID and UN experts as falling outside the category of a " poor country . " Yet , DeWalt had firsthand knowledge of the impoverishment of small-scale Mexican farmers and was able to demonstrate the impact that a short-sighted sorghum policy would have not only in Mexico but elsewhere in Central America . His research indicated that sorghum production was gradually displacing the traditional food crop , maize . The problem was that sorghum was not going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common in the rural population ; instead , it was being grown as feed for poultry and swine , in order to supply less expensive meat to urban middle-class consumers and even to the United States because of a profitable export market . Results and Evaluation Largely because of our studies of farming systems INTSORMIL and the Honduran and Sudanese governments have allocated more resources to projects earmarked to help limited-resource farmers . In Honduras , the DeWalts and INTSORMIL were responsible for revitalizing the sorghum program of the National Program of Agricultural Investigations ( PNIA ) . An agricultural experiment station was essentially rebuilt , and the Honduras Ministry of Natural Resources allocated staff to it to work in collaboration with INTSORMIL investigators . The research results of the anthropologists in Honduras are guiding the breeding efforts of the INTSORMIL and Ministry of Natural Resource breeders . In Sudan , the farming systems study provides a baseline for planning research being undertaken at the new agricultural experiment station at el-Obeid . An INTSORMIL agronomist was posted to el-Obeid because //  | of the success of the diagnostic analysis carried out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left the field so we were able to introduce him to local leaders and help him make arrangements for housing , a vehicle , mail service , and similar necessities . By participating in our final survey of farmers he established rapport in the villages and gained firsthand experience with local farming conditions as well as with the difficult field logistics that face agricultural research in the Western Sudan . Increasing the productivity and welfare of limited-resource farmers is a long-term proposition . It is too soon to demonstrate gains in sorghum or millet production and utilization in either Sudan or Honduras as a result of the redirected research efforts that have been helped along by the FSR Group . Nevertheless , INTSORMIL scientists are clearly coming to accept the farming systems research goals and the value of anthropological fieldwork . The FSR Group , in publications and personal contacts with agricultural scientist collaborators , has argued that on-site research is both desirable and necessary for the problems of farmers to be correctly identified and that eventually on-farm testing of new plant varieties and technologies will be essential to ensure that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perspective should enable INTSORMIL scientists to conduct research directly relevant to the needs and capacities of small farmers in these two areas of the world . There are several indications that the information collected by the FSR Group has been beneficial : As a result of baseline work by the University of Kentucky anthropologists , INTSORMIL ( in collaboration with organizations in Sudan and Honduras ) has begun funding longterm breeding and agronomic research in both countries , with the emphasis on alleviating farmer constraints . In Sudan , for example , two of the main priorities are intercropping and stand establishment ( improving the successful germination and growth of the crop under adverse conditions ) . These considerations were determined to be highly significant from the farmers ' perspective of ensuring adequate yields with the least expenditure of labor . It is anticipated in this case that agricultural research will have the greatest benefit for the farmers in developing early-maturing varieties of sorghum and pearl millet and of low-cost , labor-saving technologies adapted to the practice of intercropping . In Honduras , INTSORMIL research is centered on modifying the existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other exotic materials ) . Sorghums currently grown there have excellent food quality characteristics and fit into an intercropping system with maize that is well adapted to the bimodal rainfall pattern . Better yielding local varieties are the answer for steep-slope farmers .  | The Anthropological Difference Farming systems research is a methodology in search of a theory . We found it to be highly compatible with cultural ecology , a theoretical perspective familiar to anthropologists . Thus , to give FSR method a theoretical grounding and to reap the benefits it would provide by generating hypotheses about the nature of limited-resource farming systems , we operationalized a number of important concepts drawn from cultural ecology theory . In particular , John Bennett 's concept of adaptive strategies ? " specific acts with a predictable degree of success , which are selected by the individual in a decision-making process " ? has been used extensively to identify variations in farm management and household decision-making as central concerns for the study of farming systems.2 Thus , the coping mechanisms of farm families have been described as agricultural strategies ( B. DeWalt ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( K. DeWalt ) . Studying the decisionmaking of farmers in these respects has helped to identify some of the most significant constraints in farming systems : uncertain rainfall , low soil fertility , and limitations on farm labor and financial resources . For example , in Sudan the FSR group identified a critical trade-off confronting the poorest third of farmers . During the cropping season a poor farmer faces the choice of expending labor in weeding his or her own fields versus weeding someone else 's for a wage . The first option satisfies long-term food requirements of the family but at the expense of more immediate hunger . In addition to the decision-making of individuals , the FSR Group is also interested in the longer-term adaptation of farming systems . In both Sudan and Honduras , the decision-making of farmers appears to be at odds with the long-term sustainability of the resource base . In Sudan , the short-term adaptive strategies that farmers find necessary to follow have been shown to exacerbate desertification ( Frankenberger 1983 ) . In Honduras , the strategies followed by the larger farmers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deforestation ( B. DeWalt 1983 ) . In sum , the FSR Group has used the cultural ecology perspective to understand both the short-term microlevel behavior of individuals and the long-term macrolevel evolution of the farming systems under study . Our theoretical perspective allowed us to make recommendations for research and policy that were based on both considerations . Agricultural research and policy-making typically rely upon highly quantified studies over a rather narrow range of concerns . We knew that we would have to produce quantified results for our studies to have credibility for agricultural scientists and policymakers . At the same //  | time , being anthropologists we felt that the interests of most agricultural researchers in the strictly biotechnical and economic aspects of farm production and marketing left out a lot of important determinants of human behavior and adaptation . We therefore attempted to make quantitative assessments of farmer enterprises and strategies and then went the extra step to fit these into an understanding of social and cultural conditions . To accomplish this feat our research methods entailed a mixture of traditional anthropological approaches ? participant observation and in-depth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? with quantitative survey techniques focused upon farming enterprises and marketing . Moreover , in both Sudan and Honduras research objectives necessitated studying heterogeneous villages in order to highlight complex regional processes and needs . Without the input of anthropologists INTSORMIL would not have the benefit of detailed field studies of sorghum/millet farmers in Sudan and Honduras . Lacking these studies INTSORMIL agricultural scientists would not have an understanding of small farmer rationality and constraints to guide their research into needed channels . The usefulness of the anthropological studies to the agricultural scientists was enhanced by the cultural ecology perspective . This theoretical approach permits the circumstances of small farmers to be conceptualized as heterogeneous systems of human-plant-animal relationships embedded in frameworks of environmental and socioeconomic possibilities as well as constraints . Perhaps the most important lesson that a cultural ecology approach teaches is that limited-resource farmers are not all alike . Much of the failure to date of agricultural research in the LDCs can be attributed to an insensitivity to this fact . Research that has aimed at the mythical " average farmer , " or , an even worse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imported technologies , has a very poor track record when the needs of the large majority of the world 's farmers are considered . Anthropologists have further contributed to the goals of INTSORMIL by insisting on the importance of fieldwork , which led to the early shifting of research operations to sites in developing countries . By laying the groundwork through establishing collaborative agreements , setting up research sites , and providing important baseline data , anthropologists were instrumental in convincing INTSORMIL of the desirability of conducting field research in Sudan , Honduras , and elsewhere . Anthropological research in Honduras was important in convincing the Honduran government to put more resources into sorghum research . Even though national nutritional surveys have been conducted in the country , nutritionists in Honduras assured the members of the FSR Group there that sorghum was only used as an animal feed . It took an anthropological field study to show the crop 's real importance and  | potential as an insurance food crop for human populations in average and poor agricultural years ( see K. DeWalt and Thompson 1983 ; Thompson et al . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a belief among Sudanese officials and expatriate experts alike that the small farmers of the western Sudan were poorly integrated into the market economy and that those who were integrated were being severely exploited by rural middlemen . Moreover , an assumption was prevalent that market infrastructure ? transportation and storage ? was primitive and inefficient . The evidence of our anthropological field study demonstrated that these ideas were largely unfounded . The production of crops for market was virtually a universal practice among farmers and highly important to their livelihood . Rural middlemen rarely were able to exert monopoly power over farmers , and transportation and storage were highly effective . This finding argued all the more strongly for the importance of technological innovations and crop improvement as means not only of increasing agricultural yields but also of enhancing the welfare of the rural population . It also pointed to the desirability of integrating village merchants and urban wholesale crop buyers into the development process . Heretofore , the Sudan government had shown a deep mistrust of private entrepreneurial talent that was assumed to be devoted entirely to selfish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of INTSORMIL resources allocated to research in Sudan and Honduras would certainly have been less without the impact of anthropological research . More important , the direction of research would have been different . In both Sudan and Honduras , as a result of better understanding of the farmers ' problems and capabilities , greater emphasis is being placed on breeding varieties rather than on hybrids , on varieties that can be intercropped rather than monocropped , and on varieties that have good food quality characteristics as opposed to those that only give high yields . Notes 1 . The literature on farming systems research has grown significantly in recent years . Two essential references are Norman et al . ( 1982 ) and Shaner et al . ( 1982 ) . 2 . See especially Bennett ( 1969 , 1976 , 1982 ) . For a broad overview of relevant literature , see Barlett ( 1980 ) and Orlove ( 1980 ) . 3 . The division of labor in agricultural research has in fact progressed to the point where agronomists and animal scientists are concerned with the biotechnical but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter but not the former . //  | References Barlett , Peggy F. 1980 . Adaptive Strategies in Peasant Agricultural Production . Annual Review of Anthropology 9:545-573 . Bennett , John W. 1969 . Northern Plainsmen : Adaptive Strategy and Agrarian Life . Arlington Heights : AHM Publishing Corporation . . 1976 . The Ecological Transition : Cultural Anthropology and Human Adaptation . London : Pergamon . . 1982 . Of Time and the Enterprise : North American Family Farm Management in a Context of Resource Marginality . Minneapolis : University of Minnesota Press . DeWalt , Billie R. 1983 . The Cattle Are Eating the Forest . Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists 39 ( 1 ) : 18-23 . DeWalt , Billie R. , and Kathleen M. DeWalt. 1982 . Cropping Systems in Pespire , Southern Honduras : Farming Systems Research in Southern Honduras , Report no. 1 . Lexington : University of Kentucky . DeWalt , Kathleen M. , and Karen S. Thompson . 1983 . Sorghum and Nutritional Strategies in Southern Honduras . Practicing Anthropology 5(3):15-16 . Frankenberger , Timothy . 1983 . Understanding Desertification Through Farming Systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Emmy B. Simmons , and Henry M. Hays . 1982 . Farming Systems Research in the Nigerian Savanna : Research Strategies for Development . Boulder : Westview . Orlove , Benjamin S. 1980 . Ecological Anthropology . In Annual Review of Anthropology 9:235-273 . Paul , Compton L. , and Billie R. DeWalt , eds. 1985 . El Sorgo en Sistemas de Produccion en America Latina . Mexico City : CIMMYT . Reeves , Edward B. 1984 . An Indigenous Rural Marketing System in North Kordofan , Sudan , Report no. 3 . Lexington : University of Kentucky . Reeves , Edward B. , and Timothy Frankenberger. 1981 . Socio-economic Constraints to the Production , Distribution and Consumption of Millet , Sorghum and Cash Crops in North Kordofan , Sudan . Farming Systems Research in North Kordofan , Sudan , Report no. 1 . Lexington : University of Kentucky . . 1982 . Aspects of Agricultural Production , the Household Economy , and Marketing . Farming Systems Research in North Kordofan , Sudan , Report no. 2 . Lexington : University of Kentucky . Shaner , W. W. , P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Systems Research and Development : Guidelines for Developing Countries . Boulder : Westview . Thompson , Karen S. , Kathleen M. DeWalt , and Billie R. DeWalt. 1983 . Household Food Use in Three Rural Honduran Communities . Farming Systems Research in Southern Honduras , Report no. 2 . Lexington : University of Kentucky .  | I went to Swaziland in March 1981 to serve as an anthropologist on the AID-funded Rural Water-Borne Disease Control Project . The project called for a knowledge , attitudes , and practices ( KAP ) survey on water and sanitation in Swaziland , and the survey was my primary responsibility as a member of a multidisciplinary project team of U.S. technical advisers . ( The project and my activities are described in Chapter 1 . ) This chapter describes a major research and policy planning effort that developed serendipitously while I was involved in carrying out the KAP survey . During the KAP survey I decided that getting to know and interview some traditional healers would be a good introduction to Swazi healthrelated beliefs and attitudes . My informal interviewing focused on diseases related to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a variety of topics of interest to both healers and their patients . One finding with important implications was that most healers appeared interested in learning more about " modern medicine " ( a shorthand term used here to denote Western allopathic biomedicine ) and working cooperatively with doctors and nurses . Another was that healers regarded some diseases as distinctly African and therefore treatable only by African medicines and rituals , whereas they regarded others ? a smaller number in fact ? as new or foreign diseases more treatable by modern medicine . Swazi healers appeared to refer patients with the latter type of disease to modern clinics and hospitals . I discussed these findings with Swaziland Ministry of Health ( MOH ) officials in light of the World  | Health Organization recommendation that poorer nations try to find ways for indigenous healers to work cooperatively with modern health sector personnel . The health planning unit of the MOH was especially interested in developing some sort of working relationship with healers . This unit was particularly aware of human resources shortages in the modern health sector , having just concluded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planners , the MOH director of medical services , and myself it was decided that the MOH should take preliminary steps toward fulfilling the WHO mandate , especially because traditional healers seemed to be especially numerous and influential in Swaziland . In August 1982 , the permanent secretary of the MOH formally asked my colleague Lydia Makhubu and myself to prepare a report on Swazi traditional healers . Makhubu was vice-chancellor of the University of Swaziland and a chemist who had been studying the properties of traditional medicines . Specifically , we were asked to provide an assessment of ( 1 ) human resources in the traditional health sector ; ( 2 ) the areas and extent of cooperation possible between the traditional and modern health sectors , with special reference to the prevention and treatment of diarrheal diseases ; ( 3 ) the extent to which alternative systems of health care had developed for the consumer ; ( 4 ) customary law , modern legislation , and government policies regarding traditional healing and healers ; ( 5 ) prospects for the development of a national traditional healers association , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and liaising with such an association ; and ( 6 ) the potential for the paraprofessional training of certain types of traditional healers . The report and the research required for its preparation were sponsored by AID through two of its ongoing projects , Health Planning and Management , and Rural Water-Borne Disease Control . The former project employed Makhubu as a consultant and laid important groundwork within MOH . The contribution of the latter project consisted mainly of a few months of my time and the loan of three Swazi interviewers I had trained and employed in the KAP survey and research . The MOH contributed a car and driver , and most important , it sanctioned the investigation . Process and Players Makhubu and I divided the tasks called for between ourselves . Makhubu reviewed her own research findings , checking on various points with her key informants , and consulted experts on Swazi law , customs , and traditions . I conducted a survey of healers to measure some of the apparent trends that had emerged through my earlier in-depth inter-  | viewing and participant-observation research . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Swaziland . We felt that quantification was necessary because policymakers usually want statistics to back up the recommendations of researchers . Between August 1982 and January 1983 , my research assistants interviewed 144 traditional healers of all types ( herbalists , diviner mediums , faith healers ) . No adequate sampling frame of healers existed , and thus a random or probability sample was not feasible . However , roughly equal numbers of healers were interviewed in the four major geographic regions of Swaziland . Although the healer sample could have been more randomized by selecting only those healers who lived in randomly selected census enumeration areas , time and effort were saved by allowing interviewers to work primarily in areas where they had kinship ties or where they had interviewed during previous surveys . This approach also helped minimize suspicion and mistrust among the healers . In addition , a house-to-house census was conducted in four rural and four peri-urban communities in order to estimate the number of healers in Swaziland , along with certain of their characteristics . A total of 598 residential units in three geographic regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precoded questionnaire that limited the range of responses would not be appropriate . My earlier interviews with Swazi healers suggested that at best , they would give stilted , formal , and stereotyped answers to a fixed interview schedule . On the other hand , if healers were approached properly , they would open up and offer rich information that went far beyond specific questions asked . This approach combined a sincere , interested , respectful attitude by the interviewer with a flexible , open-ended mode of questioning assisted by subtle probing techniques . The three Swazi interviewers chosen for the survey had worked on standard surveys before , but they had never done openended interviewing . I trained them in appropriate interview techniques as well as in taking shorthand notes and translating these into complete , detailed accounts of interviews . I continued my participant-observation and in-depth interviews among some twenty healers I had come to know , while the interviewers carried out the fieldwork phase of the survey . The interviewers required little supervision in the field , but I carefully monitored the incoming data and discussed findings and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ findings was that about 5,400 healers seemed to practice outside the modern health sector ; in a country the size of Swaziland this number means one traditional healer for every 110 population . This figure compares to a physician/population ratio of about 1:10,000 . Some 50 percent of the total number of healers were  | herbalists , 40 percent were diviner-healers , and 10 percent were Christian ( " Zionist " ) faithhealers . About half the healers were female , and the vast majority of these were diviner-healers . Diviner-healers tend to be more prestigious than herbalists because ancestor spirits are believed to work directly through them . The survey confirmed my earlier finding that nearly all types of illness were believed to be ultimately caused by sorcery or less frequently by loss of ancestral protection . However , many healers were prepared to accept the theory that illnesses might have more immediate causes about which doctors and nurses were knowledgeable . For example , a Swazi mother might accept the idea that her child will develop diarrhea if flies walk over the child 's food ; but she will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flies to harm her child . We found that patients might seek treatment from both doctors and traditional healers for the same complaint . The doctor was considered capable of eliminating symptoms or treating the immediate cause of illness , and the healer was relied upon to explain the illness in culturally meaningful terms and to treat or eliminate its ultimate source . Clearly , a basis for cooperation already existed between the traditional and the modern health sector . In fact some 90 percent of healers surveyed claimed to routinely refer some of their patients to clinics ? even though very few instances of referrals from clinics to healers were encountered . Several survey questions showed that healers believed that their own rituals and medicines were superior to modern medicine in treating most diseases and that people relied on traditional medicines to ensure the sexual fidelity of a partner and to provide luck . A majority of healers said that modern medicine could better treat cholera , tuberculosis , heart disease , venereal disease , and bilharzia . In a separate question on cholera , 76 percent of healers said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treat a new disease that they do not understand ( cholera first appeared in Swaziland in 1980 ) . The survey revealed that healers admired doctors for certain technical capabilities as well as for the medicines they possess . Most commonly cited were various surgical practices , blood transfusions , and use of Xray machines . On the other hand , diviners felt that their ability to diagnose the ultimate causes of illness ( thereby anwering the " why " or " why me " questions of misfortune ) and to perform the femba ceremony through which agents of illness are removed ? both of which involve cultivated relationships with spirits ? are as important skills as those that doctors possess . In fact , most of the healers interviewed either implied or explicitly stated their wish to be treated as equals by doctors . The survey also sought to measure in some way the frequency of use of healing practices that seemed harmful . These included medicinal  | enemas used to prevent and treat several types of childhood diarrhea ; induced vomiting to " clean out the chest " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and use of powerful , mind-altering herbal medicines in treating madness . It was impossible to measure frequency of such practices with any accuracy , but all were employed . The use of enemas for children seemed sufficiently widespread that soon after the survey report was presented , the MOH asked me to conduct a study focusing specifically on beliefs and practices related to diarrheal diseases in Swaziland ( Green 1985 ) . Since Makhubu and I were well aware of modern practitioners ' strong negative bias toward traditional healers , we pointed out traditional healing practices that were probably beneficial to the patient ? and perhaps to the patient 's family and community as well . These included use of herbal medicines that seemed to be effective in various ways ; the reduction of stress through ritual and through explanations reassuring to patient and family ; and the removal of a patient from home to a therapeutic environment at the healer 's homestead in which the patient can recover . We also pointed out that healers helped ease pressure on overburdened clinics by treating minor , self-limiting , psychosomatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therapies are probably effective and appropriate . Although it was difficult to obtain information on patient fees in the survey , I personally observed patients paying between $120 and $130 for treatment of a single condition such as umtsebulo , or soul loss . Healers were also earning about $140 for protecting ( kubetsela ) a homestead against mystical lightning strikes by enemies . A basic diagnostic fee of about $2 was standardized by a royal order-in-council in 1954 , but healers earned an additional fee of between $10 to $20 to " open the bag " ( imvula sikhwama ) of medicines , which formalizes the beginning of any treatment . Although Swaziland is a poor country , most people somehow find the money to pay the relatively high fees requested by traditional healers . These fees were even more remarkable because modern-sector clinic services at the time of the survey cost the equivalent of about $0.20 whatever the treatment entailed . My findings on healing fees helped explain why a recent attempt by the MOH to train healers as rural health motivators met with little success . These community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey respondents were candid in remarking that healing is a lucrative and respectable profession and perhaps the best one to which women and those lacking formal education can aspire . A system of registering healers began in Swaziland late in the British colonial period when the government recognized that doctors and nurses  | would not easily displace traditional healers and that the latter could not be completely ignored . Registration represented a first step toward recognition of healers and exercising a modicum of control over their activities . It also provided tax revenues . Since independence , the Swaziland government has continued to register and collect taxes from healers . The survey showed that 82 percent of healers reported that they were currently registered , and 8 percent said that they had only recently qualified as healers and they intended to become registered . Even allowing for overreporting , the proportion of registered , tax-paying healers is higher than might be expected for a traditional African society . In addition , healers seemed to be favorably inclined toward registration . When healers were asked why they had registered , 30 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collecting overdue patient fees and that they would also protect healers against complaints of patients or their families . Other common remarks were that registration conferred legitimacy , respectability , and authority on healers , and it allowed them to travel and practice freely throughout Swaziland and neighboring countries . Finally , the survey sought information on cooperation and paraprofessional training . An impressive ( if slightly suspect ) 98 percent of healers interviewed claimed they would like to achieve better cooperation between themselves and doctors and nurses . Ninety-one percent specifically expressed enthusiasm toward undergoing some sort of training in modern medicine . Most said that they wanted to improve their healing skills and to learn more about the treatments given in hospitals . However , several healers ? most of them female ? expressed concern that their lack of formal education would make communicating with doctors difficult . In spite of the positive survey results , both Makhubu and I were aware that traditional healers were still suspicious about the motives of the MOH . And a great deal more suspicion and outright negative bias could be found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretend that healers did not exist , and some took the view that healers should be arrested for practicing medicine without a license . This bias resulted from a failure to understand the traditional healer 's role in Swazi society , from the nature of formal ( Western ) medical education and professional socialization , from a certain amount of professional jealousy , from the " bad press " healers tended to receive by local , sensation-seeking media , and from the fact that healers engage in several practices deemed unacceptable by public health standards . In view of the difficulties of developing a workable policy in an atmosphere of suspicion and mistrust , Makhubu and I recommended that the MOH proceed cautiously and not expect quick results . We  | suggested a policy of seeking cooperation rather than integration . Cooperation implies a better working relationship between the two health sectors by which appropriate referrals are routinely made between the sectors , certain traditional healing practices are improved or made safer , and the " cultural " or interpersonal sensitivity of modern health care workers is increased . The term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems and of the roles of the respective practitioners , although in reality only the traditional healer is expected to change . The danger here is that the traditional healer may become a second-rate paramedical worker and thereby cease to carry out his or her important function in the local community ? a function with social , psychological , and spiritual as well as physical health dimensions . Such an outcome could be disruptive in multiple ways , including the undermining of a community 's capacity to solve its own health problems . We realized the importance of starting with an area of cooperation that would interest people in both health sectors and that was likely to succeed . We decided upon the treatment and prevention of childhood diarrheal diseases and the use of oral rehydration therapy ( ORT ) as an appropriate focus for an initial and experimental program of cooperation . The 1981 outbreak of cholera in southern Africa helped center attention on diarrheal diseases in both the government and the traditional sectors . By 1983 diarrheal diseases , especially those of childhood , had become a highest priority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ORT was recognized as a technique that could significantly reduce morbidity and mortality from these diseases . We believed that a program focused on diarrheal diseases and ORT would be of interest to traditional healers for several reasons : ( 1 ) Research indicated that healers would like to have a means by which they could prevent deaths from diarrheal diseases ; ( 2 ) cholera had become a disease of high concern among healers as well as the general public , and most healers surveyed admitted they did not understand or try to treat cholera ; ( 3 ) ORT is compatible with traditional treatments for diarrhea , i.e. , herbal decoctions taken orally over a period of time ; and ( 4 ) distribution of ORT packets to traditional healers would constitute an important gesture of trust and cooperation on the part of the government . We recommended that the health education unit of the MOH be given the main responsibility for organizing and implementing a series of workshops designed to upgrade healers ' skills in a few priority areas , most notably diarrheal diseases of childhood , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperatively with healers . Packets of oral rehydration salts ( ORS ) should be given to healers on a pilot basis , and subsequent evaluations would indicate if healers were mixing and administering the salts properly . If they were , then ORS distribution  | to healers could become a national program and other areas of potential cooperation could be explored . Results and Evaluation As a result of the survey report , the MOH officially adopted a policy of seeking cooperation with traditional healers . Within a few months of receiving the health policy report , the MOH , through the health education unit , conducted three preliminary workshops designed to establish a dialogue between healers and modern health sector personnel . Topics focused on diarrheal diseases and administration of ORT , as well as on secondary topics such as immunization against childhood diseases , maternal/child health , breastfeeding , and nutrition . The first regional workshop for healers , held in Motjane on June 1 , 1983 , was disappointing because only twelve healers turned up . The turnout was poor partly because of the failure to contact most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' mistrust regarding MOH motives . No diviner-healer wore the characteristic red-ochre hairstyle , the brightly colored cloths , the empowering medicine bags , or the beads that symbolize special relationships with certain spirits , indicating that the healers expected disapproval or even ridicule to be directed at them . However , those who attended were well treated , and all present shared in an interesting exchange of views . Healers were treated as peers and colleagues . The nurses who attended the first workshop were health educators or public health nurses , and all were personally in favor of the new MOH policy . Their positive attitude toward the experiment in cooperation did not go unnoticed by the healers . The second and third regional workshops attracted more than 100 healers each , and the healers came in full traditional regalia . Part of the high turnout was due to the active support of an influential healer , Nhlavana Maseko , who had personally attended the late king of Swaziland . During 1983 Maseko was active in organizing a national association of traditional healers . Since the Green-Makhubu report had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association , the workshop organizers were happy to work with the emerging association leaders , especially because they offered a ready-made network for the dissemination of information about the workshops . These first workshops in mid-1983 served the intended purpose of establishing a dialogue between healers and MOH personnel . Although critics of intersectoral cooperation could be found on both sides , good will and trust began to develop between those who attended the workshops . I witnessed genuine changes in the attitude of several MOH officials after they attended a workshop . Some of these had shared the  | view of many expatriate physicians in Swaziland that traditional healers are unprincipled charlatans . Others in the modern health sector seemed to drop their pose of contempt toward healers once the new MOH policy made it respectable to deal with healers . My employment in the MOH ended in September 1983 when my already extended contract expired . I returned to the United States but returned to Swaziland from January 1984 to March 1985 as a personal services contractor for the AID mission . Although I primarily worked on other research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional healers . One of these was the rapid growth of the Swaziland Traditional Healers Society ( STHS ) at both the national and district levels . Another was the continuation and growth of the MOHsponsored training workshops for traditional healers . A U.S. health educator who joined the Rural Water-Borne Disease Control Project in 1983 became very active in promoting and implementing these workshops ? probably too active in fact . There was a danger that the Swazi staff of the health education unit would feel that healer training was a U.S. project and not their own . However , as of late 1986 , nearly two years after the departure of the last American from the health education unit , the unit was actively implementing workshops for traditional healers in all districts of Swaziland . The Anthropological Difference In retrospect I can assess the contribution of anthropology in the overall effort of formulating and implementing a new policy toward traditional healers . First , a body of anthropological literature on traditional healers helped me understand the complex belief systems and behavioral patterns of healers , the role and function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in curing , the sociological dimension of recruitment and membership in healing cults , and a host of other aspects of traditional healing . John Janzen 's recent comparative historical work ( unpublished ) on ngoma therapeutic cults in Africa helped me develop a wider and deeper perspective in my understanding of Swazi therapeutic cults . Likewise , I. M. Lewis 's theoretical contributions on cults of affliction and the upward mobility of oppressed or marginal members of society ( Lewis 1969 , 1971 ) stimulated my insights into the cult of Swazi diviner-healers , even though the Swazi situation did not always fit Lewis 's model . Lewis 's ideas were especially useful in understanding the appeal of the diviner cult to Swazi women . Membership in this cult is the only traditional means by which Swazi women can achieve power and wealth ( even though women can be born to this position ) in a male-dominated society .  | Three other anthropologists , W. D. Hammond-Tooke , Harriet Ngubane , and Martin West , all with research experience among groups closely related to the Swazi , provided theoretical perspectives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sociology of witchcraft accusations , Ngubane on the support networks among Zulu divinerhealers , and West on Christian-Zionist faithhealers in Soweto . It must be admitted , however , that the contribution of anthropological theory was indirect in my practical , policy-oriented work with traditional healers . The contribution of anthropological methods was more direct . I would not have been able to either advocate or undertake a survey of healers had I not gained in-depth information about traditional healing through standard anthropological methods . Furthermore , the healer survey design followed recognized anthropological procedures : a preliminary phase of in-depth interviewing and participant observation research , followed by a survey based on flexible , open-ended interviewing . And anthropology provided a framework for interpreting the resulting qualitative data , some of which were rather abstruse and arcane by the standards of other disciplines . Another direct contribution to my work came from the anthropologist D. M. Warren who has published about his experience in designing workshops for traditional healers in Ghana ( Warren et al . 1981 ) . The contribution of an anthropological perspective and orientation can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ healers as fonts of wisdom and culture brokers par excellence and as respected health opinion leaders ( rather than as quacks or charlatans ) in their own communities . Yet the same can not be said for those for other disciplines ; otherwise someone would have begun mediating cooperation between the traditional and modern health sectors before I arrived in Swaziland . References Kuper , H. 1947 . An African Aristocracy , Rank Among the Swazi . Oxford : Oxford University Press . Green , E. 1985 . Traditional Healers , Mothers and Childhood Diarrheal Disease in Swaziland : The Interface of Anthropology and Health Education . Social Science and Medicine 19(3):277-285 . Green , E. C. , and L. Makhubu. 1984 . Traditional Healers in Swaziland : Toward Improved Cooperation Between the Traditional and Modern Health Sectors . Social Science and Medicine 18(12):1071-1079 . Lewis , I. M. 1971 . Ecstatic Religion . An Anthropological Study of Spirit Possession and Shamanism . Middlesex : Penguin Books . Lewis , I. M. 1969 . Spirit Possession in Northern Somaliland . In J. Beattie and J. Middleton , eds. , Spirit Mediumship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | Marwick , B. A. 1940 . The Swazi . London : Frank Cass . Warren , D. M. , G. S. Bova , M. A. Tregoning , and M. Kliewer. 1981 . Ghanaian National Policy Toward Indigenous Healers : The Case of the Primary Health Training for the Indigenous Healers ( PRHETIH ) Programs . Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Society for Applied Anthropology , Edinburgh .  | After a long colonial history dating back to the nineteenth century , Papua New Guinea became an independent nation on September 16 , 1975 . For most of its history , the territories of Papua and New Guinea , which together constitute the eastern half of the island of New Guinea in the southwest Pacific , had been administered by Australia . Upon independence , national leaders adopted the Australian legal system then in force as an interim national legal system . This Western legal system often clashed with the customary law of tribal peoples within the new nation . National leaders , therefore , wanted to develop a self-reliant national legal system based on their own customs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1979 , I was hired by the government of the new nation to help bring about this development . National leaders knew that this task would be prolonged and difficult . Papua New Guinea is well known for its cultural diversity . In a country of some three and one-half million people , there are at least 750 mutually unintelligible languages and probably about a thousand different customary legal systems . Amid such diversity , would it be possible to uncover basic legal principles common to all these Melanesian societies ? If so , could the essence of Melanesian customary law , which functions smoothly in small-scale tribal societies , be reconciled with the requirements of a modern nation-state ? To investigate these issues on a long-term basis , the Papua New Guinea government established a Law Reform Commission as a constitutional body whose special responsibility was to " investigate and report to the Parliament and to the National Executive on the devel-  | opment , and on the adaptation to the circumstances of the country , of the underlying law , and on the appropriateness of the rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country . " Recognizing that customary law was essential in creating an underlying law appropriate for Papua New Guinea , the Law Reform Commission designed a basic framework for a Customary Law Project to conduct research on the nature of customary law and the extent to which it could form the basis for a unique national legal system . The commission hoped that some of the problems with the interim legal system could be resolved through this project . In 1978 I was a relatively new assistant professor of anthropology at the University of Pittsburgh . My PhD research had been a study of customary law and legal change among the Abelam people of Papua New Guinea ( Scaglion 1976 ) . During that study , I became aware of many of the problems faced by the Abelam in reconciling their customs and traditions with imposed Australian law ( Scaglion 1985 ) . Knowing of my interest in legal development in Papua New Guinea , officers of the Law Reform Commission asked me to direct their Customary Law Project for a few years . I was expected to design an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of different tribes , analyze the data , identify problem areas , and help create draft legislation designed to alleviate such problems . Officials also hoped that I could train other people to carry on the work after I left . In other words , I would help design and initiate a broad policy direction for legal development in Papua New Guinea . I found this prospect very exciting . While I was gathering data for my PhD research on the early period of contact with the government , an Abelam man told me that he had been jailed for burying his deceased mother inside her house . Under Abelam custom , corpses were laid to rest in the houses in which the people had slept and worked . The corpses were covered with only a thin layer of soil , and the houses were allowed to fall into disrepair and eventually collapse . Australian patrol officers wanted this practice discontinued because of potential health problems . My informant was not really aware of the " new " rules or the reasons behind them . Furthermore , to bury his mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would be disrespectful . By following customary law , he broke national law . I also remembered a discussion with another informant , an elderly man who had two wives to whom he had been married for many years . Although many Abelam marriages are monogamous , polygyny is also customary . I explained that in my own country , the United States , men were permitted only one wife under the law of most areas , and he asked me if this were also true of the Australians . I explained that it  | was and that technically it was also true in Papua New Guinea . I felt bad when he became upset that he might be arrested , but he declared that he could never choose between his wives , both of whom he loved . I was greatly interested in the prospect of working on problems like these . I had heard of Bernard Narakobi , the chairman of the Law Reform Commission , when I was first contacted about this work . Although he was an indigenous lawyer , he had a social science background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropological approach . After working out the scheduling , I began a fifteen-month period of initial research in May 1979 under a leave of absence from the University of Pittsburgh . Process and Players The Customary Law Project staff consisted of myself as project director , supervising a full-time Papua New Guinea project officer ( Bospidik Pilokos ) . Secretarial and support functions were performed by Law Reform Commission staff . The project was designed to be fairly autonomous but was under the supervision of the secretary of the Law Reform Commission ( Samson Kaipu for most of the project ) and ultimately under the chairman of the Law Reform Commission , the secretary for justice , and the minister for justice . A separate fund was available for the project director on behalf of the project , subject to normal financial approval . I spent the first several months of the project organizing activities . Initially , I conducted extensive bibliographical research and identified hundreds of sources on customary law in Papua New Guinea . The project officer catalogued these references according to subject matter and geographical area . My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detailed and more complete research on the subject of customary law in specific Papua New Guinea societies . Many if not most of the materials on customary law unearthed in the bibliographic search had been gathered by anthropologists working in relatively unacculturated parts of the country . What was missing was a corpus of case studies from rural areas that had had a longer history of contact with the government and had begun the process of reconciling customary law with a national legal system . Several alternative strategies for gathering this primary data were investigated , including the use of magistrates , foreign anthropologists , lawyers , and student researchers . To make the best use of available resources I hired students from the University of Papua New Guinea to work in their home areas during their long year-end break . These students already spoke the local language and were familiar with their own cultures . I also felt that their descriptions  | of their own customary legal systems would be more likely to reflect indigenous categories than if , say , Australian lawyers had done the research . To develop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research strategies in the Maprik area of the East Sepik Province , where the Abelam live , and did preliminary analyses of the data collected . To make these results available to interested parties , and also to publicize the project , I published articles in both the Melanesian Law Journal ( Scaglion 1979 ) for the legal community and Oceania ( Scaglion 1981a ) for applied anthropologists working in legal development in the Pacific . Based on this preliminary research , we decided that the overall datagathering strategy should focus on the collection of original conflict case studies from which principles of customary law in particular societies could be extracted . These cases could then be analyzed as a homogeneous data base to investigate possibilities for cross-cultural national unification of customary law . After selecting twenty university students to form the first research group , I designed a format and minicourse for training and conducted training sessions at the university . Bospidik Pilokos , the project officer , later used the minicourse training format to train the next group of ten student researchers . We tried to supervise researchers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the research locations were relatively remote and required considerable time and travel to visit . Transportation proved to be a problem for our researchers as well . Despite these problems , our student researchers gathered a corpus of roughly 600 extended case studies from all parts of the country . We then coded these cases according to such variables as type of case , geographical area , remedy agents used , and decision reached . I wrote a computer retrieval system to allow legal researchers to scan various types of cases and to receive a print-out of summary information about the cases , together with individual case numbers . These case identification numbers can now be used to retrieve the original cases from Law Reform Commission files for further study . In this way , a basic corpus of customary law cases has been created for use in developing the underlying law of Papua New Guinea . We also initiated a Law Reform Commission monograph series to disseminate certain materials from our research . The first volume in this series ( Scaglion 1981b ) , which contains anthropologists ' reactions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is described in the next section . The second volume ( Scaglion 1983 ) contains background materials related to the case materials . The student researchers have described their fieldsites , including the conditions under which the  | cases were gathered and , where possible , have provided broad summaries of principles of customary law in their areas . Toward the end of my active involvement in the project , I experienced scheduling problems . I had initially agreed to a two-year commitment for this research , consisting of a fifteen-month initial period of residence in Papua New Guinea to get the project under way , followed by a return to Pittsburgh to resume my teaching duties and to analyze preliminary data , and ending with another nine-month period of residence in Papua New Guinea . Although officials of the Law Reform Commission had agreed to this schedule , it subsequently turned out to violate certain Public Service Commission guidelines . Consequently , we could only negotiate a brief three-month return . As a result , much of the editing of monographs had to be done from abroad , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been delayed or abandoned . Results and Evaluation Despite problems in completing the research , I feel that the original goals set for the early stages of the project were accomplished . These goals were ( 1 ) to create a data base on Papua New Guinea case law and legal principles that would be useful to legal practitioners and ( 2 ) to begin to identify and investigate problem areas and facilitate the preparation of draft legislation to alleviate such problems . The first goal was accomplished through the preparation of the computer retrieval system allowing legal researchers and practitioners to identify cases relevant to their problems . The actual extended cases can be researched at the Law Reform Commission . During my residence in Papua New Guinea , I helped a number of lawyers find customary precedent cases related to issues they were arguing in court . For example , one attorney asked me to help her find cases that might provide information about customary divorce practices in a particular region . Several such cases were in our files , and she referred to these in preparing her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the use of customary law cases in court . These data have also been useful in exploring a variety of problems in legal development . For example , the Institute for National Affairs and the Institute for Applied Social and Economic Research ( INA 1984:209 ? 226 ) used our case study data in examining law and order problems in the country . A colleague and I used these case studies to address problems of domestic violence and women 's access to justice in rural Papua New Guinea ( Scaglion and Wittingham 1985 ) . The second goal , the identification and alleviation of legislative problems , is an ongoing , long-range effort involving the Law Reform  | Commission , the Justice Department , and the National Parliament . A three-part structure consisting of research , preparation of sample legislation circulated for comments , and preparation of final draft legislation is being followed . During my involvement with the Customary Law Project , a number of problem areas were identified . For example , my Abelam friend who was concerned about the possible legal consequences of his bigamy turned out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family law as an area in which customary principles were often at variance with statute law . A wide range of customary arrangements were technically illegal . A draft family law bill has been prepared that would formally recognize customary marriages as legal marriages and would provide for polygamous customary marriages under certain conditions . I am happy to say these conditions would include my old informant and his wives . Customary compensation , particularly homicide compensation , was identified as another specific problem area . Compensation is a form of conflict management , common in Melanesian societies , in which an aggrieved party demands payment of some sort from another party . The payment demanded is generally thought to be proportionate to the severity of the act that precipitated the dispute and is usually proportionate to the magnitude of the dispute as well . Payment of compensation generally implies acceptance of responsibility by the donors and willingness to terminate the dispute by the recipients . However , such arrangements are not generally recognized under the law . Unfortunately , it was not a simple matter of just recognizing the legality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popularized by the local news media , showed the complexity of the problem . These cases involved huge groups of people and " excessive " compensation demands . In one case a man from one province had been driving a vehicle that struck and killed a man from another province . Representatives from the clan of the victim were demanding hundreds of thousands of kina ( Papua New Guinea currency roughly equivalent to the Australian dollar ) from the whole of the driver 's province . Thus , homicide compensation appeared to be an area in which social development had outstripped the ability of small-scale customary legal systems to adapt . Inflationary compensation demands had created law and order problems and diverted cash away from development in large sections of the country . Although the basic customary law patterns were worth preserving , how could they be adapted to modern conditions ? A draft bill ( Law Reform Commission 1980 ) was prepared that provided for the formal recognition of customary compensation as an institution for dispute resolution . Exchanges of wealth and services as a means for settling compensation claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognized , and appropriate tribunals modeled on customary conflict management were provided . The bill tried to control and regulate claims and payments by specifying circumstances and amounts for such payments . I solicited further anthropological input by asking anthropologists to prepare papers commenting on the draft bill from the viewpoint of their fieldsites . Papers were collected , edited , and published as a monograph ( Scaglion 1981b ) . Anthropologists identified particular geographical areas where such legislation might cause problems , as well as possible unintended consequences of stipulating maximum payments . For example , anthropologist Andrew Strathern ( 1981 ) showed that in Hagen society compensation was part of a system of escalating competitive exchange called moka and cautioned against setting limits on moka or confusing it with the compensation payments related to it . As a result , a revised version recommending regional legislation and revised conflict management strategies is currently being prepared . Domestic violence was another problem area in parts of the country that had experienced culture change . Traditional cultures often practice patrilocal residence , in which newly married couples live near the husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bride is rarely far from her own family and can usually return home easily if her husband becomes physically abusive . However , as couples take up residence in new locations to pursue opportunities in the cash labor sector , wives can not easily return home to avoid beatings . The same situation can occur when a man and a woman from widely different locations meet in a town , marry , and go to live with the husband 's family . Again , the woman is far from her supportive kinship group . This broad problem , which formed the basis for the third monograph in our series ( Toft 1985 ) , was researched by my successor at the Law Reform Commission . The Anthropological Difference The Customary Law Project applied anthropological knowledge by making use of theory , concepts , and methods derived from anthropology . These are described in the following section . Theory Legal anthropologists often distinguish between substantive law ( rules for normative behavior , infractions of which are negatively sanctioned ) and procedural law ( mechanisms through which legal issues are handled ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process . They often see " law " as the relatively rigid application of rules to a given  | fact situation . Individuals are considered equal before the law , and rules should be impartially applied . In Papua New Guinea , however , customary law is a system of ensuring a just solution through compromise . Customary law recognizes the social uniqueness of each individual , and each case is considered separately without regard to precedents . Thus Melanesian customary law lends itself to analysis as procedural law , and anthropological theory is particularly useful in this endeavor . Legal anthropologists tend to study interpersonal conflict in a processual sense . They are less concerned with substantive rules of law than with strategies for conflict management . Anthropological theories of law suggest that we study techniques rather than rules and that customary law is flexible and responsive to changing social situations ? an important factor in contemporary Papua New Guinea . Consequently the customary law project did not undertake to prepare formal and detailed restatements of customary law as was done in certain African nations . It was thought that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be rapid , this approach would freeze customary law at a single and quickly out-dated point in time . Thus the anthropological theory of law was used in broad project planning . Concepts Anthropological concepts consonant with the anthropological view of law were used throughout the project . The research focused on extended cases as a basis for extrapolating legal principles ? an attempt to elicit real rather than ideal principles . Because Melanesians do not seem to think in terms of abstract rules for behavior in the legal sense , when pressed to describe rules they often give ideal moral precepts or religious obligations that Westerners do not consider strictly legal rules . This problem was noticed by Malinowski in his classic studies of the Trobriand Islands area of Papua New Guinea in 1914-1918 . Pospisil ( 1971:2 ) has frequently pointed out that the English term " law " really consists of two separate concepts that are distinguished in many other languages . One , which in Latin is called ius , means law in terms of the underlying principles implied in legal precedents , whereas lex means an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lawyers often are preoccupied with leges ( plural of lex : the statutory rules ) ; anthropologists tend to uncover the ius or the underlying law . The Customary Law Project made use of such anthropological distinctions . Also , a wide variety of concepts from legal anthropology were used to provide direction for the project . Examples of such concepts are " moot courts " ( informal meetings for conflict management ; see Gibbs 1963 ) or " negotiation , " " mediation , " " arbitration , " and " adjudication " ( procedures  | for settling conflicts which involve varying involvements of a third party ; see Koch 1974:29-30 ) . Methods In addition to standard anthropological techniques such as participantobservation , the Customary Law Project used the case method of legal anthropology as a primary data-gathering technique . First popularized by Llewellyn and Hoebel ( 1941 ) in their classic work The Cheyenne Way , and refined by Laura Nader and her students ( see Nader and Todd 1978:5-8 ) , the methodology involves gathering detailed data on all aspects of conflict cases according to a carefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are observed cases , cases taken from recorded materials , memory cases , and hypothetical cases . Elicitation of all types of cases provides a corpus of information from which " law " ( ius ) can be abstracted . The Customary Law Project employed this methodology throughout the research phase of the project . The anthropological difference , or the effects of anthropological theory , concepts , and methods on the Customary Law Project was quite significant and derived mainly from taking an anthropological attitude toward law . Virtually all the senior legal officers and research officers in the Justice Department in Papua New Guinea are lawyers rather than social scientists . Most are from Commonwealth countries . By providing an anthropological view of law , and one flavored with American jurisprudence , the Customary Law Project succeeded in presenting an alternative point of view for consideration . Initially many of the officers of the Justice Department assumed that the project could or would provide them with discrete compendiums of principles of customary law in various societies . However , the results of the Customary Law Project indicate that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underlying law of the nation and that this objective would best be accomplished by reference to customary case law . Throughout the duration of the project , informal conflict management forums such as the village court system , designed to provide an interface between customary and introduced law , have been supported . Village courts give traditional leaders magisterial powers and permit them to arbitrate according to custom . Decisions or consensus solutions then have the weight of law . Research from the project indicated that such forums were much more successful than had been previously assumed . The village courts secretariat has received increased support , perhaps in part because of the Customary Law Project . It is felt that a legal approach stressing legal norms would have impeded the development of Papua New Guinea case law .  | Research into customary law is ongoing . The anthropologist set up a basic structure for data collection and organization that could continue into the future . Thus , although the implementation phase has been completed , the anthropological input continues . In this way , anthropological concepts , theory , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in Papua New Guinea . References Gibbs , James L. , Jr . 1963 . The Kpelle Moot : A Therapeutic Model for the Informal Settlement of Disputes . Africa 33:1-11 . INA. 1984 . Law and Order in Papua New Guinea , vol. 2 . Port Moresby : Institute for National Affairs . Koch , K. F. 1974 . War and Peace in Jalemo : The Management of Conflict in Highland New Guinea . Cambridge : Harvard University Press . Law Reform Commission of Papua New Guinea . 1980 . Customary Compensation . Report no. 11 . Port Moresby : PNG Government Printers . Llewellyn , K. , and E. A. Hoebel. 1941 . The Cheyenne Way : Conflict and Case Law in Primitive Jurisprudence . Norman : University of Oklahoma Press . Nader , L. , and H. F. Todd , Jr . 1978 . The Disputing Process : Law in Ten Societies . New York : Columbia University Press . Pospisil , L. 1971 . Anthropology of Law : A Comparative Theory . New York : Harper and Row . Scaglion , R. 1976 . Seasonal Patterns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , University of Pittsburgh . . 1979 . Formal and Informal Operations of a Village Court in Maprik . Melanesian Law Journal 7:116-1291. . 1981a . Samukundi Abelam Conflict Management : Implications for Legal Planning in Papua New Guinea . Oceania 52:28-38. . 1985 . Kiaps as Kings : Abelam Legal Change in Historical Perspective . In D. Gewertz and E. Schieffelin , eds. , History and Ethnohistory in Papua New Guinea , Oceania Monograph no. 28 , Sydney , pp. 77-99. , and R. Whittingham . 1985 . Female Plaintiffs and Sex-Related Disputes in Rural Papua New Guinea . In S. Toft , ed. , Domestic Violence in Papua New Guinea , Law Reform Commission of Papua New Guinea , Monograph no. 3 , Port Moresby , pp. 120-133 . Scaglion , R. , ed. 1981b . Homicide Compensation in Papua New Guinea : Problems and Prospects . Law Reform Commission of Papua New Guinea , Monograph no. 1 , Port Moresby. , ed. 1983 . Customary Law in Papua New Guinea : A Melanesian View . Law Reform Commission of Papua New Guinea , Monograph no. 2 , Port @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There be a New Law . In R. Scaglion , ed. , Homicide Compensation in Papua New Guinea : Problems and Prospects . Law Reform Commission of Papua New Guinea , Monograph no. 1 , Port Moresby , pp. 5-24 . Toft . S. , ed. 1985 . Domestic Violence in Papua New Guinea . Law Reform Commission of Papua New Guinea , Monograph no. 3 , Port Moresby.  | An extensive network of applied anthropologists in the Memphis area have redesigned the delivery of a housing weatherization program to more effectively meet the needs of over 300,000 low- to moderateincome customers . Although the actual project began in 1983 , the groundwork was laid much earlier . In 1977 faculty and students from the local university began building a data base on the activities and needs of neighborhood groups . Simultaneously , anthropologists examined the role of local agencies in the delivery of social services and established an active internship program in the community . By 1979 ample data had been collected and analyzed to document a gigantic communication chasm between local urban agencies and neighborhood groups . Some local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social programs . Within this context a team of three applied anthropologists ( the Center for Voluntary Action Research at Memphis State University ) in 1982 approached one agency that was open to discussion about a collaborative effort in energy conservation through weatherization . The client , Memphis Light , Gas and Water ( MLG &W); Division of the City of Memphis , serves more than 900,000 customers with electricity from the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ) , natural gas from a transmission company , and water from deep artesian wells . As a municipally owned utility company , MLG &W; has a mandate to market programs throughout the Memphis community .  | In response to public criticism of increasing utility bills , MLG &W,; like many utility companies , increased its effort in energy conservation programs in 1977 . Through mass media advertising , middle- and upperincome residents in the MLG &W; service area were informed about the energy conservation programs . However , MLG &W; failed to communicate its programs to its low-income customers ? the group in most need of utility assistance . Instead of responding to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the utility company because of rising utility bills and the complexities of dealing with a large-scale impersonal bureaucracy . The mission of the Center for Voluntary Action Research ( CVAR ) was to develop an effective communication system between MLG &W; and low-income residents , increasing their awareness and participation in energy conservation programs . Specifically , MLG &W; desired increased participation in a nointerest , long-term loan program for residential customers to weatherize their homes and reduce energy consumption . Process and Players Our initial team included three applied anthropologists and one graduate student from CVAR and two managers from MLG &W's; Communication and Weatherization Departments . Over a two-year period the initial team activated managers from eight other public agencies and numerous grassroots networks . Our approach in solving the client 's problem involved research at the agency ( studying up ) and neighborhood ( studying down ) levels , translation of that research to agencies and neighborhood residents , and mediation between the agencies and the neighborhood as they moved toward a working relationship . The mediation of a working relationship involved the reallocation and pooling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from each agency were assigned to the neighborhood to personally interact with residents . The agencies utilized neighborhood networks in disseminating information about these resources . The mediation enabled residents to have direct impact in the redesign of the delivery system . The two-year pilot project unfolded in five stages . Stage one was studying up . CVAR spent nine months researching MLG &W's; weatherization delivery program and determining its overall effectiveness . From the research we agreed to target one low-income , inner-city , Black neighborhood with a low level of participation in the energy program . In stage two we identified communication barriers . CVAR spent four months in extensive participant observation and conducting unstructured interviews in the target neighborhood . Through ethnographic research  | we uncovered the prevalent grassroots beliefs concerning the utility company and identified active communication networks , including churches , street corner groups , senior citizen clubs , community center youth groups , home owners , renters , and extended families . This information pinpointed the major issues that residents faced including rising utility costs . The information was divided into seven broad categories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ racism , ( 3 ) big government , ( 4 ) folk notions concerning conservation , ( 5 ) individualism and self-reliance , ( 6 ) distrust , and ( 7 ) holding on . Although many of the beliefs could be viewed as structural ( race and class generated ) , their expressions were integrated into a unique set of folk beliefs and myths . This crucial finding indicated that weatherization and utility issues were embedded in other issues such as employment , crime , health , and housing . In stage three we developed an agency-action team . Based upon the ethnographic research , CVAR next spent three months establishing a coalition of public agencies that had an identifiable interest in the neighborhood . It paid particular attention to identifying anthropologists within the agencies . Four anthropologists from four agencies participated : the director of the county 's Office of Neighborhoods , Housing and Economic Development ; the director of the Community Action Agency ; the director of media relations for the public library system ; and the director of outreach for the city 's neighborhood program . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ master 's program and had been involved as students in building the neighborhood data base at the university . During stage four we presented our research results . In developing the agency-action team , CVAR made numerous presentations to participating agencies as well as to numerous neighborhood groups to clarify research findings and to establish a translation list of these findings . The first list was an agency translation of ethnographic research into action that included the following : 1 . Personalization of weatherization delivery and agency outreach. 2 . Allocation ( targeting ) of actual fiscal resources to the neighborhood , i.e. , real savings , real services , and real jobs in the neighborhood . 3 . Neighborhood participation in program development and delivery . 4 . Recognition of multiple-interest groups and networks in delivery . 5 . Sensitivity that weatherization delivery is embedded in other issues such as jobs , health , crime , vacant lots , and transportation . The second list was a neighborhood translation of ethnographic research into action .  | 1 . Resurrection of a neighborhoodwide organization that would include somewhat active , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtain what was lost ( school and clinic ) . 3 . Recognition that despite past participation and poor organization , it was possible to begin anew . The translation lists became the basis for the development of an action agenda . Stage five , which lasted six months , reallocated resources and redirected activities . In view of the translation of the research , the coalition of local agencies reallocated existing dollars as well as reassigned office staff to a neighborhood field effort . This resulted in a series of workshops held in the neighborhoods that led to agency cross-referrals and demonstration projects ( see Table 8.1 ) . Voluntary sectors within the neighborhood also contributed valuable resources necessary to the success of the project ( see Table 8.2 ) . Results and Evaluation In the first six months of 1984 , the coalition , through the mediation role of the anthropologists , was able to bring about a dramatic turnaround in conservation in the targeted low-income neighborhood . From 1977 to 1983 , 387 energy survey requests had been made from the neighborhood and 175 dwelling units were weatherized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requests were submitted , and , combined with earlier requests , 278 units were weatherized so that the number of weatherized units jumped from one-half unit per week before the project to 10 per week as the project progressed . The overall participation rate moved from a six-year total of 9.0 percent at the end of 1983 to 15622.0 percent by the middle of 1984 . In effect the team effort produced a twentyfold increase in the number of weatherized units ? representing in six months a total increase greater than the number weatherized during the previous seven years . Although spillover into adjacent neighborhoods was not measured , it must have occurred . In addition to the rapid increase in weatherization , there were some positive secondary effects at the neighborhood level . A neighborhood association was formed that worked with different public agencies to reopen a neighborhood school that had been closed for three years ( a first for Memphis ) . The neighborhood asked the local Jobs Training Partnership Act ( JTPA ) agency to assign neighborhood youth hired for the summer in neighborhood work . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed toward neigh-  | figure borhood house painting and weatherization and consumer energy education . Finally , the neighborhood association signed a contract with the National Association of Neighborhoods and the local county government to initiate a small business that is currently contracting with county government to deliver weatherization services to the neighborhood . The Anthropological Difference Current solutions to increasing participation in weatherization delivery programs in the United States have ignored the literature on innovation in developing regions , such as the introduction of irrigation systems ,  | figure improved livestock , high-yielding seed varieties ( Cochrane 1979 ) , and even the shopping cart ( Stern 1984 ) . Social scientists in general and anthropologists in particular have established that word-of-mouth communication about a new product or practice , direct experience using it , and testimony of users have proved to be much more effective than less personal mass media advertising in developing regions . Equally important to the knowledge of word-of-mouth communication systems is an understanding of the dynamics of how social network systems function in a particular locale . Urban ethnographers involved in network analysis in inner-city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationships , family support systems , landlord-tenant relations , and community space considerations ( Suttles  | 1971 , 1972 ; Stack 1974 ; Hannerz 1969 ; Liebow 1967 ; M. Williams 1981 ) . In light of this ethnographic research on social networks and community organization , our action research methodology adapted the ethnographic approach to the demands of time and the production of results . Our ethnographic research clearly established that the neighborhoodlevel networks and groups had deep-seated beliefs about government agencies and the utility company . The residents did not separate energy conservation issues from health , housing , and employment issues . This view was in marked contrast to the value orientation of most public agencies ? that they must operate in carefully defined programmatic areas . We recognized this basic contradiction in beliefs as the key to building cooperative efforts . As a result we stressed the need to include a coalition of different agencies in the weatherization effort as well as a reallocation of existing funds and their office staff to field efforts ( see Table 8.1 ) . We intended that staff operating in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personalization of field efforts reaffirmed our research findings by disclosing neighborhood frustrations with school system policy ( closing of their neighborhood school ) and city planning policy ( refusing to hire neighborhood youth for work in the neighborhood ) . The feedback from field staff to the public agency managers ( coupled with our research ) led to joint efforts to reverse local agency policy decisions and to create alternate delivery systems . The promotion of the neighborhood 's agenda in conjunction with more personalized agency efforts ( a new communication system ) advanced the weatherization program in this pilot neighborhood . As anthropologists we assisted in setting up a new communication system . In this instance communication represented a source of power for a low-income neighborhood and also served the public agencies ' agenda of increasing participation rates and hence implementing a more effective delivery system . The overall effort was to advance both agendas cooperatively . Although such a communication mode is fragile , it has obvious appeal in revitalizing citizens ' roles through the activation of traditional structures in a public life characterized by impersonal and large-scale programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within a public agency are usually marketed through the mass media . The agency assumes that the needy will respond . In reality , a sizable number of the needy will remain outside the agency 's delivery system . The agency often simply chooses the easiest mechanism by which to market its services : mass media with defined costs , ratings , and market segments . Social scientists have recently questioned the utility of such a mediaoriented approach by public agencies . For example , in a national review  | of the energy conservation delivery systems , Stern ( 1984:23 ) notes that even though U.S. utility companies now spend millions on mass media advertising campaigns to promote energy efficiency , they have little effect . In this context , our work with the municipally owned utility company demonstrates the effectiveness of the development of a communication system ( marketing system ) through the activation of a network of public agencies and grassroots groups . In the communication system the anthropologist serves initially as researcher of agency and grassroots belief systems , then presenter of the research for the development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and grassroots networks . The joint advance of the agendas of agencies and neighborhoods through continual feedback leads in this instance to the reallocation of human and fiscal resources at both levels ? thus representing a critical step in the redesign of this service delivery system . In our effort the initial success of such a communication model led to the inclusion of other public agencies such as health groups and health programs in the target neighborhood as well as to the expansion of the energy conservation program into another low-income neighborhood . As applied anthropologists we urge that successful communication models ( agency-grassroots partnerships ) enter into competition with mass media corporations for public marketing dollars . We hope that a continual shift of public marketing dollars will become an indicator of change in regional policy implementation , an indirect measure of neighborhood participation and a more effective means of program delivery . References Ciaramitaro , Bridget , and Stanley Hyland . 1983. 1982 Memphis Neighborhood Association Survey Report . Memphis , Tenn. : Center for Voluntary Action Research , Memphis State University . Ciaramitaro , Bridget , Rosalind Cottrell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Binghampton Pilot Project : Phase 1 Neighborhood Study Final Report . Memphis , Tenn. : Center for Voluntary Action Research , Memphis State University . Cochrane , Glynn. 1979 . The Cultural Appraisal of Development Projects . New York : Praeger . Goodenough , Ward . 1966 . Cooperation in Change : An Anthropological Approach to Community Development . New York : John Wiley and Sons . Hannerz , Ulf. 1969 . Soulside . New York : Columbia University Press . Hyland , Stanley . 1979 . Multiple Urban Power Structures : The Impact of Neighborhood Associations in Memphis . In Billye Fogelman , ed. , Urban Anthropology in Tennessee , pp. 26-38 . Knoxville , Tenn. : Tennessee Anthropologist . Liebow , Elliot . 1967 . Tally 's Corner . Boston : Little , Brown .  | Rogers , Everett , and F. Floyd Shoemaker . 1971 . Communication of Innovations . New York : Free Press . Schwartz , Norman B. 1981 . Anthropological Views of Community and Community Development . Human Organization 40(4):313-322 . Stack , Carol B. 1974 . All Our Kin . New York : Harper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Energy : The Human Dimension . Technology Review 87:16-22 . Suttles , Gerald D. 1971 . The Social Order of the Slum . Chicago : University of Chicago Press . . 1972 . The Social Construction of Communities . Chicago : University of Chicago Press . Williams , Charles . 1982 . Two Black Communities in Memphis , Tennessee : A Study in Urban Socio-political Structure . PhD dissertation , University of Illinois , Urbana , Ill . Williams , Melvin . 1981 . On the Street Where I Lived . New York : Holt , Rinehart and Winston .  | In this chapter I describe how an anthropological methodology was applied to problems of community development on the Kaibab Paiute Indian Reservation in northern Arizona . The basic objective of the project was to restore the long dormant communal decision-making process to prominence in tribal affairs . Once that had been accomplished , significant physical improvements were made in the delivery of much needed water resources and in the reconstruction of reservation housing to bring it up to community standards . The principal beneficiaries ? the real " clients " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paiute community . The planning and development program was sponsored by the Kaibab Band of Paiute Indians , the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development , and Southern Utah State College . A postproject evaluation study was sponsored by Idaho State University . The Community Setting The 200-square-mile Kaibab Paiute Indian Reservation lies on the Arizona Strip , a segment of the canyonlands physiographic subprovince just north of the Grand Canyon . Ranging in elevation from 4,000 to 7,000 feet , it is transected by the 1,000-foot-high Vermilion Cliffs . Below the cliffs grows the cold desert vegetation of the Upper Sonoran Life Zone ? sagebrush , juniper , and pinyon pine . Above the cliffs , the Ponderosa pine of the Transition Zone is dominant .  | Annual temperatures range from below zero to over 100 degrees Fahrenheit . Diurnal variation is about 30 degrees . Water resources are limited to rainfall of about 10 inches per year , six wells tapping the Sevier Aquifer , and four springs . Two of the springs , Moccasin and Pipe , lie within non-Indian enclaves established in the late nineteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1974 , the reservation was a scene of stark contradictions . Despite a flood of well-funded and well-intentioned Federal economic development programs , there was little apparent benefit coming to the residents . The Kaibab people seemed to have given up hope of improving the quality of their lives by their own initiative and to have surrendered to the benevolent paternalism of Washington . Water from the spring at Moccasin , contaminated by cattle there , trickled through to several houses with plumbing . Water hauled from stock tanks supplied those without . Yet a camper-trailer park with fortyeight well-watered sites was under construction to accommodate expected tourists . Winter winds blew through the walls of many peoples ' homes . Fuel costs exceeded average income , and jobs were few . Yet a million dollar multipurpose building housing a gymnasium and offices was soon to be completed . Springtime planters relied on neighbors , usually non-Indian , for plows and timely good will . Sometimes their quiet patience was in vain . Summer sun dried out gardens when irrigation ponds broke through their worn-out dikes . Without heavy equipment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electric-powered wells had been sunk and 200 acres of sagebrush had been cleared making room for commercial hayfields to supply hoped for demands . In 1974 , this was home base for 132 Southern Paiute Indians in twenty-three crowded households . Decision-making The reservation had become less a home than a refuge . The composition of the population fluctuated on a seasonal if not daily basis . About onehalf of the residents had married into the Kaibab tribe and were enrolled in other tribes . Nonmember residents were essentially barred from participating in the formal political process by which decisionmakers were elected . The general population could take part only in the election of the tribal council , a process reminiscent of the election of boarding school class officers . Only tribal enrollees , at least twenty-one years of age , attending the tribe 's annual meeting could cast votes . This practice effectively disenfranchized the majority . Absentee voices were not heard  | and absentee ballots were uncommon ; nonmember residents of the reservation and the underage majority could not participate . Because of such limitations on eligibility a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only two or three votes , and many people felt unrepresented by their elected tribal officials . Tribal council meetings were seldom attended by anyone other than council members and petitioners before it . With the focus on responding to federal rather than local program guidelines , requirements of the bureau or agency sponsoring a program , or details of budgets , little in the proceedings touched on the immediate needs of the local community . In truth , the council meetings were often tedious and ambiguous in outcome . Few on the reservation understood the complex language of the federal rules and regulations . Few had any experience in participation in long-range planning . Only a remnant remained of the more traditional decision process and that had no viability at the level of the community or tribe . A final example of the lack in participatory decision-making was shown in the responses to the tribal planner 's attempts to elicit community attitudes toward choices offered by his sponsoring agency , the Economic Development Administration ( EDA ) . ( EDA is a federal agency that makes development grants to local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not productive . In his words : " I try to go to different families on the Reservation and ask them what they think about this or that program . Usually I do n't get much response . They either say , ' I do n't know , ' ' I do n't care , ' or ' anything you do is OK . ' " A member of the community commented , " The Council never asks us what we want . The Council never tells us what they are planning . " A council member responded , " The people never come to Council meetings ; all they do is complain . We do n't want them to get their hopes up only to have a program fail so we do n't tell them what we are planning . " Both the elected tribal council and its constituency perceived this situation to be unsatisfactory . All wanted to have a more participatory decision-making process , but none seemed able to establish it . There was a deadlock . The Intervention In 1974 , the Southern Utah State College economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribal chairperson with an inquiry and a request : " Do you have community problems that might be effectively resolved using an anthropological approach ? " " May we pro-  | vide our services in exchange for learning opportunity for ourselves and our students ? " After some discussion the chairperson responded , " We do n't have enough housing and jobs for our people and we are afraid that they will move away and the community will not survive . " We offered to contribute technical and analytical expertise in community research and development in exchange for an opportunity for our students and faculty to learn through participation in tribal community affairs . We drafted an informal prospectus outlining an extension role for the faculty , student involvement , and tribal participation in a comprehensive community research and development program . In exchange for my assurance that students would be involved in the program , the college allowed me to schedule Fridays for work on the reservation , some ninety miles away . The proposal was approved by the college administration and by the tribal council , and work began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) with technical assistance from the Indian Development District of Arizona used the prospectus as a basis for drafting a more detailed request for funding for a planning assistance grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ( HUD ) . In fall 1976 , the tribe was awarded a HUD 701 Planning Assistance Grant . The grant called for specific applied research in ( 1 ) designing a planning process involving citizen input , ( 2 ) developing specific information on community needs in housing , land use , employment , economic development , and health care , ( 3 ) establishing priorities , and ( 4 ) implementing beneficial programs . The problem of participation was brought into focus by the specific requirements of the HUD grant : " Each recipient of assistance . . . shall carry out an ongoing comprehensive planning process which shall make provision for citizen participation pursuant to the regulations of the Secretary where major plans , policies , priorities , or objectives are being determined " ( Pub . L. No. 90-383 , Sec. 701 ) . This act of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tribal council to that of the citizen or community member . Given the current situation on the reservation , such devolution would not be easy to achieve . Neither the council nor the reservation community possessed the requisite expertise to design and implement participatory planning as mandated by HUD . The focus of the anthropological research and development program became the HUD 701 planning process . The key problem was to design and implement a planning process involving citizen participation in a community that was not accustomed to having a significant voice in tribal affairs . The principal objective was to improve the quality of life on the reservation .  | Process and Players When I learned that the tribe had received its grant , I met with the newly elected tribal chairman to talk about the possible contributions that an outsider 's perspective on community life could provide . The chairman gave me permission to enter the reservation and to take a series of baseline photographs of landscapes and structures . To announce the HUD 701 Planning Assistance Grant , the tribal council called a general meeting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people attended , including about ten children . The tribal chairman noted the need for land use planning and the identification of unspoken community values . She spoke quietly to the group , asking , " What is it that you value about how you live ? What do you want the reservation to look like ? These are the things that we must think about . " The tribal planner explained the value of the program in placing limits on development . " How far do you want to go in economic development ? The agencies always want to know if a proposal is in your comprehensive plan . We need a plan . We are not the ones that will be here to benefit by what we do . It 's for the children who will be grown up in twenty years . " In response to a request from a member of the audience the planner and the chairman explained the program in the Paiute language " so the older people could understand , " and a bilingual discussion of the program followed . I was introduced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " who could interpret the community and help the community to see itself . My designated position was " planning consultant , " and my role was to assist the community in organizing and analyzing information . Slide photographs that I had taken were then showed to the group . For most , these were the first pictures they had seen of their homes . The program focused attention on the physical appearance of the reservation . Pleasant scenes of the landscape , the ponds , the gardens , the houses , and the people were shown as well as unattractive features ? dilapidated shacks , abandoned junk cars , public areas overgrown with weeds . The slide program was well received and stimulated considerable discussion about the reservation and what could be done to improve it . A perceptive member of the group asked a challenging question : " What do you get out of doing this ? " My somewhat hesitant response was that I had been trained to do such work , that I was expected by my colleagues to do it , and that the project might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allocated for the position , because I was  | already employed by the College I suggested that we use that money to fund some positions in the program for members of the community . In the course of the meeting the fact was brought up that the tribe had attempted to incorporate a system of community committees to monitor needs in the areas of health , education , natural resources , housing , and other areas . The tribal secretary read a list of these committees and their assigned membership . Typical responses indicated that the committee system had not been effective . We should get a new Housing Authority . The old one never meets and we never know what they are doing . We need some Indians on the Housing Authority ... . I did n't even know there was a Natural Resource Committee and now I hear that I have been a member of it . .. I am on three committees but they never meet so I do n't go ... . LB is on the Education Committee but she has n't lived here for years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough planning . We need results . Our houses are cold in the winter and the water from the spring does n't come for us . " Obviously , the application of anthropological insights could not wait for formal analysis ; the situation called for immediate , if tentative , applications of anthropological facts and theory . For the project to be successful it would have to use existing social resources and show some early beneficial results . The findings of our earlier ethnohistoric and historic ethnographic studies combined with preliminary observations of community life suggested that no aspect of the Southern Paiute tradition supported formal committee organization or formal systems of cooperative planning . Whether through hypothesis or on-the-spot hunch , I thought the participation would increase if the planning system were reorganized in ways more harmonious with precedent and present patterns of social organization . An operable proposition , I thought , was that in this smallscale community with fluctuating population composition , a flexible membership planning advisory committee homologous with traditional patterns of ephemeral task-specific hunting and gathering parties would be a productive way to maximize citizen participation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centuries , and , though the object of " the hunt " had changed , the hunters had not . I suggested that the council abandon the fixed membership committees and decision style and that I meet weekly with whomever chose to participate in an ad hoc planning committee . The group discussed this  | proposition at length in the Paiute language and decided that I should return the following Friday . We defined the beneficiaries of the planning program as the extended Kaibab Paiute Indian community comprising all reservation residents , both enrolled members and their in-marrying spouses , and Kaibab enrollees living elsewhere . This definition of the community was more inclusive and more realistic than the federal administrative definitions that excluded nonmember reservation residents and off-reservation tribal members . During the following week , the woman designated to coordinate the meetings circulated written announcements of the forthcoming meeting of the " A. D. Hock Planning Committee . " On September 10 , 1976 , the first meeting was held and was attended by sixteen participants . The main order of business was to select a program staff . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid program coordinator , and two paid data collectors were selected . One of the cochairmen was an elder statesman respected for his wisdom . He had assumed a traditional niav ( leadership ) role in the earlier meeting and was instrumental in securing the assent of the assembled community members . The other , a younger businesswoman , was selected for her familiarity and comfort with formal programmatic details . The program coordinator and data collectors were to be paid from program funds . For the next year we held weekly all-day meetings . I usually brought sufficient fresh fruit , cheese , and cold meat to share at lunch with the ten or so participants . This inducement kept people from leaving and failing to return . Not everyone stayed for the whole day ; people came and went as other obligations and interests intervened . These meetings served as a setting for innovation as we accumulated ideas and concentrated on issues . Early meetings were group interviews in which I elicited emic or cognitive categories of program objectives , problems , and solutions . Rather than following the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concepts . Thus , the terms of the grant , " Information Gathering , " " Decision-making , " and " Implementation , " were replaced by " Ne we Kai va ne " ( What we people must do to continue ) , " Tu ntu gwa " ( Planning ahead ) , and " A hu nka va ru " ( What we will do ) . Two principles were identified as basic to the success of the program : ( 1 ) Developmental change should be based on existing Paiute cultural and behavioral patterns rather than on federal goals and procedures , and ( 2 ) specific change programs should be broadly beneficial to the community and not just to a few people with special needs . Most of the fieldwork was carried out by the members of the community in a guided self-study approach patterned after that of Kimball and Pearsall ( 1954 ) in their study of the health care system in Talledega ,  | Alabama . This approach had at least two advantages . First , it allowed the people themselves to discover their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time effective for me because I was unable to spend full time at this job ( although I did spend three full-time summers on the reservation in addition to two years of weekly meetings ) . We purchased several inexpensive cameras and issued them to the participants to take pictures of places , people , and activities . This provided both a photographic record of physical developmental change and a source of immediate feedback to the community in subsequent community development slide shows . During the early meetings the participants and I established a small set of high priority concerns : ( 1 ) Adequate water should be provided to the community gardens and to every household on the reservation and ( 2 ) every house should be insulated and supplied with woodstoves . Based on these concerns we designed survey questionnaires . Two paid Paiute fieldworkers conducted a house-to-house census , compiling information about occupancy , income , housing conditions , food consumption patterns , traditional and modern skills available , and attitudes about change . My role as applied anthropologist was enacted along a continuum suggested by Gallaher and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a participant analyst , I designed research , elicited and articulated ideas and plans from the Paiute planning committee , and assessed the social impact of , for example , proposed housing locations , water supply routes , and commercial development schemes . As participant adviser , I outlined various developmental alternatives based on the foregoing analyses and presented them for the community to the tribal council and to the various federal agents . As participant advocate , I developed a collegial relationship with HUD officials in the San Francisco Regional Office . In this role , I actively promoted Kaibab as a community that deserved attention despite its small size . Penetrating the anonymity of the Office of Indian Programs was beneficial . The program director accepted our invitation to visit the reservation to see firsthand the conditions and the planning process in operation . He proved a useful ally in deciphering the rules and regulations related to the HUD 701 planning assistance grant and directed us through the maze of requirements for a subsequently funded Community Development Block Grant . Results and Evaluation The results of the planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and material changes . By cultural change ,  | I mean change at the cognitive or ideational level that is generally distributed throughout the community . Social change refers to rearrangements or modifications in the patterns of interaction between people . Material changes affect the physical characteristics of the community . The most fundamental change was in the pattern and process of decision-making . This involved both cultural and social aspects and produced , in the end , material changes in the physical characteristics of the community . The foremost cultural change was the development from a no-plan orientation to an attitude that a more desirable future could be planned and that the Kaibab Paiute people were not powerless to effect beneficial social and material changes in their community . The volume of ideas about undesirable and desirable attributes of life on the reservation increased and took form as Punim Nuwu Kaivaneh : The Kaibab Paiute Community Plan-1980 . This document outlined precedent , present , and desired community conditions . It targeted , ranked , and scheduled developmental objectives in the areas of water resources , land use , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social transformation took place as well . First , the process of decision-making became more egalitarian and was thereby more harmonious with the indigenous pattern . Second , there were significant changes in power relations within the community and between the tribal and federal governments . Prior to the program most decisions were made by elected tribal officials and appointed program managers . One family cluster was clearly more involved than the others in these positions of responsibility . The planning system allowed a more consensual approach in accord with traditional Paiute patterns of cooperative action . During the first year of the program sixty-six different adult members and an uncounted number of children took part in forty-nine meetings or special planning workshops . On the average , ten people participated in each event . As the year progressed the level of participation increased for the families previously left out . By the end of the year each of the five principal family clusters was sharing approximately equally in decision-making activities . As a result positions of responsibility were more widely shared as those families gained representation on the council and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the federal-tribal power relationship was reversed . The Department of Housing and Urban Development listened to the tribe and followed community guidelines and priorities for developmental change . With the tribally generated comprehensive plan , other federal  | agencies were less inclined to impose their programs without considering tribally established goals . Another important social change with economic implications took place in upgrading the tribal workforce . Before the planning program , maintenance of the physical facilities ( roads , tribal housing , water works ) was provided by unskilled dollar-an-hour workers . No program or organization was in charge of maintenance and operation of the community physical plant . Acting on the recommendation of the planning group , the tribal council passed a resolution creating the Department of Plant Management . As an arm of the tribe , this department was responsible for housing construction , road maintenance , water works renovation , and general management of all physical operations on the reservation . The wages of tribal maintenance and operations personnel were immediately raised to at least minimum wage levels . The Department of Plant Management carried out many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged in several important enterprises , some profit making and others gratuitous . It contracted with the Forest Service to thin timber on the National Forest and on the side stockpiled about 100 cords of firewood for the community . It upgraded the water supply system from Moccasin Spring to the village at Kaibab , repaired the irrigation systems , and installed a pipeline and storage tank system that provided , for the first time , running water and fire protection to the village of Six Mile . It initiated a refuse collection program and operated the sanitary landfill . It remodeled a number of surplus tourist cabins obtained from Zion National Park and , by combining these small units , constructed five new houses that were rented to community members . In 1984 , I returned for a summer 's fieldwork on the reservation . The purpose of this revisit was to observe and evaluate the consequences of the planning program initiated eight years earlier . Between 1976 and 1984 , the number of houses on the reservation increased from twenty-three to fifty-two units whereas the population increased only from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 5.7 to 2.9 persons per household . The reduction in overcrowding is a significant benefit , and several new nuclear households were spawned from the extended family households in which they were imbedded . All housing units on the reservation , both old and new , are now well insulated , and most are supplied with woodstoves . As a result heating bills have been reduced from over $100 per month to less than $30 . Most of the new housing construction contracts were let to nonIndian contractors , and the local construction industry profited from the million-dollar housing expansion program . Some of the Indian men ,  | having acquired skills while working in the Department of Plant Management , were employed by these outside contractors . In 1984 , the participation by community members in making decisions was greater than before the intervention but less intensive and less comprehensive than when it ended in 1978 . At present , the tribe has a number of standing committees that have replaced the ad hoc planning group . These fixed membership committees now include a member of the Tribal Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respective committee . This position has effectively closed the earlier gap between community and council . But council meetings are still poorly attended , and to many members of the tribe 's staff , the Federal Register is the gospel . Many of the decisions affecting the quality of life on the reservation are made through personal contacts between tribal administrators and federal program managers . Although this contact is important , it could reduce the attention to community interests . The planning system was designed in accord with continuing patterns of Southern Paiute social organization . The planning system was intended to continue to operate as it had during the first year even in the absence of an anthropologist 's continuing intervention . We did not intend to routinize the role of anthropological planning consultant to the point of creating a dependency relationship . In broad perspective , some things worked and others did not . Citizen participation was dramatically enhanced as long as the anthropologist was directly involved . This correlation was not intended . Rather , we thought that we had discovered a principle of community decisionmaking that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the anthropologist be like that of a situational headman in that when he departed , the group of participants disbanded ? We had predicted that by involving the community in the planning process there would be a continuing exercise of grassroots power and that the many federal agencies would be pleased to follow the guidelines of the community . Instead federal presence on the reservation increased as did federal influence in setting the guidelines for development , defining the terms of employment , designing housing , and delineating roles for tribal employees . New housing , for example , was not located in accord with community sentiments that called specifically for expansion of the existing villages . Rather , it followed plans that predated the inauguration of the new planning program . It was simply not feasible to stop programs already in the pipeline . Most of the new housing has been constructed at new subdivisions situated a mile or so apart , thus making the communication of information difficult in this face-to-face community with only a handful  | of telephones . Consequently , impromptu gatherings , long the norm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of community events . Visits between elders and extended family members require use of automobiles . Life on the reservation is now more complex . In an earlier era a person possessed a home simply by occupying it . No longer can shelter be acquired merely by moving into a vacant house . Nowadays , however , the occupant must contend with the confounding intricacies of " negative rentals , " " homeownership , " " turnkey housing , " " mutual help , " and " sliding equity payments " to maintain a place to live . A complex tribal bureaucracy has emerged to manage housing . Did we discover the keys to the community and turn them over to more powerful agents of change whose policies and priorities are not attuned to small-scale American Indian communities ? More positively , the Kaibab Paiute Tribal Council is today more receptive to community ideas . It is much less reluctant to accept any or all federally sponsored programs without assessing their benefits and costs to the community . Nevertheless , a call continues for an independent perspective attentive to community culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ germinated ? If so , they need to be nurtured by planners trained in the theories and methods of an anthropological praxis oriented toward tribally specific community development . The Anthropological Difference The problem of activating community participation in the reservation planning program was framed as one of cognitive and social organization . This perspective , though perhaps not unique to anthropologists , provides effective conceptual tools for the analysis of those behaviors needed for cooperation in the design of community plans and goals . Planning is a cognitive process because it defines abstract goals and objectives . The Kaibab Paiute community came to see beyond its dayto-day life and to anticipate a more satisfactory future . Communal or cooperative planning is a social process because it involves the reorganization of interpersonal and intergroup alliances and directs their activities toward the identification and realization of community goals and objectives . Some specific anthropological methods of generating data were deployed in this project . The first of these was to compile and analyze the existing ethnohistory and historic ethnographic sources . Before approaching the Kaibab Paiute community , my students and I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students wrote a series  | of term papers on various topics including subsistence and trade , social and political organization , and religion and cosmology . The literature indicated that the Paiutes had been classic hunter-gatherers who exploited a wide range of ecological Life Zones . They had supplemented their local economy by trade with their neighbors , particularly the Hopi and Navajo . Their political organization had centered around a temporary or situational niav or leader whose authority was based on his or her expertise . We learned also that this adaptation had been seriously disrupted first in the eighteenth century by the Spanish slave trade and then in the nineteenth century by the expropriation of their water resources and land base by Mormon settlers . The documentary record showed that although several attempts had been made recently to improve the quality of the Indians ' lives through legislation , education , and religion , Paiute life continued to be distinctively different from that of the surrounding population . The Southern Paiute Indians still live within their aboriginal homelands , use their native language , and sustain a separate community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture . On the reservation we used methods of ethnographic data collection and analysis . To discover politically relevant family relationships , we elicited kinship data . Family lines and clusters corresponded closely with alliances forming around personal issues . This configuration helped explain why some committees failed to function : Their membership consisted of people who had long been in competition . This aspect , I thought , was derived from an aboriginal pattern of familistic independence . The methods of cognitive anthropology were used to discover categories of value relevant to the Kaibab Paiute people . Most categories of value relating to community change had been those of the sponsoring federal agencies and had little meaning to the Kaibab people . " Overcrowding , " " substandard housing , " " moderate income , " and even " elderly " are simple examples . More abstract instances include " homeownership " and " mortgage . " Instead of these foreign concepts , Paiute concerns were for warm housing ( ka ni ) and clean water ( paa ) . The extent to which anthropology makes a discernible difference in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is perhaps not as readily apparent to an anthropologist as it would be to someone trained in another discipline such as economics , sociology , geography , or political science . These sister sciences do involve different fundamental assumptions from those of anthropology , and thus they have different approaches and different objectives . Where an economist might focus on maximizing well-being through the control of material resources , the sociologist might seek organizational  | change . Where the geographer might focus on the relationship between the people and their land in order to secure better shelter and more effective agriculture , the political scientist might seek to amplify the voice of the people in decision-making . Although each of these methods is effective and their objectives potentially beneficial , they are specialized and focus on particularized results . In contrast , the anthropologist 's approach is more generalized and the desired result is one that integrates material , social , and ideological well-being . The anthropologist is guided by an assumption that those several elements are integrated into a mutually interdependent whole . This assumption of holism gives rise to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will affect changes in the others . The integrating system is culture . In the context of community development , culture is the socially transmitted rule for decision-making , the guideline for behavior , and the conceptualization of the good life . The anthropologist working in a tribal community setting will therefore seek cultural rather than simply economic , social , or political change , although these latter should be corollary results . I may conclude , then , that anthropology does not need to be relegated to providing the cultural context of development or the background exotica but can be the lead discipline that provides the general framework for other social scientists and their activities . References Gallaher , Art , Jr. , and Frank A. Santopolo. 1967 . Perspectives on Agent Roles . Journal of Cooperative Extension ( winter ) : 223-230 . Kimball , Solon T. , and Marion Pearsall. 1954 . The Talledega Story : A Study in Community Process . Montgomery : University of Alabama Press . Turner , Allen C. 1985 . Adaptive Continuity and Cultural Development among the Paiute Indians of the Grand Canyon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kaibab Paiutes : An Ecological History . New Haven : Human Relations Area Files Press . . 1984 . Research and Development Anthropology in the Kaibab Paiute Indian Community . In William Millsap , ed. , Applied Social Science for Environmental Planning , Boulder , Colo. : Westview Press . . 1981 . Housing , Water , and Health Care : The Anthropology of Planning in a Southern Paiute Community . Ph.D . dissertation , Department of Anthropology , University of Kentucky . Ann Arbor : University Microfilms. . 1980 . Punim Nuwu Kaivaneh : The Kaibab Paiute Community Plan1980 . San Francisco : United States Department of Housing and Urban Development . Lexington : Applied Anthropology Archives , King Library , University of Kentucky .  | Public Law 93-531 mandated that approximately 10,000 Navajos would have to relocate from 900,000 acres of reservation land in northeastern Arizona . The relocation was intended to provide a final and equitable solution to a 100-year-old land dispute between the Navajo and Hopi tribes over which tribe had the legal right to occupy lands ruled to be held jointly by both tribes . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Area ( FJUA ) , and in 1974 Congress decided that the lands should be split on a fifty-fifty basis , meaning that many Navajos would have to move . As a federal mediator began the process of drawing a dividing line between the two tribes , an increasing number of potential relocatees were using Indian Health Service ( IHS ) facilities for the treatment of complaints stemming from the emotional stress of relocation . This observation raised questions about how these stresses were being manifested in physical and emotional illnesses . The IHS staff wondered what could be done to reduce the stress of relocation . To answer these questions , the Mental Health Branch of the Navajo Area Office of the Indian Health Service ( NAIHS ) hired an anthropologist . The anthropologist had three objectives . First , he was to gather data on problems experienced by relocatees and potential relocatees , including difficulties footnote This chapter represents solely the opinions of the author and does not represent the opinions of the federal government , the Indian Health Service , any tribal organization , or any other person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relocation homes , difficulties caused by mandatory livestock reduction in the FJUA , problems arising from a freeze on new construction in the FJUA , and stress resulting from the uncertainty generated by new regulations , continuing lawsuits between the two tribes , and modifications of the relocation law . Second , the anthropologist was to study the impacts of the requests by relocatees and potential relocatees on the operation of NAIHS mental health clinics . And , finally , the anthropologist was to provide consultation to NAIHS and other federal , state , and tribal agencies on reducing impacts of relocation to manageable proportions . The anthropologist 's broad role required a variety of traditional and nontraditional skills . Process and Players Applied anthropology is not as much a field as a process . The process is usually composed of three stages during which the anthropologist , the work , and the situation all interact and evolve in a mutually beneficial direction . The stages ? discovery/planning , intervention , and evaluation ? do not always occur in perfect sequence . The work of each stage often requires that some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simultaneously undertaken . However , the work progresses more efficiently and effectively if the sequence is kept relatively intact . Discovery/Planning Stage The discovery/planning stage quickly showed that a great deal needed to be learned before any intervention would be possible . The complex issues surrounding the relocation were debated in both the courts and Congress , and they had been studied and discussed by lawyers for both tribes . Since the issues had been largely debated in legal terms , it was not surprising that the relocation law had been written by Congress mainly from the perspective of property rights . However , the human costs of relocating Navajos and the impacts of implementing a simultaneous program of livestock reduction were not well understood at the time that P.L. 93-531 was passed . Therefore , the anthropologist 's first step was to investigate the general situation and learn what was known about the health and human impacts of relocation . This information was then shared with other NAIHS staff so joint decisions about further research could be made . This initial information was gathered from a number of resources , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which were not . Although the anthropologist needed to develop an original data base  | on this subject , the necessary information probably could not be found in anthropological or other scientific journals because little documentation existed on the process of Indian relocation or its impacts on health and health care . Even the literature on recent relocations on other continents did not contain much information on health and health care impacts . But if published literature was not very helpful , what would be ? The first source for the original data base was local newspapers ? a resource often ignored by anthropologists , who often feel that journalists are superficial or biased in their reporting . However , newspaper reports provide timely accounts whereas information in professional journals and books may be ten years old because of the lag between collection and publication . Anthropologists simply have to be careful to look for and discount the bias and superficiality that sometimes appears in these reports . A second data source was interviews with workers from other government agencies including the Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission , the Bureau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and several hospitals and clinics of the Indian Health Service . These employees were asked about relocation law and the regulations and procedures used to implement it and then about the impacts of relocation and the steps agencies were taking to alleviate them . The third data source was legal documents . All available court and legislative documents were assembled so that an objective evaluation could be made of the impacts of relocation and other attempts to solve the land dispute . The fourth data source involved studies commissioned by federal and tribal agencies to determine the impacts of livestock reduction and relocation . The final source of data was the statements of Navajos and Hopis involved in the dispute . The discovery stage provided a rich fund of information for planning interventions . The results of data analysis indicated that relocated Navajos would probably experience significant psychological impacts . They also showed that despite the anxiety about relocation and the law suits brought by both tribes regarding relocation , many people were not well informed about what was happening . Because of these results , three specific interventions were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervention ? a monthly newsletter , the JUA Report ? was aimed specifically at the lack of information concerning the relocation process . Developed by the anthropologist , the newsletter summarized information obtained through several sources : meetings with the lead agencies working with both tribes , official federal and tribal documents published during  | the month , and recent television and newspaper reports . Information was selected according to criteria . Most important , it had to conform to the journalist 's criteria of " hard news " : It had to be timely and important . News items were also selected if they were of interest to specific groups within the audience . For example , news items on the mental health of relocatees would be important to mental health workers but less interesting to other readers . Items of high interest to a minority of the readers were put on page two . Besides the newsletter , the anthropologist held in-service training sessions for NAIHS staff and the staffs of other agencies to increase the flow of accurate information . These sessions provided summary statements of events in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get immediate responses about such topics as health impacts , the location of the partition line , and recent court decisions . In the second major intervention the anthropologist planned a research project to learn how the situation in the FJUA was impacting the NAIHS clinics . The project involved an in-house survey of the use of mental health staff to fill out questionnaires about their patients ' problems . The study was designed to use available resources and did not call for long interview sheets or elaborate statistical analyses . Rather than acquiring a larger data base on the FJUA , the study simply investigated if relocatees were utilizing NAIHS Mental Health Branch services at rates higher than those for nonrelocatees or for Navajos in general . The data base provided a core of information on age , sex , occupation , community of residence , diagnosis , and summary of complaints that gave insights about who was using the NAIHS mental health services and why they were using them . The third intervention provided ongoing consultation to non-NAIHS agencies . Informants in many non-NAIHS agencies were interested in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning decisions that they had to make within their own programs . They also consulted the anthropologist as a NAIHS staff member to help develop memoranda of agreement and other operating mechanisms by which they could regularize their working relationships with NAIHS on issues ranging from referral processes to the construction of sanitation facilities for relocatee housing . Although this intervention was not originally envisioned during the discovery phase , as the work progressed it gradually evolved as a very important part of the anthropologist 's role . Evaluation Stage The survey yielded both expected and unexpected results . Although the anthropologist expected that relocatees were using mental health clinics  | at a higher rate , he did not anticipate the degree of emotional distress that they suffered . Also unexpected was the interest of lawyers , courts , and legislative bodies in the results of the research on clinic usage . Once the results were in , a fourth intervention evolved : that of anthropologist as neutral , expert witness . Results and Evaluation First Intervention The best way to discuss results is to critically look at each intervention . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of communication in the FJUA and disseminate accurate information . This intervention was highly successful because it provided an objective data source while developments in the FJUA were changing almost daily . It helped to substantially decrease the number of rumors and to provide a reliable source of information to which people could refer . It also caused the anthropologist to become a clinical resource . A number of patients and other individuals were referred to him for assistance in solving problems arising because of the land dispute . In addition , he became a networking resource for putting people with land dispute problems together with resources in both NAIHS and other agencies . The first intervention lasted approximately three years . After a law to amend and clarify the Relocation Act was passed and the final federal partition line was drawn , the need for continuous updating decreased markedly . Therefore , the JUA Report was terminated , and in-service training sessions were held less frequently . Second Intervention The second intervention was also very successful . It produced data that conclusively indicated NAIHS Mental Health Branch clinics were being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonrelocatees or by Navajos in general ( Topper 1980:6 ) . These data corroborated findings by Scudder et al . ( 1979 ) . It also produced the first evidence that stress resulting from involuntary relocation is associated with the development of a specific type of mental illness . Potential relocatees from the FJUA developed depressive psychopathology at a rate up to 7.5 times that for nonrelocatees ( Topper and Johnson 1979:6 ) . These results clearly showed that relocation had a mental health impact among potential relocatees from the FJUA . They also indicated that less acculturated individuals over forty were a high risk population for the development of mental depression .  | Several approaches were taken by various organizations to determine what could be done for these individuals . Within NAIHS , efforts to increase services to the potential relocatees and to sensitize services to their needs occurred on both the areawide and the individual service unit level . Attempts at the latter level involved both sensitizing staff to the specific needs of relocatee patients and attempting to increase the size and degree of professional training of the staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on program funding in fiscal years 1981-1983 , a specialized NAIHS mental health program for the FJUA was not feasible . However , the Navajo tribe was developing a tribal system of behavioral health services and had expressed interest in providing direct mental health services to individuals who lived in the FJUA . In spring 1982 the Navajo tribe established its FJUA Mental Health Program , which employed three tribal social workers and three outreach aides . From the outset this program proved to be very valuable especially in early identification of health problems and early treatment of individuals . The anthropologist , who by this time had begun clinical services at the Winslow service unit in response to FJUA and other patient needs , consulted with the program 's staff on difficult patient issues . As time went by , the anthropologist provided case review sessions for the tribal program , encouraged increasing involvement of the Winslow service unit mental health technician with it , and moved to establish a relationship between the tribal program and the Western Regional Program of the NAIHS Mental Health Branch . The response to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summarized as a joint NAIHS and Navajo tribal action to provide an increase in both the quality and the number of services to the high-risk population in the FJUA . Third Intervention The third intervention involved the anthropologist 's consultations with other agencies . The anthropologist discovered that many agencies , such as the Tribal FJUA Mental Health Program and the Navajo Tribal Land Dispute Commission , had direct roles in promoting the physical and emotional health of the FJUA Navajos . The Navajo Tribal Land Dispute Commission , established by the Navajo tribe to act as its agent in all land disputes with the Hopi tribe , helped acquire resources for people displaced or otherwise affected by these disputes . This commission worked closely with the Navajo Area Office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs . Together these two agencies and NAIHS developed a $7.7 million proposal to provide services in the FJUA that would assist both tribes in overcoming the impacts of relocation , building freezes , and livestock reduction .  | Other agencies that the anthropologist worked closely with included the Flagstaff Office of the Bureau of Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Northern Arizona University ( NAU ) . The Flagstaff office of the BIA was in charge of livestock reduction . When the staff needed ethnographic data to determine the number of sheep traditionally needed to support an individual Navajo household member at the subsistence level , it consulted the NAIHS anthropologist who used data from his dissertation and the existing literature to develop an estimate . The Navajo-Hopi Relocation Commission discussed various cultural issues in relocation with the anthropologist and asked him to help draw up a memorandum of agreement with NAIHS concerning medical examinations for Navajos applying for life estates under P.L. 96-305 . It also discussed health issues related to relocation with him , and he drafted a plan for a multimillion dollar health center on new reservation lands acquired for Navajo relocatees under P.L. 96-305 by the Relocation Commission . Finally , the anthropologist worked closely with other anthropologists , especially those at Northern Arizona University . NAU anthropologists , who had conducted studies of the impacts of livestock reduction and other subjects , worked together with the anthropologist to develop a mutually supportive and lengthy research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonanthropological researchers in attempts to generate as many reliable data as possible about the impacts of the land dispute and the legal decisions and laws designed to produce a settlement between the two tribes . Fourth Intervention The fourth intervention was not planned during the discovery/planning stage . It arose from the needs of the Navajo tribe and its attorneys to use the research findings and clinical impressions of the anthropologist to seek relief for human suffering , which they felt was a direct result of the land dispute . This situation was sensitive for the anthropologist because NAIHS had a mission to provide care to all Indian beneficiaries and needed to remain impartial . Since the anthropologist was an employee of NAIHS , he shared the delicate position of his agency . On one hand , information gathered by the agency indicated that the dispute was having negative impacts on the mental health of some Navajos who were about to be relocated . On the other hand , the agency had to determine how to utilize and disseminate this information beneficially without becoming a major factor in the dispute itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an objective and impartial manner ? in data summaries , research reports , and the JLIA  | Report . None of the information included confidential material . Because the research reports and the JUA Report were documents of a federal agency , they were all in the public domain and were available to any U.S. citizen under the Freedom of Information Act as nonclassified documents . The general public was made aware that these documents were available , and they were distributed to interested parties upon request . A number of agencies expressed interest in the results of the research and in the JUA Report , including the Navajo tribe , various federal agencies , the White House , various federal courts , and the Senate Select Committee on Indian Affairs . Much of this interest was stimulated by lawyers who worked for the Navajo tribe ; in many cases direct requests were made for an agency to enter a specific case or hearing on the side of the tribe . The information contained in the reports , after all , did support the case for developing means of reducing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency avoid the next step ? arguing for a cessation of relocation and therefore generating emotional stress for the Hopi ? The solution to this dilemma was for the agency to act as a neutral witness to the extent possible . It presented the data and briefings with minimal interpretation . It required formal requests for hearings ; for court hearings this meant that subpoenas were required ; for U.S. Senate hearings a formal written invitation was required and testimony was submitted separately . In this way , data were released to those for whom it had direct relevance and interest and in a way in which it might be used in the decision-making process . However , it was not released in a manner that would violate the NAIHS trust relationship with any of its beneficiaries or the principles of Indian self-determination . A number of lessons about the use of anthropological research in intergovernmental environments were learned during this work . First , such work is very complex . An anthropologist conducting such work within an agency must ask questions in which the agency is interested . These questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently concern complex issues that have very unclear boundaries . Therefore , the anthropologist finds it is very difficult to define the work narrowly and conduct the project from an academic perspective , which calls for clearly defined hypotheses proposed after an exhaustive literature search . Instead , he or she must learn what questions can be asked and what questions are worth asking . In this approach the anthropologist must remember that doing nothing is a perfectly acceptable plan if the discovery process indicates that intervention will probably not produce beneficial changes in policy , procedures , or services . For this reason a  | careful , three-stage approach employing the processes of discovery/ planning , intervention , and evaluation was employed . However , once it is determined that anthropological intervention can produce an improvement , the second lesson becomes apparent . Actions in the intervention stage are always actions of consequence . No matter how small the impact , interventions aimed at helping a human service agency more completely understand and develop ways of coping with the problems of the people it serves necessarily affect people 's lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others a negative one . This brings up the third lesson ? that of balancing the client 's and the general population 's interests . Many people will attempt to use the study 's results for their own benefit ; they may even attempt to recast the interventions into instruments of action for purposes not always anticipated in the discovery/planning stage . However , when the anthropologist sees that additional interventions must be developed , he or she must formulate them in a manner that protects the client 's interests while not obstructing processes that might ultimately have beneficial effects . The anthropologist should realize at the outset that he or she will not have the same control over the data that an anthropologist working in a university might . Therefore , issues such as confidentiality , protection of subjects , and dissemination of data assume an even greater than normal importance due to the synergism of imperfect control and unavoidable consequence . The fourth and final lesson of this project is the limitations of its impact . Neither the anthropologist nor the client agency will be able to effect all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a situation . The anthropologist and the client agency can deal directly with only such problems as increasing the flow of accurate information ( as with the JUA Report ) . Other problems will require the assistance of other agencies , as in the joint NAIHS and Navajo tribal efforts to provide patient care to FJUA residents suffering from emotional problems . Still other problems like the legal difficulties of relocatees must be left to other parties . As a group these four lessons indicate that clinical anthropological intervention on the agency level is often unlike anthropological research at the university level . The problems are more complex and less well defined , they often must be studied and resolved within strict time limits , and they often have unanticipated consequences that must be dealt with to prevent deterioration in the client 's situation . This level of responsibility is not often encountered in more academic settings .  | The Anthropological Difference Anthropology played a very important role in this project . In fact , the work could not have been carried out without many kinds of anthropological involvement . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Wood and Vanette ( 1979a ) was very important in developing a demographic and economic understanding of the Navajos of the FJUA . The research of Scudder et al . ( 1979 ) concerning the expected impacts of relocation was also important in helping establish the overall framework for this project . Personal conversations with both Scudder and Colson concerning their research on compulsory relocation were also important . Finally , the understanding that the anthropologist acquired from over three years of fieldwork among the Navajos provided insights for hypotheses about impacts and offered a framework by which resulting data could be interpreted . Anthropological perspectives were central in planning work with other government agencies . To study how the various agencies involved with the relocatees were organized and how they were or were not functioning , the anthropologist utilized the perspective of social anthropology . He then identified key positions and individuals within the organizations and worked with them to define and solve problems in their interrelations with each other and with the relocatees . This approach promoted the rapid development of a positive relationship between anthropologist , client @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interventions but were perhaps most critical in the second . Obviously the anthropological perspective was important in designing , administering , and analyzing the results of the patient questionnaire . However , the role of anthropology in delivering direct services to patients is not as apparent . Many of the most severely depressed patients were traditional Navajo women over the age of forty whose lifestyles were being severely altered because of livestock reduction and relocation . The anthropologist 's experience of living with elderly Navajos in a traditional Navajo sheep camp provided him with an in-depth understanding of the magnitude of the changes in their lives and the emotional dislocation that these changes could produce . Such knowledge helped the clinic staff develop an empathic response to the problems of these patients and plan clinical treatments that met their specific needs . Finally , the first intervention utilized a form of applied anthropology not commonly thought of in work among American Indians . The procedures employed in producing the JLIA Report and in working with correspondents from such organizations as the New York Times , Time Magazine , and local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropology described by Eiselein and Topper ( 1976 ) . This basic understanding of mediated communications was very helpful in organizing important information so that it could be conveyed in a clear and concise manner . Because of its broad scope , the project might best be considered " action anthropology " as defined by Sol Tax ( 1975 ) . As such , it demonstrates the usefulness of employing anthropology broadly to generate and communicate information and thereby stimulate action . Anthropology used in this way helped the project achieve its goals of helping provide better services to a group of people under severe stress . References Eiselein , E. B. , and M. D. Topper . 1976 . Media Anthropology , a special edition of Human Organization , June . Scudder , T. , D. Aberle , D. Begishe , E. Colson , C. Etsitty , J. Joe , M.E.D. Scudder , B.B.G. Tippeconnie , R. Walters , and J. Williamson . 1979 . Expected Impacts of Compulsory Relocation on Navajos With Special Emphasis on Relocation from the Former Joint Use Area Required by P.L. 93-531 . Binghamton , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , S. 1975 . " The Bow and the How : Reflections on Hunters , Villagers , and Anthropologists . " In Action Anthropology , a special issue of Current Anthropology 16 , no. 4 , December 1975 . Topper , M. D. 1980 . " Effects of P.L. 93-531 on Navajo Area Mental Health Patients from the Former Navajo-Hopi Joint Use Area : Final Report . " Ms. , Indian Health Service , Window Rock , Arizona . Topper , M. D. , and L. Johnson . 1979 . " Effects of Forced Relocation on Navajo Mental Health Patients from the Former Navajo-Hopi Joint Use Area . " Ms. Indian Health Service , Window Rock , Arizona ( also published in the White Cloud Journal 1980 ) . Wood , J. , and W. Vanette. 1979a . A Socio-Cultural Assessment of the Livestock Reduction Program In the Navajo-Hopi Joint Use Area . Flagstaff , Arizona : Flagstaff Office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs . . 1979b . " A Preliminary Assessment of the Significance of Navajo Sacred Places in the Big Mountain Area . " Ms. Navajo and Hopi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources of lead poisoning most commonly affect children in the United States : eating lead-based paint chips , living and playing near a smelter where even the dust has a high lead content , and eating off pottery with an improperly treated lead glaze . This chapter describes the discovery of a fourth source of lead poisoning , one resulting from folk medicine practices in Mexican American communities . In summer 1981 , a team of emergency room health professionals in Los Angeles discovered an unusual case of lead poisoning . They treated a child with classic symptoms of heavy metal poisoning . When they pumped the child 's stomach , they found a bright orange powder . Laboratory analysis of the powder determined that it was lead tetroxide ( PbO4 ) with an elemental lead content of more than 90 percent . After being strenuously questioned , the child 's mother admitted giving the child a powdered remedy called azarcon . She also said that the powder was used to treat a folk illness called empacho , which translates roughly as a combination of indigestion and constipation . Empacho is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bolus of food sticking to the intestinal wall . Unfortunately , this case was not handled in a culturally sensitive way , and the child was not brought back for follow-up . However , a general public health alert was sent out ( see MMWR 1981 , 1982 ; Trotter et al . 1984 ) . As a result of the public health alert , a second case of lead poisoning from azarcon was discovered in Greeley , Colorado , by a nurse from the Sunrise Health Clinic who was culturally sensitive to the parents ' claim  | that the child was not eating paint ( the most commonly suspected cause ) . Having read about the azarcon case in Los Angeles , the nurse asked the mother if she was treating the child for empacho , and , when she answered yes , asked if the mother was using azarcon as a remedy . Analysis of the powder that the mother was keeping with the family 's medicines confirmed that it was lead tetroxide . Until this time , the use of lead as a home remedy had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropological input had been sought . However , additional questioning by the Los Angeles County Health Department and by individuals at the Sunrise Community Health Center turned up apparent widespread knowledge of azarcon in both Mexican American communities . The U.S. Public Health Service decided at this point that an anthropologist 's study of this potential problem would be useful . About six months after the azarcon problem was discovered , I was called by a friend who worked in the Region VI office for the Public Health Service ( PHS ) in Dallas . He asked me if I had ever heard of a remedy called azarcon while I was doing my research on Mexican American folk medicine . I had not . He then told me about the cases found in Los Angeles and Greeley and asked me to look for azarcon in south Texas . I searched all the herb shops in four towns , including the one in the market in Reynosa , Mexico , and talked with curanderos ( folk healers ) living on the U.S.-Mexican border . I did not find azarcon nor did I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this fact to my friend , and we both were relieved that the problem seemed to be confined to the western United States . Not long after I received a packet of information from the Los Angeles County Health Department , which had conducted a small survey on azarcon . Among other findings they had discovered some alternate names for the preparation . I went back to the herb shops to look for azarcon under its alternate names because the common names of remedies often change drastically from region to region . The most important alternate name turned out to be greta . When I asked for greta in Texas I was sold a heavy yellow powder that , when analyzed , was found to be lead oxide ( PbO ) with an elemental lead content of approximately 90 percent . The shop owners told me that greta was used to treat empacho . So we now had confirmation that two related lead-based remedies were being used to treat empacho in Mexican American communities . In fact , a wholesale distributor in Texas , which was also selling over 200 other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 120 herb shops ( yerberias ) . This finding drastically shaped both the scope and the content of the health education project that we started soon after this discovery . Because of the geographical  | scope of the problem and the multiple compounds involved , in the end six interacting clients utilized applied anthropology services to deal with the threat of greta and azarcon . My first client was the Region VI Office of PHS . As previously described , it sponsored my initial narrowly focused ethnographic study to find azarcon ? before our knowledge of greta . The second client group that requested my help was the task force formed to create and implement a health education project directed at eliminating the use of azarcon in Mexican American communities in Colorado and California . The project was sponsored through a federally funded migrant and community health center , the Sunrise Health Center , but was funded by the foundation of a private corporation . Our objective was to develop culturally sensitive health awareness materials that would reduce the risk of people using azarcon without attacking or denigrating the folk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would produce strong resistance to the whole campaign and make people ignore our message . I was asked to participate because of my research on Mexican American folk medicine , in the hopes that my ethnographic data could be used to help design a health awareness campaign that would encourage a switch to nonpoisonous remedies . The technique behind this approach has been successfully used by all major advertising agencies for decades : It is relatively easy to get people to switch from one product to another when both products perform the same function . It is difficult or impossible to get people to stop using a product for which there is a felt need , regardless of the known potential for harm for that product , unless one provides an acceptable alternative . Thus , it is easy to get a smoker to switch from Camel filters to Winstons but very hard to get that person to stop smoking altogether . So we decided that we would attempt to give people the alternative of switching from greta or azarcon to another remedy for empacho , such as to de manzanilla @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than trying to get people to stop treating empacho altogether . The discovery of greta use in Texas and Mexico produced a third client . The Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) decided it needed basic ethnographic information on the use of greta . It wanted to know who used greta , what it was used for , how it was used , and where it could be purchased . Lead oxide is most commonly used as an industrial compound ( as an adherent in marine paints ) and as a color component in the paint used to make the " no passing " stripes on U.S. highways . It has never been considered either a food additive or a potential drug . Therefore , the FDA needed verifiable data that the compound was being used as a " drug . " The FDA asked me to conduct a short , thorough ethnography in the herb shops where I had found the greta . This study  | included collecting samples and interviewing the owners ( and a number of clients who wandered in to buy other remedies ) about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to treat , how it was prepared , and the size of dose given for children and adults . These data allowed the FDA to determine that greta was a food additive and enabled it to exercise its authority to issue a Class I recall to ban the sale of these lead compounds as remedies . The information I gathered was important because herbal remedies do not normally fall under the jurisdiction of the FDA , ' except in terms of the cleanliness requirements surrounding their packaging . The discovery of greta in Texas caused the regional office of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) to request my assistance in creating and executing a survey along the U.S./Mexican border to discover how much knowledge people had about greta and azarcon and how many people used them . HHS felt that the use might be much more extensive than was suggested by the relatively small number of poisonings discovered in clinics . The survey indicated that as many as 10 percent of the Mexican American households along the border had at one time used greta or azarcon . The survey also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and laundry bluing ( Trotter 1985 ) . The fifth group to request data was the Hidalgo County Health Care Corporation , a local migrant clinic . It asked for a survey to determine the level of greta and azarcon use in the local population compared with their clinic population . The HHS regional survey had only sampled clinic populations . The Hidalgo County research project involved simultaneously sampling at the clinics and in the communities from which the clinic population is derived . Over a two-week period , a stratified random sample of informants at the clinic sites were given a questionnaire designed for the HHS regional survey . At the same time , a random stratified block cluster sample of households in the catchment communities were administered the same questionnaire . The results indicated that no significant difference existed between the two populations in terms of their knowledge about and use of greta and azarcon . The data showed trends that suggested that the clinic populations were more likely to treat folk illnesses than was the population at large . My final client was the Migrant Health Service , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requested consultation on the necessity of a lead initiative for the entire United States , based on the results of the ethnographic and survey research conducted for other groups involved in the overall project . In the end , it was decided that a nationwide lead initiative was not necessary . Instead , the areas of high greta and azarcon  | use were targeted for a special initiative and received special notification of the problem . Process and Players The wide geographical distribution of greta and azarcon use , their employment as traditional remedies , and their inclusion in the treatment of a folk illness made this problem ideal for intervention by an anthropologist . Among other qualities , we tend to have a high ambiguity quotient : We tolerate poorly defined research objectives and virtually boundary-free problems that must be analyzed and solved simultaneously . The fact that the project rapidly developed a multiple-client base also made it very suitable for applied anthropology rather than for another social science . Anthropologists are often called upon to serve diverse , even conflicting , roles as culturebrokers . Multiple clients are no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go-between in one setting develops the skills for doing so in any other setting . From this perspective , my participation was requested by various clients because medical anthropologists have become known for being comfortable and competent in dealing with the types of issues presented by the greta and azarcon problem ( problems that do not fit existing , well-defined categories or public health procedures ) . I did not become involved through a disguised or accidental process ; my expertise was specifically sought because of the clients ' recognition that they wanted a particular set of skills . This was particularly clear for the group creating the health education program . It deliberately sought an anthropologist with current knowledge about the Mexican American folk medical system . I was chosen because several people in the group had either read articles I had written or had heard me speak publicly about folk medicine . Likewise the migrant health program of PHS wanted someone with the same knowledge base , and I had previously worked with several of the individuals there . My role evolved into a combination of researcher , consultant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My goal was to help create a culturally sensitive and effective method for reducing the use of these two folk remedies without interfering with the overall use of folk medicine . Another of my critical roles was that of information broker between the various client groups , some of which had not previously been in communication . Some of these groups had severe organizational barriers to communication with one another . One such barrier was simply organizational distance ; the Washington-based migrant health officials only dealt with the local programs within certain contexts , such as regional and national meetings , or when a problem occurred  | in the operation of a clinic . I provided a good temporary ( higher intensity ) communication bridge to facilitate the exchange of information for this project . In the same way , the PHS and FDA had little need for contact , except for the temporary mutual need to solve different aspects of the greta/azarcon problem . But each of these groups found it useful to have the information available to , or available from , the others . My final role was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study . The group developing the health education project wanted my findings published in order to disseminate the information about greta and azarcon as widely as possible . PHS wanted my results because it was finding it more and more difficult to put money into projects on the sole basis of an emotional appeal . The federal government ( and increasing numbers of state and local governments ) are reluctant to recognize " problems " that are not sufficiently documented and shown to be " real . " One of the favored forms of documentation is publication in scientific journals . So following the normal process of publishing the results of an investigation allows an agency or organization to demonstrate a need for a specific program . The agency can support a request for a shortterm ( emergency ) effort or can request a future increase in funds ( or at least the maintenance of their prior funding levels ) . Scholarly documentation of problems and program effectiveness is particularly useful for programs that receive federal funds on an annual basis . When the preliminary results of my ethnographic research were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1984 ) , the officials in the migrant health program felt they could reasonably justify the expenditure of funds to deal with the part of the greta and azarcon problem that affected their clinics . Publication can provide other long-term benefits . Naming members of the nonscholar staff as co-authors of publications not only gives them appropriate recognition for their contributions but also can increase the opportunities for future funding . Sharing a publication and its visibility tends to be excellent public relations . Clients can use the prestige of being an author in the development of their own careers . This tends to improve the chances of the anthropologist securing additional consultant work from that source . It produces a basic win/win situation . Results and Evaluation Because this project involved several clients , it also had multiple results and multiple levels of outcomes . The Sunrise Clinic health education project resulted in considerable media exposure on the existence and dangers of greta and azarcon . This exposure included radio public service announcements broadcast on Spanish radio stations , a special television  | program aired in Los Angeles county , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informational campaigns contained the suggestion that people switch to other remedies because greta and azarcon were hazardous . The other major accomplishment of the Sunrise project was the production and distribution of a poster designed by Mexican American commercial design students at Pan American University . The students were provided an in-depth briefing on the problem and our investigation ; then were turned loose to create a culturally appropriate poster . A small cash prize was given to the student with the best design . Twenty posters were completed and turned over to a group of Mexican American clients and staff at the clinic to judge for most effective design . The final poster , which combines elements in two of the submissions , uses the culturally emotive symbol of La Meurte ( a skeleton ) to warn of the dangers of the use of greta and azarcon . The dominant impact of the poster is visual/emotional ? to trigger the client into asking the clinic staff about greta and azarcon . The group felt that too many words would dilute the impact of the poster , so we did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ design . Posters with this design have been placed in over 5,000 clinics and other public access sites in each state with a concentration of Mexican Americans . ' The success of the overall campaign is demonstrated by the fact that some two years after the project was completed , interest had died down , and both greta and azarcon were hard to find in the United States . Another measure of the campaign 's lasting success is illustrated by the doctor in El Paso who treated a child with classic lead poisoning symptoms . Not only did he recognize the probable cause of the symptoms ( lead poisoning has such common symptoms that it is rarely suspected ) , he immediately asked the mother if the child was being treated with greta or azarcon . It turned out to be greta , and the child was immediately treated , with no serious long-term problems . The doctor was very happy that he had caught a problem that others might have missed , and we were pleased to discover that the project had at least a qualitative measure of success . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had an important effect on public knowledge about these remedies and has reduced their use by some degree . However , no scientific effort was made to determine exactly how much change has occurred . Even with the increased information , these compounds will continue to be used regardless of the effectiveness of the campaign . Knowledge does not always drive behavior , as is evident in all the results of nonsmoking campaigns . The work completed for the FDA was successful within the parameters set by the client . The data were sufficient to allow the agency to determine  | that the consumption of greta and azarcon fell within their jurisdiction , and it was able to successfully conduct a recall . Additionally , the data and the agency 's recognition of its validity allow it to deal with future incidences of the sale of these two compounds as home remedies . This is a positive benefit because reuse of the compound is virtually assured by the fact that Mexico is the primary source of folk knowledge about the use of greta and azarcon and the source of the compounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not been able to devote many resources to this particular problem . My work for the regional office of HHS resulted in data that allowed policy to be set and lead screening procedures to be amended at both national and regional levels to deal with this new source of lead poisoning . The basic policies dictated the creation of the new lead protocols . The agency pinpointed potential areas of high usage of the compounds and recommended cost-effective lead screening programs to be undertaken at selected sites . The screening is accomplished by drawing small samples of blood and testing it chemically for the effects or presence of lead . Because of the survey and accompanying ethnographic data the lead screening protocols for migrant and public health services were modified to include ethnomedical sources of poisoning , such as greta and azarcon . Clinics were alerted to this source , and a growing number of cases have subsequently been discovered that would have otherwise been overlooked . The data provided to HHS also permitted cost avoidances . Just after the discovery of greta and azarcon there was a rush to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some very expensive equipment for a large number of clinics . However , the data allowed a more cost effective decision to be made : to only do lead screening in those areas where there was a demonstrated risk . This approach avoided the purchase of equipment that would have been misused or not used at all because no funds were available to train clinic staffs to use these complex instruments after they were purchased . The survey of greta and azarcon use ( Trotter 1985 ) turned out to be an excellent educational and informational device . It was conducted at thirty migrant and public health clinics in Texas , New Mexico , and Arizona . As a result of the open-ended ethnographic structuring of the survey instrument , several other potentially toxic compounds , with regional but not universal usage , were also discovered . This finding alerted the local clinics both to the current use of home treatments of illnesses in their area and to some of the specific health education needs of their clients . In my opinion , the education benefits of conducting this type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health care service providers .  | To disperse the data as widely and rapidly as possible , four different articles on greta and azarcon were submitted to a variety of journals . Each article was targeted for a particular audience . The most important audiences were thought to be health professionals , medical anthropologists , public health personnel , and an international pharmacological audience . Each audience needed to know about the data and had an opportunity to help solve the problem of lead poisoning caused by folk remedies . However , this process of multiple submissions conflicts directly with the practice of avoiding prior publication . The Hidalgo County Health Care Corporation was provided with reports showing that greta and azarcon use was comparable between their clinic and catchment populations . These data were also passed along to the regional and national offices of PHS . In this case the client used the data to create priorities for the next funding cycle . Each funding request requires goals and priorities , and better funding opportunities exist if the clinic demonstrates changing as well as expanding needs and services , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to successfully compete for funding for its patient education goals by demonstrating a need for further health education on home remedies . Perhaps the most important overall result of this project was the increased awareness of the utility of anthropology in solving culturally related health care problems in at least one segment of the medical care delivery system . For many years anthropologists have been saying that knowledge of folk medicine was important to the delivery of health care . But the only examples of how such knowledge was useful were couched in terms of " better rapport " with patients , " potentially reducing recidivism , " or were tied to the " interface between culture and psychological processes . " Patient rapport is an abominably low priority for practicing physicians and for most health clinics that are experiencing a patient overload . Likewise the cultural/psychological aspect has low prestige and is of interest to a small group of practitioners but not to the larger group dealing with physical medicine . Now anthropologists are becoming visible to the greater part of medicine . Our discovery of the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are causing lead poisoning in Hmong , Saudi Arabian , and Chinese communities have finally demonstrated a clear link between anthropological research and the dominant biophysical side of modern medicine . Anthropological knowledge , research methods , and theoretical orientations are finally being used to solve epidemiological problems overlooked by the established disciplines . For some of our potential clients , this approach , for the first time , makes anthropology a potentially valuable source for consultation and for funding .  | A project is only half successful , regardless of its results , if it does not produce additional opportunities for anthropologists to practice anthropology . These serendipitous results can be as simple as further work for the same client or as important as the development of new theories for the discipline . Yet rarely are these spin-offs mentioned or considered an important aspect of anthropological praxis . Even when a project has clear closure ( rare for many of the types of applied problems tackled by anthropologists ) , the process of solving the problem should set up personal and professional relationships that carry beyond that temporary closure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are process oriented ; they are constantly moving from one point on a continuum to the next . The additional opportunities created by the greta and azarcon problem may have more long-lasting effects on the cross-cultural delivery of health care in the United States than the original projects had . The first spin-off was an invitation to participate in a program review for the Migrant Health Services division of PHS in Washington , D.C. The program review brought together a group of experts from around the United States to review , revise , and set new policies for the delivery of health care services in all migrant health clinics in the United States . The policies that were adopted are strongly cross cultural . They include the development of a Public Health Service Corps provider orientation package that specifically addresses cultural sensitivity , basic anthropological concepts of culture , and awareness of the qualitative aspects of migrant lifestyles , health beliefs , and medical needs . I am in the process of developing this package . Other policies and goals include statements on program coordination , continuity of care , information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All have been shaped by the participation of anthropologists in the policy-making body . Additionally , Indiana Health Centers , Inc. , a private , nonprofit corporation that runs the migrant health clinics in Indiana , asked me to spend a week as a consultant for its program . The primary purpose of the consultation was to conduct public and clinic seminars on ethnomedicine and its importance to the delivery of health care to Mexican Americans . A latent purpose was to legitimize the use of culturally appropriate health services and to integrate them into the scientific medical system . One indication that the process worked is the clinic 's decision to incorporate four of the most common Mexican American folk illnesses into their diagnostic system , which includes a computer coding and retrieval system . At the end of the year , the clinics will use these to set goals , determine funding and educational needs , and determine policy for the program , along with all other diagnostic data derived from their computer system .  | I was also invited by the Pennsylvania Department of Education , Migrant Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Awareness Patterns Preventing Illness and Encouraging Responsibility ) . Project HAPPIER , which has a national scope , is funded through discretionary ( 143c ) funds from the Office of the Secretary of Education . The objective of the project was to provide a major health resource guide and the data necessary to target health education in migrant clinics and for migrant educators , nationwide . My initial role was to conduct an analysis of national migrant health education needs , including an eight-state survey of migrant health beliefs and health education needs , as seen from the perspective of the migrants themselves . Although the survey provided excellent information , several important cultural groups were not well represented . Therefore , the following year I helped conduct a separate needs assessment in Puerto Rico to gather data on one of the underrepresented groups . The goals of the surveys were to improve our knowledge about migrant health status in all three migrant streams and to provide information that would allow the states and Puerto Rico to offer migrant children sufficient health education to improve the health status of the current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the study indicate that migrants both want and need health education . This finding points up the possibility of exploring a number of areas for research and program development ( spin-offs from spin-offs ) . Other opportunities that resulted from the original project included the more traditional requests for speaking engagements , lectures , and so on . These occasions afforded visibility that created new project opportunities and acted as a source of income . In most academic settings these activities also count toward merit and promotion points . Although it is very important to direct one 's best effort toward each project , I feel that the best applied anthropologists also follow what I call the " basic fission theory of anthropological praxis . " Each project undertaken by an applied anthropologist should produce at least four others ( up to the capacity , skill , and time commitment available to the individual anthropologist ) . One indicator of success in anthropological praxis is a continued demand for the services offered ; it is easiest to generate this demand by current success . An anthropologist should look for spin-offs during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Anthropological Difference I believe that the anthropological difference I added to the greta/azarcon project comes from the training that all anthropologists receive . It includes our strong focus on culture combined with our willingness to innovate ,  | to look for explanations in areas that have been neglected by other investigators . The difference is not so much a part of anthropological theory and methods as it is a part of the personal orientation many of us have and that we try to pass along to others . For example , the health officials who originally investigated the case of lead poisoning in Greeley assumed that the little girl could only have contracted lead poisoning in the same way all other children get lead poisoning ? from the environment . ' In her case , the only accessible source of lead was a fence some 200 yards from her house . Although her parents insisted that she never played near that fence , they were ignored until the child had gone through chelation therapy and , in a follow-up screening , was determined to have re-elevated blood lead levels without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California case caused a culturally sensitive worker ( who had been exposed to transcultural nursing concepts ) to ask about azarcon , and the case was solved . Another anthropological contribution to this project was in the design and administration of the research requested by the clients . The methodological contributions an anthropologist can make to a project may be as important or even more important to the client than his or her contributions of theory . It is relatively easy to find someone who has a theoretical explanation for known behavior ; it is also easy to find someone who can administer surveys . It is much harder to find someone who can combine ethnographic data collection and theory grounded in real behavior with survey methodology that can determine the scope of a behavior . These projects demanded both types of expertise . I had to discover both the basic patterns of and reasons for the continued use of home remedies in an urban-industrial society and a cultural context within which the educational and intervention process could take place . At the same time , I had the vitally important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had become and if other hazardous remedies were being used to treat the same folk illness . A combination of ethnography and survey accomplished these goals . The final area of anthropological contribution was in the design of the educational material and the programmatic responses to the problem of greta and azarcon . The major contribution there was to ensure that the materials used or developed were culturally appropriate rather than trying to force inappropriate change on people who would resent it , making the effort useless in the long run . In some ways this cluster of projects indicates a potential new era for anthropology in health-related fields . In these instances the services of an anthropologist were deliberately sought because of the clients ' sophisticated knowledge of the type of services they needed and the exact type of expertise they wanted . They needed descriptive ethnographic  | data to determine a method in which to produce a product switch from one remedy to other , nontoxic ones . In addition they needed a survey built on a solid ethnographic base that did not presume a closed field of knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropologists are equally comfortable with quantitative and qualitative methods of data collection . This combination of research methods is actually stronger than either pure ethnography or pure statistical analysis , but it requires a much more methodologically sophisticated researcher . In some ways , the flexibility of approach ? an eclectic orientation to methodology and analysis ? has always marked the anthropological difference and may herald a subtle but real advantage not only for anthropological praxis but also for the future employment of anthropologists in many industries . If , as many claim , we are now in an information-driven age , anthropologists should have an advantage in the information service market , given the importance or centrality of communications research and information handling in the history of anthropology . Notes 1 . Most of the people buying and selling greta and azarcon believe they are herbal compounds , probably because the overwhelming majority of Mexican American home remedies are botanicals . 2 . Other Hispanic groups were not targeted for this campaign . A broad search among anthropologists working with other Hispanic populations in the United States indicated that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two traditional sources of lead poisoning are the consumption of lead paint chips , primarily by children living in dilapidated urban areas , and occupational exposure to high concentrations of lead by workers and children of workers in high lead use industries , such as battery manufacturing . The third source is environmental pollution . The most common victims of this type of poisoning are children whose normal hand-to-mouth activities give them an overdose of lead from playing on soil with a high lead content ( such as that near heavily traveled roads or industries such as smelters that have high lead emission levels ) . Epidemiological investigations are conducted when a child or adult is detected as having high blood lead levels . These investigations invariably concentrate on discovering which of these sources caused the problem . References Ackerman et al . 1982 . Lead poisoning from Lead Tetroxide Used as a Folk Remedy ? Colorado . MMWR ( Center for Disease Control , Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ) 30(52):647-648.  | Trotter , Robert T. , II . 1985 . Greta and Azarcon : A Survey of Episodic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Trotter , Robert T. , II , Alan Ackerman , Dorothy Rodman , Abel Martinez , and Frank Sorvillo. 1984 . Azarcon and Greta : Ethnomedical Solution to an Epidemiological Mystery . Medical Anthropology Quarterly 14(3):3,18 . Vashistha , et al . 1981 . Use of Lead Tetroxide as a Folk Remedy for Gastrointestinal Illness . MMWR 30(43):546-547.  | The government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands planned to expand its airport in Truk , an island group in the central Caroline Islands . The people of the two villages targeted for construction objected : The project would destroy traditional fishing areas and important cultural landmarks and take land and food resources for which the villagers felt they would not be properly compensated . As a result , the government faced increasing civil disobedience and threats of litigation by the villagers . As anthropologists on the scene of the dispute , we became mediators between the parties in the standoff . Since the end of World War II , the United States has administered most of the islands of Micronesia as the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations . The trusteeship is scheduled to end soon , and for several years the United States has been installing roads , airports , and other capital improvements to provide a basis for economic development when the islands become self-governing . One of the new governments emerging from the TTPI is the Federated States of Micronesia ; one of its states is Truk ; the capital island of Truk State is Moen , and two of Moen 's villages are Iras and Mechchitiw . In 1978 Truk International Airport was a coral runway within Iras village , barely long enough to handle the Boeing 727 airliners that landed there twice a day . The TTPI proposed to extend and improve the airport through construction contracts administered by the U.S. Navy . The airport was originally built as a bomber-fighter airstrip by the Japanese in 1941 ; in building it , they displaced the Iras villagers from their shoreline homes and pulled down the adjacent slopes of Mt .  | Tonaachaw to provide construction fill . In 1948 the people of Iras returned , but the U.S. and TTPI governments retained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reestablish themselves on the quarried mountain slopes and in the filled-in taro swamps around the foot of the mountain . The U.S. government reached a settlement with the people of Iras in 1956 by which they paid something less than $300 per acre for the right to " indefinite use " of the land under the airport . Few of the villagers understood the settlement , and those who thought they did , understood that they were to be paid annual rent . They soon found out that they were wrong , and they were bitter . There was little they could do , however , except shake their fists and shout " get off my land " to passing planes , until the early 1970s when lawyers from the newly formed Micronesian Legal Services Corporation took up their cause . The villagers filed suit against the TTPI in 1973 , and after considerable maneuvering the case was referred to an impartial commission , which found against the government . The government promised to pay for proper leases but began dickering about the price . Each side brought in appraisers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the 1970s , the villagers still had neither their land nor their money . The generation that had seen the village razed by the Japanese was growing old in disappointment ; their children were growing up in bitterness . In 1978 , the government unveiled its plans to expand the airport . By this time the plans had been developed in considerable detail ; engineering drawings were prepared ; and the Navy was ready to award a contract . The environmental impact statement on the project had been completed virtually without consultation with the villagers , and it was vague on a number of key points . Thousands of tons of coral fill were needed , for example , and would have to be dredged from the reef , but the location and boundaries of the dredge area were not identified . Noise impacts were discussed only very generally ; a monitoring program was supposed to keep noise , dust , and other impacts under control , but its nature had not been established . Although strenuous objections had been raised to the environmental impact statement ( EIS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted by the Federal Aviation Administration in 1976 , and by 1978 the Navy was ready to proceed . The Navy 's detailed plans , revealed to the villagers for the first time in a public hearing held by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers , exposed a number of major problems for the villagers . 1 . The entire reef flat in front of Mechchitiw village , just east of Iras , was to be dredged for fill . Trukese fish on the reef flat , especially around pfintipiin ( rock mounds constructed by women as artificial habitats ) . The  | airport planners assumed that the villagers no longer fished on the reef flat , but no one had bothered to study the matter . In fact , the villagers continued to use the reef flat extensively , and as they pointed out , they obviously could no longer do so once it was dredged 40 feet deep . 2 . The airport would be fenced for safety reasons ; the fence would keep people from the rocks west of the runway , along the shore , where many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sewer , concentrated in a filled-in but poorly drained taro swamp , this was the closest thing to a sanitary waste disposal system . The government proposed to do nothing about the problem , arguing that since such pollution of the lagoon was illegal , it would be inappropriate to address it . 3 . The villagers would no longer be able to beach their boats along the shoreline west of the runway ; they would have to walk a mile or so to the next available moorage. 4 . The questions of land ownership and compensation were still not settled , and the airport would take still more land because it would require expansion of a nearby quarry . No provision had been made for acquiring the land or compensating the landowners , other than an assumption by the airport planners that the Truk State government would handle the matter . 5 . The construction would destroy several landmarks important in the cultural history of the villagers and Trukese generally ; notably , warning lights would be required on the peak of Mt . Tonaachaw , where the culture heros @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magical power is ascribed to the peak of Tonaachaw and to various rocks and other sites on the mountain slopes and the reef ; the airport had been designed without consideration for these locations . 6 . The project would generate noise and dust during construction , and airport expansion would enable more and larger planes to land there , increasing the disturbance to the villagers . Camillo Noket , the young and sophisticated chief of Iras village , cited studies indicating a high incidence of psychological distress among people living near airports and asserted that a similar situation already prevailed in Iras . The airport planners countered that air operations around the new airport would be quieter than those on the old runway and that construction impacts would be carefully monitored ; however , they were not specific about how these plans would be carried out . Shortly after the public hearing , Chief Camillo led the people of his village to the airport in a mass demonstration of protest and threatened to block air operations indefinitely . Micronesian Legal Services Cor-  | poration prepared to seek an injunction to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem . Process and Players We became involved in the project in a roundabout way . Late in 1977 , Parker took up residence in Iras to conduct ethnographic research for her PhD dissertation , which concerns Trukese land law ( Parker 1985 ) . By the time of the public hearing in early 1978 , she had become conversant in the Trukese language and had been adopted into a family and clan . King , Parker 's husband , had been loaned to the TTPI by the U.S. Department of the Interior as a consultant in archeology and historic preservation , to help organize a historic and cultural preservation program and an archeological survey throughout Micronesia . Because of the historical significance of Mt . Tonaachaw and the archeological remains of Iras village that lay beneath the existing runway , the government was required by Section 106 of the U.S. National Historic Preservation Act to consider the effects of the project and consult about them with the U.S. Advisory Council on Historic Preservation . King was responsible for organizing this consultation . King recognized , thanks to Parker 's acquaintance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airport went beyond its impacts on historic places and archeological sites . King made an effort to bring these issues to light and seek their resolution through the Section 106 consultation process ( see King 1981 ) . At first , the government 's response was relatively hostile , culminating in an effort to dismiss King and expell both authors from the islands . This effort , which met substantial objections from both the Department of the Interior and key Micronesian politicians , began to attract media attention on Guam . Meanwhile the problems presented to the project by the villagers showed no signs of going away , and in an abrupt turnabout the TTPI not only reinstated King to his position but charged the Historic Preservation Office with the responsibility of mediating between the government and the villages with respect to all airport impacts . Parker had no official role in the mediation process from the government 's point of view , but it was tacitly recognized that she was the primary translator of the villagers ' concerns into the government 's language . We have never inquired into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's change of heart . In the interests of working together , we all pretended that the unpleasantness surrounding the attempted ouster had never occurred ; all concerned were treading on unfamiliar ground . Our charge was a broad one ? to mediate the differences ? and no one was specific about how to carry out this mission .  | Clearly , the first step was to get the villagers to present their concerns in a way that the government could easily understand . Their deeply felt , but not very systematically expressed , outrage over what they believed the project would do to them had to be developed into a bill of particulars that could serve as a basis for negotiation . The government knew what it wanted : the airport . For an amicable solution to the conflict , the villagers ' objections had to be broken down into a list of wants that could perhaps be met . To avoid charges by the government that the villagers were adding to their list of grievances as the negotiations proceeded , the list had to be as comprehensive as possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required a series of meetings in each village . Each had a different way of reaching consensus . In Iras the village council of senior men drafted a list of grievances under Chief Camillo 's direction , and meetings of the whole village were held to discuss and refine them . Parker attended many of these meetings , sometimes with King , and provided him with outlines of the concerns as they developed . In other cases Parker was courteously excluded and then asked to transmit the results to King at the TTPI headquarters on Saipan . In Mechchitiw , a formal meeting of the entire village , with both of us in attendance , initiated the consultation process ; later a working group of senior men under the leadership of Chief Chitaro William met with us regularly over coffee in a village store to focus the issues and negotiate . On Saipan , King now enjoyed the full support of Trust Territory High Commissioner Adrian Winkel and Deputy High Commissioner Juan Sablan ; as a result , the otherwise recalcitrant officials in charge of public works , transportation , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperative . As the villagers ' concerns were clarified , they were taken up by King with the responsible officials in a series of meetings . Parker , based on her daily interaction with the people of the villages , made sure that King understood their needs with precision . King , understanding the workings of the government and accepted ( marginally ) as an insider , tried to cast these concerns in terms the government could understand and to negotiate about them on behalf of the villagers . As government proposals to satisfy the villagers ' needs were developed , King could usually judge which would be acceptable to the people ; conversely , as the villagers began to develop proposed solutions , we could usually advise them about what would be acceptable to the government . Although many proposals and counterproposals flowed back and forth between Truk and Saipan , and King shuttled back and forth every few weeks , our understanding of the constraints and interests perceived by both sides of the controversy made it possible to handle most of the consultation informally and avoid  | the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end , the issues of concern to the villagers were handled as follows . 1 . The dredge area on the Mechchitiw reef flat was redesigned to minimize the productive reef destroyed and to provide continued access for the villagers to the reef edge . This change cost the government several hundred thousand dollars because the Navy had already let the construction contract based on the original dredge configuration . The village was also given assistance in the construction of a seawall to halt shoreline erosion , which the villagers feared would increase as a result of the dredging . 2 . Compensation was provided for the punupun that would be destroyed in both villages , at a rate of $90 per punupun . First , an accurate survey of punupun was made jointly by the Truk State government and the villages , each watching the other to guard against cheating . Next , a price had to be established by negotiation , with the government starting from a low point set in a several-year-old court case and the villagers starting from a high point based on estimates of fish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local market . The final figure was $40 per punupun higher than the government 's starting point and $60 lower than the villagers ' . Finally , the method of distribution had to be decided ; consistent with our recommendation , the money was provided as a lump sum to each village , whose leaders were responsible for distribution to individual punupun owners , using their own systems of decision-making . 3 . To compensate for food lost from the reefs , each village received a block grant of between $100,000 and $150,000 from the government after each chartered an agricultural and fishing cooperative with government advice and developed a proposal for capitalization . The grants were used to construct cooperative stores , to purchase tools , seeds , and other commodities , and , in the case of Iras , to construct a fishing boat and train its crew . 4 . Construction priorities in the Truk State capital improvement program were shifted , and approval was obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency , to provide Iras with a modern sewer system at an early date . The village @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided for the system across all private lands in the village . Until the sewer is complete , it was quietly and tacitly agreed that gates would be left open in the airport fence . 5 . The government agreed to construct an anchorage and mooring area for the village 's boats within one of the dredge areas that will be conveniently located for most villagers .                     