@@774130

txt  | So rapid was the motion of the mill , and so rapid also the combustion of the dried canes or " trash " used as fuel in the boiling house that the work of the millers and firemen , though light enough in itself , was exhausting . A French writer described as " prodigious " the galloping of the mules attached to the sweeps of the mill ; but " still more surprising " in his opinion was the ceaseless celerity with which the firemen kept up a full blaze of cane-trash . Those who fed the mill were liable , especially when tired or half-asleep , to have their fingers caught between the rollers . A hatchet was kept in readiness to sever the arm , which in such cases was always drawn in ; and this no doubt explains the number of maimed watchmen . The negroes employed as boilermen had a less exacting , but a heavier task . Standing barefoot for hours on the stones or hard ground and without seats for their intermissions of duty , they frequently developed " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pole which transferred the sugar from one cauldron to another was " in itself particularly heavy " ; and , as the strainers were placed at a considerable height above the cauldrons , it had to be raised as well as swung.57 The relationship between the cultivation of cane and its mechanical/chemical transformation into sugar ? the final steps of which have never been commonly undertaken in the tropical zone , where the plant itself is grown ? springs from the inherent perishability of the crop . Because of the links between cutting and grinding , and between boiling and crystallization , land and mill must be coordinated , their labor synchronized . A major consequence is that sugar-cane plantations have not usually been divided upon inheritance , since their value ( except under special conditions of change ) depends upon keeping intact the land-and-factory combination . But other consequences have been careful scheduling at the top , and the application of iron discipline at the base . Without overall control of land and mill , such scheduling and discipline would not have been possible . It is in terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , very early in its career as a form of productive organization , was an industrial enterprise . When it is remembered that the plantation form probably first developed in the eastern Mediterranean , was perfected ( mostly with enslaved labor ) by the Crup 51 saders after 1000 , was transferred to ( and in part , perhaps , reinvented on ) the Atlantic islands by 1450 , and was thereupon re-established in the New World colonies , the significance of their industrialism ? at a time when industry itself was largely based on home labor , except for shipbuilding and some textiles in Europe itself ? becomes more persuasive . Since cane growing and even sugar making were , at least until the nineteenth century , activities in which mechanical force was only an imperfect and incomplete substitute for manual labor , " industry " may seem a questionable descriptive term . Also , most plantation development was based on coerced labor of various sorts , which likewise seems to run counter to our ideas of industry . We are inclined instead to think of industry in postfeudal Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factory and by a tree but unskilled labor force , divested of its tools and mass-producing commodities previously produced by hand . All the more reason to specify what is meant by " industry " here . Today we speak of " agro-industry , " and the term usually implies heavy substitution of machinery for human labor , mass production on large holdings , intensive use of scientific methods and products ( fertilizer , herbicides , the breeding of hybrid varieties , irrigation ) , and the like . What made the early plantation system agro-industrial was the combination of agriculture and processing under one authority : discipline was probably its first essential feature . This was because neither mill nor field could be separately ( independently ) productive . Second was the organization of the labor force itself , part skilled , part unskilled , and organized in terms of the plantation 's overall productive goals . To the extent possible , the labor force was composed of interchangeable units ? much of the labor was homogeneous , in the eyes of the producers ? characteristic of a lengthy middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the system was time-conscious . This time-consciousness was dictated by the nature of the sugar cane and its processing requirements , but it permeated all phases of plantation life and accorded well with the emphasis on time that was later to become a central feature of capitalist industry . The combination of field and factory , of skilled workers with unskilled , and the strictness of scheduling  |p52.  together gave an industrial cast to plantation enterprises , even though the use of coercion to exact labor might have seemed somewhat unfamiliar to latter-day capitalists . There were at least two other regards in which these plantation enterprises were industrial : the separation of production from consumption , and the separation of the worker from his tools . Such features help us to define the lives of the working people , mostly unfree , who powered plantation enterprises between the sixteenth and the late nineteenth centuries in the New World . They call our attention to the remarkably early functioning of industry in European history ( overseas colonial history , at that ) . They throw rather provocative light on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the European heartland . They also afford us an idea of the life of plantation laborers , to contrast with that of European agricultural workers and peasants of the same era . Near the mid-seventeenth century , when British and French colonists first considered producing sugar in the Caribbean , the European market for tobacco had become saturated , and the price for this curious , addictive new commodity had fallen sharply . The colonists were , for the most part , small-scale cultivators of limited means . Many of them employed on their farms freshly arrived settlers from the mother countries who were contracted to labor for a fixed period of years . These workers were debt servants , petty criminals , political and religious nonconformists , labor organizers , Irish revolutionaries ? political prisoners of different sorts . Many were simply kidnapped ; to " barbadoes " someone became a seventeenth-century verb for stealing humans . Both Britain and France used this system to rid themselves of " undesirables , " in a period when there was more labor than the domestic economies could absorb . These contracted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , represented a vital contribution to the labor needs of the colonies , on the mainland as well . At the termination of their contracts in the islands , such persons were to he given tracts of land of their own , and by this process , the new colonies would pre , urnably fill up with settlers over time . But the colonists in places such  | as Barbados and Martinique needed more labor than they could readily obtain . Sometimes they were able to lay hands on some enslaved Native Americans who might work alongside the contracted Europeans . But soon enough , the island planters began to acquire enslaved Africans . Hence the early labor patterns in the socalled sugar islands were mixed , combining European smallholders , indentured laborers , and African and Indian slaves . The shift to sugar production required substantial capital , which , as I have mentioned , was supplied by Dutch investors , men already familiar with the cultivation of sugar cane and the manufacture of sugar . In English Barbados , as the more successful planters bought their neighbors ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the shift from tobacco to sugar created larger estates . At the same time , the pattern enabling indentured servants to acquire land at the end of their terms disappeared . Small farms were replaced ' by plantations , and by the late seventeenth century and thereafter , the number of enslaved Africans rose sharply . Slavery emerged as the preferred form of labor exaction , even though it required substantial investment in human " stock . " A young teacher named Downing , writing from Barbados in 1645 as the plantation system took hold there , recounted that the Barbadians " have bought this yeare no less than a thousand negroes , and the more they buie , the more they are able to buie , for in a yeare and a halfe they will earn with God 's blessing as much as they cost . " The success of slavery in pioneering islands like Barbados and Martinique marked the beginning of the Africanization of the British and French Caribbean . From 1701 to 1810 Barbados , a mere 166 square miles in area , received 252,500 African slaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British , followed the same pattern of " economic development " ; in the same 109 years , it received 662,400 slaves . The eighteenth century was the apogee of the British and French slave-based sugar plantations . The first , Spanish period of Caribbean plantation history saw a " mixed " form of labor ; the second , 1650-1850 , with the Danes , Dutch , English , and French , embraced three quite different forms of labor exaction , and actually changed before the exclusively " slave " form ended with emancipation ( 1838 for the English , 1848 for the French ) . The third , " contract " form  | of plantation life in the Caribbean , which began with a new arrangement using imported labor to soften the effects of emancipation and to keep labor costs down , ended by the 1870s ; in 1876 , slavery ended in Puerto Rico and , in 1884 , in Cuba . Thereafter Caribbean labor ( with few exceptions ) was entirely " free . " From the point of view of the English consumers of commodities like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet changing metropolitan attitudes toward the treatment of labor in the colonies certainly had an economic coefficient . ' When slavebased plantations were evolving on the Caribbean islands , Europe itself was witnessing the emergence of free proletarian labor , along the very lines Karl Marx employed in describing capitalism . " We have seen , " he writes , " that the expropriation of the mass of the people from the soil forms the basis of the capitalist mode of production . " And " so-called primitive accumulation ... is nothing less than the historical process of divorcing the producer from the means of production . " " The European laborers who had been dispossessed by profound social and economic alterations of their countrysides would eventually become the urban factory workers ? the proletariat ? whose emergence so fascinated Marx when he was writing in the mid-nineteenth century . But in the seventeenth century that transformation had but barely begun . At the same time , in the newly acquired Caribbean colonies of Britain and France , labor was being exacted from massive populations of similarly dispossessed persons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These displaced and enchatteled Africans , who did not own their own bodies , let alone their own labor , were being reunited with the means of production , from which enslavement and transportation had separated them , but by the lash , rather than through the operation of the market . The differences between these laboring populations give rise to odd questions . Were those Caribbean colonies , the planters who ran them and the slaves who worked them , part of the same system that embraced the free and dispossessed workers of western Europe ? In the period before factory capitalism had become typical of western Europe , how do we describe the Caribbean plantations and their mode of operation ?  | What sort of economic system were they part of , since capitalism , as it is commonly conceived , had not yet even appeared ? Most students of capitalism ( though not all ) believe that capitalism itself became a governing economic form in the late eighteenth century and not before . But the rise of capitalism involved the destruction of economic systems that had preceded it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a system of world trade . It also involved the creation of colonies , the establishment of experimental economic enterprises in various world areas , and the development of new forms of slave-based production in the New World , using imported slaves ? perhaps Europe 's biggest single external contribution to its own economic growth . The Caribbean plantations were a vital part of this process , embodying all of these features , and providing both important commodities for European consumption and important markets for European production . As such they were crucial to profit making for Europe herself , even before capitalism ? in the opinion of most authorities ? had emerged there . The reader may see that this line of argument harks back to my discussion of the plantation as an early form of industrial organization , for it , too , stresses a precocious development outside the European heartland . Both in its labor forms and in its organization , then , the plantation is an oddity . Yet its existence was predicated on European intent , and in its own way it became vital to European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " it was still an important step toward capitalism . The early sugar planters of Barbados and then Jamaica measured their worth in the profit their plantations brought them ; their plantations were judged in the same way by their creditors . The owners of these plantations were usually businessmen , often absentee , and the capital they invested was commonly borrowed , mostly from metropolitan banks . These planters were in every way of great financial benefit to England . The mortgages on their estates , because of the high rate of interest which they paid for the loan of capital , were a most desirable investment for English capitalists . Money invested in  | the plantations , moreover , was of much more value to the mother country than if it had been put out at interest at home , for it became a means of retaining settlers in the colonies who in every way increased the consumption of English manufactures . One thousand pounds spent by a planter in Jamaica produced in the end better results and greater advantages to England than twice that sum expended by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the imperial economy have concluded that the West Indian colonies represented a net loss to Britain because of the costs of protectionism to the consumers , it must be remembered that the sugar eater 's loss was the sugar planter 's gain while the duties enriched the crown , no matter who paid them . At the same time , these colonies were an enormous market for finished goods . During the eighteenth century , English combined exports to the North American and West Indian colonies expanded by 2,300 percent ! As Thomas and McCloskey point out , there is a difference between social and private profitability : It is obvious that the colonial plantations and farms were privately profitable to their owners . The costs of the sugar preferences were borne by the British consumer and the costs of administration and protection by the British tax payer . The costs were widely diffused , but the benefits accrued to a small group of owners who happened to be well represented in Parliament . British mercantilism during the eighteenth century was not a consistent national policy designed to maximise the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alleged enrichment of capitalist nations by nineteenth-century empires . It was instead , as Ralph Davis suggests , a means to provide revenue to the government and a device to enrich special interest groups . The truth of the matter is that what was in the interest of the Manchester textile manufacturer or the Bristol slave trader or the West Indian planter was usually not in the interest of the British economy as a whole . That early prophet of free trade , Adam Smith , understood this well : " To found a great empire for the sole purpose of raising up a people of customers , may at first sight appear a project fit only for a nation of shopkeepers . It is , however , a project altogether unfit for a nation of shopkeepers ; but extremely fit for a nation whose government is influenced by shopkeepers. " 64 But it was the " shop- keepers " who won out , and sugar was one of their favorite weapons . To understand them , we need to understand the peculiar appeal of sugar . It then becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar and like commodities grew at such a pace in the homeland between 1650 , when the first " sugar islands " were acquired , and the mid-nineteenth century ; and to describe a little more fully what this odd colonial agricultural system had to do with capitalism . But first some more must be said of the plantation system itself , grounded as it was in the use of forced labor , even though the stimulus to its growth originated with far-off European entrepreneurs . Like proletarians , slaves are separated from the means of production ( tools , land , etc . ) . But proletarians can exercise some influence over where they work , how much they work , for whom they work , and what they do with their wages . Under some conditions , they may even possess a great deal of influence . Of course , slaves , too , may have some freedom of maneuver , depending upon the nature of the system they live in . Yet because they were themselves chattels ? property ? slaves in the New World during the period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in the interstices of the system . Slaves and forced laborers , unlike free workers , have nothing to sell , not even their labor ; instead , they have themselves been bought and sold and traded . Like the proletarians , however , they stand in dramatic contrast to the serfs of European feudalism , and they are propertyless . These two great masses of workers had noticeably different histories , and the forms of labor exaction they embodied , during most of the 380-year period concerning us here , evolved in different parts of the world . At the same time , their economic functions in the world trade system , especially from the mid-seventeenth to the midnineteenth century , were overlapping , even interdependent . The linkage between Caribbean slaves and European free laborers was .1 linkage of production and hence also of consumption , created by the single system of which they were both parts . Neither group had much to offer productively but its labor . Both produced ; both consumed little of what they produced . Both were divested of their tools . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group ,  | differing only in how they fit into the worldwide division of labor others created for them . Putting things this way may oversimplify what was the complex evolution of a modern world labor force , let alone the diversified capitalistic economy that both created it and was serviced by it . The maturing of a plantation system based on slavery in the Caribbean region came with , and was partly preconditioned on , the development of powerful commercial and military navies in western Europe . It meant the funneling of great quantities of commodities ( rum , arms , cloth , jewelry , iron ) into Africa for the purchase of slaves ? an investment that did nothing for Africa 's development but only stimulated more slave raiding . It led to enormous outputs of wealth in the metropolises to garrison the colonies and to ensure the coercion and control of the slaves . To maintain the mercantilist premises of the system ? that the colonies buy from and sell to the motherland only , and that trade be carried only in the motherland 's ships ? was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups inside each system profited greatly from it , as we have seen . The creation and consolidation of a colonial , subordinate plantation economy based on coerced labor stretched over four centuries . But the system in the colonies changed little , relative to the tremendous changes in the European centers that had created it . It is common to describe the period 1650 ? 1750 as one of mercantile , trading , or commercial expansion , and to treat only the industrial phase beginning with the late eighteenth century as " real capitalism . But would this mean that capitalism somehow existed before the capitalist mode of production ? The plantations that supplied Europe with sugar , tobacco , etc. , were presumably noncapitalist , for their labor force was enslaved , not proletarian . But this way of putting things is not entirely satisfactory , either , for it leaves us in the uncomfortable position of being unable to specify what sort of economic order gave rise to the plantation system . Banaji , in a stimulating critique , points out that many Marxist writers , even including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble making sense of modern slave economies and their place in world economic history . ' Marx himself did not always seem to know how to fit slave plantations into his picture of cap- italism . Of the West Indian colonies , he wrote that their settlers acted " like people who , driven by motives of bourgeois production , wanted to produce commodities .... " The plantations were enterprises of " commercial speculation , " in which " a capitalist mode of production exists , if only in a formal sense . . . . The business in which slaves are used is conducted by capitalists . " Yet elsewhere he wrote , " The fact that we now not only call the plantation owners in America capitalists , but that they are capitalists , is based on their existence as anomalies within a world market based on free labour . " 70 Later writers attacking the same issue showed some of the same uncertainties . Eugene Genovese , for instance , says at one point that " the slave regime in the British Caribbean bore the clear stamp of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " large plantations of a decidedly bourgeois type " operated by " capitalist slaveholders . " But Genovese 's earlier work ( dealing , to be sure , not with West Indian plantation sugar makers but with U.S. plantation cotton growers ) says " the planters were not mere capitalists , they were pre-capitalist , quasi-aristocratic landowners who had to adjust their economy and ways of thinking to a capitalist world market . " 72 One might ask what difference it makes whether one calls the plantation system " capitalistic " or not . The question matters because it has to do with the ways economic systems grow and change , and with the chain of causation that leads from one stage of development to another . I have argued that the plantations were themselves precocious cases of industrialization . But this does not necessarily mean that the European economy that gave rise to these plantations was capitalist . As we have seen , slave labor is so contrary a form of labor power to be associated with " the capitalist mode of production , " which is always described as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncertain how to treat it . Yet there is no question of the importance of plantations to the metropolitan economies , or of the tremendous economic activity they stimulated , both by their production and by the market their consumption needs afforded the metropolis . In Banaji 's view , plantations were capitalist enterprises , all right ? linked to European centers , fueled by European wealth , returning some portion of that wealth to metropolitan investors in various  | forms , and functioning as centers of " commercial speculation , " in Marx 's words . Yet the investment . they represented took a fairly static form ? so much for land , for slaves , for equipment ? that did not significantly vary for centuries . They generated profit , which could be increased by increasing the scale of the enterprise ? two produce twice as much as one , or possibly more ? but only in very limited fashion by improving the technology or by raising productivity . Hence they were at once speculative enterprises and conservative enterprises : one gambled on making money from sugar production , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the coercion of the labor force , for centuries . Of this curious blend of slavery and the expanding world market for plantation commodities ? what the Trinidadian historian Eric Williams once called a system combining the sins of feudalism with those of capitalism , and without the virtues of either ? Banaji writes , " This heterogeneous and , as it appears , disarticulated nature of the slave plantation generated a series of contradictory images when the early Marxist tradition , not equipped with the same abundance of material available today , attempted its first characterizations . " " My own sense of it is that those " contradictory images " persist . It is true that much of the wealth invested in the plantation system did not result in high levels of accumulation , and that for centuries the relations among land , labor , and technology on the estates did not much vary . In these ways the plantation system surely differed from capitalism in its late , productive , and industrial phase . It is also true that the plantation mode of production before 1850 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the so-called capitalist mode of production , the labor power of which is purchased on an impersonal market , as are the other factors of production , and it would be wrong to treat the plantation system as " capitalistic " in the same way that the British factory system of the nineteenth century was capitalistic . Yet to detach the plantations from the emergent world economy that spawned them , or to rule out their contribution to the accumulation of capital in world centers , would be equally mistaken , I believe . Scholars who demonstrate that the European capital invested in the West Indies might actually have earned more if invested elsewhere or otherwise ? who conclude that p 61 the whole plantation phenomenon ended up losing money for the English economy , say ? are usually ready to admit that this phenomenon nonetheless made an immense amount of money for some Englishmen , even if it proved prohibitively expensive for others . Nor did that money stop " working " once it was made . And perhaps that is the principal point . Early in the seventeenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that commodities like sugar mattered so much to their well-being that they would politick fiercely for the rights of capital invested in developing the plantations and all that went with them . If these people were not capitalists , if the slaves were not proletarians , if mercantilism rather than a free economy prevailed , if the rate of accumulation of profit was low and the organic composition of capital static ? if all of these things . were true , it also remains true that these curious agroindustrial enterprises nourished certain capitalist classes at home as they were becoming more capitalistic . Later we shall see how they also nourished the emerging proletarian classes , who found sugar and kindred drug foods profound consolations in the mines and in the factories . The English connection between sugar production and sugar consumption was welded in the seventeenth century , when Britain acquired Barbados , Jamaica , and other " sugar islands , " vastly expanded her trade in African slaves , made inroads into the Portuguese domination of the Continental sugar trade , and first began to build a broad internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most attacks by other classes in the metropolis , at least until the mid-nineteenth century . Thereafter it was supplanted by arrangements that could guarantee an abundant but cheaper supply of the same goods to English consumers , without special West Indian privileges . The middle of the nineteenth century was a period of important transition from the so-called protectionism under the Navigation Acts to so-called free trade . Actually , this transition began before 1850 , and was not wholly accomplished , as far as sugar was concerned , until the 1870s . The debates that marked this transition are tangled and difficult to summarize , because many different motives lay behind the po- sitions taken by the protagonists . Some were concerned mainly with preventing any economic encouragement to those foreign colonies where slavery still obtained , and hence opposed the admission of slave-grown produce into Britain without penalties . Yet others ? the " Manchester School " ? were unconcerned with slavery but wanted the indiscriminate admission of the cheapest produce to Great Britain at any cost . The West Indian planters , of course , demanded special-entry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or outside the empire , as well as the right to import contracted labor to the colonies , once slavery ended ( 1834-38 ) . It would be foolish to suppose that these and the many other contending interest groups were prepared to be candid about why they wanted one or another outcome ; the debates over free trade made a parliamentary high-water mark for disingenuousness . Viscount Palmerston 's concluding ironies in the 1841 debates on a government initiative to lower the duties on foreign sugars in order to raise revenues by encouraging increased consumption of sugar ? that is , to push down the price of sugar for the British consumer to the benefit of the exchequer ? are deliciously revealing : We say to these Brazilians we can supply you with cotton goods cheaper than you can buy them elsewhere . Will you buy them ? By all means , say the Brazilians , and we will pay you with our sugar and coffee . No , say we , your sugar and coffee are produced by slave labour ; we are men of principle and our consciences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labour . Well , anyone would imagine that the matter ended there , and we left the Brazilians to consume their own sugar and coffee . No such thing . We are men of principle , but we are also men of business , and we try to help the Brazilians out of their difficulty . We say to them : Close to us and near at hand live some 40,000,000 industrious and thriving Germans , who are not as conscientious as we are ; take your sugar to them ; they will buy it from you , and you can pay us for our cottons with the money you thus receive . But the Brazilians represent that there will be some difficulty with this . The Germans live on the other side of the Atlantic ; we must send them our sugar in ships ; now our ships are few and ill-fitted to cope with the waters of the great ocean . Our reply is ready . We have plenty of ships and they are at your service . It is true  | that slave-labour sugar would contaminate our warehouses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have another difficulty . They say the Germans are particular and have a fancy for refined sugar . It is not easy to refine sugar in Brazil , and these Germans do not like the trouble of refining it themselves . Again we step in with an expedient . We will not only carry your sugar but we will refine it for you too . It is sinful to consume slavegrown sugar , but there can be no harm in refining it , which in fact is to cleanse it from part of its original impurity . The Brazilians are at us again . Say they , we produce a great deal of sugar more than the Germans will buy . Our goodness is infinite ; we ourselves will buy your surplus . It can not be consumed at home , because the people of this country are men of conscience , but we will send it to the West Indies and Australia . The people who live there are only negroes and colonists , and what right have they to consciences ? And now that you may plague us no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that , if the price of our own sugar should rise above a certain value , we will buy more of your slave-grown sugar and we will eat it ourselves . The hottest debates came in the 1840s , as the West Indian planters , fattened on slavery and protectionism , found themselves unable to compete in a widening market , while the free-trade advocates at home saw a chance that the government 's motives and their own might coincide for a change . Between 1660 ? when Barbados was already producing considerable sugar and Jamaica had fallen into British hands ? and 1700 , English foreign trade had been transformed , as woolen cloth was displaced by other products . A re-export trade , based largely on tropical commodities , had begun to take over , with 30 percent of imports coming from either the East or the New World . Such expansion occurred partly because new sources of supply had been opened up , but also because " vast new sources of demand were being opened in England and Europe ? demand created by a sudden cheapness when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced the middle classes and the poor to novel habits of consumption ; demand which , once realized , was not shaken by subsequent vicissitudes in prices , but continued to grow rapidly throughout the century . " 77 This change was seen perhaps most dra- matically in the case of tobacco . A luxury at the end of the sixteenth century , in a hundred years it had become " the general solace of all classes . " The case of sugar was similar : The development of English production was part of an international movement which brought prices down . At the beginning of the seventeenth century Portuguese ( i.e. , Brazilian ) production was already growing fast and reducing prices sharply and the English West Indian islands , when they turned to sugar production , had this large established New World producer to contend with . They came late into the field ? Barbados in the 1640s , Jamaica , as a substantial grower , after 1660 ? and in the early 1660s they were still contending with the Portuguese , even for the English market . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and prices continued to fall , on the whole , until about 1685 , by which time the English product had driven Brazilian sugar from the North European as well as from the English market . West Indies sugar imports to London , negligible before the Civil War , rose from 148,000 cwt. in 1663/ 69 to 371,000 cwt. in 1699/71 ? and a third of this latter total was re-exported . The plantation price of sugar reached a low point in 1685 of 12s. 6d. per cwt. ; the retail price was halved between 1630 and 1680.78 Davis argues convincingly that it was not only the establishment of English colonies and entrepots outside Europe that mattered , but the sudden cheapness of the commodities they dealt in . " In this respect , " he says , this expansion " bears a striking similarity to the technological revolution which , getting under way a century later , developed new consumption habits in English and foreign populations with the cheap product of the machine . " 79 In terms of production , these changes were only analogous ; sugar-producing plantations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in terms of consumption , they were homologous , because they made visible , perhaps for the first time in history , a critical connection between the will to work and the will to consume . The introduction of growing quantities of consumer goods to masses of people who had never had them before gave the privileged classes the opportunity to imagine that such people might respond to the promise of enlarged consumption with more effort .  | Before the diversification of industry had made a substantial impact on foreign trade , and four generations before technical changes created an entirely new basis for commercial expansion , the English merchant class was able to grow rich , to accumulate capital , on middlemen 's profits and on the growing shipping industry which was needed to carry cheap sugar and tobacco , pepper and saltpetre on the ocean routes . Because these sources made their great contribution to English foreign trade in the century after 1660 , and in that century made great demands on the nation 's capital , perhaps we should look with a little more favour on those historians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " The Commercial Revolution . " This so-called Commercial Revolution , which many Marxist writers have refused to consider fully capitalistic , nonetheless plainly underlay the events that followed it a century later . For Marx , this was the process of accumulation that would make capitalism pos-sible : The different momenta of primitive accumulation distribute themselves now , more or less in chronological order , particularly over Spain , Portugal , Holland , France and England . In England at the end of the seventeenth century , they arrive at a systematical combination , embracing the colonies , the national debt , the modern mode of taxation , and the protectionist system . These methods depend in part on brute force , e.g. , the colonial system . But they all employ the power of the State , the concentrated and organised force of society , to hasten , hothouse fashion , the process of transformation of the feudal mode of production into the capitalist mode , and to shorten the transition .... The veiled slavery of the wage-workers of Europe needed , for its pedestal , slavery pure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to what was to come were the slave-labor plantations of the New World , producing their shiploads of stimulants , drugs , and sweeteners for the growing urban populations of Europe , is suggested by another assertion of Marx : Freedom and slavery constitute an antagonism .... We are not dealing with the indirect slavery , the slavery of the proletariat sick , but with direct slavery , the slavery of the black races in Surinam , in Brazil , in the Southern States of North America .  | Direct slavery is as much the pivot of our industrialism today as machinery , credit , etc . Without slavery , no cotton ; without cotton , no modern industry . Slavery has given their value to the colonies ; the colonies have created world trade ; world trade is the necessary condition of large-scale machine industry . Before the traffic in Negroes began , the colonies only supplied the Old World with very few products and made no visible change in the face of the earth . Thus slavery is an economic category of the highest importance . Hobsbawm has shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were predicated upon a basic structural realignment of European economic activity . In his view , a lengthy period of economic contraction in Europe ? a " general crisis " ? marked the seventeenth century . This crisis , a last phase of the transition from feudalism to capitalism , wrecked the earlier Mediterranean and Baltic trade systems , and they were soon replaced by North Atlantic centers . This shift meant a fundamental reordering of the flow patterns of world exchange . " The powerful , growing and accelerating current of overseas trade which swept the infant industries of Europe with it ? which , in fact , sometimes actually created them ? was hardly conceivable without this change . " " ' Such a change , Hobsbawm argues , rested on three new conditions : the growth of an expandable consumers ' market in Europe itself , tied to changes in production elsewhere ; the seizure of colonies abroad for European " development " ; and the creation of colonial enterprises ( such as plantations ) to produce consumer goods ( and to soak up a substantial portion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of European economic activity shifted toward the United Kingdom and away from both the Mediterranean and the Baltic , the upward spurts in the production and consumption of tropical commodities like sugar were both a consequence and a cause of the growing importance of the United Kingdom in world trade . By the early eighteenth century , the pioneering overseas economic expansion of the preceding fifty years began to he reflected in the form of changes in homeland consumption . To he sure , the consumption of imported commodities like sugar remained modest by  | modern ( even by nineteenth-century ) standards . But the meanings of sugar in the life of the British people changed radically . Statistics on British trade compiled by Elizabeth Boody Schumpeter and interpreted by Richard Sheridan show that the percentage of imports in the " groceries " category ( tea , coffee , sugar , rice , pepper , etc. ) , as a fraction of the total value of imports , more than doubled during the eighteenth century ? from 16.9 percent in 1700 to 34.9 percent by 1800 : None of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1800 . Among grocery items brown sugar and molasses were the most prominent . They made up , by official value , twothirds of the group in 1700 and two-fifths in 1800 .... English sugar consumption probably increased about four-fold in the last four decades of the next century 1700 ? 40 and more than doubled again from 1741 ? 45 to 1771 ? 75 . If it is assumed that onehalf of the imports were retained in 1663 , the consumption of England and Wales increased about twenty-fold in the period from 1663 to 1775 . The fact that the population increased from 4 ? million to only 7 ? million in the same period is indicative of a marked increase in per capita consumption . Sugar and related imports ( rum , molasses , syrup ) were among the leaders . Indeed , the English economic historian D. C. Coleman believes per-capita sugar consumption rose more rapidly than bread , meat , and dairy consumption between 1650 and 1750 ; 85 Deerr estimates British per-capita annual consumption , 1700 ? 1800 , as follows : 1700 ? 1709 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1789 12 lbs . 1800 ? 1809 18 lbs . To he sure , eighteen pounds of sugar a year was still not very much . But how much that meager quantity mattered to how many people was the important thing ; it represented more than a 400-percent increase in one century , and now sugar mattered to many more than before . The nineteenth century dawned for a population already accus- tomed to sugar ? if only in small amounts ? and eager for more . That century saw the end of slavery in the British Empire ; soon thereafter , protectionism for sugar began to lose out to free trade . These events occurred only after pitched battles between different sectors of Britain 's capitalist classes ; and though sugar by itself neither caused nor explains these battles entirely , its production and consumption were important aspects of what happened.88 The slave trade to the British colonies ended in 1807 ; slavery itself was abolished in 1834 ? 38 ; and the future of the sugar colonies ( hence of sugar production itself ) figured in the debates over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade circuits typical of the previous century were not going to last forever . Though the Anglo-Caribbean sugar industry continued to supply much of Britain 's sugar , its dominance shrank , because of many factors : the perfection of beet-sugar extraction on the Continent as part of Napoleon 's politics , after the loss of Saint-Domingue , and the spread of the beet-sugar industry across Europe ; the rise of new and competing intraimperial sugar colonies within the British system , such as Mauritius ( and later Fiji , Natal , and others ) ; and the growing production of sugar elsewhere , much of it slave-produced ( as in Cuba ) and often available at better prices than the sugars of the British West Indies . More , perhaps , than any other tropical commodity , sugar became a signal of the struggles among different sectors of British capitalism , and a symbol of the dangers of a doomed commercial exclusivism . The West Indian colonies continued to be subject to the metropolis , and their populations were still compelled to provide labor to the plantations ; but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it wished . Whatever archaism the use of slave labor had made for in the production of sugar , after 1838 it had to be rooted out ; otherwise the industry would he kept alive only by subsidies and immobilized ( if " free " ) labor . Eventually the Anglo-Caribbean sugar industry , the oldest in the empire , had to choose between stagnation and expensive , largescale expansion . In most cases , it was not free to choose . As I have argued elsewhere , p 69 The post-slavery aftermath was , in general , a period of intensified competition on the world sugar market . Ultimately ? that is , in the very long run ? the victors of this rivalry would be the planter groups who could successfully underwrite and incorporate large-scale technical improvements . But this is viewed from a very broad perspective . On the local level ? that is , colony by colony ? it is true that the planter groups were substantially united in their hostility to any changes that might improve the bargaining position of labour . But of course within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were differing capacities to reduce the dependence on that labour by technical advance .... We may really have to deal with two intersecting and chronologically overlapping processes , which take for granted the internal differentiation of each planter group . One such process is the struggle to contain and to supplement the labour power of the " potential " peasantry ; the other is the movement toward technical improvement , based on the pace of technical achievement and on availabilities of intensified capital inputs . On the one hand , the relatively minor technological changes that had typified the history of the sugar industry for centuries were now supplanted by important and sweeping alterations . Immense improvements in grinding capacity , cane varieties , pestcontrol and cultivation methods , increasing use of machinery , and revolutionary changes in transportation eventuated in vast new agro-industrial complexes , completely different from the smaller enterprises that preceded them . The Caribbean cane-sugar industry , which had been colonial , industrial , and export-oriented ever since the Hispanic expansion , was now unquestionably absorbed into expanding overseas European capitalism . After the abolition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by proletarian labor . Though some comments have been made about the curious association between sugar and slavery , little attention has been given to the " labor problems " created by successive emancipations in the Caribbean region . Throughout , emancipation ( and , in the case of Haiti , revolution ) meant a sharp decrease in sugar production , as those who had been freed sought to create new ways  | of life independent of the plantation . As the slaves were freed ( by Denmark in 1848 , England in 1834-38 , France in 1848 , Netherlands in 1863 , Puerto Rico in 1873 - 76 , Cuba in 1884 ) , on the one hand , competition from imported contracted laborers forced the freedmen to work harder and for less money ; on the other , since access to idle land and other local resources was shut off , the freedmen were prevented from developing alternative sources of livelihood . In effect , the planter classes sought to re-create preemancipation conditions ? to replace the discipline of slavery with the discipline of hunger . They believed they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British sugar colonies ? by the successive ends of the slave trade , of slavery , and of protection for their sugars . Naturally , they felt betrayed by their class equals at home . But another way to say this would be to argue that sugar consumption , and the government income it provided , had finally become so important to British capitalist development that sugar production was no longer allowed to depend upon the mercantilistnationalist arrangements that had formerly controlled it . By removing barriers to " free " trade ? in other words , by making it possible for the world 's cheapest sugars to reach the widest possible market in Britain ? the leading sectors of British capitalism sold out their planter-capitalist fellows . This was precisely what the West India interest accused them of doing . As the world sugar market opened up , labor still needed to be found , both for the more ancient colonial areas where slavery had now ended ( Jamaica , Trinidad , British Guiana ) , and for those newer , pioneering areas ( Mauritius , Natal , Fiji ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the metropolitan capitalist classes and the colonial planters was partly eased by recourse to external but politically accessible labor pools . In fact , the defeat of protectionism in the form of differential duties for West Indian sugar was accompanied by a victory in regard to labor importation ? easier regulations , as well as funds for financing immigration . West Indian sugar was thus indirectly protected , even if West Indian working people were not . ( Some cynics might see a parallel to events in the United States after the Civil War . ) At any rate , migrant labor moved within the hounds of empire . p 71 A portion of the contracted Indian labor in the French West Indies , for instance , came from French India , a portion of the contracted Indian labor in the British West Indies came from British India , and so on . But because many of the new sugar-producing areas needed labor as well , not all the movement was of this sort . During the nineteenth century , perhaps a hundred million people migrated in the world at large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " nonwhite " world , including India . The Europeans moved principally to areas of prior European settlement outside Europe itself , including Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , southern South America , and , especially , the United States , while the nonwhites moved to other places . As I have already observed , Sugar ? or rather , the great commodity market which arose demanding it ? has been one of the massive demographic forces in world history . Because of it , literally millions of enslaved Africans reached the New World , particularly the American South , the Caribbean and its littorals , the Guianas and Brazil . This migration was followed by those of East Indians , both Moslem and Hindu , Javanese , Chinese , Portuguese , and many other peoples in the nineteenth century . It was sugar that sent East Indians to Natal and the Orange Free State , sugar that carried them to Mauritius and Fiji . Sugar brought a dozen different ethnic groups in staggering succession to Hawaii , and sugar still moves people about the Caribbean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the link between sweated , tropical colonial labor and nonwhite labor was preserved , largely undisturbed by the end of slavery . For another , the relationship between sugar and the subtropical colonial regions was likewise maintained ( though beet-sugar extraction , important from about the mid-nineteenth century onward , was a temperate-zone development ? marking the first time that a temperate-zone commodity would make a serious dent in the market for subtropical and tropical production ) . The product in question continued to flow to the metropolises , while the products obtained in exchange ? food , clothing , machinery , and nearly everything else ? continued to flow to the " backward " areas . It can be contended that the " backward " areas became less backward through their economic dependence on  | the developed areas , but this assertion is vulnerable . Most less developed societies of this sort have been able to industrialize only feebly ( cement , glass bottles , beer , and soft drinks are often their major " industries " ) . They continue to import the bulk of their finished goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food . Also problematic is the divided migrant flow of the nineteenth century . The economist Sir W. Arthur Lewis links this two-sided demographic picture to the relatively lower productivity of tropical agriculture in the countries of origin of the migrants , when compared with the agricultural productivity of the temperate lands from which the white migrants came ( Italy , Ireland , Eastern Europe , Germany , etc . ) . Presumably , migrants from the more productive countries would not be prepared to migrate for promised wages as low as those that could attract migrants from the less productive countries . But the exclusion of nonwhites from the temperate world was the clear consequence of racist policies in such countries as Australia , New Zealand , Canada , and the United States . It is not merely ironical to point out that the white migrants would soon be eating more sugar , produced by the nonwhite migrants at lower wages , and producing finished goods at higher wages , to be consumed by the nonwhite migrants . So the production of sugar continued to rise , and at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in number and dispersion , techniques of labor coercion became somewhat less naked , and the uses to which sugars were put in the developed world became steadily more differentiated . The upward climb of both production and consumption within the British Empire must be seen as part of an even larger general movement . Figures for world sugar production before the mid-nineteenth century are unreliable , and there is no way of judging the quantities of sugars produced and consumed without reaching the market . Thus we know that sugar consumption in the old sugar colonies like Jamaica was always very substantial ? indeed , that slaves were given sugar , molasses , and even rum during the slavery period as part of their rations . In countries like India , the ancient hearth of sugar making , and Russia ( the Soviet Union ) , where beet-sugar production was established within  | a decade of its achievement in western Europe , our knowledge of quantities produced and consumed is uncertain . But even if we limit ourselves to what can be confidently estimated , the figures on world production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so are still quite astounding . In 1800 ? by which time , as we have seen , British consumption had probably increased some 2,500 percent in 150 years ? perhaps 245,000 tons of sugar reached consumers through the world market . Nearly all of those consumers were Europeans . By 1830 , before beet sugar had begun to reach the world market , total production had risen to 572,000 tons , an increase of more than 233 percent in thirty years . Another thirty years later , in 1860 , by which time beetsugar production was growing rapidly , total world production of sucrose ( both beet and cane ) stood at an estimated 1.373 million tons , or another increase of more than 233 percent . By 1890 , world production exceeded six million tons , representing a percentage increase of nearly 500 over that of thirty years earlier . It is not surprising that Dr. John ( Lord Boyd ) Orr should have concluded , looking back at the nineteenth century , that the single most important nutritional datum on the British people was their fivefold increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , much more complex . But for the present , it may be enough to say that probably no other food in world history has had a comparable performance . Why this should be so is not , however , a simple question . To get some sense of how sugar gained its place in the English diet , it will be necessary to turn back again to the beginning of the story .  | For people living today in societies like Britain or the United States , sugar is so familiar , so common , and so ubiquitous that it is difficult to imagine a world without it . People now in their forties or older may recall the sugar rationing of World War II , of course , and those who have spent time in poorer societies may have noticed that some peoples seem to experience even greater pleasure than we when consuming sugar . ' So plentiful and important is this substance in our lives today that it has become notorious : campaigns are waged against it , eminent nutritionists attack and defend it , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily press and in Congress . Whether the discussions concern baby food , school lunches , breakfast cereals , nutrition , or obesity , sugar figures in the argument . If we choose not to eat sugar , it takes both vigilance and effort , for modern societies are overflowing with it . Only a few centuries ago it would have been equally difficult to imagine a world so rich in sugar . One writer tells us that when the Venerable Bede died in 735 A.D. , he bequeathed his little treasure of spices , including sugar , to his brethren . If true , this is a remarkable reference , for there follow many centuries during which sugar in the British Isles remained unmentioned and , one supposes , virtually unknown . The presence of sugar was first acknowledged in England in the twelfth century . What was most striking about the English diet at that time was its complete ordinariness and meagerness . Then and p 75 for long thereafter , most Europeans produced their own food locally , as best they could . Most basic foods did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly rare and precious substances , principally consumed by the more privileged groups , that were carried long distances . " Bread made in the home almost everywhere in the country , " write Drummond and Wilbraham of England in the thirteenth century , was " indeed the staff of life in those days . " Wheat was particularly important in England , but in the north of the country other grains were grown and eaten more : rye , buckwheat , oats , barley , and important pulses and legumes such as lentils and many kinds of beans . In poor areas throughout Europe , these carbohydrates were likely to be primary , since they were more plentiful and cheaper than wheat . All other foods , including meats , dairy products , vegetables , and fruits , were subsidiary to grains . It was poverty of resources , not plenty , that made them accessories to the starch-based diet . " Judging from the controls and regulations that all authorities throughout Western Europe set to cover virtually every transaction , grain was the core of the diet of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wheat harvest failed , people in southern England switched to rye , oats , or barley ; in the north , these were already the mainstay . " They stretched their bread grain with peas and beans and apparently consumed some milk , cheese , and butter in normal years , " but in the worst years ? such as the so-called dear years of 1595 ? 97 ? even dairy products were priced out of the reach of the poorest people . In times of want , said William Harrison , writing in the late sixteenth century , the poor " shifted from wheat to Horsse come , beanes , peason , otes , tare and lintels . " Such people probably forwent their skimpy consumption of dairy products and the like , if it meant they could obtain more of the bulkier legumes . Often enough , it seems , many Englishmen had not enough of anything to cat ; but they ate as much bread as they could , when harvests permitted . " One can assume a meager supply of protein from domesticated fowl and animals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fish , both fresh and preserved , and some vegetables and fruit . Working people , however , greatly feared the effects of fresh fruit , supposedly dangerous when eaten in quantity . The resistance to  | fresh fruit harks back to Galenic biases against it , and infantile diarrhea , frequent in the summertime , which was a great killer as late as the seventeenth century , doubtless reinforced the fear of fresh fruit . Sir Hugh Platt ( who reappears later in these pages as a gourmet and bon vivant ) had grim advice for his countrymen on the occasion of the 1596 famine : when flour supplies were short , he advised the poor to " boil your beanes , pease , beechmast , &c.; in faire water ... and the second or third boyling , you shall finde a strange alteration in taste , for the water hath sucked out &; imbibed the greatest part of their ranknesse , then must you drie them ... and make bread thereof . " 10 Even when cultivated flour substitutes were exhausted , Platt writes consolingly , the poor could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called Cuckow pot , or starch rootes " ( the cuckoopint , Arum maculatum ) . If the picture is not one of chronic or countrywide need , it is also certainly not one of general dietary adequacy . Between the onset of the bubonic plague in 1347 ? 48 and the early fifteenth century , the population of Europe decreased sharply and did not begin to climb again until after about 1450 ; the plague continued to disrupt economic life until the mid-seventeenth century . These were centuries when European agriculture wanted for labor , but even when population increased again , English agriculture remained inadequately productive . Of the production of grains for making bread , the economic historian Brian Murphy writes : " The harvest of the years 1481-82 , 1502 , 1520 ? 21 , 1526-29 , 1531 ? 32 , 1535 , 1545 , 1549 ? 51 , 1555 ? 56 , 1562 , 1573 , 1585-86 , 1594 ? 97 , 1608 , 1612 ? 13 , 1621 ? 22 , 1630 , and 1637 , could be said to have been such that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had little left over after buying bread . " 12 Though they were irregularly spaced , the bad years averaged one every five during this 150-year period . Murphy believes the bad years reflect " the varying encroachment of animals on breadgrain " ? which is to say , the competition between the production of wool and of grain foods , a critical economic problem in sixteenthcentury England . The seventeenth century seems to give evidence of significant change . Between 1640 and 1740 , the English population rose from  | about five million to slightly more than five and one-half million , a rate of growth , lower than in the preceding century , that may have reflected greater disease vulnerability brought about by bad nutrition and/or the spread of gin drinking . There were poor harvests in 1660-61 , 1673 ? 74 , 1691-93 , 1708-10 , 1725-29 , and 1739 ? 40 ? a worsening to a one-bad-year-in-four ratio over eighty years . Yet , as Murphy points out , by then there seems to have been enough grain , if export figures mean anything . Between 1697 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , exporting more than she imported in all but two years ( 1728 and 1729 ) . Yet even as grain exportation continued , " There were still plenty of people with empty stomachs , but who , even at low bread prices , lacked the money to fill them . " 13 Grain production might appear to have yielded a surplus , but Murphy shows that it was rather a matter of grossly inadequate income among the laboring classes . During the centuries when sugar and other unfamiliar substances were entering into the diet of the English people , then , that diet was still meager , even inadequate , for many if not most people . It is in the light of these dietary , nutritive , and agricultural practices that sugar 's place at the time can best be understood . From the first known introduction of sugar to England until the late seventeenth century , when it became a desired good ? consumed frequently by the wealthy , and soon to be afforded by many who would forgo important quantities of other foods in order to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a narrow diet . And even as consumption of sugar rose , there is no conclusive evidence that the basic diet of most people was otherwise improving . Indeed , for a long time sugar and a few other new substances were the only major additions to the English diet . Explaining this particular addition requires first some attention to the ways Englishmen learned to use sugar . Cane sugar ? sucrose ? is a versatile , one might say protean , substance . During the early centuries of north European usage , however , it was not some single undifferentiated good . It was already possible to obtain sugars varying from syrupy liquid to hard crystalline solid , from dark brown ( " red " ) in color to bone white ( as  | well as many other brilliant colors ) , and in degree of purity from slight to nearly 100 percent . Purer sugars were prized for aesthetic reasons , among others , and reference has already been made to the preference for fine white varieties , particularly in medico-culinary usage . The purer the sugar , generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the more easily it can be preserved . The history of sugar is marked by culturally conventionalized preferences for one or another such variety , and many different sugars evolved over time to satisfy particular preferences . For our purposes here , sucrose can be described initially in terms of five principal uses or " functions " : as medicine , spicecondiment , decorative material , sweetener , and preservative . These uses are often difficult to separate from one another , however . Sugar used as a spice or condiment , for instance , differs from sugar used as a sweetener largely in terms of the quantities used , relative to other ingredients . Moreover , the different uses of sugar did not evolve in any neat sequence or progression , but overlapped and intersected ; that sugar commonly serves more than one such purpose at a time is considered one of its extraordinary virtues . Only after these various uses had multiplied , had become differentiated , and were firmly embedded in modern life would it be appropriate to add to them the use of sugar as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late eighteenth century . By that time sugar had moved beyond its traditional uses , and ? in Britain , at least ? was actually altering the ancient core-fringe , complexcarbohydrate ? flavoring pattern of the human majority , in a revolutionary fashion . Disentangling sugar 's various uses is nearly impossible ; yet it is a worthwhile task . To some extent , one can learn in this way how the users themselves became more aware of sugar 's versatility , and how they reacted creatively to it . Most sugar uses arrived in England together with particular sugars , from regions long familiar with this rare and unusual substance . But it was inevitable that , in the hands of new users , the uses and meanings of sugar would change in some ways , becoming what they had not been before . A sketchy overview of major uses , then , plotted against a background of change , may suggest how this happened .  | Sugar as a spice or condiment alters the flavor of food as does any other spice ? saffron , say , or sage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So much sucrose is now used in the modern world that such restricted use may seem unlikely , but any experienced cook is familiar with this archaic practice . Sugar as a decorative material must first be mixed with other substances , such as gum arabic ( extracted from the trees Acacia senegal and Acacia arabica , among others ) , oil , water , or , often , ground nuts ( particularly blanched almonds ) ; it can then be made into a pliable , claylike or pastelike solid , which can be molded before hardening ; once firm , it can be decorated , painted , and displayed before being eaten . Such derivative practices may well have first arisen from sugar 's uses in medicine , and the observations of its nature recorded by physicians . It seems certain that sugar was first known in England as spice and as medicine , however , and its medicinal usefulness persisted for centuries ? indeed it has never been entirely lost , though it figures far less importantly in modern practice . Sugar as sweetener seems glaringly obvious to us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important , and sugar use in Britain changed qualitatively when this became economically possible . Finally , preserving may have been one of sugar 's oldest purposes , and in English history this function was always important , but became qualitatively and quantitatively different in modern times . A moment 's reflection shows why these uses overlap . While sugar used decoratively was usually eaten after display , that used to coat medicines was both preservative and medicinal . Fruit preserved in syrup or in semicrystalline sugar was eaten together with its coating , which of course was sweet as well . Yet we can still observe that uses were added on and occasionally discarded as the volume of sugar consumed steadily increased . Differences in quantity and in form of consumption expressed social and economic differences within the national population . When it was first introduced into Europe around 1100 A.D. , sugar was grouped with spices ? pepper , nutmeg , mace , ginger , cardamom , coriander , galingale ( related to ginger ) , saffron , and the like . Most of these were rare and expensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by those who could afford them at all . In the modern world , sweetness is not a " spice taste , " but is counterposed to other tastes of all kinds ( bitter as in " bittersweet , " sour as in " sweet and sour , " piquant as in " hot sausage " and " sweet sausage " ) , so that today it is difficult to view sugar as a condiment or spice . But long before most north Europeans came to know of it , sugar was consumed in large quantities as a medicine and spice in the eastern Mediterranean , in Egypt , and across North Africa . Its medical utility had already been firmly established by physicians of the time ? including Islamized Jews , Persians , and Nestorian Christians , working across the Islamic world from India to Spain ? and it entered slowly into European medical practice via Arab pharmacology . As a spice sugar was prized among the wealthy and powerful of western Europe , at least from the Crusades onward . By " spice " is meant here that class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's definition , " used in cooking to season food and flavor sauces , pickles , etc . " We are accustomed not to thinking of sugar as spice , but , rather , to thinking of " sugar and spice . " This habit of mind attests to the significant changes in the use and meanings of sugar , in the relationship between sugar and spices , and in the place of sweetness in western food systems that have occurred since 1100 . In the fourteenth century ? by which time we can detail with some confidence the place of sugar in English households ? Joinvine 's Chronicle touchingly betrays European ignorance of the origin and nature of spices , among which sugar was then still included . Impressed by the Nile , which he believed to originate in some faroff earthly paradise , Joinville describes it thus : Before the river enters into Egypt , people who are accustomed to do so , cast their nets outspread into the river , at night ; and when morning comes , they find in their nets such goods as are sold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ginger , rhubarb , wood of aloes , and cinnamon . And it is said that these things come from the earthly Paradise , just as the wind blows down the dry wood in the forests of our own land ; and the dry wood of the trees in Paradise that thus falls into the river is sold to us by the merchants .  | Whether or not this friend and biographer of Saint Louis truly believed that spices were fished out of the Nile , his description charmingly confirms the exotic character of spices , which were ( like sugar ) mostly tropical in origin . Various explanations have been advanced for the popularity of spices among the privileged of Europe , particularly the chronic scarcity of winter fodder before about 1500 , which led to heavy fall butchering and the consequent need to eat meats that were cured , salted , smoked , spiced , and sometimes rotten . But perhaps it is enough simply to remind ourselves how pleasantly aromatic , pungent , and salty , sour , bitter , oily , piquant , and other tasty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also aid in digestion . Even when people do not have enough to eat , they can become bored with their food . The rich and powerful of Europe gave evidence of their desire to make their diet digestible , varied , contrastive , and ? in their own view of things ? savory : The reason for the immoderate use of spices may be found in part in the current opinions on diet in the Middle Ages . Most men know that the enormous amount of meat served for a feast , or even for an ordinary meal , imposed a heavy burden upon the digestion , and hence they used cinnamon and cardamom and ginger and many other spices to whip up the action of the stomach . Even when not at table they made free use of spiced comfits , partly for the sake of aiding digestion and partly to gratify the appetite . One may well believe , too , that at a time when overkept meats and fish were freely used , spice was employed to cover up the incipient decay . At all events , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whether needed or not . As a rule , possibly because of its provenance from the East , sugar was classed with spices.16 Sugar figures importantly in these usages . Adam de Moleyns 's I , ihelle of Englyshe Polycye ( 1436 ) , a paean to English sea power , belittled most imports via Venice ? but not sugar : The grete galees of Venees and Florence Be wel ladene wyth thynges of complacence , All spicerye and other grocers ward ,  | Wyth swete wynes , all manere of cha f fare , Apes and japes and marmusettes taylede , Ni f fles , trifles that litell have availed , And thynges wyth whiche they fetely blere oure eye , Wyth thynges not endurynge that we bye . Even the imported drugs were unessential , thought de Moleynes ; but he adds : And yf there shulde excepte by ony thynge , It were but sugre , trust to my seyinge . In the earliest English cook books of which we have record , the place of sugar as flavoring or spice is unmistakable , and that use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written mention of sugar , if we omit the Venerable Bede , is in the pipe rolls ? the official records of royal income and expenditures ? of Henry II ( 1154 ? 89 ) . This sugar was used as a condiment in cooking and was purchased directly for the court . The quantities involved must have been very small : only royalty and the very rich could have afforded sugar at the time . In 1226 , Henry III requested the mayor of Winchester to get him three pounds of Alexandrian ( Egyptian ) sugar , if so much could be had at one time from the merchants at the great Winchester fair . During the thirteenth century , sugar was sold both by the loaf and by the pound , and though its price put it beyond the reach of all but the wealthiest , it could be procured even in remote towns . " The sugar of Beza , we are told , was the kind most commonly in use ; " that from the marts of Cyprus and Alexandria was in higher esteem . " 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as the " Zuker Marrokes " of the account rolls for 1299 , the " sugre of Sicilis , " and " Barbarye sugar " ? all among the Oxford Dictionary citations . By 1243 , Henry III was able to order the purchase of 300 pounds of " zucre de Roche , " presumably lump sugar , among other spices . By 1287 , during the reign of Edward I , the royal household used 677 pounds of ordinary sugar , as well as 300 pounds of violet sugar and 1,900 pounds of rose sugar .  | The following year the sugar consumption of the royal household climbed sharply , to 6,258 pounds . Precious though it was , sugar 's popularity as a spice was already spreading . The countess of Leicester 's remarkable seven-month account in 1265 , which the historian Margaret Labarge used in her rich description of a baronial household , mentions sugar frequently . " It used to be thought , " writes Labarge , " that sugar was unknown until later in the Middle Ages , and that only honey was employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that sugar was in continuous use in wealthy households by the middle of the thirteenth century . " 24 Bishop Swinfield 's household account for 1289 ? 90 mentions the purchase of " more than one hundred pounds of sugar ? mostly in coarse loaves ? and also of liquorice and twelve pounds of sweetmeats . " The bishop of Hereford 's household roll for the same year shows sugar purchased in Hereford and Ross-onWye 26 The countess 's records note both " ordinary sugar " and powdered white sugar . The " ordinary sugar " was presumably in crystalline loaves , only imperfectly refined ; the whiter the product , the more expensive it was . During those seven months in 1265 for which we know the countess 's household expenditures , fifty-five pounds of sugar ( of both types ) were purchased . But the countess 's household also used fifty-three pounds of pepper ( presumably Piper nigrum , or Indian peppercorns ) during the same period , which may support the view that sugar was used as a condiment . The quantities of various sugars imported gradually increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this was because the privileged classes were consuming more , not because its uses were spreading downward . By the early fifteenth century , sugar cargoes had become substantial ? Alexander Dordo 's galley brought twenty-three cases in 1443 , some more refined ( " kute " ? later , " cute , " from the French cuit ) than the rest . Less refined brown sugar , partially cleaned and crystallized , was imported in chests ? the " casson sugar , " later called " cassonade , " one finds in the inventory lists of grocers in the mid-fifteenth century . This sugar could he refined further , but commercial refineries do not appear in England for another century .  | Molasses , which apparently reached England by the end of the thirteenth century , was distinguished from other sugar forms . It came from Sicily , where it was fabricated together with brown and other sugars ; it had begun to be shipped by Venetian merchants on the Flanders galleys making their annual voyages . ( It was forbidden to ship molasses in the holds of ships , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoil . Of rum manufactured by distilling from molasses there is no mention before the early seventeenth century . ) Toward the end of the fifteenth century , when Atlantic-island sugar production was supplanting North African and Mediterranean sugars , there was some price decline , but prices rose again in the mid-sixteenth century . At best , sugars were still costly imports ; and though they were becoming important in the feasts and rituals of the powerful , they were still beyond the reach of nearly everyone ? luxuries , rather than commodities . A shopkeeper whose stock has been described for the year 1446 carried saffron , saunders ( powdered sandalwood , used as a spice more than as a scent ) , and sugar , as well as spectacles , caps for chaplains and priests , and the like ? hardly everyday necessities . But that sugars were already of substantial importance to the wealthy and powerful is easily documented . The first English cook books to provide recipes date from the late fourteenth century , by which time sugar was known among the privileged classes in England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar was perceived as a segment of a taste spectrum ? not a quadrangle or tetrahedron ? that might enhance or conceal the underlying tastes of the food . The somewhat indiscriminate use of sugar in flesh , fish , vegetable , and other dishes is evidence that sugar was regarded as a spice at the time . William Hazlitt , who read and interpreted many early cook books , shows his disdain for " the unnatural union of flesh with sweets , " the source of which he locates ( probably inaccurately ) in " the prehistoric bag pudding of King Arthur " : " That wedlock of fruit with animal matter ? fat and plums ? which we post-Arthurians eye with a certain fastidious repugnance , but which , notwithstanding , lingered on to the Elizabethan or Jacobean era ? nay , did not make the gorge of our grandsires turn rebellious . " " ' Hazlitt confesses that p 85 this " wedlock " never wholly vanished from English cuisine . But he was wrong to treat it as some continuous tradition traceable to a semimythical past , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " it survives among ourselves only in the modified shape of such accessories as currant jelly and apple sauce . " A striking feature of the sugar uses of the late fourteenth century is sugar 's frequent combination with honey , as if the tastes of the two substances were not only different ( which , of course , they are ) but also mutually beneficial . Here again , however , the condimental character of these sweet substances is revealed in the recipes themselves , which call for sauces used on fish or meat ; salted , heavily spiced solids whose base is rice flour ; spicy drinks that are to be " allayed " with refined sugar if they are overspiced ; and so on . Sugar and other spices were combined in dishes that tasted neither exclusively nor preponderantly sweet . Often , food was reduced by pounding and mashing , and so heavily spiced that its distinctive taste was concealed : " Nearly every dish , whatever its name , was soft and mushy , with its principal ingredients disguised by the addition of wine or spices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut into small pieces and mixed with something else , preferably of so strong a flavour as to disguise the taste of most of the other ingredients . " Perhaps this was because of the absence of forks at the table ; but that hardly explains the seasoning . In his discussion of medieval English cuisine , the British historian William Mead lists few recipes without sugar , and , like Hazlitt , he seems offended by the presence of sugar . " Everyone is aware , " he tells us , " that nothing is more sickening than an oyster sprinkled with sugar . Yet we have more than one old receipt recommending such a cotnhination . " The recipe he cites , however ( " Oyster in gravy Bastard " ) , combines the oyster liquor , ale , bread , ginger , saffron , and powdered pepper and salt , along with sugar ; since the proportions are unspecified , there is no certainty that the oysters actually tasted sweet . Admittedly , they must have tasted little like oysters as we know them . But admirers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shocked as Mead . Perhaps authors such as Hazlitt and Mead are objecting not so much to the taste of sweetness as to the conjunction of sweetness  | with other tastes . That such preferences can change over time and even at a very rapid rate seems certain . Whereas Mead deplores the use of sugar with fried pork ? " Such delicacies , " he says , " are not for our time " 35 ? Thomas Austin 's late-nineteenth-century notes to Two Fifteenth-Century Cookery-Books recount that pork " was quite lately taken with it sugar at St. John 's College , Oxford . " 36 From The Forme of Cury , compiled around 1390 by the master cooks of Richard II , come scores of recipes that illustrate well the spice character of sugar . " Egurdouce " ( aigredouce in French ) was made using rabbit or kid with a sweet-and-sour sauce , as follows : Take conynges or kydde and smyte hem on pecys rawe ; and frye hem in white grece . Take raysons of corannce and fry hem , take oynonns parboile hem , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sugar , with powdor of pepor , of gynger , of canel , salt , and cast thereto ; and let it seeth with a gode quantite of white grece , and serve it forth Even more illustrative is the recipe for " Chykens in cawdel " : Take chykenns and boile hem in gode broth , and ramme him up bruised , and pressed close together . Thenne take zolkes of ayreneggs , and the broth , and alye mix it togedre . Do thereto powdor of gynger , and sugar ynowh enough , safronn and salt ; and set it over the fyre withoute boyllynge , and serve the chykens hole , other ybroken or cut up , and lay the sowe sauce onoward . Though there are many recipes in which sugar figures as a principal ingredient , especially for pastries and wines , those based on meat , fish , fowl , or vegetables usually list sugar with such ingredients as cinnamon , ginger , saffron , salt , galingale , and saunders , if they include it at all . This usage of sugar as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixteenth century . Soon thereafter , prices , supplies , and customary uses began changing rapidly and radically . It is not surprising that the spice use of sugar tended to disappear as sugar itself became more plentiful . But the condimental use of sugar survives in a number of fringe areas that deserve mention in passing . Cookies or biscuits associated with the holiday seasons commonly combine  | sugar and spices ( ginger , cinnamon , and pepper , for instance ) in ancient ways ; similar usages apply to holiday fowl , such as ducks or geese , with which fruit jams , brown sugar , and sweet sauces are combined ; and to hams , commonly prepared with cloves , mustard , brown sugar , and other special flavorings for festive treats . Yet this apparent gravitation of sugar to ceremonial usages is deceptive . Rather than being some shift in usage , these condimental associations merely demonstrate what anthropologists have long contended ? that holidays often preserve what the everyday loses . The world in which sugar was used primarily as a spice is long vanished ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's hat or saying grace , baking and eating gingerbread cookies is a way of reaching hack . By the sixteenth century , the habit of using sugar as decoration , spreading through continental Europe from North Africa and particularly Egypt , began to percolate downward from the nobility . To understand this decorative use , we need to review two aspects of the process of sugar manufacture . First , the process of refining itself involved the gradual removal by boiling , and by the addition of chemical substances , of the noncrystalline , darker , and impure materials , resulting in an ever-whiter product that became chemically purer . European preferences for the whitest sugars may have been imitations of the tastes of the Arabs , among whom sugar consumption was already an ancient habit . But the association between whiteness and purity was also ancient in Europe . Because of it , white sugar was commonly prescribed in medicines , and combinations of white foods ( chicken , cream , etc. ) at times enjoyed a popularity out of all proportion to their therapeutic efficacy . Second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is highly refined . Some insects and animals may , of course , consume it , and it can not withstand lengthy exposure to moisture , but it bears remembering that under favorable circumstances substances made with sugar can he durable . To these two features of sugar we may add another : the relative ease with which other edibles can be combined with it , whether in solid or in liquid form . Among these , one additive of the greatest  | importance in European usage , and clearly diffused from the Middle East and North Africa , was the almond . Though marzipan in Europe can not be documented earlier than the end of the twelfth century , it was known and fabricated in the Middle East before then . Sugar was also combined with oil of almonds , with rice , with scented waters , and with various gums . Recipes for these combinations abound in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century texts ; though they are not readily traceable to specific Egyptian recipes , a connection ( via Venice in particular ) seems likely . The important feature of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms ? forms having an aesthetic aspect but also preservable and edible . The eleventh-century caliph alZahir , we are told , in spite of famine , inflation , and plague , celebrated the Islamic feast days with " art works from the sugar bakers , " which included 157 figures and seven large ( table-sized ! ) palaces , all made of sugar . Nasir-i-Chosrau , a Persian visitor who - traveled in Egypt in 1040 A.D. , reports that the sultan used up 73,300 kilos of sugar for Ramadan ? upon his festive table , we are told , there stood an entire tree made of sugar , and other large displays . And al-Guzuli ( d. 1412 ) gives a remarkable account of the caliph 's celebration , at which a mosque was built entirely of sugar and beggars were invited in at the close of the festivities to eat it . Not surprisingly , analogous practices soon spread to Europe . Marchpane ( marzipan ) and marchpanelike pastes were used at royal French feasts in the thirteenth century . Soon continental waferers and confectioners crossed from France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confections were based primarily on the combination of sugar with oil , crushed nuts , and vegetable gums , to make a plastic , claylike substance . It was possible to sculpture an object out of this sweet , preservable " clay " on any scale and in nearly any form , and to bake or harden it . Such displays , called " subtleties , " served to mark intervals between banquet " courses , " but each such course actually consisted of several different dishes . Thus , for instance , at the marriage of Henry IV and Joan of Navarre in 1403 , three courses of " meat " ( each consisting of several dishes , in fact , not all of them meat ) were followed by three courses of " fish , " and each set concluded with a " sotelte , " as follows :  | First Course Fylettes in galentyne. ? Vyand ryall a dish prepared with rice , spices , wine , and honey ? Gross chare : beef or mutton ? Sygnettes ? Capoun of haut grece : ? Chewetys pudding ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals , objects , buildings , etc. , and because sugar was desirable and expensive , they were admired and eaten . But the preciousness of the ingredients , and the large quantities required , confined such practices at first to the king , the nobility , the knighthood , and the church . Initially , the displays were important simply because they were both pretty and edible . But over time , the creative impulses of the confectioners were pressed into essentially political symbolic service , and the subtleties took on greater significance . " Not only compliments , " writes one commentator , " but even sly rebukes to heretics and politicians were conveyed in these sugared emblems . " 43 For royalty , what had begun as " Conserves and marchpanes made in sundry shapes , as castles , towers , horses , bears and apes , " were transformed into message-bearing objects that could be used to make a special point . At the coronation of Henry VI , two quite different subtleties , fully described in the literature , dramatize the strange significance of a food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and read before it was eaten . One was : A sotyltie of Seynt Edwarde and Seynt Lowys armyd , and upon eyther his cote armoure , holdynge atwene them a figure lyke unto kynge Henry , standynge also in his cote armour , and a scripture passynge from them both , sayinge : " beholde ii . parfyght kinges under one cote armour . " The other was a " warner " ? one of the names used for a subtlety , usually when it preceded a " course " ? directed against the Lollards , religious dissenters . This was " of the emperor and the kynge that ded is , armed , and their mantels of garters , and the king that now is , kneeling before them with this reason " : Ayeinst miscreants the emperor Sigismund Hath shewid his myghte , which is Imperial ;  | Sithen Henry V. so noble a knyght was founde For Christ 's cause in actis martial . Cherisshyng the chirch , Lollardes had a falle , To give example to kynges that suited .... Similar displays followed each course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his power , and sometimes his intent . The highly privileged nature of such display rested on the rarity of the substances used ; almost no one except a king could afford such quantities . But to be able to provide one 's guests with attractive food , which also embodied in display the host 's wealth , power , and status , must have been a special pleasure for the sovereign . By eating these strange symbols of his power , his guests validated that power . The connection between elaborate manufactures of sweet edibles and the validation of social position is clear . Before too long , one . commentator was at pains to explain that merchants now picked and chose the foods they would serve at their feasts with such care that they were " often comparable to the nobility of the land " : In such cases also , jellies of all colours , mixed with a variety in the representation of sundry flowers , herbs , trees , forms of beasts , fish , fowl , and fruits , and thereunto marchpane wrought with no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , conserves of old fruits , foreign and home bred , suckets , codinacs , marmalades , marchpane , sugarbread , gingerbread , florentines , wild fowls , venison of all sorts , and sundry outlandish confections , altogether sweetened with sugar . By the sixteenth century , merchants as well as kings were showmen and consumers . As a still-scarce substance associated with foreign trade , the nobility , and sumptuary distinction , sugar had become desirable almost as soon as its importation was stabilized in the fourteenth century . But it was not simply as a spice or as an item of direct consumption that sugar was appealing . At the same time that sugars were becoming more commonly used by the powerful , the links between such consumption and the mercantile sinews of the kingdom were becoming more intimate . And as sugar came closer to p 91 the ceremonial nexus of certain forms of consumption , it acquired greater symbolic weight or " voltage " in English life . Thomas Warton 's History of English Poetry incidentally documents the growing importance of the feast as a form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholars and clerics , as early as the fifteenth century : These scholastic banquets grew to such excess that it was ordered in the year 1434 , that no inceptor in arts should expend more than " 3000 grossos Turonenses . " ... Notwithstanding , Neville , afterwards Bishop of York , on his admission to the degree of master of arts in 1452 , feasted the academics and many strangers for two successive days , at two entertainments , consisting of nine hundred costly dishes .... Nor was this reverence to learning , and attention to its institutions , confined to the circle of our universities . Such was the pedantry of the times , that in the year 1503 , archbishop Wareham , chancellor at Oxford , at his feast of inthronisation , ordered to be introduced in the first course a curious dish , in which were exhibited the eight towers of the university . In every tower stood a bedell ; and under the towers were figures of the king , to whom the chancellor Wareham , encircled with many doctors properly habited , presented four Latin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " curious dish " was a subtlety constructed entirely of sugar . Certainly by the late sixteenth century , and probably even earlier , the creation of subtleties ? however modest ? occurred in families that , though still well within the upper stratum of English society , were neither noble nor exceedingly wealthy . Partridge 's classic sixteenth-century cook book ( 1584 ) , devoted largely to recipes in which sugar figures as a condiment ( to bake chicken , fry vegetable marrow , season a roast rabbit , or bake an ox tongue ) , also contains recipes such as that for marchpane , which appears more or less completely plagiarized in many other cook books thereafter : Take ... blanched almonds . .. white suger ... Rosewater ... and Damask water .... Beate the Almondes with a little of the same water , and grind them till they be small : set them on a few coales of fyre , till they waxe thicke , then beate them again with the sugar , fine .... mixe the sweet waters and them together , and ...  | fashion your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoope of greene Hazell wand .... Lay this hoope upon your wafer cakes .... Cut away all the parts of the Cakes .... Set it upon a warm hearth ... and ye maye while it is moysse stiche it full of Comfets , of sundrie colours . If it be thorough dryed ... a Marchpane will last many yeares . It is a comfortable meate , meete for weake folkes , such as have lost the taste of meates by much and long sicknesse .... Here sugar is combined with other substances in a decorative sweetmeat that will keep indefinitely , and supposedly possesses special medicinal qualities ? enough to suggest why a simple classification of sugar by its different uses is difficult . In later chapters , Partridge makes more explicit his stress on decoration . Sweetmeats are decorated with animal forms and words , cut from gold leaf ( the link between sugar and gold , in combination with such rarities as almonds and rosewater , is significant ) . He instructs his readers to - combine gum dragant with rosewater , to which is added lemon juice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beaten to powder , " to make a soft paste . " This can then be formed into objects ? all manner of fruites and other fine things , with their forme , as platters , dishes , glasses , cuppes , and suchlike things wherewith you may furnish a table . " Once made and admired , these objects can then be eaten by the guests : " At the end of the Banquet , they maye eate all , and breake the platters , Dishes , Glasses , Cups , and all things , for this paste is very delicate and savourous . " Cook books in succeeding decades enlarged upon Partridge 's techniques . Sir Hugh Platt 's Accomplisht ladys delight in preserving , physick and cookery first appeared soon after Partridge 's book , and went through at least eleven highly successful editions . It provides detailed instructions for making " conceits in sugar-works , " including " Buttons , Beakes , Charms , Snakes , Snailes , Frogs , Roses , Chives , Shooes , Slippers , Keyes , Knives , Gloves , Letters , Knots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " By 1660 , subtleties were being prescribed for the wealthy on a scale that dwarfed the " Buttons , Beakes , Charms , and Snakes . " Robert May was a professional cook who lived during the reigns of Elizabeth , James I , Charles I , Cromwell , and Charles II , when p 93 subtleties were an unfailing accompaniment to every feast . May wrote for wealthy commoners , and his recipes suggest a real attempt to ape the pretensions of royalty ? a kind of confectioner 's lese majeste . " Make the likeness of a ship in paste-board , " he advises those who , while rich , still can not afford to make their subtleties entirely of marzipan . Then he maps out in exquisite detail an astounding display of sugar sculpture , complete with a stag that " bleeds " claret wine when an arrow is removed from its flank , a castle that fires its artillery at a man-of-war , gilded sugar pies filled with live frogs and birds , and much else . May 's display ends with the ladies ' tossing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the smell of gunpowder . " These were formerly the delights of the Nobility , " he tells his readers , " before goodhousekeeping had left England , and the sword really acted that which was only counterfeited in such honest and laudable Exercises as these . " so While kings and archbishops were displaying magnificent sugar castles and mounted knights , the aspiring upper classes began to combine " course paste " men-of-war with marzipan guns to achieve analogous social effects at their festive tables . Some of these people were probably only newly ennobled ; others were prosperous merchants or gentry . The techniques used to impress their guests and validate their status through consumption continued on a downward percolation ? even though most of the creations lacked the majesty of an earlier era . By 1747 , when the first edition of Mrs. Hannah Glasse 's famous The Art of Cookery appeared , at least two recipes are included in the category of subtlety ? though properly modified to fit the means of her customers . The first , for what are called " jumballs " ( Sir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century earlier ) , combines flour , sugar , egg whites , butter , and almonds , kneaded with rosewater and baked . Jumballs were then cut into the desired shapes : " cut your Jumball in what figures you fancy .... If you make them in pretty figures , they make a fine little dish . " Mrs. Glasse 's other recipe is for " Hedgehog " ? a marzipan confection meant to be admired before it is eaten , composed of crushed Almonds , orange-flower water , egg yolks , sugar , and butter , made Into a paste , and molded into the form of a hedgehog : " Then stick  | it full of blanched almonds slit , and stuck up like the Brissels of a Hedge-Hog . " A yet more elaborate version , made with saffron , sorrel , nutmeg , mace , citron , and orange peel ( cochineal in place of saffron , if saffron is too dear ) , was sent " hot to Table for a first course " ! Mrs. Glasse 's special confectionery cookbook of 1760 included elaborate displays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The tables were decorated with ornaments " bought at the confectioners , and will serve year after year . " There are hedges , gravel walks , " a little Chinese temple , " and the top , bottom , and sides of the display were arrayed with " fruits , nuts of all kinds , creams , jellies , syllabubs , biscuits , etc. , etc. and as many plates as you please , according to the size of the table . " This all seems a far cry from the festive tables of Henry IV or Archbishop Warham . But it was also a good while later , when sugar had become relatively cheaper and more plentiful , and its function as a marker of rank - had descended to the middle classes . The Reverend Richard Warner , who compiled several early cookery tracts in his Antiquitates Culinariae , was keenly aware of the transformation of regal subtleties into bourgeois entertainments . " It seems probable , " he writes , " that the splendid desert frames of our days , ornamented with quaint and heterogeneous combinations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , beasts , and fanciful representations drawn from Heathen mythology , are only the remains of , or , if more agreeable to the modern ear , refinements on , the Old English Sotiltees . " It is no longer considered a sign of elevated rank to stuff one 's guests with sugar ? at least in most social groups and on most social occasions in the western world . Few allegories are any longer created at table , and writing in sugar is largely confined to Saint Valentine 's Day , Christmas , birthdays , and weddings . But the confinement of sugar to somewhat narrower symbolic spheres was accompanied by its permeation of everyday life in other forms , attesting to the increased significance of sugar rather than the opposite . And sugars in such archaic forms as gingerbread houses , candy hearts , candy corn , and molded chickens and rabbits , once the playthings of the court and the wealthy , have now become the playthings of children . p 95 The decline in the symbolic importance of sugar has kept almost perfect step with the increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheaper and more plentiful , its potency as a symbol of power declined while its potency as a source of profit gradually increased . Hence , to speak of the decline of its symbolic importance is , in one sense , to speak in riddles . One must add a query : for whom has its symbolic importance declined ? Without projecting symbols against the differentiated class structures of the societies within which they are being manipulated , we can not illuminate the link between sweetness and power . The frogs and birds that once sprang out of hot pies are no more ; the famous dwarf who stepped forth from a cold pastry brandishing a sword and saluting Charles I and his new queen was the last of his kind ; with four-and-twenty blackbirds there went the castles of marzipan . By the nineteenth century , culinary drama of this sort had lost most of its appeal , even for the middle classes . But old meanings diffused downward in society and new ones emerged . As the spread of sugar downward and outward meant that it lost some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became a new substance . In the eighteenth century , producing , shipping , refining , and taxing sugar became proportionately more effective sources of power for the powerful , since the sums of money involved were so much larger . Almost inevitably , sugar lost many of its special meanings when the poor were also able to eat it . But later , making sugar available in ever-larger quantities to the poor became patriotic as well as profitable . Recent writers have emphasized the luxury status in England of early imports like sugar , which were eventually supplemented by the mass importation of more familiar food staples , such as fruits and grains . In reaction , others have argued that the luxury/staple contrast tends to gloss over the great social importance of the socalled luxuries in establishing and maintaining social links among the powerful . " The relationship of trade to social stratification , " the anthropologist Jane Schneider writes , " was not just a matter of an elevated group distinguishing itself through the careful application of sumptuary laws and a monopoly of symbols of status ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semiperipheral and middle level groups through patronage , bestowals , and the calculated distribution of exotic and valued goods . " 54 This point is well taken , for the importance of a " luxury " like sugar can not be judged by its bulk or weight , or without attention to the part it played in the social life of the powerful . The particular nature and the specific , culturally conventionalized uses of each such luxury are thus highly relevant to its importance . To put it differently , sugar and gold were both luxury imports ; as medicines , they even overlapped slightly in use . But it was not possible to produce them in like quantities or to confine their uses to the same sphere . And while it is true that gold would one day be bought and sold in somewhat humbler strata , it can neither be produced nor be consumed as sugar is . Unless we look at the intrinsic ? the " culturally usable " ? character of a luxury , its meaning can not be fully understood . As for sugar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kingly luxury of commoners ? a purchased . luxury that could be detached from one status and transferred in use to another . Thus understood , sugar became , among other things , a spurious leveler of status . As this was occurring , of course , the rich and powerful were beginning to repudiate their consumption of a product the older symbolic meaning of which was being steadily emptied of its potency . Sugar 's special status as a medicine was largely incidental to the transmission of medicinal tore concerning it from classical texts to medieval Europe by way of Islam . The relatively meager reference to sugar in Greek texts is of interest , given that Galenic theory prevailed in European medicine for centuries after the Crusades . As far as the actual substances the terms were meant to stand for are concerned , there is uncertainty , and Greek knowledge of sugar ? sucrose fabricated from the juice of the sugar cane ? is questionable . But there is no doubt that the Moslem , Jewish , and Christian physicians from Persia to Spain who were the major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Spain especially Toledo , Salerno Sicily , and Gondeshapur in deltaic Khuzestan , Persia were the principal centers . ) Certainly it was they , most of all , who brought sugar and its medicinal uses into European prac- tice , incorporating sucrose into the Greek medical system they had adopted and adapted , in which it had figured only obscurely . Because sugar has become controversial in modern discussions of health , diet , and nutrition , it may be difficult to imagine its having once been a wonder drug or panacea . But that epoch is not so remote . A ninth-century Arab manuscript from Iraq ( Al-Tabassur bi-l-tigara : Concerning Clarity in Commercial Matters ) documents the production of sugar from cane in Persia and Turkestan.55 It describes musk and sweet sugar cane carried from the city of Khiva , in Khwarizm ( Chorasmia ) ; sugar candy from the Persian Gulf city of Ahwaz ; fruit syrups , quince , and saffron from Isfahan , in central Persia ; rosewater , syrups , water-lily ointment , and jasmine ointment from the province of Fars ( probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bushehr ) , near Ahwaz . Carried westward by the Arabs along with the cane itself , these products entered Europe as spices or materia medica via Spain , together with other innovations , including the lime , bitter orange , lemon , banana , tamarind , cassia , and myrobalan . All figured in medical preparations , but among them sugar stands out conspicuously . In the works of al-Kindi , alI'abari , Abu'l-Dasim , and other writers in Arabic between the tenth and fourteenth centuries , sugar figures as one of the most important medicinal ingredients . Arabic pharmacology was organized in terms of the medical formulary ( agrabadhin ) , divided into sections or chapters on different sorts of pharmaceuticals . " The agrabadhin , " writes the historian of Arab pharmacology Martin Levey , " may be considered to have had its organizational origin in Galen 's De Compositione medicamentorum ; surprisingly , it persisted well into the nineteenth century as a form of pharmacological literature . " 56 Classified by type of preparation , these formularies provide a remarkable view of the medical role of sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) : " a juice concentrated to a certain viscosity so that when two fingers were dipped into it , it behaved as a semi-solid when the digits were opened . Very often sugar and/or honey were added as thickeners and sweeteners . " 57 Another category , the rob ( rubb in Arabic ) , was similar : to prepare it , fruits and flower petals were immersed in hot water to which sugar was added , and the whole  | preparation was boiled down until it was concentrated . The julep ( Arabic juldb , from the Persian gul + ab " rose " + " water " ) was less thick than the rob ? " Frequently , sugar was added to it . " ' " Other categories included lohochs , decoctions , infusions , fomentations , powders , confections , electuaries , hieras , trypheras ( aromatic electuaries ) , theriacs , etc . Sugar figures in some specific compounds in every category , and importantly so in many of them . ' " We have seen that a term for what may be sugar is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but mention is rare and vague enough to raise questions about its specific identity . Hence the introduction of sugar into Galenic practice ? at least on a substantial scale ? probably meant a significant addition to the GrecoRoman pharmacology that Islamic doctors were busily transmitting . Europe 's acceptance of Arab science was considerable , by way of Latin translations of Arab texts , through the traditions of the School of Salernum ( Salerno ) via Spain , especially in the period 1000 1300 A.D. , and through the Byzantine Empire . Scholars like the Persian Avicenna ( ibn-Sina , 980 ? 1037 ) ? known for his assertion " apud me in eis , quae dulcia sunt , non est malum ! " ( " As far as I am concerned , sweetmeats are always good ! " ) ? who wrote the Canon medicinae Avicennae ( Qanun fi'l-tibb in Arabic ) , remained authoritative in the practice of European medicine until nearly the seventeenth century . After additional knowledge of sugar was borne back to Europe by the Crusaders , its medicinal and other uses spread . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugars as medicines ; and Synesios , the eleventh-century court physician of the Byzantine emperor Manuel Comnenus , recommended rose sugar to break fever . In Italy , Constantinus Africanus ( b. 1020 ) described medical uses for sugar , both internal and external , employing solid and liquid sugars . The Circa Instans , which he translated ( and may have composed ) while at the School of Salernum in the mid-eleventh century , epitomizes the changing medical picture in Europe itself . Western Latin translators who knew Arabic and/or Persian were beginning to make more available to northern Europe the collected medical beliefs of the Islamic world , as well as of the Greco-Roman  | predecessors they had inherited . In later editions of Circa Instans ( 1140-50 ) , sugar is prescribed for fever , dry coughs , pectoral ailments , chapped lips , and stomach diseases . At this time sugar would have been available , even in the smallest quantities , only to the very rich . Honey was used in its stead for those somewhat poorer patients who could nevertheless afford some similar medication . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the earliest written mentions of sugar turn up in England ? prescriptions of medicinal tonics containing sugar also begin to appear . Aldebrando di Siena ( d. 1287 ) and Arnaldus Villanovanus ( 1235 ? ? 1312 ? ) both prescribed sugar frequently . It is Arnaldus who speaks of the uncommon healthfulness of alba comestio , which closely resembled Spain 's traditional majar blanco , made of rice flour , milk , chicken breasts , and sugar.60 The French le grand cuisinier , composed of white bread , almond milk , breast of capon , sugar , and ginger , was , similarly , food and medicine at once . Arnaldus also provides recipes for candying lemons and lemon slices , preserving pine kernels , almonds , hazelnuts , anise , ginger , coriander , and roses ? all of which , he says , require the finest sugar . Again we see the differentiated uses of sugar intersecting ? preservation , food , spice , decor , and medicine are tangled . The concept of sugar as medicine remained sturdy for centuries more . In the twelfth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon which an important theological question turned ? and this gives us an early glimpse of sugar 's near invulnerability to moral attack . Were spiced sugars food ? Did eating them constitute a violation of the fast ? None other than Thomas Aquinas found them medicinal rather than foods : " Though they are nutritious themselves , sugared spices are nonetheless not eaten with the end in mind of nourishment , but rather for ease in digestion ; accordingly , they do not break the fast any more than taking of any other medicine . " 61 Aquinas thus endowed wondrous sucrose ? all things to all men , protean and subtle ? with a special advantage . Of all of the major tropical commodities ? what I have called " drug foods " ? whose consumption rose so sharply among European populations from the seventeenth to the twentieth centuries , including tea , coffee ,  | chocolate , tobacco , rum , and sugar , only sugar escaped religious proscription . this special " secular " virtue of sucrose requires a further word . That sugars , particularly highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But these effects are not so visible as those of such substances as alcohol ; or caffeine-rich beverages like tea , coffee , and chocolate ; or tobacco , the first use of which can trigger rapid changes in respiration , heartbeat , skin color , and so on . Though conspicuous behavioral changes occur when substantial quantities of sucrose are given to infants , particularly for the first time , these changes are far less dramatic in the case of adults . And all of these substances , sucrose included , seem to have a declining and less visible effect after prolonged or intensified use . This has nothing to do with their long-term nutritive or medical significance , but with visible , directly noticeable consequences . In all likelihood , sugar was not subject to religion-based criticisms like . those pronounced on tea , coffee , rum , and tobacco , exactly because its consumption did not result in flushing , staggering , dizziness , euphoria , changes in the pitch of the voice , slurring of speech , visibly intensified physical activity , or any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and nicotine . The medicinal attributes of sugar were expounded upon by other famed philosophico-medical figures besides Aquinas . Albertus Magnus , in his De Vegetabilibus ( c. 1250-55 ) , uses the language of humoral medicine to express a generally favorable opinion : " It is by nature moist and warm , as proved by its sweetness , and becomes dryer with age . Sugar is soothing and solving , it soothes hoarseness and pains in the breast , causes thirst ( but less than honey ) and sometimes vomiting , but on the whole it is good for the stomach if it is in good condition and free of bile . " 63 Sucrose figured importantly in all of the supposed remedies for the Black Death . From Carl Sudhoff 's essays on the Pest Books of the fourteenth century we learn , " In none of the prescriptions is sugar lacking , added as it is to the medicines of the poor , as a substitute for the costly electuaries , the precious stones and pearls to he found in the remedies for the rich . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re- verberates with echoes of the " subtleties . " What more pointed way of dramatizing privilege than the literal bodily consumption of preciosities ? That one might seek to cure a physical ailment by the ingestion of crushed precious stones probably should not cause surprise . But consider this in the light of what we already know about the subtleties . To be able to destroy ? literally , by consuming it ? something that others desire is not a privilege alien to contemporary life and values . What may seem slightly offensive to modern bourgeois morality is its literalness . The egalitarian view is that invidious consumption ought not to be explicit , perhaps because it casts so bright a light upon the nonegalitarian motives of the consumer . When hierarchy is firm and acknowledged ? when the rights of kings are considered rights by commoners ? the excesses of nobility are not usually regarded as excesses . Indeed , the excesses of both nobility and poor seem more explicable , in terms of who they are , than do those of the ascendant middle classes . Inevitably , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of certain forms of consumption . Will those who have no chance of eating crushed diamonds resent the rights of those who do ? Eating sugar might eventually bridge the distance between such groups . For this reason , what the consumption of sugar permits us to understand about how societies change may matter more than the consumption itself . So useful was sugar in the medical practice of Europe from the thirteenth through the eighteenth centuries that the expression " like an apothecary without sugar " came to mean a state of utter desperation or helplessness . As sugar became more commonplace and honey more costly , the permeation of the pharmacopoeia by sucrose grew more pronounced . ( The switching of honey and sugar was not limited to medicine ; later their use as foods and preservatives would also be exchanged . ) But the spread of sugar as medicine also involved some important controversies . In a concise modern summary of sugars in pharmacy , Paul Pittenger , biochemist and pharmacologist , lists twenty-four uses for sucrose alone ; of these , at least sixteen were almost certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islamic world before the fourteenth century . Given this intensive and varied use of one  | " medicine , " first borrowed from an increasingly suspect foreign civilization , the rise of more independent medical perspectives among the physicians and pharmacists of Europe eventually led to some questioning of sugars as remedies . While European physicians never emerged as consistently antisucrose before this century , there were debates about the extent to which sugar should be relied upon in everyday medical practice . In some instances , arguments developed over the interpretations of Galenic medicine itself . Sixteenth-century criticisms of sugar by medical authorities may even have formed part of fashionable , anti-Islamic partis pris , common in Europe from the Crusades onward . Miguel Serveto ( Michael Servetus , 1511 ? 53 ) and Leonhard Fuchs ( 1501 ? 56 ) were the principal antagonists . Serveto , a precocious and overconfident young Spanish theologian who was to end his life at the stake ( after having quite innocently turned to John Calvin for protection ) , was a critic of the medical syrups of the Arab world . - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistant in dissection , attended lectures at the University of Paris , and wrote two essays attacking the " Arabists . " In the second , On Syrups , he charged the so-called Arabist School ( especially Avicenna and Manardus ) with distorting Galenic teaching . Paracelsus ( 1493 ? ? 1541 ) was also critical of the wide use of sucrose and syrups , and perhaps of their presence in Islamic formularies , but his hostility seems to have been directed more toward the doctors than toward sugar itself : " creating mixtures of good and bad , sugar combined with gall ... and their friends the apothecaries , those swill-makers who do an idiot 's job by mixing drugs with sugar and honey . " 67 Yet he also considered sugar " one of nature 's remedies , " recognized its utility as a preservative , and objected principally to its being combined with bitter medicines such as aloes or gentian , the effectiveness of which he thought it reduced . Some authorities argued that since sugar was capable of masking some poisons by its sweetness , it could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed to sugar as reserved about its therapeutic qualities . Hieronymus Bock 's New Herb Book ( 1539 ) considers sugar " more as an extravagance for the rich than as a remedy , " a truth many of his contemporaries would not ac  | knowledge . He mentions sugar 's usefulness for candying anise and coriander , violets , roses , and peach blossoms , and orange peel , which are items " good for ailments of the stomach , " but he adds , rather offhandedly , that " he who can not pay for the sugar may boil such other ingredients in water . " Nevertheless , by the sixteenth century the medical uses of sugar had become widely established in Europe . Writers specified those uses . Tabernaemontanus ( c. 1515 ? 90 ) gave sugar a generally good assessment , even while identifying one of its disadvantages : Nice white sugar from Madeira or the Canaries , when taken moderately cleans the blood , strengthens body and mind , especially chest , lungs and throat , but it is bad for hot and bilious people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teeth blunt and makes them decay . As a powder it is good for the eyes , as a smoke it is good for the common cold , as flour sprinkled on wounds it heals them . With milk and alum it serves to clear wine . Sugar water alone , also with cinnamon , pomegranate and quince juice , is good for a cough and a fever . Sugar wine with cinnamon gives vigor to old people , especially a sugar syrup with rose water which is recommended by Arnaldus Villanovanus . Sugar candy has all these powers to higher degree . From the late sixteenth century , medical references to sugar occur commonly in English texts . According to Vaughan 's Naturall and Artificial Directions for Health , " it mitigateth and openeth obstructions . It purgeth fleagme , helpeth the reines , and comforteth the belly . " 70 Rice , " sodden with milke and sugar qualifieth wonderfully the heat of the stomake , increaseth genitall seede , and stoppeth the fluxe of the belly . " Strawberries " purified in wine , and then eaten with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liver , and provoke appetite . " ' " Still , Vaughan had some of the same reservations as Tabernaemontanus : Sugar is of a hot quality , and is quickly converted to Choler ; for which cause I can not approve the use thereof in ordinary meates , except it bee in vinegar or sharpe liquor , specially to young men , or to them which are of hot complexions : for it is most certain that they which accustome themselves unto it , are commonly thirsty and dry , with their blood burned , and their teeth blackened  | and corrupted . In medicine-wise , it may be taken either in water , for hot Feavers , or in syrups , for some kinde of diseases . In beer I approve it most wholesome . Vaughan goes on to recommend sugar for " noises and soundes in the Eares , " dropsy , ague , cough , flux , melancholia , and much else . Tobias Venner , writing in 1620 , provides an illuminating opinion , first by comparing sugar medically to honey , second by distinguishing among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dry in the second degree , and of an abstersive and soluble facultie " ? more Galenical ( humoral ) shoptalk of the time Sugar is temperately hot and moyst , of a detersive facultie , and good for the obstructions of the breast and lungs ; but it is not so strong in operation against phlegm as honey .... Sugar agreeth with all ages , and all complexions ; but contrariwise , Honie annoyeth many , especially those that are cholerick , or full of winde in their bodies .... Water and pure Sugar onely brewed toegether , is very good for hot , cholericke , and dry bodies , that are affected with phlegme in their breast .... Sugar by how much the whiter it is , by so much the purer and wholsomer it is , which is evident by the making and refining of it . It is made much after the same manner and forme as white salt is . The Sugar is nothing else but the iuyce of certain canes or reeds , which is extracted by boyling them in water , even after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This first extracted Sugar is grosse , and of red colour : it is hot and dry , somewhat tart in taste , and of a detersive facultie : by longer boyling it becometh hard , which we call Red Sugar Candie , which is only good in glysters , for to dense and irritate the expulsive facultie . This grosse reddish Sugar is againe mixed with water , and boyled , and cometh to be of an whitish colour , less hot , more moyst , and more acceptable to the taste and stomacke . This kinde of second Sugar , we call common or kitchen Sugar . This being the third time diluted , and decocted , is of excellent temperament , most white , and of a singular pleasant taste . This is the best , purest , and wholesomest sugar ... by further boyling becommeth hard , and of a resplendent white colour , which we commonly call white Sugar Candie : this is the best sugar for diseases of the breast , for it is not altogether so hot as the other Sugar , and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wherefore it excellently assuageth and moystneth the asperitie and siccitie of the tongue , mouth , throat , and winde-pipe ; and is very good for a dry cough , and other infirmities  | of the lungs ; it is most accommodate for all hot and dry constitutions . Most such home-physician books of the seventeenth century do not differentiate among sugar 's possible medical uses , contenting themselves instead with discussions of sugar 's place in humoral medicine , followed by various specific ( and usually exotic ) " prescriptions . " Among the uses that seem to appear with considerable regularity are prescriptions for chest coughs , sore throat , and labored breathing ( some of which uses persist to this day ) ; for eye ailments ( in the care of which sugar now appears to have completely disappeared ) ; and a variety of stomachic remedies . Not surprisingly , perhaps , an antisugar school of medicine arose anew , in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries . In the same year that the seventh edition of Vaughan 's work appeared , James Hart 's Klinike or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurring to physicians of the time . Though the humoral context that would continue to dominate European medical thinking for another 150 years was plainly still very strong , Hart had some serious questions about sugar : Sugar hath now succeeded honie , and is become of farre higher esteem , and is far more pleasing to the palat , and therefore everywhere in frequent use , as well in sicknesse as in health .... Sugar is neither so hot nor so dry as honie . The coursest , being brownest , is most cleansing and approacheth neerest unto the nature of hony . Sugar is good for abstersion in diseases of the brest and lungs . That which wee commonly call Sugarcandie , being well refined by boiling , is for this purpose in most frequent request , and although Sugar in it Selfe be opening and cleansing , yet being much used produceth dangerous effects in the body : as namely , the immoderate uses thereof , as also of sweetconfections , and Sugar-plummes , heateth the blood , ingendreth the landise obstructions , cachexias , consumptions , rotteth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , causeth many time a loathsome stinking-breath . And therefore let young people especially , beware how they meddle to much with it . Until late in the eighteenth century , the prosugar and antisugar authorities would engage in serious argument about sugar 's medic- inal properties . But the medical and nutritional aspects of sugar 's role were never far apart , any more than they are today . Whereas the Frenchman de Garancieres thought that overconsumption of sugar by the English led to their melancholic dispositions , the Englishman Dr. Frederick Slare found sugar a veritable cure-all , its only defect being that it could make ladies too fat . Slare 's work is one of the most interesting of its time ( 1715 ) , even to its title : A Vindication of Sugars Against the Charge of Dr. Willis , Other Physicians , and Common Prejudices : Dedicated to the Ladies . Slare lost his quarrel with Dr. Willis , though he never knew it . Dr. Willis was the discoverer of diabetes mellitus , and his antisugar views arose from his study of the disease . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everyone , and could cause no medical harm . But his book does much more . Its dedication is accompanied by the assertion that female palates were more refined than males ' , " not being debauch 'd by sour or uncouth values , or Drams , or offensive Smoak , or the more sordid juice of the Indian Henbane , which is Tobacco , or vitiated by salt and sour Pickles , too much the delight of our Coarser Sex . " That women would become " Patronesses of the Fair SUGAR " Slare fully expected , since they " of late had more experience of it , in a more liberal use than formerly . " Slare 's encomia to sugar are accompanied by his recommendations to women to make their " Morning Repasts , call 'd Break-fasts " consist of bread , butter , milk , water , and sugar , adding that coffee , tea , and chocolate are similarly " endowed with uncommon vertues . " His message concerning sugar , he says , will please the West Indian merchant , who loads his Ships with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Persons , of inconsiderable Estates , rais 'd Plantations , and from thence have gain 'd such Wealth , as to return to their native Country very Rich , and have purchas 'd , and do daily purchase , great Estates . The Grocer , who retails what the Merchant furnishes by wholesale , is also concerned for the Credit and Good Name of his defam 'd and scandaliz 'd Goods , out of which he has also made his Fortune , his Family Rich and Wealthy . In short , there is no  | Family through the Kingdom but would make use of it , if they can get it , and would look upon it as a Matter of great Complaint , and a Grievance to be depriv 'd of the use of it . " Having dwelled upon these somewhat tangential aspects of sugar 's virtues , however , Slare turns to its medical utility , offering the reader almost immediately a prescription from " the famous oculist of Sarum , Dr. Turberville , " for ailments of the eye : " two drams of fine sugar-candy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made into a very fine and impalpable powder , and when dry , blow a convenient quantity into the eye . " We see here anew the mixture of sugar and preciosities to be consumed in medication , harking back both to the medicine of the plague and the subtleties of earlier centuries . Mixing sugar , pearls , and gold leaf to produce a powder in order to blow it into one 's ailing eye may seem bizarre in the extreme . It is necessary to keep in mind both the trustfulness born of desperation , and the power we invest in the things we hold dear . Slare piles wonder upon wonder . We are instructed next on the value of sugar as a dentifrice ( Slare prescribed it for his patients with great success , he says ) ; as a hand lotion also helpful for external lesions ; as snuff in place of tobacco ; and for babies : " For I have heard many Ladies of the better Rank , who read Books of some learned Persons , condemn Sugar , and denied it to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon be convinc 'd of the satisfaction a Child has from the Taste of Sugar , " he writes , " by making two Sorts of Water-Paps , one with , and the other without Sugar , they will greedily suck down the one , and make Faces at the other : Nor will they be pleas 'd with Cow 's Milk , unless that be bless 'd with a little Sugar , to bring it up to the Sweetness of Breast-Milk . " Slare 's enthusiasm is highly suspect but his work is much more than a mere curiosity , because it touches on so many aspects of what was even then a relatively new commodity for most people . The consumption of sugar in England was rising rapidly , and production of it in the British West Indies , following the conquest of Jamaica and steady increases in the slave trade , was keeping pace . By stressing its uses as medicine , food for persons of all ages , preservative , etc. , Slare was simultaneously reporting on the success of  | sugar while attracting additional attention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enumerate one Half of the Excellency of Sugar . I will refer the Reader to Confectioners Shops , or the Stores for Sweet-meats in the Places of the Rich , or rather to a Banquet , or Dessert serv 'd up at a generous Feast , with the Encomium of Eloquent Ladies at the End of a Treat , upon every charming Sweet , which is purely owing to the artful Application of Sugar , being first the Juice of the Indian Cane , more grateful and more delicious than the melliflous Liquid of the Honey-comb . John Oldmixon , a contemporary , expressed similar sentiments : One of the most pleasant and useful Things in the World , for besides the advantage of it in Trade , Physicians and Apothecaries can not be without it , there being nearly three Hundred Medicines made up with Sugar ; almost all Confectionery Wares receive their Sweetness and Preservation from it , most Fruits would be pernicious without it ; the finest Pastries could not be made nor the rich Cordials that are in the Ladies ' Closets , nor their Conserves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Dishes , as it does , but by their Assistance of this noble Juice . As medicine it would become less uncritically prescribed in the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries , and its medical role steadily diminished as it was transformed into a sweetener and preservative on a mass basis . Yet it mattered little whether people continued to use it medically , since they were already consuming it in substantial quantities . The former medicinal purposes of sugar were now assimilated into a new function , that of a source of calories . Sugar as sweetener came to the fore in connection with three other exotic imports ? tea , coffee , and chocolate ? of which one , tea , became and has since remained the most important nonalcoholic beverage in the United Kingdom . All are tropical products , all were new to England in the third quarter of the seventeenth century , all contain stimulants and can be properly classified as drugs ( together with tobacco and rum , though clearly different both in effects and addictiveness ) . All began as competitors for British preference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to some extent the fate of the others . All three beverages are bitter . A liking for bitterness , even extreme bitterness , falls " naturally " within the range of normal human taste response and can be quickly and firmly developed . The popularity of such diverse substances as watercress , beer , sorrel , radishes , horseradish , eggplant , bitter melon , pickles , and quinine , to name only a few , suggests a broad human tolerance for bitterness . Turning this into a preference usually requires some culturally grounded habituation , but it is not difficult to achieve under certain circumstances . Sweet-tasting substances , however , appear to insinuate themselves much more quickly into the preferences of new consumers . The bitter substances are " bitter-specific " ? liking watercress has nothing to do with liking eggplant , for instance . But , in contrast , liking sucrose seems to be " sweet-general . " Added to bitter substances , sugar makes them taste alike , at least insofar as it makes them all taste sweet . What is interesting about tea , coffee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widely known in Great Britain at approximately the same time is that none had been used exclusively with a sweetener in its primary cultural setting . To this day tea is drunk without sugar In China and by overseas Chinese . ( Tea usage in India poses somewhat different problems , deeply influenced as it was by the export of British customs , and intensely developed in India only under British stimulus . ) Coffee is often drunk with sugar , but not everywhere , and not always , even within areas of ancient usage such as North Africa and the Middle East . Chocolate was commonly ( though not invariably ) used as a food flavoring or sauce without sweetener in its original tropical American home . Though it is possible to date the first appearance of coffee , tea , and chocolate in Britain with fair confidence , documentation for the custom of adding sugar to such beverages during the early period of their use in the United Kingdom is almost nonexistent . Since the combination of a nonalcoholic , bitter , calorie-empty stimulant , heated and in liquid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mean a whole new assemblage of beverages , the  | lack of detailed information on how such combinations were first formed and received is frustrating . More than a century after coffee and tea habits were well established , Benjamin Moseley , a physician who practiced in the West Indies , tells us , " It has long been a custom with many people among us , to add mustard to their coffee .... The Eastern nations add either cloves , cinnamon , cardamoms , etc. , but neither milk , or sugar . Milk and sugar , without the aromaticks , are generally used with it in Europe , America , and the West India islands . " But by this time the English people had been drinking these beverages for more than a century . In his treatise on beverages , however , John Chamberlayn asserts that sugar was taken with all three by the time he was writing ( 1685 ) . Tea eventually supplanted home-brewed small beer almost entirely , even contested the popularity of sugar-flavored wines ( such as hippocras ) , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all three new beverages were drunk only by the wealthy and powerful , slowly becoming desired by the poor , and later preferred by them to other nonalcoholic drinks . By the time that tea and its sister drinks were taken up by working people , they were being served hot and sweetened . Well suited to the needs of people whose caloric intake may actually have been declining during the eighteenth century , and for whom a hot , sweet beverage must have seemed especially welcome given their diet and England 's weather , these drinks swiftly became popular . As the English drank more and more of the new substances , the beverages themselves became more and more English in two senses : by the process of ritualization , on the one hand ; and by being produced more and more in British colonies ? at least for another century or two ? on the other . Catherine of Braganza , the Portuguese bride of Charles II , who reigned from 1649 to 1685 , was " England 's first tea-drinking queen . It is to her credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the fashionable beverage of the court in place of the ales , wines , and spirits with which the English ladies , as well as gentlemen habitually heated or stupefied their brains morning , noon and night . " ' 86 As early as 1660 , tea was being touted in London advertising : a famous broadside distributed by Garway 's heve - age house vaunts tea 's supposed medicinal virtues . Before 1657 , we are  | told , tea had been used only " as a regalia in high treatments and entertainments , and presents made thereof to princes and grandees. " 87 But the Sultaness Head Coffee House had already advertised tea in the London newspaper Mercurius Politicus on September 30 , 1658 : " That excellent and by all physicians approved China drink , called by the Chineans Tcha , by other nations Tay , alias Tee , is sold at the Sultaness Head Cophee House .... " " Little more than a year later , Mercurius Politicos Redivivus , edited by Thomas Rugge , reports : " Theire ware also att this time a turkish drink @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coffee , and another drink called Tee , and also a drink called Chocolate , which was a very harty drink . " The first London coffeehouse appears to have been opened by a Turkish merchant in 1652 , and the institution grew with amazing rapidity , both on the Continent and in England . The late-seventeenth-century French traveler Misson was favorably impressed by London 's coffeehouses : " You have all Manner of News there : You have a good Fire , which you may sit by as long as you please : You have a Dish of Coffee ; you meet your Friends for the Transaction of Business , and all for a Penny , if you do n't care to spend more . " Arnold Heeren , the German historian , writing of the eighteenth century , tells us : The mercantile system lost none of its influence .... This was a natural consequence of the ever increasing importance of colonies , from the time that their productions , especially coffee , sugar , and tea , began to come into more general use in Europe . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on politics , but also on the reformation of social life , is not easily calculated . Apart from the vast gains resulting to the nations at large from commerce , and to the governments from duties ? what influence have not coffee-houses exercised in the capitals of Europe , as central points of political , mercantile , and literary transactions ? In a word without those productions , would the states in the west of Europe have acquired their present character ? Chocolate soon followed tea and coffee ; it was more expensive than coffee , and gained greater favor with the rich . Chamberlayn 's 1685 tract on the preparation of these three beverages indicates  | that they were already being taken with sugar ( " small quantities " ) and makes clear that their use was slowly spreading throughout society . In terms of drinkable beverage rendered per pound , tea soon emerged as the most economical . But its growing popularity can not be so much attributed either to its relative price or to any intrinsic superiority to these other exotic stimulants , as to the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than either coffee or chocolate , apparently because it can be tolerated , even when very diluted , more readily than those other beverages . Perhaps weak sweet tea tastes more satisfying than equally weak , equally sweet coffee or chocolate . At any rate , such possible virtues of tea were revealed only when imperial protection for its cultivation and production was turned toward India by the machinations of the importers . The Honourable East India Company was chartered in 1660 , one of what were eventually sixteen such companies ? Dutch , French , Danish , Austrian , Swedish , Spanish , and Prussian ? competing for trade in the Indies . None was so powerful or successful as the John Company , as this British chartered body was also called , which made its start importing pepper , but grew important because of tea . Its early adventures in the Far East brought it to China , whose tea was destined later to furnish the means of governing India . ... During the hey-day of its prosperity John Company ... maintained a monopoly of the tea trade with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into England , and thus fixed the price . It constituted not only the world 's greatest tea monopoly but also the source of inspiration for the first English propaganda on behalf of a beverage . It was so powerful that it precipitated a dietetic revolution in England , changing the British people from a nation of potential coffee drinkers to a nation of tea drinkers , and all within the space of a few years . It was a formidable rival of states and empires , with power to acquire territory , coin money , command fortresses and troops , form alliances , make war and peace , and exercise both civil and criminal jurisdiction . As tea drinking became popular in England , the smuggling of tea grew into a major business and , for the tax agents of the crown , a  | major headache . In 1700 , England received legally about twenty thousand pounds . By 1715 , Chinese green tea was flooding the London market ( thanks to the John Company ) , and by 1760 , duty was paid on more than five million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was more than twenty million pounds . In 1766 , however , the government was estimating that as much smuggled as legally introduced tea was reaching England . In that year the Honourable East India Company carried more tea away from China ? six million pounds ? than any of its competitors . Not until 1813 did the government intercede in the company 's administrative and commercial activities , and not until 1833 was its monopoly to China ? largely consisting of tea ? finally terminated . There is no comparable story for either coffee or chocolate ; nor is any such monopoly to be found in the history of West Indian sugar , where different sugar colonies vied with one another . But the relationship among these four products ? together with rum ( molasses ) and tobacco ? was intimate and entangled . Tea won out over coffee and chocolate and , in the long run , even over beer and ale ( though by no means altogether over rum and gin ! ) ? for many different reasons . But the East India Company 's monopoly , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in India by British capital ? and with total governmental support ? played an important part . India tea ( usually combining leaves from both Indian and Chinese plants ) was much delayed by the antagonism of the selfsame East India Company . By 1840 , however , it was in production , which marked the beginning of the end of China tea in England .... Within six years from the time Lord Bentinck had appointed his tea committee , the Government had demonstrated that British grown tea could be produced in marketable quantities .... Within the span of three generations British enterprise carved out of the jungles of India an industry that covered over two million acres , representing a capital investment of ? 36,000,000 with 788,842 acres under tea producing 432,997,916 lbs . annually , giving employment to one and a quarter million people ; at the same time creating one of the most lucrative sources of private wealth and government tax returns in the British Empire italics addedl.  | The success of tea , like the less resounding successes of coffee and chocolate , was also the success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest , increasing consumption of any of these exotic liquid stimulants was highly desirable , for sugar went with them all . Tea was pushed hardest by British trade , and its victory over competing beverages was conditioned by factors quite unrelated to its taste . That it was a bitter stimulant , that it was taken hot , and that it was capable of carrying large quantities of palatable sweet calories told importantly in its success . But unlike that of coffee and chocolate , the production of tea was developed energetically in a single vast colony , and served there as a means not only of profit but also of the power to rule . The same could not really be said of chocolate or coffee at the time ; the better analogy , if any , would be with sugar . Tea 's success was phenomenally rapid . Before the midpoint of the eighteenth century , even Scotland had become a land of tea addicts . The Scottish jurist and theologian Duncan Forbes looked back in time to write : But when the opening of a Trade with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low , that the meanest labouring Man could compass the Purchase of it ; ? when the Connection which the Dealers in their Country had with many Scotsmen in the Service of the Swedish Company at Gottenburg , introduced the Common Use of that Drug among the lowest of the People ; ? when Sugar , the inseparable Companion of Tea , came to be in the possession of the very poorest Housewife , where formerly it had been a great Rarity , ? and therby was at hand , to mix with Water and Brandy , or Rum ; ? and when Tea and Punch became thus the Diet and Debauch of all the Beer and Ale Drinkers , the effects were very suddenly and severely felt.9s And the historian of Scotland David MacPherson , writing at the beginning of the nineteenth century , looked back to the lowering of the duties on tea in 1784 , and the even sharper increase in use that followed upon it : Tea has become an economical substitute to the middle and lower classes of society for malt liquor , the price of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficient for them  | as their only drink . ... In short , we are so situated in our commercial and financial system , that tea brought from the eastern extremity of the world , and sugar brought from the West Indies and both loaded with the expense of freight and insurance ... compose a drink cheaper than beer . Cheapness was important , but it does not by itself explain the growing tendency toward tea consumption . The cleric David Davies , an important observer of rural life at the end of the eighteenth century , discerned the combined circumstances leading to a deepening preference for tea and sugar over other items of diet at the time . Davies insisted that the rural poor would produce and drink milk if they could afford to keep a cow , but that this was beyond the means of most , and his detailed budgetary records support his view . Then , because malt was a taxed item , it was too costly to enable the poor to make small beer : Under these hard circumstances , the dearness of malt , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them to moisten their bread with , was tea . This was their last resource . Tea ( with bread ) furnishes one meal for a whole family every day , at no greater expense than about one shilling a week , at an average . If any body will point out an article that is cheaper and better , I will venture to answer for the poor in general , that they will be thankful for the discovery . Davies was sensitive to the arguments against tea : Though the use of tea is more common than could be wished , it is not yet general among the labouring poor : and if we have regard to numbers , their share of the consumption is comparatively small ; especially if we reckon the value in money . Still , you exclaim tea is a luxury . If you mean fine hyson tea , sweetened with refined sugar , and softened with cream , I readily admit it to be so . But this is not the tea of the poor . Spring-water , just coloured with a few leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar , is the luxury for which you reproach them . To this they have recourse of necessity ; and were they now to be deprived of this , they would immediately be reduced to bread and water . Tea-drinking is not the cause , but the consequence of the distresses of the poor .  | After all , it appears a very strange thing , that the common people of any European nation should be obliged to use , as part of their daily diet , two articles imported from opposite sides of the earth . But if high taxes , in consequence of expensive wars , and the changes which time insensibly makes in the circumstance of countries , have debarred the poorer inhabitants of this kingdom the use of such things as are the natural products of the soil , and forced them to recur to those of foreign growth ; surely this is not their fault . Of course it was remarkable that , so early in England 's history , " the common people ... should be obliged to use , as part of their daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth . " It was remarkable not only for what it shows us about the English economy , already in large measure a nation of wage earners , but also for what it reveals about the intimacy of the links between colony and metropolis , fashioned by capital . So vital had sugar and tea become in the daily lives of the people that the maintenance of their supply had by then become a political , as well as an economic , matter . Other observers of English rural life , such as Sir Frederick Eden , also noted the growing consumption of tea and sugar in the countryside . Eden collected large numbers of individual family budgets , two of which , dating from 1797 , are illustrative of the trend in sugar consumption . The first , a southern family of six , had a cash income of forty-six pounds per year ; their calculation of money spent on food actually exceeds that figure slightly . This family 's purchases were estimated to include two pounds of sugar weekly , or about a hundred pounds per year , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? a startlingly high figure for the time . The northern family had a more modest income . There were five , rather than six , members and they spent disproportionately less on food . Nonetheless , of the twenty pounds estimated to have been expended for food annually , tea and sugar cost ? 1 12s. , and treacle 8s. more ? in all , 10 percent of the cash purchases of food.99 Jonas Hanway , the eighteenth-century social reformer , was intensely hostile to the consumption of tea by the poor . The richness of his feelings can he conveyed by the following : p 117 It is the curse of this nation that the labourer and mechanic will ape the lord . . . . To what a height of folly must a nation be arrived , when the common people are not satisfied with wholesome food at home , but must go to the remotest regions to please a vicious palate ! There is a certain lane ... where beggars are often seen ... drinking their tea . You may see labourers mending the roads drinking their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is not less absurd , sold out in cups to haymakers .... Those will have tea who have not bread .... Misery itself has no power to banish tea . ' ? ? John Burnett , a painstaking modern student of the history of British nutrition , reproaches Hanway gently . " Contemporary writers , " he tells us , " are unanimous in blaming the labourer for his extravagant diet , and tireless in demonstrating that by better management he might have more meat and more variety in his meals . None of them seemed ... to recognize that white bread and tea were no longer luxuries , but the irreducible minimum below which was only starvation .... Two ounces of tea a week , costing 8d. or 9d. , made many a cold supper seem like a hot meal . " 101 A number of scholars note that the substitution of tea for beer was a definite nutritional loss ; tea was bad not only because it was a stimulant and contained tannin , but also because it supplanted other , more nutritious foods : " The poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of warmth after drinking hot tea , whereas , in fact , a glass of cold beer would have given them far more real food . " It was not simply as a sweetener of tea that sucrose became an item of mass consumption between the late seventeenth century and the end of the eighteenth . Mrs. Hannah Glasse 's special confectionery cook book ( 1760 ) , probably the first of its kind , appeared in more than a dozen editions and was widely read ( and plagiarized ) ; it probably contributed to the behavioral bridging between matron and drudge that accompanied the emergence of newer middle-class segments . It offers good evidence of how comprehensively sugar was entering the English diet . This pathbreaking work dealt not only with sugar-sculpture frames and mini-subtleties , but also with sweetened custards , pastries , and creams , the recipes for which required port , madeira , sack ( sweet sherry ) , eggs , cream , lemons , or anges , spices , and immense quantities of sugar of many sorts . By instructing the rising middle classes in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich documentation that sugar was no longer a medicine , a spice , or a plaything of the powerful ? though of course the powerful would continue to play with sugar , in new ways . For the poor , probably the next most important use of sugar after sweetening tea was in supplementing the consumption of complex carbohydrates , particularly porridges and breads , with treacle ( molasses ) . " Hasty pudding , " so called , was in fact oatmeal porridge , commonly eaten with butter , milk , or treacle.In the eighteenth century , treacle apparently dislodged the older combinations . Though molasses served as a sweetener in this instance , the taste of sweetness it afforded the porridge was probably more pronounced than in the case of tea , though tea was commonly drunk very sweet . The first half of the eighteenth century may have been a period of increased purchasing power for laboring people , even though the quality of nutrition probably declined at the same time . Innovations like the liquid stimulants and the greatly increased use of sugar were items for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which one could attempt emulation of those at higher levels of the social system . But labeling this usage " emulation " explains very little . The circumstances under which a new habit is acquired are as important as the habits of those others from whom the habit is learned . It seemes likely that many of the new tea drinkers and sugar users were not fully satisfied with their daily fare . Some were doubtless inadequately fed ; others were bored by their food and by the large quantities of starchy carbohydrates they ate . A hot liquid stimulant full of sweet calories doubtless " hit the spot , " perhaps particularly for people who were already undernourished . C. R. Fay , a sometimes mordant commentator on English social history , writes : " Tea , which refreshes and quietens , is the natural beverage of a taciturn people , and being easy to prepare , it came as a godsend to the world 's worst cooks . " ' " It is true that tea is easier to prepare ( and soon became cheaper ) than either coffee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do with which  | of these beverages would win out ultimately ; and sugar may have helped as much as tea did to transform the English diet . It surely provided more calories . These additions to the diet of the English people signaled the linkage of the consumption habits of every Englishman to the world outside England , and particularly to the colonies of the empire . For many people this widening of food choices was a distinct advantage , sometimes displayed with charm and wry humor : I am heartily glad that we shall keep Jamaica and the East Indies another year , that one may have time to lay in a stock of tea and sugar for the rest of one 's days . I think only of the necessaries of life , and do not care a rush for gold and diamonds , and the pleasure of stealing logwood . The friends of government , who have thought on nothing but reducing us to our islandhood and bringing us back to the simplicity of ancient times , when we were the frugal , temperate , virtuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar were known . Better , no doubt ; but as I did not happen to be born two or three hundred years ago , I can not recall precisely whether diluted acorns , and barley bread spread with honey , made a very luxurious breakfast letter of Horace Walpole to Sir Horace Mann , 15 November 1779 . The uses of sugar as a sweetener for beverages grew in the company of ever more common pastries , often eaten with the beverages or in place of bread . This use would not reach its fullest development until the mass production of fruit preserves , conditioned by big drops in the price of sugar , was mastered in the nineteenth century . But as the use of tea and the other exotic beverages increased , so did the consumption of breads baked outside the home , which were often sweetened . Misson , the lateseventeenth-century French traveler who had rhapsodized about the coffeehouses , thought well of English puddings , too . Of " Christmas Pye , " he writes , " It is a great Nostrum the composition of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chicken , Eggs , Sugar , Raisins , Lemon and Orange Peel , various Kinds of Spicery , &c."107; Of course such treats were not yet for the frequent delectation of the poorest segments of English society in the early eighteenth century . But as sugar became better known  | and more familiar , pastries and puddings became more widespread . " Red " ( brown ) sugar and treacle were now widely used in baking , in puddings , with cereals , spread upon bread , and in other ways . Elisabeth Ayrton deals at length with the English sweet tooth in her sprightly and literate The Cookery of England ( 1974 ) : Sugar had been a luxury too expensive for many until the beginning of the eighteenth century , when the price dropped to about 6d. per pound . Once it had done so , the practice of " scraping " the conical sugar-loaf over the crust of a pie and of supplementing sugar in the contents with raisins , was enlarged to a fuller use of sugar in pies and tarts and to its use with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puddings formed part of the second or third course , which might also consist of fish , some lighter meat dishes , pies , tarts , vegetables or fruit . By the beginning of the nineteenth century they often , though not invariably , followed the savoury dishes as a separate course . In the first part of the eighteenth century a " pudding " almost always meant a basis of flour and suet with dried fruit , sugar and eggs added . As the century went on , hundreds of variations were evolved , recipes multiplied ; even the plainest dinner served above the poverty line was not complete without its pudding . Hot puddings , cold puddings , steamed puddings , baked puddings , pies , tarts , creams , moulds , charlottes and bettys , trifles and fools , syllabubs and tansys , junkets and ices , milk puddings , suet puddings : " pudding " used as a generic term covers so many dishes traditional in English cookery that the mind reels as it dwells on these almost vanished splendours of our tables . New foods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sugar had an important role in nearly all of these new items . But people do not simply add such important things to their diets without noticing what they are and how they can be used . Drinking tea , eating bread smeared with treacle or porridge sweetened with it , baking sweet cakes and breads were all acts that would gradually be assimilated into the calendar of work , recreation , rest , and prayer ? into the whole of daily life , in sum ? as well as into the cycle of special events such as births , baptisms , marriages , and funerals . In any culture , these processes of assimilation are also   ones of appropriation : the culture 's way of making new and unusual things part of itself . In complex hierarchical societies , " the culture " is never a wholly unified , homogeneous system , however . It is marked by behavioral and attitudinal differences at different levels , which are expressed and reflected in the differing ways ideas , objects , and beliefs are used , manipulated , and changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the words for them , ways of behaving and of thinking , too ? can move upward or downward , from lord to commoner , or vice versa . But when they do so , they are not unaltered or unchanged in meaning . And it would be naive to assume that such diffusion occurs as readily or as often in an upward direction as in a downward . Wealth , authority , power , and influence surely affect the ways diffusion occurs . Substances such as sugar , tea , and tobacco , their forms and uses , became embedded somewhat differently in different portions of the English social system , and the meanings attached to them varied as well . At each level , moreover , differences of age , sex , and the norms of social assortment affect the ways new usages are institutionalized and relearned . Sometimes old men , sometimes young wives , sometimes infants of both sexes will be most affected by one or another such substance . In the case of sugar , the downward movement that typified its spread was accompanied , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or could mean to those who used it . Since it took many forms , the meanings attachable to sugar would vary depending on whether it was a spice , a medicine , a form of decoration , a sweetener , or whatever ? and also depending on the social group employing it . In general terms , sugar 's use as a spice and a medicine declined as its use as a decoration , a sweetener , and a preservative increased . In these latter categories , its availability for new meanings broadened , as its nature was more fully grasped by those who used it . It formed part of a " tea complex " ( the term is used with some hesitancy ) that gradually came to characterize British society top to bottom ? though intricately and profoundly differentiated at different levels . Here it was both a sweetener of the tea itself and a fundamental ingredient of many of the foods that accompanied the  | tea . As a decoration , sugar was obviously important in ceremonial contexts , such as weddings , birthday parties , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though of course the events in question were no longer matters of state or the appointments of church dignitaries . As a preservative , it had additional potentialities . Two somewhat different processes were occurring as these uses became more or less standard , both of them aspects of what , for lack of a better term , may be called " ritualization " ? the incorporation and symbolic reinvestment of new materials . ( Because ritual has to do with regularity and with a sense of fitness , rightness , and validation , its meaning here is not confined to so-called religious behavior . ) One such aspect may be called " extensification " : larger numbers of persons were becoming familiar with sugar on a regular , perhaps even daily , basis . The regular consumption of sugar , particularly of cheap brown sugar or treacle , even in modest quantities , gradually reduced sugar 's status as a glamorous luxury and a precious good . As a sweetener of tea , coffee , chocolate , and alcoholic drinks , and as an ingredient of bakery and fruit desserts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eighteenth century . More frequent and greater consumption ? with the addition of new food uses and new occasions for consumption , each of which forged and consolidated particular meanings ? would deepen this everyday quality . A treat , perhaps , but a familiar , reliable , and expected treat ? the analogy with tea itself , say , or even with tobacco may be persuasive . As sugar became more known , more " homey , " it was endowed with ritual meanings by those who consumed it , meanings specific to the social and cultural position of the users . This is a part of the extensification itself : a recasting of meanings , now detached from the past , and from those given by other social groups . In contrast , " intensification " involved more continuity with past usage , more fidelity to older meanings , more ? perhaps the word is closer to the mark here ? emulation . Coronations , the installation of high religious authorities , and the granting of knighthoods did not spread throughout society ; but sugar did . Hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harking p 123 back to older usage but freed of much of the social and political content they formerly carried . Wedding cakes with their elaborate icings and figures , the use of spices and sweets with meat and fowl at holidays , the use of sweet foods at rituals of separation and departure ( including funerals ) , and a lexicon in which the imagery of sweetness figures importantly all suggest such continuity . The preservative powers of sucrose were recognized at a very early time , as the ninth-century record documenting the manufacture and export of fruit syrups , candied capers , and similar preserves from Persia demonstrates . The usefulness of sugar as a preservative is shared to some extent by honey , but sucrose is more effective . Its capacity to draw off moisture and thus to deprive micro-organisms of a breeding environment makes it a relatively safe vehicle for the suspension of edible solids , even meat , for lengthy periods . Just as liquid sugar or syrups can be used as a medium in which to immerse other substances , so crystalline sugars can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe these properties were written about by the thirteenth or fourteenth century , and were probably well known before then . In the Compendium Aromatarorium ( 1488 ) , Saladin d'Asculo described how to prevent fermentation by using concentrated sucrose solutions , and how to preserve dairy products by applying a thick coating of powdered sugar . Paracelsus also recorded sugar uses to prevent spoilage . ' " Preserved fruit was a delicacy known to English royalty by the fifteenth century , and doubtless earlier . The " perys in syrippe " served at the wedding feast of Henry IV and Joan of Navarre in 1403 are noteworthy , since at that time " almost the only way of preserving fruit was to boil it in syrup and flavour it heavily with spices . " 10 Nearly two centuries later , the household hook of Lord Middleton , at Woollaton Hall , Nottinghamshire , documents the purchase of two pounds , one ounce of " marmelade " at the astronomical price of Ss. 3d. ? which shows " what a luxury such imported preserved fruits were . " " ' Though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two pounds of preserved fruit at that time would have bought approximately one pound of pepper or ginger ? equally exotic imports ? or nearly fourteen pounds of butter , or almost twenty-nine pounds of cheese .  | Delicacies of this sort continued to be food for royalty and the very wealthy for centuries more ; but as with other sugar uses , those of lesser rank aspired to consume them , too . Candied fruit was imported to England from the Mediterranean at least as early as the fourteenth century . Socade , " a form of conserve which often covers what we now term marmalade , " appears in sixteenth-century cargo lists . And the Skinners ' Company banquet of 1560 featured both " marmelade " and " sukett " among the sweetmeats served . Since law did not prohibit the use of sugar by inferior social strata , potential users were constrained only by its rarity and high price . It would of course be more likely to be used by a guild or corporate group than to appear on the family tables of the individual members , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a preservative had a different form before the nineteenth century , however , which diminished almost to the vanishing point when the fruit-preservative usage acquired - an importance it would never again surrender , after about 1875 . Henry IV 's 1403 wedding feast features " sugar plums , sugar made up with roses , comfitures of fruit , sage , ginger , cardamom , fennel , anise , coriander , cinnamon , powdered saffron " 113 ? but this list mixes different sorts of sweetmeat together . The spices , which could be candied or not , come first . Plain spices were passed about on costly gold and silver spice plates , filigreed and engraved with coats of arms and often jewel-incrusted ? obvious display items of rank for male nobility . With them went the drageoirs , as richly decorated and costly as the spice plates , but filled with sugared confections . Drageoirs were a female display prerogative , paralleling the spice plates . Both the spice plates and the drageoirs or comfit boxes were forms of privileged consumption , associated with royalty and the specially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' From the fourteenth century onward , the ceremonial feasts of the English kings included the serving of comfits and spices . Both were used to accompany second and subsequent servings of wine . The spices ? cardamom , cinnamon , coriander ? were " digestives " ( a word that is more commonly used today with this meaning in other languages besides English , such as French and Italian ) , or medicines to aid digestion . The candied sweets served in drageoirs were p 125 called " dragees . " The word " drageoir " is lost to modern English ; but " dragee " survives with three dictionary meanings , all of them significant . The first is a sugar-coated nut ; the second , a pearllike sweet used to decorate cakes ; and the third , a sugar-coated medication . Here three of sugar 's principal and earliest uses are summed up in a single word . The term " comfit " ( cognate with French confiture and with English " confection " ) is still used generally to mean a confection with a firm ( fruit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The archetypes of the comfits may have been candied sugars , zucchero rosato and zucchero violato , mentioned in the fourteenthcentury accounts of Balducci Pegolotti , a Venetian trader , and in the royal exchange accounts from the fourteenth century on . But these delicacies did not embody the flowers , only their colors and aromas . Authentic comfits ? objects coated with hardened sugar ? are readily traceable to Venice , and doubtless backward in time to North Africa and the Middle East . It is of incidental interest that , before confetti came to mean bits of colored paper , it meant bits of colored candy , and in some languages ? such as Russian ? it still does . The word is cognate , of course , with comfit , con fit , and confection . But it is unlikely that most English people first encountered sugar used as a preservative in the form of candied fruits , or fruits preserved in syrup . These remained luxuries even after working people had begun to drink heavily sweetened tea , and they did not diffuse downward at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be sure , comfits and similar treats were known to the middle classes , and may have begun to become familiar in one form or another to working people as well . Pomet , although his work deals primarily with medicines rather than foods or confections , gives a concise description of these goodies : There are infinite Variety of Flowers , Seeds , Berries , Kernels , Plums , and the like which are , by the Confectioners , cover 'd with Sugar , and bear the Name of Sugar-Plums , which would be endless to set down , and are too frivolous for a Work of this Nature : The most common of the Shops are Carraway-Confects , Coriander , and Nonpareille , which is nothing but Orrice-Powder , cover 'd with Sugar ; and what is much in Vogue at Paris is green  | Anise : Besides these , we have Almond-Confects , Chocolate , Coffee , Berberries , Pistachia Nuts , &c.116; This is the older preservative use , which , though it survives in many rather trivial forms to this day , was outstripped by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sweeten beverages , preservative sugar gained a completely new place in the British economy and in daily life , but only as large-scale consumption of preserved fruit came to typify English diet . Once again it was the transformation of a rare substance into a common one , and a costly treat into a cheap food , that made dependent transformations possible . From the " perys in syrippe " of the fourteenth-century chefs of royalty would eventually come the jams and marmalades of Tiptree , Keiller , Crosse and Blackwell , Chivers , and other canners in the nineteenth . Because of the old fear of fruit that typified commoner English attitudes , the manufacturers and merchants of jellies , jams , and marmalades had to overcome some resistance and distrust . Moreover , until a safe preservative medium that was cheap enough to result in an economical product was available , these sweets could not be mass-produced . But when the price of sugar fell sharply after the big victories of the free-trade movement of the mid-nineteenth century , jam consumption began to catch hold among working people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other forms rose in response to a fall in sugar prices . These changes in sucrose consumption were entangled with other changes in diet and taste as well . Jam and the working class ? a phrase I have borrowed from an important article by Angeliki Torode ? were conjoined only from about 1870 onward . Semiliquid and liquid sweeteners invaded the proletarian diet and taste somewhat earlier , in the form of treacle . Though very different from jams or jellies , treacle probably helped " sell " preserves to new users . From its early , more molasseslike form , it was progressively refined into a clear , gold-colored syrup that mimicked honey and , by the late nineteenth century , cost much less . Edward Smith 's records of the diets of the Lancashire operatives in 1864 show that they lived largely on bread , oatmeal , bacon , p 127 a very little butter , treacle , and tea and coffee . Cheap jams made their appearance on the market in the ' eighties and immediately became very popular . Most of them contained very little of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were simply concoctions made from the cheapest fruit or vegetable pulp obtainable , coloured and flavoured as required . Their sweetness made them very popular with poor families ; bread and jam became the chief food of poor children for two meals out of three . John Burnett writes of the mid-nineteenth century that " bread was the staple of life for the 80 or 90 percent of the population that made up the working classes . " Hence we have a population already eating sugar , especially in tea , but also confined to a heavily carbohydrate diet . What else were people eating ? The various foods that composed working people 's diets were interrelated , and can not be considered one by one if we want to calculate where sugar fits in . Some data from Scotland are especially instructive in that they unite the bread-eating with jam , revealing how this combination could undercut an older pattern because yet other changes in Scottish society at the time were opening the way . R. H. Campbell 's short study of Scottish diet between the mideighteenth century and World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within Great Britain are believed to have become negligible ? is useful here , exactly because it gives a good indication of how sugar progressively penetrated the food preferences of ordinary people over time . Permanent agricultural laborers ( called " hinds " ) in Scotland of the nineteenth century received up to twothirds of their income in kind , including food . These landless workers were better fed , however , than were casual agricultural laborers . As payments in kind declined , partly in reaction to public criticism of arrangements retaining so much power in the hands of the employer , the diet of the hinds also declined . " Freedom of choice , " says Campbell , " led to a decline in the standard of diet " ? not an unfamiliar consequence . All the same , Scottish workers continued to eat substantial quantities of oatmeal in various forms , even when choosing their own ingredients , because it remained a cheap food during much of the nineteenth century . Since oatmeal provided important nutrients not otherwise available at so low a cost , its  | cheapness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers at the same salary level . When Campbell provides comparative data for the industrial cities of Scotland ( Edinburgh , Glasgow , and Dundee ) at the end of the century , a different picture emerges . Diets here were judged to be deficient in protein , especially in animal protein , and the reasons were clear enough : " excessive use of bread , butter , and tea , instead of the porridge and milk of the rural diets . " Campbell asks the same questions as the Edinburgh investigators ? " Why did people fail to retain the more satisfactory yet cheap diet of the rural areas ? When a choice of diet became available , why was it exercised unwisely ? " But he came up with an answer different from theirs . The investigators had concluded that " when . . . it comes to a question of using the ready cooked bread or the uncooked oatmeal , laziness decides which , and the family suffers . " 122 " But the investigation in Dundee , " Campbell writes , revealed conditions that more adequately explain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income was rising . The organization of the jute industry provided opportunities for female labour , so that many housewives went out to work in Dundee . Nutritional standards declined still further and sharply when the wife went out to work . " When the mother is at work there is not time to prepare porridge or broth in the diet hour ' ... usually breakfast and dinner become bread and butter meals . As the school interval for dinner is not the same as the mill diet hour ' the children have to unlock the house and get pieces ' for themselves .... " Pressure on the housewife 's time was in itself a sufficient explanation of the choice of an inferior diet . The need to save time rather than the need to economize or to maintain nutritional standards determined the choice .... Most notable was the increased consumption of bread . In one case in Dundee 6s 5d of a total expenditure of 12s 11d went on bread ; one family of a father , mother and five children consumed 56lbs a week .... The cooking of vegetable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vegetable broth was used extensively the Scottish custom of eating few vegetables in any other form was unimportant . Where the housewife had to go out to work , the preparation of broth was practically impossible . In Dundee the investigators found  | that the broth pot was " an almost invariable feature " only of houses where the mother was at home . John Burnett 's argument fits well not only with Campbell 's assertions but also with the argument I am making about sugar . White bread and tea passed , in the course of a hundred years , from the luxuries of the rich to become the hall-marks of a povertyline diet . Social imitation was one reason , though not the most important .... Whereas they were mere adjuncts to the tables of the wealthy , they became all too often the total diet of the poor , the irreducible minimum beyond which lay only starvation . Paradoxically , they had become almost the cheapest foods on which life could be supported . White bread , though it was better with meat , butter or cheese , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cold meal into something like a hot one , and gave comfort and cheer besides . At 6s or 8s a pound in the middle of the nineteenth century tea was still a luxury , though the average consumption of a working-class household ? 2ozs a week , often eked out with pieces of burnt toast to colour the water ? was scarcely extravagant . And in the circumstances of early industrialism this type of diet had an additional advantage that it could always be produced close at hand and required little or no preparation . But the clincher is what happened with jam . After the 1870s , jam became an important food , especially for the working class . Free trade made possible the rise and prosperity of jam factories in this period . The abolition of the sugar duties made sugar cheap and plentiful ; jam contains 50 to 65 per cent of its weight in sugar .... Most of the produce of the jam and preserves factories was for domestic consumption .... Urban working classes ... consumed much of their fruit in the form of jam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bread indulged in sugar or , when times were worse , in treacle , spreading it on bread as a substitute for butter , or using it in their tea instead of sugar . A pudding or a currant cake appears often in the budgets of working class families in the 1860s . Even the poor families interviewed by Seebohm Rowntree in his study of the rural labourer either purchased or made jam ? usually out of windfalls or even stolen fruit . Only in the worst cases would a mother hesitate to open her jam-jar , because her children ate more bread if there was jam on it . In any case , the jam manufacturers , with the  | exception of Blackwell and Chivers who made expensive preserves as well , agreed in 1905 that their most extensive and lucrative market lay in the working class to whom jam , once a luxury , had now become a necessity , and a substitute for the more expensive butter . Several points emerge from these observations . First , it seems clear that , at least in Great Britain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of available time , and not solely in terms of relative cost . Second , it is clear that fuel was an important part of food costs , so that food that circumvented this outlay would be more attractive . Third , the division of labor within the family shaped the evolution of British food preferences ; a wife 's leaving the house to earn a wage had a restrictive effect on the family diet , even though her work might increase the family income . Though not as conspicious in the above argument but at least equally important for the story of sugar , there is good evidence that the nutritional value of foods was not equally distributed within family units ; indeed , we shall examine evidence that wives and children were systematically undernourished because of a culturally conventionalized stress upon adequate food for the " breadwinner . " There seems no doubt that sugar and its by-products were provided unusual access to working-class tastes by the factory system , with its emphasis on the saving of time , and the poorly paid but exhausting jobs it offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home was representative of the shift from a traditional cooking system , costly in fuels and in time , toward what we would now proclaim as " convenience eating . " Sweetened preserves , which could be left standing indefinitely without spoiling and without refrigeration , which were cheap and appealing to children , and which tasted better than more costly butter with store-purchased bread , outstripped or replaced porridge , much as tea had replaced milk and home-brewed beer . In practice , the convenience foods freed the wage-earning wife from one or even two meal preparations per day , meanwhile providing large numbers of calories to all her family . Hot tea often replaced hot meals for children off the job , as well as for adults on the job . These changes were an integral part of the  | modernization of English society . The sociological changes that they accompanied would continue to mark the modernization of the rest of the world . The nonmedicinal consumption of sucrose in England before 1700 took three principal forms besides decorative sugar and preserves : spices and dragees , sweet and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was this last , most of all , that would eventually become the " sweet " ( dessert ) eaten at home by millions of English working people , so that the standardization of such dishes is a feature of the history both of English diet and of sugar itself . Baked sweet dishes do not appear conspicuously in English recipes before the fifteenth century , but thereafter such recipes are common . In his selections , based on two fifteenth-century works , Austin has published a section entitled " Dyverse baked metis , " which provides recipes employing egg yolks , cream , various spices including saffron , and sugar ( in some cases honey ) , the resulting mixture to be baked into a custard in pastry cups , shells , or barquettes.In succeeding centuries , such dishes become more and more common , but their place within the meal was not firm until late in the history of sugar usage . I believe the link between a particular course and the specific taste of sweetness could be forged only when sweet substances were cheap and plentiful enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meal . There is nothing natural or inevitable about eating sweet food at every meal or about expecting a sweet course . It appears to have become a common feature of western European eating only in the last couple of centuries , and to have settled into position as a final course even more recently . Yet it is by now so commonplace that we may have difficulty in imagining some completely different pattern . Since the connection between one taste ( sweetness ) and one course ( dessert ) is the firmest of all such links in the western food order , it is worth trying to see how it emerged . Perhaps only in the late seventeenth century , and at the topmost level of society , did a sequence of dishes consigning sweet courses to the end of the meal finally became stabilized . In medieval banquets , Mead writes , " the place assigned to the dessert , insofar as it  | existed , appears to have been a matter of indifference . " The order of courses , even once the display ( and , sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was random with respect to sweet dishes . Henry IV 's coronation feast , for instance , had " doucettys " as the third course among many , and there are no sweets at the end of the menu . Preserved fruits might be served at any point in the sequence ; " quincys in comfyte " turn up near the beginning of the third course . Similarly , at Henry 's wedding feast , though each of the three courses was climaxed with a subtlety , the only other candidates for a dessert course , cream of almonds and pears in syrup , turn up at the start of the third course . Mead believes the appetite for sweets was as keen in the fifteenth century as it is today but that medieval diners were simply not concerned about the order of their dishes . French royalty began to eat what looked like a dessert course in the fifteenth century . A feast given by two noblemen for the king of France and his court consisted of seven courses . Desserts began with the fifth : tarts , custards , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The sixth course was made up of wafers and red hippocras , and the seventh of subtleties , each piece carrying the arms and device of the king . Mead is inclined to attribute the emergence of the dessert in English practice to imitation of the French model . Because so much of English royal custom came from the French courts , this seems probable . It would be easy to suppose that the English working classes learned to eat dessert because such was the habit of their rulers , but here the explanation may be too facile . The first sugar habit learned by the English poor was part of the tea habit , and the tea habit spread downward from the rulers and outward from the cities at a rapid rate . But the public consumption of tea and the other drug beverages was not at first as part of a meal . Both tea and sugar were first consumed outside the traditional home diet , were only later assimilated into it ; indeed , were probably at first associated more with work than with the home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " interval foods " were stimulants such as caffeine and a caloric-heavy sugar , combined in an easily prepared hot liquid form . Once learned , this p 133 combination of substances would then be taken into the home diet ; cheaper sugar would facilitate the use of treacle and , soon enough , puddings , especially when store-baked bread became widely available . This chronology of successive additions is speculative , but it is reasonably accurate . It implies that a dessert course was the third , rather than the first , important sugar use for the poor . The stabilization of the dessert ? usually " pudding " ? became firm in the nineteenth century , especially toward the end , when sugar use rose even more sharply . But this did not occur independently of other changes in diet and the structure of English meals . One fundamental such change was the decline in the consumption of bread and flour , as other foods became more available and less expensive , among them sugars . This decline continued into the twentieth century , in the United States as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be complementary to the rising curve for sugars , and to increasing meat ( or at least fat ) consumption . But whether changes of this kind represented ? or eventuated in ? an improvement in the diet of working people is moot . The part played by sugars in increasing the average total caloric intake makes it likely that sugars both complemented the complex carbohydrates and partly supplanted them . The pastries , hasty puddings , jam-smeared breads , treacle puddings , biscuits , tarts , buns , and candy that turned up more and more in the English diet after 1750 , and in a deluge after 1850 , offered almost unlimited ways in which the sugars could be locked onto complex carbohydrates in flour form . Added sugar was customary with hot beverages , and the eating of sweetened baked foods often accompanied these drinks . The drinking of tea , coffee , or chocolate ( but most commonly tea ) with meals , in moments of repose snatched from work , at rising , and at bedtime spread widely . The combination of such beverages with baked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice . While the dessert became a course in the sit-down lunches and dinners of most classes , sugar use itself spread far more widely . It became , in one form or another , the near-universal accompaniment of wheat products and hot beverages . Its caloric contribution rose from an estimated 2 percent of total intake at the start of the nine- teenth century to a more probable 14 percent a century later . Even this somewhat startling latter figure may be an underestimate , since it is a national average and omits the differential effects of such factors as age , sex , and class on sugar consumption . That the appeal of sugar to the poor was greater ? that it could satisfy hunger in the place of other , more nutritious foods ? may have looked like a virtue . The many new uses for sucrose that developed between the twelfth and eighteenth centuries eventuated in a modern multifunctional mass consumption . Such deepening differentiation ? more uses , more frequency , more intensive use ? typified the second half of the nineteenth century in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrializing countries . An analogous sequence occurred in poorer , nonindustrial countries during our century . What had begun as a spice and a medicine was eventually transformed into a basic foodstuff , but a foodstuff of a special kind . The uses of sugar overlapped because of the unusual versatility of sucrose . Food and medicine have been linked in thought and in act ever since human beings began viewing ingestion and fasting as instruments of health and purity ; and sugars have been a bridge between " food " and " medicine " for millennia . But sugar was not limited to medicinal uses , as we have seen . By the fifteenth century , sugar confections , often in a profusion distressing to the modern reader , had become an invariable accompaniment to nearly every courtly activity in England . English royalty manifested an affection for sweets that apparently exceeded even that of the kings and queens of the Continent . A German traveler of the sixteenth century , who met Elizabeth at court , wrote , " The Queen , in the 65th year of her age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her face oblong , fair but wrinkled ; her eyes small , yet black and pleasant ; her nose a little hooked , her lips narrow , and her teeth black ( a defect the English seem subject to , from their too great use of sugar ) . " " ' He went on to say that the poor in England looked healthier than the rich , because they could not afford to indulge their penchant for sugar . In subsequent centuries , of course , this changed radically .  | " This fondness of our countrymen and countrywomen for sweets , " writes British historian William B. Rye , astonished the Spaniards who came with the Embassy of the Count Villamediana in 1603 . At Canterbury the English ladies are described as peeping through the latticed windows ... at the hidalgos , who presented the " curious impertinent fair ones " with the bonbons , comfits , and sweet meats that were upon the table , " which they enjoyed mightily ; for ( it is remarked ) they eat nothing but what is sweetened with sugar , drinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meat . " Spain had been familiar with sucrose in various forms for centuries , and had been exporting it to England for more than a hundred years when this incident was recorded . That Spanish diplomats should have been so struck by the English sweet tooth in 1603 , nearly half a century before England began importing sugar from her first " sugar colony , " is worth noting . We can be sure , moreover , that these " curious impertinent fair ones " were neither servants nor dairy maids . All the same , it would be difficult to contend that the history of sucrose consumption in England merely documents an innate liking . The American historian John Nef argued that the north European craving for sucrose originated in geographical factors . The " growth of economic civilization in the north , " to use his phrase , meant using fruits and vegetables " with less natural succulence than those growing in Mediterranean soil . " To make them palatable , he claimed , it was necessary to sweeten them . But this is not convincing . Fruits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cherry are arguably no less succulent than fruits from subtropical climes , nor is it easy to see why northern peoples would have a stronger craving for sweetness than peoples in the south , even if the highest rates of processedsucrose consumption in the modern world are to be found principally among northern populations . People in subtropical regions , from south China through India , Persia , and North Africa , had been sugar eaters long before the Europeans knew much about sucrose , and the Venetians were fascinated by sugar when they first became acquainted with it , no later than the tenth century . Possibly more relevant to the peculiar English sweet tooth is a  | cultural datum concerning alcohol . Ale prepared from malted grain was England 's chief alcoholic drink for perhaps a millennium , to be challenged by beer only around the middle of the fifteenth century . Ale has a sweetish , rather than bitter , taste , as long as the malt sugar in it is not completely fermented . When hops began to be added , around 1425 , they contributed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beer ? but also made it bittertasting . The bitterness apparently did not discourage consumption by those accustomed to the sweet taste of ale ? but ale continued to be drunk thereafter . A new bitter beverage was now available , in addition to a more familiar sweet one . Hence a familiarity with a sweet taste other than those of fruit and honey was maintained . Beyond this , other sweet or sweetened drinks besides ale were long popular in England . Alcoholic beverages made from or with honey ? mead , metheglin , hydromel , rhodomel , omphacomel , oenomel ? constituted one such category . Honey was distilled after fermentation to make mead , or to be mixed with wine , grape juice , rose water , etc. , to create these somewhat exotic intoxicants . But honey was relatively expensive and not very plentiful even before the sixteenth century , when the abolition of the monasteries dealt a near-fatal blow to honey production , destroying the only substantial market for ( beeswax ) candles , contributing to a rise in the price of honey , and cutting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consisted of beverages combining sugar and alcohol , especially wine . Sugar and sack ? Falstaff 's favorite ? was one . But most popular was hippocras , a candied wine commonly flavored with spices as well as sugar , which displaced the older honeyed wines and fermented honey drinks as the importation of both wines and sugar rose . The English habit of adding sugar to wine was much remarked . The English " put a great deal of sugar in their drink , " Hentzner wrote in 1598,137 and when Fynes Moryson discussed English drinking habits in 1617 , he commented : " Clownes and vulger men only use large drinking of Beere or Ale ... but Gentlemen garrawse onely in Wine , with whiche many mixe sugar ? which I never observed in any other place or kingdom to be used for that purpose . And because the taste of the English is  | thus delighted with sweetness , the wines in tavernes ( for I speak not of Merchants or Gentlemens cellars ) are commonly mixed at the filling thereof , to make them pleasant . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predilection for sweetness ? though there may indeed have been such ? as a long-standing familiarity with sweetened beverages . It is conceivable that the sweetening of the drug drinks ? coffee , chocolate , and tea ? became customary not only because they were bitter as well as unfamiliar , but also because the habit of adding sugar to beverages was an old one . When tea was touted as the beverage that " cheers without inebriating , " its sweetness surely emerged as a favorable feature for a people whose sweet tooth had long been cultivated by sweet or sweetened alcoholic beverages . In their turn , of course , tea , coffee , and chocolate helped to encourage the sharp upward curve of sucrose consumption . It seems improbable that they were essential to it , but there is no doubt that they accelerated it . Tea , coffee , and chocolate never displaced alcoholic drinks ? they only vied with them . The rivalry was lengthy , and of course it has never ended . In British social history , the issue of temperance figured critically in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : the protection of the family , virtues like thrift , reliability , honesty , and piety . But temperance was also a national economic issue : an effective , factory-based industrial capitalism could not be consolidated by an absentee-ridden , drunken labor force . Hence the issue of alcoholic versus nonalcoholic beverages was neither a moral nor an economic-political question alone ; certainly it was not simply a matter of " taste " or of " good manners . " During the late seventeenth and eighteenth centuries , alcoholicdrink consumption rose nationally in Great Britain , but the consumption of tea and other " temperance " beverages grew even faster . Gin began to be imported from Holland in the seventeenth century , and by 1700 imports reached 500,000 gallons in some years . An act of 1690 , directed against the French , legalized the manufacture of a local eau de vie from grains . Called " British brandy , " this curious offshoot of national rivalries continued to be produced until well into the eighteenth century.140 Whereas ale and beer could be  | sold only at licensed houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the list in 1700 ? " spirits " could be sold without a license and with only a derisory tax . The consumption of gin had risen to an estimated five million gallons ? that is , an increase of 1,000 percent ? by 1735 . The rising price of grains with which to make hard liquor led to a renewed popularity for beer , which competed with tea in the mideighteenth century . And to these must be added rum ; in 1698 , only 207 gallons of rum were imported to England ; in the period 1771-75 , the annual average importation was well over two million gallons yearly . Indeed , this understates the totals , partly because rum was distilled from the molasses that was a by-product of sugar making in Britain , partly because a great deal more was smuggled in . Tea , coffee , and chocolate , in other words , had many rivals ; sugar was needed in the production and consumption of nearly all of these beverages . Tea triumphed over the other bitter caffeine carriers because it could be used more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fell with fair steadiness in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries ( particularly after the East India Company 's monopoly was broken in the 1830s ) , and because ? a related consideration ? its production was localized in British colonies . It turned out , moreover , to be a magnificent source of government revenues through taxation ; by the 1840s , bohea , the cheapest China tea , was being taxed at 350 percent . But tea was far more than an import directly profitable to the government . Some of the largest and most important retailing concerns in world history , such as Lipton ( and some of its earliest competitors , such as Twining ) , were built on tea . Touted as a temperance beverage , tea stimulated while carrying large quantities of calories . By the middle of the nineteenth century , the temperance movement had helped to convert Hanway 's hated tea into a great blessing , as suggested by such effusions as the following : With you I see , in ages yet unborn , Thy votaries the British Isles adorn , With joy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luster for the false one 's eyes ; Till rosy Bacchus shall his wreaths resign , And love and tea triumph o'er the vine . Alcoholism did not disappear , nor did working-class families turn into teetotalers overnight , however . Alcohol consumption remained high among working people , and some laboring families were spending a third or even a half of all their income on drink throughout the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries . Still , the temperance movement definitely reduced drunkenness , particularly among the slightly better-off , more skilled workers . In this gradual elimination or reduction of alcoholism , tea played a critical part . Here again , it is not clear how much influence the model of upper-class behavior may have had . The temperance movement was a product of middleand upper-class thinking and morality ? but this hardly means that alcoholism was a working-class monopoly . I have stressed sugar 's usefulness as a mark of rank ? to validate one 's social position , to elevate others , or to define them as inferior . Whether as a medicine , a spice , or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subtleties , sugar uses were molded into declarative , hierarchical functions . Certain scholars , emphasizing the function of luxuries in modernization , have seen this complex of customs somewhat differently . Werner Sombart , for example , argued that sugar ( among many other substances ) affected the rise of capitalism because the female love of luxury led to its increasing production and importation to European centers . On one point , however , we already seem to have arrived at complete agreement : the connection between the consumption of sweets and feminine dominance .... This connection between feminism ( old style ) and sugar has been of the greatest importance for the history of economic development . Because of the predominant role of women during early capitalism , sugar rapidly became a favorite food ; and only because of the widespread use of sugar were such stimulants as cocoa , coffee , and tea adopted so readily all over Europe . Trade in these four commodities and the production of cocoa , tea , coffee and sugar in the overseas colonies as well as the processing of  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outstanding factors in the development of capitalism . Probably only the final sentence in this passage can be accepted unreservedly . The " predominant role of women during early capitalism " is an enigmatic ? one might almost say mysterious ? assertion . The alleged importance of women in transforming sugar into a favorite food is similarly puzzling . Even the causation implicit in the sentence that follows ? that sugar 's availability underwrote the drug-beverage habit ? is unacceptable as it stands . Yet Sombart was not wrong to look for some connection between women and sugar use , for he was driving at a serious analysis of the circumstances under which consumption occurs . In the case of sugar and the foods eaten with it , such an analysis means looking at work , and at time , as well as at the divisions between the sexes and among classes ? in short , at the total sociology of consumption during the rise of a new economic order in western Europe . Sugars began as luxuries , and as such embodied the social position of the wealthy and powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted earlier , may have reflected a male-female difference of a kind , but one between persons of the same stratum or rank . When these luxuries began to be employed by wealthy commoners , they multiplied and redifferentiated their uses . And as sugars came to be viewed as everyday necessities for larger and larger segments of the national population , they were progressively incorporated into innovative contexts , ritualized by their new consumers . Just as the spice plates and drageoirs of the nobility of an earlier era validated and proclaimed rank and status with reference to others ? to spouses , to equals , and ( by exclusion ) to inferiors ? so these new sugar uses served analogous social and psychological functions for ever-larger , less aristocratic groups . Some of these new patterns were essentially transfers of the uses and meanings of those of higher position to lower ranks ? an intensification of older forms . Yet others , and more commonly , involved the use of old materials in new contexts and , necessarily , with new or modified meanings ? an extensification of previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social event serves to illustrate such processes . Though tea turns up first in the tea- and coffeehouses of midseventeenth-century London and other cities and on the tables of the nobility and the aristocracy of the day as a sort of novelty , eighteenth-century writers make it clear that for the poor , and especially for rural workers , it accompanied more than leisure . Tea with sugar was the first substance to become part of a work break . The picture is quite otherwise for " the tea , " a social event that could either interrupt work or constitute a form of play . " The tea " swiftly became an occasion for eating as well as drinking . Since the eighteenth-century custom among the middle classes was to eat a light lunch , people were hungry in the afternoon : Hence the need for tea was bound to arise , even had its existence not preceded the want of it . Tea was originally the prerogative of women , for the sexes were accustomed to separate at that epoch of an early dinner when the men began to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served at the hour when dinner was finished ? much as we now serve black coffee after lunch in imitation of the French ? as which it preluded ombre , cribbage , backgammon and whist . This purely feminine development of a dish of tea into a " light refection " may be considered as an imitation of the old French " gouter , " at which sweet wines ... biscuits and petits-fours were served to both sexes . P. Morton Shand , a commentator on the English social scene , suggests that " the tea " can be traced to Continental custom and noble habits , but we can see that more than imitation was at work in the case of the laboring poor , for whom the beverage tea became important long before " the tea " was a social occasion . Still , the way Shand links substance to event is persuasive , even if somewhat im-pressionistic : When the sexes began to lead less segregated social lives in England , tea was served to the ladies in the drawing-room at the same time as port , madeira @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ languorous and men less bearish manners  | softened toward a greater sociability of intercourse which an enhanced sobriety in alcohol had initiated . Woman triumphed over her tea-cups and the decanters were gradually banished from her now indisputed sphere . Young men of the dawning romantic age were glad to be able to frequent the society of the ladies , and preferred their company to that of the irascible " three-bottle " stalwarts in the smoking-room . The year in which afternoon tea was first served in the august London clubs , those last remaining sanctuaries of male prerogatives , was a most important date in our social history .... Afternoon tea soon became an excuse for the indulgence of a woman 's naturally sweet tooth sic .... Tea must not be regarded as another meal , a second breakfast . The bread and butter was camouflage , the little cakes were the real lure , the piece d'abandon . It was not long before man completely capitulated to woman , accepting and sharing the supernumerary snack on her own terms , so that today there are few Englishmen who will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work or play , at home or abroad . Tea is an excuse for eating something , rather than an avowed meal . It is a break , a challenge to the crawling hours , it " makes a hole in the day . " .. . Another advantage is the extreme elasticity of its hour , so that one can order it at any time from 4 p.m. , till half-past six . Shand 's conjecture that tea and alcohol tended to be sex-divided beverages until the salon lured men to afternoon tea may be accurate for the middle classes after the 1660s , but it fails to explain what happened among working people . " Once tea became an established custom among the well-to-do , " he adds , " the lower middle classes naturally began to imitate it , but in a form peculiarly their own ( to which the heavy six o'clock tea of public schools offers the only parallel that I know of ) . " 148 In Shand 's interpretation , the introduction of teatime altered the entire meal pattern . " Supper was brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refinement , tea , and the hybrid , really a repetition of breakfast , was baptised high tea ... more often described circuitously by the phrase I take an egg ( or fish ) with ... my tea . ' It is clear that tea , the tea custom , and " teatime " took on different contextual significance ? served different nutritive and ceremonial purposes , actualized different rr ? anings ? in different class setting 's  | A century later , the place of tea and sugar in working-class diet , together with treacle , tobacco , and many other imported foods , was completely secure . These were the new necessities . The figures for tea and sugar consumption after the 1850s mount steadily ? in the case of sugar , to just below ninety pounds per person per year by the 1890s . As early as 1856 , sugar consumption was forty times higher than it had been only 150 years earlier , though population had not much more than trebled during that period . In the 1800s , the national consumption was about 300 million pounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the price to drop , consumption rose , to a billion pounds in 1852 , and still higher in succeeding years . Without the price drops , consumption could not have risen so fast . But the place for sugar within the laboring diet was highly expandible , and new uses multiplied as the price fell . Between 1832 and 1854 , the per-capita increase has been estimated at five pounds . " The allowance to servants , " one scholar writes , " is from 3/4 lb. to 1 lb. per week " in 1854 , from which it could he deduced , " that 50 lbs , per year , at least , is not too much for grown persons . " 151 Indeed not ? it was higher than that by 1873 , and in 1901 the per-capita figure for the first time rose above ninety pounds . Even these startling figures blur and conceal the sociology of sugar consumption , because per-capita statistics are merely national averages . There is no doubt that the sucrose consumption of the poorer classes in the United Kingdom came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sugar duties were equalized . Not only did sucrose-heavy foods ? treacle , jams , raw sugar for tea and baking , puddings , and baked goods ? come to form a bigger portion of the caloric input of the working-class diet ( though probably not absorbing a larger proportion of the money spent on food ) , but sucrose was also an ingredient in more and more items in the daily meals . Children learned the sugar habit at a very tender age ; sweetened tea was a part of every meal ; jam , marmalade , or treacle figured in most . In the late nineteenth century dessert solidified into a course , sweetened condensed milk eventually became the " cream " that accompanied tea and cooked fruit , store-purchased sweet biscuits became a feature of the tea , and tea became a mark of hospitality for  | all classes . It was also toward the end of the century that bread began to be supplanted by other food items , in a process that has since been repeated in many other countries . Scholars have suggested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rising standard of living , but " the falling curve representing bread and flour is complementary to the rising curve for sugar and sweetmeats . " " ' Yet sugar-consumption figures are adequate for neither short-term nor long-term inference as an index of the standard of living . Since the price of sugar fell by 30 percent between 1840 and 1850 , and by a further 25 percent in the next two decades , consumption increases reflect a decline in the price of sugar relative to other commodities , and not necessarily an improved life standard . In any event , per-capita sucrose consumption ( and , as is argued here , the sucrose consumption of laboring people in particular ) rose rapidly during the second half of the nineteenth , century . Drummond and Wilbraham believe that the decline in bread and flour consumption was accompanied by an increase in both meat and sucrose consumption , but another researcher , using figures based on supply estimates , was able to find no increase in meat consumption . Throughout the quarter-century 1889-1913 , weekly percapita meat availability ? the average amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was 2.2 pounds . But to make that figure relevant to this analysis , one must make allowances for class differentials in meat consumption as well as for differentials within families . On this latter point , Derek Oddy , another historian of nutrition , is clear . " Animal food in particular , " he writes , " was largely consumed by him the father for his dinner or as relishes ' for his supper . " He cites Dr. Edward Smith , who noted in 1863 that meat " for the family " was consumed exclusively by the father , and that the mother thought of this as morally right : " The important practical fact is however well established , that the labourer eats meat and bacon almost daily , whilst his wife and children may eat it but once a week , and that both himself and his household believe that course to be necessary , to enable him to perform his labour . " Mrs. Pember Reeves , a careful observer of the diet of laboring families , writes : " Meat is bought for men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Sunday 's dinner , when the man is at home . It is eaten cold by him the next day . " These observations throw light upon the apparent increases in meat and sucrose consumption in the nineteenth-century workingclass diet : " Bread is the staple food of poverty and people eat much less of it when they can afford to buy meat and indulge in the type of dish with which sugar is eaten . " There is an implicit hypothesis in this way of stating things , but no general rule . Even if a greater absolute sum is spent on food ? indeed , even if a greater percentage of a higher income is spent on food ? this is not sufficient evidence , of itself , that the diet has improved . Moreover , the high probability of culturally patterned differential consumption within the family ? everybody eats more sugar , but women and children eat relatively more than adult men ; everybody gets some meat , but adult men get disproportionately more than women and children ? suggests a very different truth . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unhealthy and uneconomical . Bread and , to a lesser extent , potatoes were the main foods , but the disproportionately high expenditure on meat provided little for the money . Small amounts of " tea , dripping fat , butter , jam , sugar , and greens , " remarked Mrs. Reeves , " may be regarded rather in the light of condiments than of food . " 159 Such additions were essential , says Oddy , " to make the semblance of a meal in diets with high starch content . " 160 But while the laboring husband got the meat , the wife and children got the sucrose : " We see that many a labourer , who has a wife and three or four children , is healthy and a good worker , although he earns only a pound a week . What we do not see is that in order to give him enough food , mother and children habitually go short , for the mother knows that all depends upon the wages of her husband . " 161 Mrs. Reeves labeled potatoes " an invariable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all of the family : " Treacle , or ? as the shop round the corner calls it ? ' golden syrup , ' will probably be eaten with the suet pudding , and the two together will form a midday meal for the mother and children in a working man 's family . " 162 " This clearly illustrates the complementary nature of certain foods , " Oddy writes . " Some form of fat or sugar was an  | essential component of a meal to accompany the main , and largely starchy , food . In the absence of animal food sugar acted as a substitute and this in turn determined the type of starchy food eaten . " 163 We see here a return to the **28;980;TOOLONG principle . In many western countries , however ? of which the United Kingdom was the first ? the " fringe " ( of which processed fats and sugars are more representative than vegetables , fruit , or meat ) began , as a corollary of modernity , to overtake the " core . " Insufficiently palatable food could result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated their use in the working-class diet as a vehicle for consuming larger amounts of carbohydrate foods and it is probable , therefore , that when the animal food content of the diet was reduced by economic factors , the consumption of starchy foods was restricted in turn .... The conclusion seems inescapable that families in this period with an income of less than , say , 30 shillings per week and with a family of growing children might well obtain only 2000 ? 2200 calories and 50 ? 60 grams protein per head per day . Given that the distribution of food within the family followed the general pattern suggested in which the father got a disproportionately large fraction of the total protein , it is impossible to envisage how the diverse physiological needs of a manual worker , his wife , and growing children could be met adequately . The inference which can be drawn from ... first-hand observers of the working-class home in the second half of the nineteenth century is that under these conditions women and children were under-nourished . Increased sugar use had both positive and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , given that the working-class diet was calorie-short , sugar doubtless provided at least some of the needed calories . It meant sweeter tea ( which it came to accompany almost as a matter of course ) , more biscuits , and more desserts , hence affording variety as well as more calories . As we have seen , Lord Boyd-Orr singled out the increase in sucrose consumption as the most important change in British diet in a century . Yet , at the same time , the caloric increase provided by sugar was had at the cost of alternative nutrition of a better kind . Though the spread  | of sugar into the cuisine probably brought about an aggregate decline in eating and preparation time , it is doubtful whether this was accompanied by nutritive gains from what was eaten . As the argument shifts from considerations of real income to matters of what is now called " life style , " the answers seem less authoritative . The increased number of sugar uses and the rise in sugar consumption coincided with vital changes in the modernization of eating habits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and conserved foods , particularly but of course by no means only those conserved in sugar : foods in cans , bottles , and packages of various sorts , and substances both hard and soft , solid and liquid . The sugar medium varied from the jams , jellies , and marmalades , made from fruits or conserving them , through the liquid sugars , from treacle and " golden syrup " to the confectioners ' simple syrup poured on or mixed with other foods and added to condensed milk ( from which a favorite working-class " custard " was made ) , to the biscuits ( American " cookies " ) and cakes for which Britain is famous , and , eventually , to candies , both with chocolate ( " soft " ) and without ( " hard " ) . It was only a short step from the multiplication of these uses and products to the industrial work break , instituted in the last years of the nineteenth century , and hastened by the industrial canteens pioneered by producers of foods made from tropical commodities , where tea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be had inexpensively.167 Prepared foods , in other words , accompany the increasing frequency of meals taken outside the home and outside the familial context . Permitting as they do the freedom to choose one 's foods , these trends free the consumer from the order of courses , from the social discourse of the family dinner table , and from the patterning of meal and time . By the opening of the twentieth century , sugar epitomized the times : it supposedly provided " quick energy . " And since then its blessings have been spread to other lands , where many features of the changes in life in British society before 1900 have been repeated . The history of sucrose use in the United Kingdom reveals two basic changes , the first marking the popularization of sweetened tea and treacle , from about 1750 onward ; and the second , the opening  | up of mass consumption , from about 1850 onward . During the period 1750 ? 1850 every English person , no matter how isolated or how poor , and without regard to age or sex , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to want more than they could afford . After 1850 , as the price of sugar dropped sharply , that preference became realized in consumption . A rarity in 1650 , a luxury in 1750 , sugar had been transformed into a virtual necessity by 1850 . Furthermore , it seems certain that the biggest sucrose consumers , especially after 1850 , came to be the poor , whereas before 1750 they had been the rich . This reversal marks the final transformation of sugar from a preciosity into a daily commodity and into one of the first consumables fulfilling the capitalistic view of the relation between labor productivity and consumption . The place of sugar in the expanding capitalist economy at home was qualitatively different in 1850 from what it had been by 1750 . This difference had to do both with the ongoing development of an industrial economy and with the changing relationships between that economy and the overseas colonies . It was once thought that plantations producing goods such as raw sugar could benefit the homeland economy in two ways : through direct capital transfers of profits to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metropolitan products as machinery , cloth , instruments of torture , and other industrial commodities . Disputes among scholars continue concerning these potential sources of gain to metropolitan capital , but there is yet a third potential contribution : the provision of low-cost food substitutes , such as tobacco , tea , and sugar , for the metropolitan laboring classes . By positively affecting the worker 's energy output and productivity , such substitutes figured importantly in balancing the accounts of capitalism , particularly as it developed over time through the integration of the colonial sector . The differences between the periods 1750 ? 1850 and 1850 ? 1950 help to make this clearer . During the first , sugar ? particularly in combination with tea ? did not make a significant caloric contribution to English working-class diet , though it did sweeten the tea while adding a small number of easily assimilated calories . More important , sweetened tea probably increased the worker 's readiness  | to consume quantities of otherwise unadorned complex carbohydrates , particularly breads , while saving time for working wives and expenditures on cooking fuels . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carbohydrates . During the second period , the caloric contribution of sugar rose , for it now appeared not only in tea and cereal but in many other foods as well and in ever-larger quantities . At the same time , we see the partial abandonment of the colonies ' interests ? or , better , perhaps , the rearrangement of priorities as far as the colonies were concerned . Cheap sugar , the single most important addition to the British working-class diet during the nineteenth century , now became paramount , even calorically . By 1900 , it was contributing on average nearly one-sixth of per-capita caloric intake ; if that figure could be revised to account for class , age , and intrafamily differentials , the percentage for working-class women and children would be astounding . In this second period , the corefringe distinction begins to disappear . The history of sugar consumption in the United Kingdom has been repeated , albeit with important differences , in many other countries . All over the world sugar has helped to fill the calorie gap for the laboring poor , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work break . There is , moreover , at least some evidence that the culturally conventionalized pattern of intrafamily consumption ? with the costly protein foods being largely monopolized by the adult male , and the sucrose being eaten in larger proportion by the wife and children ? has wide applicability . Maldistribution of food within poor families may constitute a kind of culturally legitimized population control , since it systematically deprives the children of protein . " There are cogent but not publicly articulated arguments against devoting scarce resources to infant and child nutrition . In oversimplified terms , death of preschool children due to malnutrition is de facto the most widely used method of population control . " It is painfully easy to see how sucrose could be used in such a system of " population control . " The Reagan administration 's attempt to define sucrose-rich catsup as a " vegetable " in federally supported school lunch programs is a recent demonstration . These materials also throw some light on the relationship between   gender and sugar consumption . One ( male ) observer after another displays the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men ; that they will employ sweet foods to achieve otherwise unattainable objectives ; and that sweet things are , in both literal and figurative senses , more the domain of women than of men . Of course these frequent references are interesting in their own right : that there may be links between women and sweet tastes is a research problem in itself ; but it will take far more careful and impartial investigation to solve it . The history of sugar in the United Kingdom has been marked by many " accidental " events , such as the introduction of bitter stimulant beverages in the mid-seventeenth century . But sugar consumption 's rise thereafter was not accidental ; it was the direct consequence of underlying forces in British society and of the exercise of power . It is to the nature of that power , and the circumstances of its exercise , that I can now turn .   Over the course of less than two centuries , a nation most of whose citizens formerly subsisted almost exclusively on foods produced within its borders had become a prodigious consumer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who consumed them , supplanting more familiar items , or they were novelties , gradually transformed from exotic treats into ordinary , everyday consumables . As these changes took place , the foods acquired new meanings , but those meanings ? what the foods meant to people , and what people signaled by consuming them ? were associated with social differences of all sorts , including those of age , gender , class , and occupation . They were also related to the will and intent of the nation 's rulers , and to the economic , social , and political destiny of the nation itself . There are plainly two different senses of the term " meaning " here . One refers to what might be called " inside " kinds of meaning ? inside the rituals and schedules of the group , inside the meal or eating event , inside the social group itself ? the meanings people indicate when they are demonstrating they know what things are supposed to mean . Thus , for example , hospitality ? " means " selfrespect ; self-respect " means " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's p " offering appropriate forms of hospitality  --  greetng , inviting in , serving tea and sugar and treacle tarts , or whatever . At births and weddings , funerals and feast days , moments of repose from the day 's work following the calendar of hours , days , weeks , months , and the lifetime itself , new   forms of consumption might be grafted to older forms with similar or analogous meanings . I have already suggested the two processes by which inside meanings are acquired and conventionalized . In " intensification , " consumption replicates that practiced by others , usually of a higher social status ? also imitates , even emulates . The wedding cake and its sculptured decorations , complete with dragees , congratulatory script , hardened sugar figures , was more than just a new " food " ; consumption was firmly attached to a special event and ceremonialized as part of it . As the custom of having a wedding cake percolated down through society , one would expect the usages to change , because of great differences in means and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were undoubtedly also important , this process was " intensification " nonetheless . Much consumption behavior toward sugar and its accompaniments seems to have arisen among the British working classes without any imitation , especially when the contexts were different from those of the more privileged classes . Since sugar products became even more important to the poor than they once had been for the wealthy ? as sources of calories even more than of status ? and since the occasions for eating them multiplied , new uses and meanings arose at a great remove from the practices of the privileged . To these kinds of innovation the term " extensification " has been applied . In both instances , new users appropriate the behavior and inside meanings they perceive as their own , and new uses and meanings sometimes appear that are not merely imitative . In " intensification , " those in power are responsible both for the presence of the new products and , to a degree , for their meanings ; with " extensification , " those in power may take charge of the availability of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaning . In the wider historical process that concerns us ? the diffusion of sugar to entire national populations ? those who controlled the society held a commanding position not only in regard to the availability of sugar , but also in regard to at least some of the meanings that sugar products acquired . The other sort of meaning can be grasped when one considers  | what consumption , and its proliferated meanings for the participants , can signify for a society as a whole , and especially for those who rule it ; how those who govern or control the society perpetuate their status and profit from the intensified diffusion of inside meanings , and of the consumption which the validations of these meanings entail . One can see here that the kind or level of consumption of social groups is not a God-given constant ; and certain beliefs about human character and potentiality are open to amendment . Conversely , the spread of internal meanings can be stimulated and manipulated ; the simultaneous control of both the foods themselves and the meanings they are made to connote can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts to which meanings attach ? inside kinds of meaning ? serve to validate social events . Social learning and practice relate them to one another , and to what they stand for . Rice and rings have meanings in weddings much as lilies and lighted candles do in funerals . These are historically acquired ? they arise , grow , change , and die ? and they are culture-specific as well as arbitrary , for all are symbols . They have no universal meaning ; they " mean " because they occur in specific cultural and historical contexts , where their relevant meanings are already known to , the participants . No symbol has a life of its own , and though it lacks any intrinsic connection with any other symbol , it may travel together with other symbols through time , each reinforcing the other by the " signals " its presence creates . Just as the symbols may be traced back to a past when they were not associated ( the way tea and sugar were once not associated , for instance ) , so may there come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some change or other ( the way tea and its meanings dropped out of colonial American drinking habits , and were replaced by coffee ) . As for substances like tea , then , events like meals , or ideas and meanings like hospitality and equality , human intelligence puts them together into patterns in the course of social acts in specific times and places , employing certain availabilities and under specific constraints . Birth and death are universal in the sense that they happen to all human beings ; our capacity to symbolize , to endow anything with meaning and then to act in terms of that meaning , is similarly  | universal and intrinsic to our nature ? like learning to walk or to speak ( or being born , or dying ) . But which materials we link to events and endow with meaning are unpredictably subject to cultural and historical forces . We make biological events like birth and death into social events because we are human ; each human group does it in its own way . Large , complex societies , composed of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices by which life is endowed with meaning ; their members differ widely in the way they can live , and in their historically influenced access to the acts , objects , and persons through which they validate their knowledge of life 's meaning . Seventeenth-century England , like its Continental neighbors , was deeply divided by considerations of birth , wealth , breeding , gender , occupation , and so on . The practices of consumption in such a society were deeply differentiated , and reinforced by rules . Hence the ways that new consumption practices were taken up and by whom , and the ways they spread to members of other groups , with or without their associated meanings , suggest how British society itself was organized , and mark the distribution of power within it . Before the end of the seventeenth century , while sugar was still a precious and rare substance , it had little meaning for most English people , though if they ever got to taste sugar , they doubtless thought it desirable . The rich and powerful , however , derived an intense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ display , consumption , and waste of sucrose in various forms ? which involved social validation , affiliation , and distinction . The blending of sugar with other rare and precious spices in the preparation of food ; the use of sugar as a fruit preservative ; the combination of sugar with crushed pearls or fine gold in the manufacture of medical " remedies " ; the magnificent subtleties giving concrete expression to temporal and spiritual power ? all confirm what sugar meant , and how sugar use informed meanings , among the privileged . This multiplicity of meanings was also revealed in language and in literature , and linguistic imagery suggested not only the association of sweet substances with certain sentiments , desires , and moods , but also the historical replacement , in large measure , of honey by sugar . Honey imagery was ancient in British , as in classical Greek  | and Latin , literature . Both substances were associated with happiness and well-being , with elevation of mood , and often with sexuality . The quality of sweetness , so important in the structure of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generous acts , to music , to poetry . The Indo-European root swad is the ultimate source of both " sweet " and " persuade " ; in contemporary English , " sugared " or " honeyed " speech has been supplemented by " syrupy tones " and " sweet-talking . " Chaucer 's references to sugar are scant ; they mainly stress its rarity and preciousness . By Shakespeare 's time , the references have multiplied , and though they remain concentrated upon rare substances , the imagery flowing from them is highly diversified . " Whitehanded mistress , one sweet word with thee , " says Berowne in Love 's Labour 's Lost ; " Honey , and milk , and sugar ; there is three , " the Princess puns in response . Or Touchstone , the clown , teasing Audrey in As You Like It , tells her that " honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar . " Northumberland to Bolingbroke , in the wolds of Gloucestershire : " Your fair discourse hath been as sugar , / Making the hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brabantio , before Othello and the Duke of Venice : " These sentences , to sugar , or to gall , / Being strong on both sides , are equivocal . " From the seventeenth century onward ? and it may be worth noting that Shakespeare died nearly half a century before sugar from Barbados , the first English " sugar island , " began to reach England ? sugar imagery became ever commoner in English literature . Written usage of this sort mattered most to the literate , of course , but sugar imagery became an important part of everyday talk as well , competing with or supplanting honey imagery among the terms of endearment and affection . This imagery bridges the two very different " meanings " we have discussed : the inside meanings as sugar became commoner , and its employment in social settings by even the least privileged and poorest of Britain 's citizens ; and the significance of sugar for the empire , for the king , and for the classes whose wealth would be made and secured by the growing productivity of British labor at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embodied in the writings of political economists like Josiah Child or Dalhy Thomas , or physicians like  | Frederick Slare , whose enthusiasms kept pace with the steady expansion of those portions of the empire within which sugar cane and other plantation crops could be grown . Their encomia were not limited to the medical , preservative , nutritive , and other proclaimed virtues of sugar . In fact , they mostly treated the beneficial character of sugar as self-evident . How trade would follow the flag ; why plantation production befitted the nation , the crown , and ? of course ? the enslaved and coerced workers ; the general importance of commerce as a stimulus to manufacturing ; the civilizing benefits to the heathen of the British presence ? all these themes were pressed into sugar 's service . And though sugar was obviously not always and everywhere a moneymaker within the empire ? many an investor , as well as many a planter , ended up a bankrupt ( and sometimes a jailbird ) because of it ? its cumulative value to crown and capital alike was enormous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the zenith of sugar 's imperial role probably came in the late eighteenth century , during the rule of George III . Lowell Ragatz , historian of the British West Indian planter class , recounts the story , probably apocryphal , of George III 's visit to Weymouth in the company of his prime minister . Irritated by the sight of a West Indian planter 's opulent equipage , complete with outrider and livery as fine as his own , the king is reported to have exclaimed : " Sugar , sugar , eh ? ? all that sugar ! How are the duties , eh , Pitt , how are the duties ? " ' The meaning that sugar attained in the imperial economy was a wholly different matter from what it eventually meant in the lives of the English people , but the availability and price of sugar were the direct consequences of imperial policies that took shape partly in terms of what the market was , and more and more in terms of what it might become . As the home market was made to grow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and production itself was levered more securely into the imperial orbit . And as control over production was consolidated , consumption at home continued to rise . Much later , when protectionist policy based on differential duties lost out in Parliament and the West Indian planters lost their protectionist advocates , sugar went on being consumed in ever-increasing quantities , even as African and Asian colp 157 onies entered into cane cultivation and sugar making , and even as beet-sugar production began to overtake cane-sugar production in the world economy at large . By that time ? which is to say , by the mid-nineteenth century ? the two sorts of meaning suggested here had become united to a certain extent . The English people came to view sugar as essential ; supplying them with it became as much a political as an economic obligation . At the same time , the owners of the immense fortunes created by the labor of millions of slaves stolen from Africa , on millions of acres of the New World stolen from the Indians ? wealth in the form of commodities like sugar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indians , colonials , and the British working class alike ? had become even more solidly attached to the centers of power in English society at large . Many individual merchants , planters , and entrepreneurs lost out , but the long-term economic successes of the new commodity markets at home were never in doubt after the midseventeenth century . What sugar meant , from this vantage point , was what all such colonial production , trade , and metropolitan consumption came to mean : the growing strength and solidity of the empire and of the classes that dictated its policies . But what most anthropologists have in mind when they think about meaning is entirely different . To paraphrase Clifford Geertz , human beings are caught up in webs of signification they themselves have spun . We are able to perceive and interpret the world only in terms of pre-existing , culture-specific systems for endowing reality with meaning . This perspective puts the cognitive order between us and the world itself ? we must think the world to be able to see ( classify ) it , rather than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyone who considers culture as the prime defining feature of human uniqueness . But if humanity gives meaning to the objective world , with different sets of meaning for different human groups , one must still ask how this is done and by whom in any given historical instance . Where does the locus of meaning reside ? For most human beings most of the time , the meanings believed to inhere in things and in the relationships among things and acts are not given but , rather , are learned . Most of us , most of the time , act within plays the lines  | of which were written long ago , the images of which require recognition , not invention . To say this is not to deny individuality or the human capacity to add , transform , and reject meanings , but it is to insist that the webs of signification that we as individuals spin are exceedingly small and fine ( and mostly trivial ) ; for the most part they reside within other webs of immense scale , surpassing single lives in time and space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are single-stranded , or that the same webs exist for each of us . In complex modern societies such webs of signification can be imagined more easily than they can be demonstrated to exist . Our ability to explain their meanings is limited , because each generality we offer requires that we believe people in a complex society agree , at least grosso modo , that what something means is unmistakable . This is sometimes true , but not always . People 's agreeing on what something is is not the same as their agreeing on what it means . Even on a quite simple level , this difficulty can be real . We need to learn that rice " means " fertility , and though that association may seem commonsensical or " natural " once we learn it , actually it is neither . If there is any explanation , it is historical . When we pass on to our children the meanings of what we do , our explanations consist largely of instructions to do what we learned to do before them . In societies arranged in groups or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one group to another ? just as the learned dialect , say , may differ . The supposed webs of signification ought to be interpretable in terms of such differences , particularly if some meanings diffuse from one group to another . Otherwise , the assumption of a homogeneous web may mask , instead of reveal , how meanings are generated and transmitted . This is perhaps the point where meaning and power touch most clearly . The profound changes in dietary and consumption patterns in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Europe were not random or fortuitous , but the direct consequences of the same momentum that created a world economy , shaping the asymmetrical relationships between the metropolitan centers and their colonies and satellites , and the tremendous productive and distributive apparatuses , both technical and human , of modern capitalism . But this is not to say  | that these changes were intended , or that their ancillary consequences were well understood . The ways in which the English became the biggest sugar consumers in the world ; the relationships between the colonial loci of sugar production and the metropolitan locus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and slavery and the slave trade ; the relation of sugar to bitter liquid stimulants ; the role of the West Indian interest in protecting the plantation economy and winning special state support for sugar ; the unexpected suitability of sugar for the crown 's desire to impose duties ? these and many other aspects of sugar 's history must not be thrown together and labeled " causes " or " consequences " as if , once enumerated , they explained anything by themselves . But it is possible to point to certain long-term trends the general conse- consequences of which are readily discerned . The steady and cumulative decline in the relative price of sugars is clear enough , in spite of occasional short-term increases . Generally speaking , the demand for sugar , even in thirteenth- and fourteenth-century England , was substantial , though the price put it beyond the means of most people . The earliest prices mentioned , for 1264 , range from one to two shillings per pound , which would be the equivalent of at least several pounds sterling today . As the Atlantic islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century , the price in England fell to as low as three or four pence per pound . Prices rose again at the mid-sixteenth century , probably because of Henry VIII 's debasement of currency and the influx of New World silver . But sugar prices did not climb at a rate as high as those for other " eastern " commodities , even after the fall of Egypt to the Turks ( 1518 ) ; possibly the Atlantic islands were already supplying much ? or most ? of England 's sugar . Even in those early centuries , the relative price of sugar was higher than it had been in the first decade of the century ? while consumption continued to rise . In the view of Ellen Ellis , the economic crisis engendered by the currency debasement diet not force England 's " merchants and the landholders who were raising sheep , and selling the wool at a greatly enchanced price , ! who had been the chief consumers of sugar before , " to " give up their consumption of the good things in life . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar con- tinued to fall . In 1600 , the highest price for fine sugar was two shillings ; in 1685 , the price stood at eight pence the pound . The growing cheapness of sugar is suggested as well by the scale of units in which it was purchased : In the earlier times rich people bought it by the pound , or at most by the loaf , a loaf of sugar being a favorite present to a distinguished personage . Even such an opulent person as Lord Spencer buys stocks of sugar by the loaf , though on two occasions , 1613 , 1614 , the weight of twenty loaves bought is given . In 1664 , it is first bought ( and without the designation of loaves ) , by the hundredweight at eighty-four shillings . It is again purchased in the same manner in 1679 . The increase in sugar production in the mid-seventeenth century was so headlong that prices of sugar fell ? between 1645 and 1680 , by 70 percent ? with temporarily adverse effects upon Caribbean . producers . The consequence of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new users may have risen quite sharply . Sheridan 's estimates , cited earlier , suggest a fourfold increase in consumption during 1660-1700 , followed by a trebling between 1700 and 1740 . Indeed , overproduction of sugar affected the whole Atlantic economy for several decades . In Amsterdam , the price of raw sugar fell by one-third between 1677 and 1687,6 and in England in 1686 , muscovado sugar fell to a price so low it would not be reached again for nearly two centuries : The growth of consumption during the seventeenth century may be partly explained by the cheapening of sugar , first by Brazilian and then by West Indian supplies ; but the demand continued to grow long after the trend of prices took an upward turn in the 1730s . More than once a brief collapse of sugar prices seemed to indicate that production was outrunning demand : at the end of the fifteenth century , when Madeira , the Canaries and Sao Thorne were offering supplies to Europe on a new scale ; in the 1680s when the massive growth of West Indian supply gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the 1720s when Jamaica and St. Domingue emerged out of the tribulations of war to enlarge the scale of Caribbean production . But time and again rising demand came to the rescue , even absorbing without difficulty the sensational rise of production when Cuba  | came on to the market in the 1770s ; and at the end of the eighteenth century the prospects were bright enough to cause the opening of production beyond the Americas , in Mauritius , Java and the Philippines . ' The developments " beyond the Americas " represented the maturation of world trade in sucrose . Britain , acknowledging the transformation of sugar into a daily necessity , gradually replaced the protectionism offered the West Indian planters with a " free market , " thereby assuring practically unlimited quantities of sucrose ? except in times of war ? to her own people . This triumph for " free trade " was bought at some political cost ; just as there were those who profited from the end of the differential duties , there were others who had benefited from them for centuries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices won out . The nature and scale of sucrose consumption in the United Kingdom had changed completely by 1850 : the popularization of sucrose , barely begun in 1650 , brought some of it into the hands of even the very poor within a century ; then , between 1750 and 1850 , it ceased to be a luxury and became a necessity . The gradual erosion of the discriminatory duties thereafter , doubtless hastened by the competitive effects of better beet-sugar manufacture upon the tropical cane-producing areas , tended to equalize competition among producers , at least within the empire , meanwhile encouraging foreign producers to vie for the enormous British market . It is impossible to say what percentage of the English populace consumed what percentage of sucrose imported in a given year , or to indicate in what degree and in what regards consumption increased and proliferated . But there is no doubt that the quantities imported and retained during that two-century period when sucrose changed from rarity to daily ingestible rose steadily ; that the increase was comparatively larger than the population increase ; and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than ever before , and were as sugar-hungry as ever . These were the facts upon which free-trade advocates based their successful campaigns ; they rightly believed they could count on an elasticity of demand created during the preceding century of increasing sugar use , even among the very poor . Per-capita consumption continued to climb  | upward well into the twentieth century , leveling off at around 105 pounds per person per year only in the past decade . Many ( though not all ) sucrose-eating populations in the West ate more and more sugar during the past century ( a few reaching averages of 105 ? 15 pounds yearly , or about one-third of a pound per person per day ) . In the case of the United Kingdom , the downward movement of prices after 1857 was accompanied by steady increases in consumption . But though price greatly affected the ability of the English ? particularly the poorer classes ? to buy as much sucrose as they wished , it does not explain why they ate so much of it even when it was relatively costly . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different segments of the British capitalist classes against each other . Unsurprisingly , the segment allied with factory capitalism won out . The political power needed to change the relative positions of competing sucrose sellers in the imperial market seems ? and is ? notably different from the more informal " power " that , at earlier points in British history , influenced the consumption choices of the emerging proletariat . One 's choice of what one wants or needs to eat makes sense only in terms of one 's preferences and aspirationsin terms , that is , of the social context of consumption . The consumption of products such as tobacco , tea , and sugar may have been one of the very rare ways in which British workers of the midnineteenth century achieved the fulfillment of the promises implicit in the political philosophy of a century earlier . Particularly for the working poor , eating more and more food with substantial amounts of sucrose in it was an appropriate response to what British society had become . The theory of mercantilism ? to the extent that one can reify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unified policy ? held that " demand " was a constant for any people or country . Markets did not grow ; they reached an equilibrium . The political economist Charles Davenant put it this way : " For there is a limited stock of our own product to carry out , beyond which there is no passing : as for example , there is such a quantity of woollen manufactures , lead , tin , etc , which over and above our own consumption , we can export abroad , and our soil as it is now peopled ,  | will not yield much more ; and there is likewise a limited quantity of these goods which foreign consumption will not exceed . " The received wisdom was that lowered prices could only mean lowered profits , without any compensation in the form of increased sales . So firmly did people believe in static markets that " the adoption by common people of dress and consumption habits previously confined to the rich , was received as a symptom of moral economic disorder . Such consumer behavior would drain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undermined God-ordained status distinctions . Sumptuary laws ? invariably futile ? continued to be enacted to obstruct the downward diffusion of upper-class fashions . " But in spite of the common view that the poor neither would nor should consume objects and substances preferred by the rich even if they could afford them , there were those who wanted to increase such consumption . Men like Thomas and Slare and Benjamin Moseley and George Porter , writing at different times and from quite different perspectives , argued both that demand should he expanded ? indeed , created ? by insisting that sugar was good for everyone ; and that none should be deprived of the widespread benefits that would result from its consumption . From Dalby Thomas on , there were voices in Great Britain that spoke for the deliberate augmentation of demand , rather than for its leveling off to fit prior , status-determined differences . The Dutch economic historian Jan DeVries argues that two features of economic life ? often attributed to so-called precapitalist or primitive economies ? had to be radically modified to enlarge demand . First , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved with the market , both as producers for sale and as buyers of consumption goods . Second , the disposition to satisfy only pre-existing levels of consumption and to work no more than these required ? the so-called backward-sloping supply curve of labor ? had to change . Many seventeenth- and even eighteenthcentury theorists thought such a conservative disposition was natural , inherent to the laborer , and not subject to modification by outside forces . DeVries cites Sir William Petty , who , in his Political Arithmetic , written in the 1670s , argued : " It is observed by Clothiers and others , who employ great numbers of poor people , that when  | corn grain is extremely plentiful , that the labour of the poor is proportionately dear : and scarce to be had at all ( so licentious are they who labour only to eat , or rather to drink ) . " This view persisted in the eighteenth century : " Scarcity , to a certain degree ... promotes industry .... The manufacturer i.e. , the worker who can subsist on three days ' work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .... The poor in the manufacturing counties will never work any more time than is necessary just to live and support their weekly debauches . " On the one hand , then , political economists supposed that " ordinary people " would work only enough to stay alive and not a minute longer ; on the other , they thought that " ordinary people " would indulge themselves foolishly , seeking to consume substances that , for moral or medical or other reasons , were simply not good for them or for society . There was a diversity of opinions , some of which led to support for the expanding consumption of goods ( such as sugar ) , usually on the grounds of its being good for the consumers and for the nation ; and some to opposition to such expansion , usually on the grounds of its being physically or morally bad for the consumers and economically and politically bad for the nation .. Over time , the struggle to increase consumption of any good on the grounds of the consumer 's rights to his/her own buying power kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to expand the market or their share of it . In a few cases this was not quite true ? alcoholic beverages , for instance , could interfere with the efficiency of labor ? but it certainly held in the case of tea , sugar , and like stimulants . Though DeVries says , " We would credit seventeenth-century merchants and manufacturers with more imagination and radicalism than they possessed by saying that they acted to create a social order compatible with expanding demand , " that social order did in fact emerge . Its effects upon the sugar market were truly sensational , and the reverse effects , though less important , were no less real . The period 1600 ? 1750 was one of rapidly increasing urban populations in northern Europe . The raising of livestock and the pro- duction of fodder displaced much vegetable farming ; landless populations were employed more and more as agrarian wageearning laborers moved into the growing cities . The cumulative effect was a greater dependence on the market on the part of more and more people , even for items of daily consumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tobacco and sugar and tea . The concomitant growth of government taxation ? taxation of a regressive sort , falling disproportionately upon those least able to pay ? may have somewhat constrained consumer demand . But it also tended to force up domestic production for the market , to provide the wherewithal for payment ? that is , local producers tried to produce more , so as to maintain their own buying power . One change , essential to my argument , was that proletarian work schedules were transformed by structural changes in the national economy , and created for the laboring classes new tasting opportunities and new occasions for eating and drinking . This did not happen overnight . Nor , for that matter , did majority opinion encourage a mass market for sugar . Even after royalty and the planters ' friends in Parliament had discovered that plantation products were eminently taxable , as well as edible , the better part of another century would pass before sugar protagonists based their argument firmly on the possibilities for enlarging consumption among the working poor . It was then that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West Indian planters , by putting cheap sugar ahead of colonial preference . The eminent British historian Eric Hobsbawm points out : " Neither economic theory nor the economic practice of the early Industrial Revolution relied on the purchasing power of the labouring population , whose wages , it was generally assumed , would not be far removed from the subsistence level . " When by any chance some section of them earned enough to spend their money on the same sorts of goods as their " betters " ( as happened from time to time during economic booms ) , middleclass opinion deplored or ridiculed such presumptuous lack of thrift . The economic advantages of high wages , whether as incentives to higher productivity or as additions to purchasing- power , were not discovered until after the middle of the nineteenth ) century , and then only by a minority of advanced and enlightened employers . All the same , the political fights that eventuated in the end of the preferential duties for West Indian sugars were an important step in unleashing proletarian buying power . Cheaper sugar came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the sugar habit itself , but by the factory world and machine rhythms which were the background for its use . It was not just that labor worked harder in order to get more ; those who paid its wages profited both from labor 's higher productivity and from its heightened use of store-purchased commodities . Few concepts in the social sciences have caused as many disagreements as the concept of power , and no satisfactory consensus on its definition has emerged . But there is no way to avoid the term ? or one like it ? when the objective is to clarify under what conditions the population of a entire country changes its behavior radically without the compulsion of open force and violence . Of course it is possible to interpret such a change as no more than the expression of will , of free choice ? in the case of sugar , in obtaining a desired good previously not available . But this requires us to assume that each and every Briton , day by day and year by year , chose individually to seek and consume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was associated , until the United Kingdom was somehow transformed into a nation of sucrose eaters . To omit the concept of power is to treat as indifferent the social , economic , and political forces that benefited from the steady spread of demand for sugar . It asks an unjustified ingenuousness of us . The history of sugar suggests strongly that the availability , and also the circumstances of availability , of sucrose ? which became one of the most desired of all edible commodities in the empire ? were determined by forces outside the reach of the English masses themselves . There had been a time , after all , when no one in England knew of sugar , followed by a period , centuries long , when it was a costly rarity . Only after around 1650 did sugar become important to England 's ruling strata , so that more and more of it was imported :  | mounting economic ? and , soon enough , political ? forces supported the seizure of colonies where cane could be grown and raw sugar manufactured , as well as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of imported sugar consumed in Britain increased and the price fell . Even though the buying power of those who came to like sucrose was limited , consumption rose steadily ; more and more people consumed more and more sugar . The uses to which it was put and its place in the diet changed and proliferated ; it grew more important in people 's consciousness , in family budgets , and in the economic , social , and political life of the nation . These changes have to do with " outside " meaning ? the place of sucrose in the history of colonies , commerce , political intrigue , the making of policy and law ? but they have to do with " inside " meaning as well , because the meanings people gave to sugar arose under conditions prescribed or determined not so much by the consumers as by those who made the product available . Before the rich and powerful who first ate sugar in England could give it new meanings , they had to have it . Then its uses changed as it became more common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conveyed by the forms of use , were freshly invented , others synthesized with what was learned from elsewhere . After 1650 sugar prices decline and quantities increase ; many more people get to taste it , mostly in conjunction with tea ( or one of the other new beverages ) . The downward spread is slow and halting but continuous ; some time before 1700 , the pace quickens . For the new users , as we have seen , sugar comes to play a very different part in diet . On many sides there is ample evidence of a real push to seize more colonies , establish more plantations , import more slaves to them , build more ships , import more sucrose and other plantation products . And as these substances come within reach . of the poor , the possibility of a steadily expanding domestic ( national ) market , as opposed to an export market , becomes clearer . That genuine attempts were made to increase sugar consumption is hardly in doubt , even though many railed against these strange new products . Of course consumers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much by forgoing other consumption opportunities in order to have it . But one must go on to note the emergence  | of different groups within British society that came to benefit from the production ? and consumption ? of this new product . When it was first produced in the West Indies , sugar easily won the attention and interest of Englishmen . Not only was it already prized as a luxury good by the nobility and the wealthy , but it soon appeared to be a promising ( if risky ) form of investment . The slave trade , shipping , the plantations themselves , the provision of credit against which plantations and stocks of slaves and sugar could be collateral , and , soon enough , opportunities for retailing and refining ? all seemed to offer rewards to the rich and daring . But not only to the rich . The brilliant Trinidadian historian Eric Williams , in his pathbreaking study of the slave trade and sugar , points out that though the Liverpool trade oligopoly rested in the hands of only ten or so firms , many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modest resources of " attorneys , drapers , grocers , barbers and tailors . The shares in the ventures were subdivided , one having one-eighth , another one-fifteenth , a third one thirtysecond part of a share and so on . " " The little fellows " had no comparable opportunity to invest in plantations , however : whereas investment shares at home could be aggregated into slaving ships and banks , plantations were almost always run as individually owned enterprises , and most planters came from families of at least some means back at home . But some men of limited means did end up rich planters . Richard Pares 's magnificent A West-India Fortune ( 1950 ) , which details the career of the sugar-cane-planting Pinneys of Nevis , reveals that Azariah Pinney , the founder of the family fortune , was sent dry goods by his father and siblings , from the sale of which he was able eventually to acquire a small plantation , around which the Pinney riches subsequently grew . Pares , who probably knew as much about the evolution of the British West Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rags-to-riches ambience in the sugar island , but stresses instead the importance of familial support at home for younger sons striking out overseas , and of the value of special skills like bookkeeping , practicing law , and retailing in enabling even those persons without the wherewithal eventually to become plant- ers themselves . Perhaps the principal point is that the plantation colonies afforded pioneering opportunities , as did the slave trade and the derivative trading and commercial activities the plantation system made possible in the colonies and at home . The creditors , both great and petty , who had invested in various aspects of the sugar economy naturally had a stake in its success . To these can be added the planters , many of whom came from already rich families , but who often added to their wealth by their plantation operations . Their style of life during the maturity of the plantation era is as famous as was , during certain periods , their political influence at home . Even as sober and dispassionate a historian as Pares can write : Many colonies made no laws at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them into it at the end of the eighteenth century ; and even where there were laws , the standards which they enforced were pitiably low . The French code noir stipulated for a supply of protein which would amount to little more than a kipper a day ; and this code was not at all well observed . Some planters normally gave their slaves no food at all , but fobbed them off with payments of rum wherewith to buy food , or with Saturdays and Sundays to till their own provision grounds and feed themselves . The rum was drunk , the Saturdays or Sundays encroached upon or wasted , and the slaves starved . Their masters almost wholly disregarded their needs for protein , and could not see why they went on hungerstrike , or lost their sleep catching land crabs , or died . When I think of the colossal banquets of the Barbados planters , as Ligon describes them , of the money which the West Indians at home poured out upon the Yorkshire electorate and Harriette Wilson , of the younger William Beckford 's private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even of the Codrington Library , and remember that the money was got by working African slaves twelve hours a day on such a diet , I can only feel anger and shame . Williams tells us a good deal about these planters in the colonies , and of their ability to sway Parliament , of which many were members . Allied with the other great monopolists of the eighteenth century ,  | the landed aristocracy and the commercial bourgeoisie of the seaport towns , this powerful West India interest exerted in the unreformed Parliament an influence sufficient to make every statesman pause , and represented a solid phalanx " of whose support in emergency every administration in turn has experienced the value . " They put up a determined resistance to abolition , emancipation , and the abrogation of their monopoly . They were always on the warpath to oppose any increase of the duties on sugar . The planters , bankers , slavers , shippers , refiners , grocers , and people in government whose interests lay along such lines or who accurately foretold the unfolding fiscal possibilities sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story . All of these people exercised power of one sort or another in increasing the disposition of the crown and Parliament to support and to favor the extension of the rights of the planters , the maintenance of slavery , the availability of sugar and its by-products ( molasses and rum ) to the people at large . It is to their efforts that England owed the institutionalization of a rum ration in the navy ( begun " unofficially " after the capture of Jamaica in 1655 ) : half a pint per day from 1731 on . In the late eighteenth century it was increased to a pint a day for adult sailors ? much-needed creeping socialism for an infant industry . The official allocations of sugar and treacle to the poorhouses in the late eighteenth century were similar support measures . ' When the protection of the West Indian interests became too expensive for their erstwhile supporters , who were sensitive to the immense potentialities of the untapped sugar consumer market at home only awaiting lower prices , power was applied in different ways . The same had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and later slavery itself ? many of them with economic interests radically different from those of the planters , took stands that the planters saw as destructive of the plantations . Different interest groups might align themselves together at one time , but shifting economic fortunes often pitted such powerful allies against one another . ( Citing an observer who reported in 1764 that fifty or sixty West Indian voters could turn the balance in the House  | of Commons any direction they wished , Eric Williams adds that there was a new combination in the Reformed Parliament that was just as strong : " It was the Lancashire cotton interest , and its slogan was not monopoly but laissez faire . " ) The various blocs , then , were ready to change sides ? and often did . But their seeming fickleness in no way reduced the power they were able to exercise in critical situations . The political and economic influence of the governing strata set the terms by which increasing quantities of sugar and like commodities became available throughout English society . This influence took the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the purchase of supplies of sugar , molasses , and rum for dispensing through government agencies , like the navy and the almshouses ; or regulations affecting matters of purity , standards of quality , etc . But it also involved the informal exercise of power : a combination of official prerogatives with the use of pressures made possible through cliques , family connections , university and public-school contacts , covert coercion , friendship , club membership , the strategic application of wealth , job promises , cajolery , and much else ? most of it familiar to any serious reader of today 's newspapers . Such power and its application have to do with " outside " meaning ? with the setting of the terms within which the various forms of sucrose were made available . But power was also exercised in the shaping of " inside " meaning . In 1685 , when the young Edmund Verney went up to Oxford , his father 's letter to him , detailing the contents of his student trunk , included mention of oranges , lemons , raisins , and nutmegs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one pound of white poudered sugar made up in quarters , one pound of Brown sugar candy , onequarter of a pound of white sugar candy . " 20 Not every young man went to Oxford , and few parents were so rich and solicitous , yet the " everyday treat " quality of this list , only thirty years after the conquest of Jamaica , is telling . Among countless Britons poorer than the Verneys , the fall in sugar prices toward the end of that century encouraged the eating of puddings , among other treats , but also encouraged additional uses  | of sugar , transmitted from the boards and kitchens of the wealthy . The suet puddings Arthur Young describes on the menus at the almshouse at Nacton , for example , were innovations , institutionalized in the eighteenth century , fed to the desperately poor . It was of these people that Young wrote with some impatience : Pease porridge used to be dinner on the two last days Friday and Saturday , but they petitioned for bread and butter instead of it , which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . I expressed surprize at this being allowed ; but they said they were permitted to spend 2d. in the shilling of what they earned , as they please ; and they laid it all out in tea and sugar to drink with their bread and butter dinners . Indulgence renders it necessary to let them do as they please with it , but it would be better expended in something else . The various uses of sugar eventually acquired many local , particular , and distinctive meanings , and only exacting regional research will substantiate this diversification on local and regional levels ? funeral cakes and Christmas pies , puddings and candies , custards and all the rest . But two kinds of use are involved . Counterposed to the downward and outward " intensification " of upper-. class usages ( and some of their meanings ) , there was the largely independent invention of new uses ; in the conjuncture of these two lines of development the relationship of power to " inside meaning " is revealed . In the course of everyday life , social groups transmute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units of different meaning . Rituals involving eating , for instance , may be marked by unusual foods ( items otherwise tabooed or those prepared in a traditional or archaic manner ) , or by ordinary foods taking on -a wholly different significance because of the ritual context . Examples are plentiful of both : the Passover seder , the Eucharist , Thanksgiving turkey , and so on . The custom of marking the end of a time unit ( " week " ) , or a day of rest , by distinctive food consumption is also widespread . In seventeenth- and eighteenth-century England , new and modified sucrose uses were wedged into ritual and ceremonial contexts at court and among the rich and powerful . Most such practices were  | originally French or Italian and had come to England by way of royal visits , the settlement of confectioners and sugar sculptors in England , and the international social reciprocities of the dominant classes . As these uses of sugar were diffused downward , they were probably simplified , not only for reasons of economy ? the differentials in wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast mass of people they could not involve comparable validations of status . The unusual combinations of spices and sweets accompanying holiday meats and fowl ; the wide variety of sugared treats for religious holidays ; the gifts of sweet foods to express thanks or to wish well to the ill ; the use of sweet drinks and baked goods at rituals of separation and departure ( including funerals ) ? these and other such usages provide examples of both extensification and intensification . Ceremonies and rituals that underlined or dramatized the exercise of temporal or secular power and authority drifted down the social ladder without the force that underlay them and that they had once served to symbolize . It was the economic ability to consume in that fashion , rather than the status right , that came to matter . Over time , sugar proved to be a superb vehicle for just such transformations . By the time the laboring poor were using sucrose for ceremonial purposes , the relationships of their consumption behavior to their self-identification was consistent with the rest of what was happening in English society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consume sugar conspicuously in providing hospitality , meeting ceremonial obligations , and validating social links , for it was now an inexpensive good that continued to seem like a luxury , imparting an aura of privilege to those who served it and to whom it was served . The practices that turned sugar into something extraordinary , ceremonial , and especially meaningful ( " intensification " ) , and the more common transformation of sugar into something ordinary , everyday , and essential ( " extensification " ) , were surely not perceived as qualitatively different , or even as separate , processes by any social class . But distinguishing between them has some utility here , for it can throw light upon the controlling groups in English society . Because sugar was new for most people , it acquired its  | meanings within English life during a downward spread from the dominant classes , whose norms provided certain models . Substances like tea , sugar , rum , and tobacco were used by working people in accord with the tempos of working-class life . Those centuries when England was transformed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , agrarian , and precapitalist society were centuries of novelty in consumption . Sugar was taken up just as work schedules were quickening , as the movement from countryside to city was accelerating , and as the factory system was taking shape and spreading . Such changes more and more affected the patterning of eating habits . We have already seen how hot liquid stimulants sweetened with calorie-laden sugar , and tobacco , among other novelties , transformed meals and even the definition of the meal , while economic changes transformed the schedules of eating . It is at this point that the ideas of meaning and power touch . Surely none of the sugar touts of the seventeenth century foresaw the nation of sucrose eaters their England was soon to become , yet they , and the classes they endorsed , ensured the steady growth of a society ever richer in sugar , and enriched by the slave trade , the plantation system , slavery itself , and , soon enough , the spread of factory industry in the metropolis . As the exemplar of luxuries turned into affordable proletarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people 's opiates , and its consumption was a symbolic demonstration that the system that produced it was successful . In the mid-nineteenth century one of the most able protagonists of the equalization of duties ? a fight waged to get cheaper sugar onto the British market ? was George R. Porter , himself a broker in sugar and a shrewd observer of English eating habits . " Without being one of the absolute necessities of life , " he wrote in 1851 , " long habit has in this country led almost every class to the daily use of it , so that there is no people in Europe by whom it is consumed to anything like the same extent . " 22 Porter argued against sugar duties by asserting that the people of Great Britain were ready to eat much more of it if they could only afford it , and that the duties were a disproportionate and unjust burden upon the poor . For the  | rich , he said , sugar was so minor an item in the family budget in the 1840s that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a shilling ; it was otherwise for the less fortunate . In order to make his case more persuasive , Porter hazarded some clever guesses about differential consumption , first establishing that overall consumption had fallen during those years in the period 1830 ? 49 when the price of sugar rose : " With one exception only , that of the year 1835 , every rise in price has been accompanied by diminished consumption , while every fall in the market has produced an increased demand . " He then assumed ( on the basis of " inquiries carefully made " ) that rich and middle-rank families , whom he estimated to be perhaps one-fifth of the national population of Britain , consumed in the 1830s about forty pounds of sugar per year per person , for all purposes . Porter concluded that the annual per-capita consumption of the other four-fifths of the British population would have been fifteen pounds in 1831 , nine pounds in 1840 ( when duties were higher ) , and twenty pounds in 1849 . Against such calculations he put the interesting observation that every person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one and one-half ounces per day ( or thirty-four pounds per year ) by official issue ; while the allowance to aged paupers in government almshouses at that time was nearly twenty-three pounds per year . To put it somewhat differently , before the preferential duties ( designed to ease the lot of the West Indian planters and ? ostensibly ? of the newly freed West Indian people ) were removed and the price of sugar began to seek its world level , Britain taxed the poor regressively for their sugar , and hence kept sugar consumption substantially lower among the poorer classes than it was even among the sailors and paupers who were its official charges . The West Indian plantations had been profitable from the first because of the desire for sugar ( and like products ) in Europe ; as we have seen , English internal demand eventually overshadowed almost completely the re-export trade . Sugar , then , was a cornerstone of British West Indian slavery and the slave trade , and the enslaved Africans who produced the sugar were linked in clear economic relationships to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | Emancipation was a defeat for the planter classes , but a victory for those at home who believed in expanded commerce and heightened consumption . The indemnities paid to the planters ( and ostensibly intended to " protect " the newly freed , as well ) were paid by the British government ; but they were more than amply compensated for by the sugar duties , paid out of all proportion by the poor . When the legislation supporting those duties began to crumble in 1852 under the attacks of the free-trade advocates , the disingenuous assertion arose that the duties protected the West Indian freedmen , but in fact the preferential duties did not help the freedmen one whit . The duties certainly did protect the West Indian planters , however , made mechanization of the sugar industry a less attractive alternative , and kept the price of sugar in Great Britain elevated . Throughout the British West Indies , the planters ' " sufferings " after freedom were resolved , with the connivance of the Foreign Office , by the importation of contracted laborers from India , China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from voting and from acquiring land . The overall aim was to prevent the newly freed from either securing a livelihood independent of the sugar industry , or from using collective bargaining and strikes to negotiate wages and working conditions , as the proletarians in the metropolis were doing . These strategies worked ; even though the West Indies never again produced so high a proportion of the sucrose consumed by the United Kingdom , they remained " sugar islands , " their people doomed to straddle two economic adaptations ? as reconstituted peasants and as rural proletarians ? neither of which could become economically secure . During the two centuries when enslaved Africans had produced Britain 's sugar in her Caribbean colonies , they were tied intimately to the emerging factory populations of the English cities by economic reciprocity and the circumstances of their emergence . Now free but almost entirely ignored by the metropolis , the West Indian people became invisible , until their migration to the center of empire brought them back into uneasy view more than a century later . None of this would have been of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing sugar consumption at home , not in whether the West Indian planters ( and certainly not in whether the  | West Indian freedmen ) could make a living . He found fault with those who , " without much consideration , have chosen to identify a high price of sugar with the happiness of the lately-emancipated slave population of our West India colonies , " and argued that being free was reward enough for the ex-slaves . It was Porter , and other " free-trade " advocates , who carried the day . Within two decades , the special protections for West Indian sugar had all been removed . As prices fell , new sucrose uses were added on ? the development of marmalades and preserves , condensed milk , chocolate , and sherbet . The desire of the British working classes for sugar , in the halfcentury after the first cracks appeared in the preferential duty system , seemed insatiable . This certainly involved prior experiences with sugar and the balance of their diet : Sugar for a great part of our population is a stimulant , a source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned into alcohol or whether it is consumed raw . As a matter of fact , the very high consumption of sugar in some poor families is very closely correlated with the poverty of their diet in what one might call secondary satisfactions of diet and in its immediate stimulating faculties . This is a very important point in sugar consumption , especially when this includes sweets and " spreads " ( on breads ) for children . Then there is this question ? what is food or expenditure on food and how far is it a necessity ? The question put in that way perhaps does not mean much , but I remember a statement ? I think it is Bernard Shaw 's " Essay on Rent " ? that you feed your work horses with hay and your hunters with oats . This is how we treat our human population : we feed our decorative professions on foods that yield them a great deal of stimulation , a great many secondary satisfactions , and we feed our lower population with a very unstimulating and a very poor diet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what particular foodstuffs are going to be bought by any given amount of available income and a great many of these are pure class conventions . Ashby touches here on an aspect of the transformation of English diet that reverts to the early diffusion of sucrose and stimulant beverages . Once one has read the encomia to tea and sugar by Slare and Moseley , together with the Reverend Davies 's indignant remonstrance that the poor would drink milk or small beer instead  | of tea if they could afford it , it would be simplistic to conclude that people ate more sugar after 1850 just because its price declined . Meaning and power touch this time at the point when a sugarhungry population had access to well-nigh-unlimited supplies of sugar ? once they were habituated to its use . That is why production must be linked to consumption , and so-called inside meanings to the larger , " outside " meanings . It is a pretty general observation , that those things which give us most delight , by the free use of them , become hurtful ; this can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property belongs to it , so nothing pernicious can possibly attend its use .... It might be hop 'd that those who have complain 'd of the cholic from the use of Tea , might , by being less profuse in that , and more so in the free use of the finest Sugar , by its soft and balsamick quality , prevent that disorder . So wrote an anonymous saccharophile of the mid-eighteenth century whose enthusiasms were boundless . Mothers ' milk , he tells us , is improved by the addition of sugar . Molasses is more nutritious than butter or cheese , especially on bread , and ale and beer are served better when brewed with it . Rum is healthier than brandy . Even unripe fruit can be made palatable with sugar . Intemperate praise of this sort was common at the time , and the reader should make no mistake : whatever else the message , these paeans were also political tracts , read by parliamentarians , judges , physicians , military officers , businessmen , squires ? and these " progressive " ideas had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foodstuffs . Yet the creation of a radically new diet for the people of the United Kingdom ? some features of which were shared by all classes , and others differentially distributed ? can not possibly be explained by reference to simple legislation or some single , narrowly defined " cause . " Our primate liking for sweetness , our capacity to endow the material world with symbolic meaning , and our complication of the biology of ingestion with our social structures all played a part in the rise of sucrose consumption in England . But these neither explain why consumption varied over time or from one class to another , nor get at why  | social groups can affect the behavior of other groups , at different points in time or in different ways . The heightened productivity of the laboring classes , the radically altered conditions of their lives , including their prior diet , their readiness to emulate their rulers , the evolving world economy , and the spread of the capitalist spirit ? these factors can not be measured or weighted against one another . But they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , our symbolic faculty , and our disposition to organize our biological satisfactions in social terms , for these latter are constants , givens , the operation of which can be described , but not explained in terms of their origins or differential effects . Before analyzing how sucrose or any other food or taste fits into the meal systems of the component groups or classes of a complex society , we ought to be able to explain how it got there in the first place ( particularly in the case of a recent import such as sucrose ) , what forces influenced its increasing use , and what made its consumption important ? changing it ( in this instance ) from rarity , novelty , or bauble into absolute necessity . That anthropologists engaged in the study of food in modern societies should apparently be so unconcerned with where the foods come from and who produces them is odd , since such disinterest diverges so radically from the traditional concerns of anthropologists of food . When food enters into the description of a preliterate society such as the Trobriand Islanders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and circumstances of its production , sources , and availability are essential features of sociological analysis . But such features are not analyzed when the food systems of modern societies are studied , probably because the production of the foods and the circumstances of their consumption seem so remote from each other . It is of course true that few of us now produce our own food and that we usually buy all that we eat ? or the largest proportion of it ? from other nonproducers . A far cry from the small , largely self-supporting " primitive " societies anthropologists supposedly study , complex modern societies appear to have divorced food production from food consumption ; but why what quantities of food were made available when they were , and how such availabilities shaped choices , are  | questions deserving answers all the same . There is still a connection between production and consumption , and in the case of sugar , the facts suggest that early on production was actually undertaken with specific groups of consumers in mind ? the national population of the United Kingdom , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in British life were undertaken without reference either to time or to class divisions , the search for meaning would be limited to what was presumably shared by all English people at one point in time . So resolutely unhistorical a position would make the system of meaning coterminous with the present ? and thus obscure , rather than clarify , the uses and meanings of food . Divorcing the process from time , like divorcing the consumption of sugar from its production , confines the discussion to a single point ; explaining why things are as they are is confined to existing relationships among the parts of a social system . But looking backward enables us to see how the relationships among the parts of such a system took on their characteristic form over time . As the first exotic luxury transformed into a proletarian necessity , sugar was among the first imports to take on a new and different political and military importance to the broadening capitalist classes in the metropolis ? different , that is , from gold , ivory , silk , and other durable luxuries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through direct capital transfers for reinvestment at home , or through the absorption of finished goods from home , the hypothesis offered here is that sugar and other drug foods , by provisioning , sating ? and , indeed , drugging ? farm and factory workers , sharply reduced the overall cost of creating and reproducing the metropolitan proletariat . How did the British laboring classes become sugar eaters , after all ? The readiness of working people to work harder in order to be able to earn ? and thus consume ? more was a crucial feature of the evolution of modern patterns of eating . A new commercial spirit had to recognize this readiness , perceiving it as a virtue to be encouraged and exploited . Unleashing that spirit accompanied great changes in the economic and political order , which transformed English agrarian life , " freed " the rural population , led to the con- quest and harnessing of the tropical colonies , and resulted in the introduction of new comestibles into the motherland . My argument is that the heightened consumption of goods like sucrose was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , which made new forms of foods and eating conceivable and " natural , " like new schedules of work , new sorts of labor , and new conditions of daily life . But this does not mean that British working people were merely the passive witnesses of change . An eighteenth-century writer ob-served : In England the several ranks of men slide into each other almost imperceptibly ; and a spirit of equality runs through every part of the constitution . Hence arises a strong emulation in all the several stations and conditions to vie with each other ; and a perpetual restless ambition in each of the inferior ranks to raise themselves to the level of those immediately above them . In such a state as this fashion must have an uncontrolled sway . And a fashionable luxury must spread through it like a contagion . Though this commentator surely exaggerated " the spirit of equality " of his time , other writers have commented on the role of the laboring classes themselves in taking on the habits and customs of their " betters . " Different attitudes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disposition of working people to experiment with novel foods eaten by wealthier people ? such tendencies no doubt worked together in the late eighteenth century . In the next century , other nations followed the United Kingdom ; becoming more urban and industrialized , changing eating schedules to meet work schedules , teaching laborers to eat away from home , to eat prepared food more frequently , and to consume more sugar along the way . Managers of such societies recognized the potentiality of workers to increase their own productivity if sufficiently stimulated , and to open themselves to new , learnable needs . The determinate " cause " of such changes is a context , or a set of situations , created by broad economic forces ; within that context new food " choices " are made ? indeed , are given shape before they are even perceived as choices . The choice between a " Danish " pastry  | and a " French " doughnut during a ten-minute coffee break is a choice , but the circumstances under which this choice is made may not be freely chosen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Gino 's chicken leg during a thirty-minute lunch hour , the choice itself is far less important than the constraints under which the choice is being made . In much the same way , imitation ( or emulation ) does not take place in some unhistorical but symbolically meaningful vacuum . What working people actually imitate in the behavior of those with power over them , and what they mean ( intend and communicate ) with such behavior , is not always clear . The history of the tea habit is a case in point . What laboring Englishmen did by way of imitation in this regard was to drink tea with sugar and milk ( usually inferior tea , sometimes twice-used tea , or even hot water poured over bread crusts , sweetened with treacle ) , as did others more privileged than they . Taking to the custom with a vengeance , they increased their consumption of heavily sweetened tea steadily , until World War I briefly interrupted the upward climb . But does it explain very much to call this upswing the outcome of working people 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was hot , stimulating , and calorie-rich ; that hard work for wages under difficult conditions typified the circumstances under which tea came to be drunk ; that tea had the power to make a cold meal seem like a hot one ? these seem equally important points . Still another factor was the intimate relationship between where these foods were produced , on whose initiative , by what sorts of workers , and under whose control , and where they were consumed . The empire , after all , had an internal structure that had seen the creation of the categories of plantation slave and ( eventually ) factory proletarian within a single political system , and had profited immensely from their provisioning one another under the imperial thumb . Where does this leave us , though ? Why did the English people become such enthusiastic sugar consumers ? Not because of the innate primate liking for sweetness ; not because our species is symbolically communicative and builds meaning into all it does , including eating ; not because socially inferior groups imitate their " superiors " ; not even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar more than other people . Certain homelier facts seem more persuasive . The diet of the British worker was both calorically and nutritively inadequate and monotonous . Often working people could not get hot food , especially for their breakfasts and midday meals . New schedules of work and rest , changing conditions of employment , the end of the dependent relationship of agricultural laborer to squire , the development of a putting-out system , then a factory system ? these were among the contextual conditions for changes in food habits . It is in their light that the vaunted disposition of people to imitate their betters can be made to rest on a broader interpretive basis . When we read the encomia to sugar and remember that this was a society swiftly adopting a more urban , timeconscious , and industrial character , it is not surprising that Slare sounded nearer the truth of things than Hanway . Still , sugar , tea , and like products represented the growing freedom of ordinary folks , their opportunity to participate in the elevation of their own standards of living . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The proclaimed freedom to choose meant freedom only within a range of possibilities laid down by forces over which those who were , supposedly , freely choosing exercised no control at all . That substances like sugar could be changed from curiosities or adornments in English life into essential ingredients of decent self-respecting hospitality required that people weave them into the fabric of their daily lives , endowing them with meaning and teaching each other to enjoy their consumption . It was not by processes of symbol making and meaning investment that sugar was made available to the English people , but because of political , economic , and military undertakings the organization of which would have been unimaginable to the ordinary citizen . The immense quantities of coerced labor required to produce sucrose and bitter stimulant beverages also had to be arranged for , or the substances in the quantities desired would not have been forthcoming . Only with these arrangements secured could the wonderful and uniquely human capacity to find and bestow meaning he exercised . In short , the creation of a commodity that would permit taste and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach of both the enslaved Africans who produced the sugar ,  | on the one hand , and of the proletarianized English people who consumed it , on the other . Slave and proletarian together powered the imperial economic system that kept the one supplied with manacles and the other with sugar and rum ; but neither had more than minimal influence over it . The growing freedom of the consumer to choose was one kind of freedom , but not another . Porter 's argument that lowered sugar prices were always followed by higher consumption was amply borne out in the second half of the nineteenth century , a period during which taxes and duties on sugars dropped as well . A comparable abolition of government levies was a long time coming , but by 1872 they were cut in half . Tax historian S. Dowell 's reflections on this illuminate nicely the preceding two centuries for us : Here undoubtedly , in the opinion of many careful and provident persons who bore in mind our fiscal system in the whole , and , regarding advance in prosperity by leaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the progress of the nation , fixed their attention on the eventualities of the future , we should have stayed the process of reduction , which , if carried further , threatened the annihilation of the tax . This tax , with those on tea and coffee , held , in their opinion , a position of peculiar importance : to be kept , in time of peace , at low rates at which , so evenly do these taxes lie over the whole surface of the nation , the pressure was not felt by anyone , they were powerful engines available when the nation should be called upon for a general effort in time of war . To abolish these taxes would be to remove the mainstays of our system of taxation . The part such taxes played in the creation of state extraction systems , sustained by skimming from the costs of personal consumption , is significant . Of sugar and other exotic products ? particularly the bitter , habit-forming stimulants which English people combined it with ? sugar was the most aptly taxable , partly because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance ) . As its yield of wealth to the exchequer grew , so its value as a taxable item was enshrined : there arose a powerful vested interest in its continued and expanded consumption . Like tea or tobacco , it could be counted upon to yield revenues even when scarce supplies drove up its price .  | And , as Dowell says , because its consumption was so widespread , " the pressure was not felt by anyone . " Thus was the new freedom to afford sugar a key to governance itself . With the change in place of such commodities in the English diet , and the growing recognition of the ultimate consequences of mass consumption , the world market gradually set the price of sugar . But even this overstates the case , for probably no single food commodity on the world market has been subjected to so much politicking as sugar . If it earlier was too important to be left to West Indian planters , it later became too important to be left entirely exposed to market forces . Sucrose was a source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Once the magnitude of its market and potential market was grasped , maintaining control over it became important . Sugar led all else in dramatizing the tremendous power concealed in mass consumption . Control over it , and responsibility for the eventual outcome , led to a sweeping revision of the philosophy that determined the connections between metropolis and colony . It might not be too much to say that the fate of the British West Indies was sealed , once it became cheaper for the British masses to have their sugar from elsewhere , and more profitable for the British bourgeoisie to sell more sugar at lower prices . To the extent that we can define things for others under circumstances that make it difficult for them to test the meanings we attribute to those things , we are exercising control over whether those others use these things , consume them or fail to consume them , prize them or disdain them . We affect their self-definition by motivating their consumption , thereby entering intimately into the organization of their very personalities : who and what they think they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first objects within capitalism that conveyed with their use the complex idea that one could become different by consuming differently . This idea has little to do with nutrition or primates or sweet tooths , and less than it appears to have with symbols . But it is closely connected to England 's fundamental transformation from a hierarchical , status-based , medieval society to a social-democratic , capitalist , and industrial society . The argument advanced here , that big background alterations in                     