@@774249

txt  | private auditors , helped by the universities ' own auditing staff.144 There were still conflicts . Federal auditors , for example , threatened to demand repayment of over $1 million from the University of California at San Francisco after failing to find full information provided by faculty members on the way they had divided their time between teaching and research.14s In general , however , the universities felt that the tide was turning in their direction , and that this had in no little part been the result of the extra muscle the corporate community had given their lobbying efforts in Washington . If the corporate community has needed little prompting to help universities in their fight against social regulation , universities have not been slow to return the favor . The use of university scientists by industry in public policy debates stretches back as far as the earliest collaboration between the two sectors . Whenever industry has been accused of antisocial practices ? such as polluting streams or exposing workers to occupational hazards ? there have been scientists willing to challenge the evidence and attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unscientific . " Indeed , during the Santa Barbara oil spill in the late 1960s , the state of California was unable to find a local scientist with the appropriate expertise willing to give evidence against the oil companies , because all those contacted were already receiving research grants from the same companies.146 Two authors , Bruce Owen and Ronald Brautigan , put it explicitly in a book called The Regulation Game . In a chapter headed " Co-opting the Experts , " they suggested that this is most effectively done either by hiring scientists as consultants or providing them with research grants : " This activity requires a modicum of finesse ; it must not be too blatant , for the experts themselves must not realize that they have lost their objectivity and freedom of action . At a minimum a program of this kind reduces the threat that the leading experts will be available to testify against the interests of the regulated firms . " l4 ' As individual battles against particular regulations broadened into a general counterattack , so industry turned increasingly to the academic community to support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out against the burden of regulation , the more legitimacy was attached to industry 's complaints . The National Commission on Research suggested that " the participation of a presumed neutral third party , such as the university researchers , would add to the credibility of industry intentions " 148 and could play an important role in enhancing the ultimate credibility of regulatory decisions in the eyes of the public . Frequently the pitch was blatant , as industry leaders encouraged university scientists to use their social prestige to promote the case against federal involvement . When Mac Pruitt , research director at I ) ow Chemical , invited the heads of university chemistry departments to a companysponsored conference in 1979 to discuss plans for a scheme to funnel corporate funds to university laboratories , the conference opened with a  | presentation by Dow officials strongly criticizing the " overregulation " of the chemical industry , and urging scientists to speak out in elaborating on this argument . " Some of the academics quietly wondered what they had let themselves in for by attending the gathering , " noted one observer.149 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edward Kane , made a similar pitch at a symposium to mark the seventy-fifth anniversary of MIT 's laboratory of physical chemistry . " People in academic life have considerable leverage in our society . . . they carry high credibility in their contacts with the media and with government , " Kane told his audience . " You in universities are in a good position to present that argument and point the policy-makers toward sensible decisions . " lso Leaders of the academic community were quick to oblige . Repeating a litany of increasingly familiar complaints from the corporate sector , they began to highlight the problems in their public speeches . When Paul Gray was appointed president of MIT in 1979 , he used the opportunity to warn that the U.S. had " lost a certain edge in technological innovation , " to complain of " excessive regulation " of both technology and research , and to suggest that even if technology had been the cause of many of today 's social and political problems , the solution lay in more technology , not more regulation . " New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Technology Lag , " the New York Times dutifully reported in a front-page story the following day.151 Up the road at Harvard there was similar endorsement of industry 's complaints against the government . In July of the same year , a meeting was jointly hosted by the university with the Senate subcommittee on international trade and the New York Stock Exchange . Again the participants hammered away at the same themes , although this time the organizers paid for their own publicity in the New York Times with a fullpage advertisement proclaiming , " The United States Must Strengthen Its Competitiveness . " With Harvard 's name prominently displayed below the headline , the statement emphasized that " regulation should not be allowed to stifle our competitiveness . " ' " Many universities freely laid their credibility on the line to support such arguments . Academic researchers , they argued , offered just the skills and expertise needed for an " objective " analysis of important policy questions raised by the interaction of science , technology , and public policy . Assessment studies undertaken in universities would be characterized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision-maker , " suggested Wiesner of MIT . In contrast , he said , technology assessments presented in the political arena " seem too often designed to justify a single course of action and fog over the merits of competing alternatives " ' 51 ? an ironic statement considering the fact that Wiesner had himself been one of the strongest lobbyists for the creation of Congress 's Office of Technology Assessment . However questionable the assumed objectivity , industry was quick to  | take up the offer . Both MIT and Stanford were approached by major chemical corporations early in 1978 about setting up discussions on the risk and regulation of chemicals . At MIT the eventual result was a joint program with Harvard on the impact on human health and the environment , formally unveiled by Wiesner in October 1979 . At Harvard , Christopher DeMuth , director of the Kennedy School Project on Regulation ? and subsequently drafted to help direct the Reagan administration 's attack on regulation ? claimed there existed " well nigh growing agreement among scholars that the process of adversarial regulation suffers from inherent shortcomings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspects of regulation and a well nigh universal suppression of innovation and competition , " as well as " protracted and unnecessary disputes between government and business over information disclosures , plant inspections , etc. " 154 Funding for the joint program soon materialized from major chemical companies and their organizations , including the Chemical Manufacturers Association , DOW , Monsanto , Exxon , and du Pont . Officials from MIT ? an institution that prides itself on having its " academic roots " in American industry ? promoted the value of the research that would be carried out by a new institution " whose competence , objectivity , and integrity would be unquestioned . " ' " Perhaps the most aggressive use of the prestige of American universities to promote the political programs of its private corporations came in a report presented to President Reagan in April 1983 by the ACE 's Business ? Higher Education Forum under the title America 's Competitive Challenge . The report was prepared by a task force chaired by R. Anderson ( chairman and chief executive officer of Rockwell International ) and David Saxon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It made clear its political intent by arguing that meeting the challenge of international competition required " a shift in public attitudes about national priorities . " In addition to making familiar statements about the need to ensure that regulatory statutes " are compatible with the needs of our economy to remain competitive , " the academic leaders endorsed the corporate world 's opposition to " national economic planning , income redistribution , and plant-closing restrictions , " each of which , they argued , was " counterproductive to achieving economic revitalization. " 156 Although providing nothing in terms of additional insights into the problems it addressed , the report was one more brick in the university-industry coalition that helped ensure a unity of political outlook , and a powerful justification of attempts to combat " increased government intervention Footnote  | into private-sector activities " ? i.e. , to make the corporate sector directly responsive to democratic demands . Clark Kerr once described the university as a public utility , an institution whose principal purpose is to serve the public good rather than any particular segment of the community.157 This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than of the university as an educational institution , particularly of private universities which have received little federal support for teaching programs , yet where most of the government 's research support is concentrated . The result of massive postwar investment in basic research , as Dael Wolfle , a former editor of Science , has put it , is that such universities have become " public institutions doing public business . " ' " By increasing links to the private sector , however , the public resources that universities now represent have been placed directly at the service of private corporations . It is not merely the research results that companies desire privileged access to ? results which could often , as has been pointed out , be obtained within their own laboratories ? but the skills , experience , knowledge , and insight of the scientific community ( again , properties that have been built up through heavy public subsidies ) . Asked what Hoechst expected to get out of the agreement with the Massachusetts General Hospital , Ronald Lamont Havers , the hospital 's director of research , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the research environment . " We had discussions last week with an American company and they thought that Hoechst was getting a very good deal relatively cheaply , not from the patents , not from the people , but from the fact that America in this area of science is ahead , and they have the opportunity to train people who will go back and start probably an in-house laboratory within Germany . I think that is where they are going to get their payoff , " he told a congressional subcommittee in June 1981. ' 59 The benefits to corporations are significantly greater than the products of isolated research contracts . They are reflected in the broader leverage that these contracts , together with developments such as the changes in patent policy and the broader evolution of the academic ethos , provide over the whole university research enterprise . Both supporters and critics of this trend agree that industry has done well out of the deal . The director of research administration at Case Western Reserve University writes that " university-industry partnerships in research and development are a bargain for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct costs of research , plus some overhead , " the almost priceless infrastructure of the university comes without cost . " 160 Two critics , David Noble and Nancy Yfund , point out that this " priceless infrastructure " has usually been built out of public funds . They argue that bilateral deals between universities and private corporations have " in essence transformed a part of the public-sector social resource into a private-sector  | preserve , " since companies have been provided with access to " a resource they could not have created with many times " the amount of the research agreements involved.161 The process of devoting public facilities to the increase of private profit , as well as the general tightening of " the industrial connection , " has led to a fundamental redefinition of the desirable " social relevance " of university research . In the late 1960s and early 1970s , when universities were accused of scholasticism and indifference to social needs , the response to direct public pressure was to encourage the growth of " relevant " research in areas such as energy , health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationships between science and society . The reasoning behind government support for these initiatives was that the private sector would not , for various reasons , support the necessary research . The social responsibilities of scientists , however , have recently been given a new interpretation ; they are now defined as the need to help private corporations achieve their economic and political objectives . The commercialization of research results ? including acquiescence in changes in the patent system ? is portrayed as a public responsibility . " Academic scientists often believe that their ideas , having been discovered in the spirit of freedom , ought to be freely available , " complains one administrator at the University of Michigan , as if such attitudes displayed the height of naivete.162 Paul Gray , president of MIT , told a congressional subcommittee that the universities had a " responsibility " to make their research innovations available to the public through commercialization by the private sector.163 The National Commission on Research states that universities , through close collaboration with industry , stand to gain " enhanced public credibility for service to society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct imposition of social controls , through the actions of the federal government , are seen as a major threat to university independence , direction from the corporate sector toward the needs of the market is welcomed by both universities and their corporate sponsors as a breath of freedom and fresh air , and an act of social responsibility . As already suggested , this paradoxical position becomes less enigmatic when viewed as part of a broader picture . Close links between universities and industry are merely the reflection within the research community of a broader strategy adopted by U.S. capital , namely its effort to tighten control over access to the results of scientific research . Since scientific knowledge has become a crucial factor determining both new high technology products and new high technology production processes , universities ? the most productive source of this knowledge ? have become increasingly swept up in a strategy whose overt objective is to maintain hegemony in the global marketplace , yet whose hidden agenda is greater corporate control of the whole of U.S.  | society. * These are the dominant pressures that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past few years . From the universities ' point of view , next to the obvious financial advantages lie the broader questions of the impact that close linkages with the private sector through the research community could have on the other essential roles the universities are expected to play . Karl Marx , in a much-quoted passage , summarized his view that it was important to see the ideas of men as molded by the demands placed on them by external social , economic , and political forces , rather than looking on such forces as the product of the ideas of individuals . " The mode of production of material life , " he wrote , " conditions the general process of social , political , and intellectual life . It is not the consciousness of men that determines their existence but their social existence that determines their consciousness . " 166 The same perspective might be applied to the institutions that are supposed to represent a nation 's consciousness , namely its universities , as external pressures mold the internal contents of teaching courses and research programs . Recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nation 's research universities , the Business ? Higher Education Forum , the National Commission on Research , and other similar bodies should be read not as internally generated expressions of autonomous desires , but as institutional responses to external demands . " The new partnerships illustrate the pragmatic ability of higher education and industry to adapt to changing times , " says one professor from the University of Michigan.167 They express , in ideological form , the material needs that industry now expects universities to fulfill . This has profound implications . Eric Ashby , former vice-chancellor of Cambridge University in England , has described the universities in the modern world as " a bastion of pluralism , humanism , tolerance , openness to alternative truths , and ability to separate prejudice from error . " 168 In contrast , a report for the Carnegie Foundation has recently warned of the dangers of turning universities into " academic supermarkets . " 169 Already the president of the University of Colorado , Arnold W. Weber , complains that " it 's difficult to retain a commitment to the humanities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' " The price is paid at the intellectual level . Industry 's desire to control the products of university research laboratories ? and its need to develop mechanisms to allow this control to be exercised ? presents a direct chal-Footnote  | lenge to the democratic traditions on which the academic community has traditionally prided itself . Faculty democracy remains a cornerstone of university life ; at Stanford , a debate over how far the university should become involved in the commercialization of research results ended with a strong plea from professor of medicine Halsted Holman that , whatever happened , decisions had to remain in the hands of faculty members : " The buck stops here . We as the faculty say what we are and behave that way or we capitulate and say that all we are here is an arm of the rest of society , in which people are not behaving by any particular code but are rather engaged in personal profit maximization by whatever mechanisms the results will allow them to get away with ? which is a way I would not like to define the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the industrial connection is putting such democracy at risk . At MIT , for example , faculty members wrote to President Gray objecting to arrangements under which research funds donated by multimillionaire John Whitehead for a new biomedical research institute were to remain formally under the control of a family trust , on which the university had minority representation . " This plan threatens to change the nature of higher education , " complained one faculty member . " We lose control over our faculty appointments , we lose control over our graduate students , we lose control over the direction of our research . " 12 At Washington University in St. Louis , one scientist claimed that an arrangement by which basic research projects funded by Monsanto would have to be approved by a panel of eight scientists , half from the company , was " far too close control for my taste . " 13 University administrators insist that many of the fears are exaggerated . The Pajaro Dunes meeting emphasized , in its final statement , that having established the broad outlines of detente between the corporate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universities to decide how to put these into practice . Yet the amount of autonomy left to universities , faced with both economic and political pressures to conform to the dominant ideology , is already circumscribed . If the Pajaro Dunes meeting could take place only outside the sphere of public debate , then the same threats to democracy are likely to be repeated on individual campuses around the country . Democracy in the university , as in other institutions , will have been sacrificed in the name of progress and high technology to the concentration of economic and political power in the hands of the multinational corporations and academic elites . " The control over science by scientists ? the hallmark of the postwar pattern ? is increasingly becoming the control over science by the science-based corporations that scientists serve , and sometimes own or direct , " writes historian David Noble . " The issue here has little to do with the fanciful contrast between basic ' and ' applied ' research , and even less with the struggle to defend ' pure ' research against external controls . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continues to be ? control by whom , and  | SCIENCE AND THE MILITARY : KNOWLEDGE AS POWER FROM ITS EARLIEST ORIGINS IN ANCIENT GREECE , WESTERN SCIENCE HAS enjoyed a close and productive relationship to military power . This relationship has intensified in the forty years since the Second World War , a period in which , building on the experiences of that war , the rapid escalation of military force in both East and West has been grounded increasingly on the applications of advanced scientific knowledge to weapons of mass destruction . Science has done well out of its role , for the rise to positions of influence and favor of the scientific establishments in both hemispheres has been largely due to the contribution science has been able to make to new military technologies . Since 1960 , for example , more than twenty U.S. Nobel prize winners have drawn direct support from the Department of Defense . Indeed , the rapid buildup of U.S. science over this period has been as much the result of a largely accidental spinoff from the arms race as a reflection of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or society 's ) sake . The other side to this coin , however , is that there are today almost as many American scientists and engineers helping , directly or indirectly , to develop new ways of destroying life as there are trying to improve it . ' Me United States government spends twice as much on military research and development as it does on R &D; devoted to all other social mole  | nomenon is not confined to the U.S. According to calculations by Colin Norman , then at the Worldwatch Institute in Washington , D.C. , almost half a million scientists and engineers are engaged in military R &D; projects consuming one quarter of the global R &D; budget . ' As Ruth Szilard writes : " Military R &D; is able to attract a share of scientists and engineers far out of proportion to the military component of the world 's product . The market for which they work is unlimited in its ability to absorb the newest that brainpower and technology can produce at no matter what cost . ' For most of the 1970s , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? together with other Western nations ? reacted to social pressures resulting partly , although not entirely , from criticism of the role of the research community in supporting military efforts in the Vietnam War . Attention shifted to the research needed to address social problems such as health , energy , and protection of the environment . Now , however , the pendulum is swinging back again . A rapidly growing proportion of the federal research budget is again being devoted , directly or indirectly , to military ends such as development of the " smart " weapons which use sophisticated technology to balance the superior numerical weight of Soviet weapons . Whereas military research and development expenditures had absorbed approximately 47 percent of the total federal R &D; budget in 1980 , by 1983 budget proposals submitted to Congress by the Reagan administration suggested that for the fiscal year 1984 the proportion should be 70 percent ; between 1983 and 1984 alone , the administration recommended an increase in military R &D; 24 percent above the expected rate of inflation , almost the largest increase of any single item @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an overall R &D; increase of 13.3 percent ) . Congressional reaction to the growing budget deficit , due largely to high general military expenditures , was expected to reduce this slightly . Nevertheless , between 1980 and 1983 , federal spending on defense-related R &D; increased by 22.3 percent in real terms ; in contrast , federally supported civilian R &D; decreased by 30 percent over the same period . ' The balance in federal funding for basic research has shifted in the same direction . Between 1980 and 1983 , support for basic research funded by the Department of Defense ( DoD ) increased in real terms by 28.4 percent ; in contrast , support for basic research from all other federal agencies increased by only 4.5 percent . Within the total picture , the Pentagon 's share of the basic research budget increased from 11.1 to 13.1 percent . This does not sound too dramatic when compared with the overall R &D; figures ( in which the increases are largely accounted for by development work on large-scale projects such as the MX missile and the BIB bomber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear that the significant increases secured , with congressional blessing , in the basic research budget of other agencies ? in particular the National Sci-  | ence Foundation ? have been targeted in areas such as mathematics , physics , and engineering partly on the extent to which these subjects contribute toward strengthening the nation 's military technology . Among the principal beneficiaries of this increase in Pentagon funding for science have been the nation 's universities and colleges . The Department of Defense carries out most of its R &D; work either in its own laboratories or under contract to industrial corporations . When it comes to basic research , however , a significant ? and growing ? proportion of this is contracted to university scientists , usually in relatively small project grants provided under the same terms and conditions as they would be by any other government agency . Furthermore , as research money from other agencies becomes more difficult to obtain , universities are turning increasingly to the Pentagon to make up for the loss . As a result of these two trends , military funding for research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget of U.S. colleges and universities between 1980 and 1983 , rising in current dollars from $455 million to $813 million over the three-year period . In constant ( i.e. , inflation-adjusted ) dollars , this was an increase of almost 50 percent over a period in which federal support for university research as a whole dropped by 3.3 percent . 5 Reactions to this trend have predictably been mixed . Many scientists who previously might have had qualms about receiving research support from the military felt they had little alternative if they were to keep their research teams together . As one professor of public health , who had applied for Pentagon funding in anticipation of cuts from the National Institutes of Health , put it : " I have forty people working for me . I ca n't wait until a disaster occurs to look for other sources of funding . " 6 T'he Defense Department has found substantial demand for its research money particularly where this promised to make up for the increasing difficulty in raising support from civilian agencies ; over 2,500 applications , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1983 to provide DoD funding for university research equipment for which the principal source of support had previously been the National Science Foundation . Pentagon chiefs had few doubts that the tightness of the general funding for university science was contributing directly to this enthusiasm . Richard D. Delauer , Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering , told a congressional committee in April 1983 that one significant reason for this enthusiasm was " the Footnote  | depression out there , the fact that other elements of funding have slowed down . And it 's surprising how many converts that makes . " ' The revitalization of DoD sponsorship of basic research , however , has also aroused growing opposition on university campuses . After the student protest movements of the late 1960s and early 1970s , one of whose main targets had been military-sponsored research in the universities , the issue of scientific links to the military lay relatively dormant for most of the 1970s . The new Pentagon funding for university research has revived intense memories of the not-too-distant past . " It looks like a return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universities was based on military support for research , " commented linguist Noam Chomsky of MIT , one of the most outspoken critics of university involvement in the Vietnam War . " We 'd be in a much more healthy society if the Pentagon had no role whatsoever in supporting research in universities . " 8 For the 1982 meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science , the radical group Science for the People , which had dropped the military issue for most of the 1970s , published a pamphlet containing echoes of past militancy . It urged " that scientists again join the struggle against the militarization of the nation and the university . " ' Student protests against the military sponsorship of university research , frequently linked to demonstrations against the proliferation of nuclear weapons , took place at such campuses as the University of Michigan , the University of Wisconsin , the University of Rochester , and the University of California , each of which had been the site of violent confrontations in the late 19605.10 The protesters reiterated a litany of complaints familiar from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which the demands of military technology skew research from other social priorities , on both the national and the international levels . According to calculations made by Colin Norman of the Worldwatch Institute in Washington , 24 percent of R &D; efforts of the governments of the world goes to defense , compared with 8 percent to space , 8 percent to energy , 7 percent to health , 5 percent to transportation , and 3 percent to agriculture and food production . " Commenting on the balance of priorities in the Reagan R &D; budget , Science for the People complained that " the new DoD policy is creating a narrow pattern of research interests . Funds that might have enhanced the lives of the weak and the poor are being diverted to study war . " 12 Others raised the moral question of whether it was right for universities to be heavily involved in weapons research . The Senate Assembly at the University of Michigan , whose research support from Doll had been growing rapidly , passed a resolution , later rejected by the university regents , calling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any research " a substantial purpose of which is to destroy or permanently incapacitate human beings . " In addition to these complaints , however , a new clement has crept  | into university protests . There is concern about the tightening control the military is demanding over the scientific knowledge universities produce ? even knowledge that may emerge from unclassified research , or from projects the military itself has not funded . The main emphasis of the Pentagon 's increases in university funding has been on basic research programs , and in line with conventional practice scientists are told that in principle they are free to publish their results in the open scientific literature and to continue as active members of the public research community . This apparent openness , however , has been accompanied by growing attempts to place controls on access to and dissemination of basic research results in the name of national security , controls which universities have frequently been prepared to accept as the price of increased DoD funding of research . As with the corporate sector 's demands described in the previous chapter , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is directly linked to the increasing importance these results play in the development of new military technologies . It is the fact that the work of basic scientists is directly relevant to advances in fields with obvious military applications ? such as lasers , cryptography , microcomputers , materials science , and even various types of manufacturing processes ? that has stimulated much of the military 's renewed interest in universitybased research . But it is also this same fact that has made for the military 's desire to prevent the results of such research from falling into the hands of other , potentially hostile , countries . This is the root of a new Faustian bargain being offered to universities : more funding for basic science provided they are prepared to accept more controls on the findings of their scientists . The offer has placed universities in a dilemma . Although they are keen for the extra research support , the additional controls directly undermine the traditional norms and values of the scientific community , which include complete openness in scientific publication and in the international exchange of ideas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1982 President Reagan signed a new executive order expanding the criteria by which the results of scientific research could be classified as secret , a report from the American Association of University Professors countered that the new rules posed " an unwarranted threat to academic freedom and hence to scientific progress , " that they required " drastic revision in order to be tolerable to a community of scholars committed to free inquiry . " ' 4 University administrators , while frequently just as outspoken in public , have nevertheless tempered their opposition and stretched their principles when it has come to negotiating for the new research funds . Two areas have been unaffected : there has been no difficulty in reaching agreement either on the conditions covering basic research contracts of no immediate relevance to military technologies ( carriad out , as before ,  | with complete openness of publication ) or on research which is sufficiently sensitive that the military has declared it classified from the start ( and which , as a result of their experiences in the 1960s , many universities now have rules against accepting ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a growing " gray area " in the middle , an area where the work is sufficiently broad or long-term in application not to be declared classified but , equally , has sufficient possible implications to make the military reluctant to grant the traditional open exchange of ideas.15 It is in this gray area that universities , although continuing to protest some of the more extreme demands being made on them by hard-liners in the Pentagon , have nevertheless agreed to accept an unprecedented degree of control over basic research . For example , while accepting that some universities may find some of the suggested procedures " objectionable , " the Corson Report ? prepared by a committee of the National Academy of Sciences and written largely by members of the academic and corporate research communities ? acknowledged the existence of areas for which " limited restrictions short of classification are appropriate . " Reflecting the increased strategic importance of basic science in these areas , one of the criteria for such limited restrictions , the report argued , is that the research involves a technology that " is developing rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short . " " Building on the Corson Report 's recommendations , a separate forum of DoD and university officials , established primarily to discuss the tensions created by the demands for new controls , endorsed a statement that unclassified but " sensitive " fields of research identified by a DoD-established committee " would be subject to controls , " such as barring the participation of foreign research workers.18 Although the university community , in line with the Corson Report , insisted that this gray area was small , it is likely to grow as more and more areas of " basic " science appear to have a direct relevance to military technology . Furthermore , the compromise academic leaders told the Pentagon they were prepared to accept was significant . For it represented endorsement of the principle that even in peacetime , the government is entitled to place controls on the conduct of unclassified research and the dissemination of its results on grounds of national security ? a principle in direct conflict with the traditional notion that no restrictions of any kind should be placed on basic research . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move . Edith Martin , Deputy Under Secretary for Research and Advanced Technology , claimed that it was evidence of a " phenomenal " change of attitude by many members of the scientific community.19 An article in Business Week described the Corson Report 's recommendations as a " capitulation " by academics which , it said , heightened concern in industry that it too might have to come to the same sort of compromise.20 Yet the academic community had several reasons for reaching such a compromise . The most obvious was money . If these were the most liberal terms on which the Department of Defense could be persuaded to put money into basic research ? and if the controls looked as if they were likely to have only a minor impact on that research , at least to the extent that the majority of university scientists could be persuaded to accept them ? then in practice they might turn out to be a small price to pay for increased government support of university science . Beyond this , however , there was a deeper reason for reaching a compromise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it also has an important political dimension . Both the academic and the military communities have historically shared a distrust of any direct social involvement in the way they run their affairs ? and both have tended to acknowledge with approval this characteristic in the other . Many scientists looked back with nostalgia at the postwar period when , taking their lead from the organization of the wartime Manhattan Project , agencies such as the Office of Naval Research provided generous funding for universities with virtually no strings attached. * This approach is compared unfavorably with the many social demands on the research community introduced in the late 1960s and 1970s ? in particular , the demand for direct social accountability ( illustrated , in the case of military research , by the requirements of the Mansfield Amendment , described below ) . One of the attractions of military support for research at present is that the military has been able to reinforce the universities ' own attempts to reject direct democratic control over the contents of their research programs ( even if this means substitution of control by military authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their fight against federal regulations , such as those contained in OMB 's Circular A-21 . It has argued against an excessively rigid interpretation of the Mansfield Amendment , allowing university scientists to select their own research topics within fields considered broadly relevant to military needs . And it has actively encouraged private companies to tighten their links with the university research community , in particular by making Footnote  | more of their funds available for undirected basic research and offering bonuses to companies that subcontract some of their work to university scientists . " In this context , there is a rapprochement between the university and military establishments ? at least those parts of the military establishment most sensitive to the academic community 's complaints , usually those with direct responsibility for managing the Pentagon 's research efforts . They find themselves not adversaries but allies in seeking to isolate discussion about particular research programs and their full implications from the arena of public debate and democratic control . Included in this alliance are many of the largest high technology corporations in the U.S. ? companies which have profited directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the military 's enthusiasm for high technology , but which also want to remain as free as possible to sell their products in international markets . Such an alliance may help to ward off the more extreme demands made by Pentagon hard-liners for direct control over science ( often imposed in the name of the Export Administration Act of 1979 , which permits the government to control unclassified scientific information where this can be described as " technical data " ) . But in broad terms , the result is to contribute to the general separation of science from the democratic process . More particularly , it holds specific dangers of fueling the arms race between the two major superpowers . For example , much of the basic research that the Pentagon currently supports in the universities , such as microcomputer theory and materials science , is explicitly aimed at keeping U.S. military technology between five and ten years ahead of the Soviet Union . Indeed , it is those fighting hardest against social controls on science who often cite the fact that the U.S. is now ahead of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technologies " as evidence of the advantage of letting scientists get on with the job , free of outside interference.23 Yet it is precisely this type of thinking that inevitably fuels an escalating arms race and continuously ( indeed often consciously ) undermines any effort at arms control , since even if restrictions are agreed on for one generation of weapons , the next generation , often even more powerful and potentially destructive , always remains waiting in the wings . To quote Rute Szilard again : " R &D; is the quintessential instrument through which antagonistic cooperation between the leading adversaries ensures a never-ending spiral in weapons technology . " 24 Furthermore , from the universities ' point of view , the new pact with the Pentagon has reinforced what might be described as " the permanent mobilization of science " ? a characteristic that appeared to diminish in the late 1960s and early 1970s , but is once again beginning to flourish . r , .... v.rf fir kaki ( ' re ? 4. lr ( h IIIIISt IlICVltablV lx committed on a  | long-term basis if it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advantage of providing a stable base for future planning . At the same time , however , it builds them into the structure of a weapons economy that they have an active interest in helping to maintain and expand . Finally , at the political level , decisions made away from public scrutiny ( with conclusions subsequently offered for public acceptance ) often tend to concentrate on " worst-case " scenarios ( such as the supposed " missile gap " of the 1960s ) . An apparently logical response to these scenarios may then be the rapid development of new military technologies ? another argument in favor of more military funding of university research , but a further built-in bias against attempts at arms limitation . There is also a tendency to go uncritically for the " technical fix " to complex military and diplomatic problems . One such example was President Reagan 's proposal for a space-based anti-ballistic missile system using the latest developments in laser technology . The proposal was put forward against the recommendations of many of his close advisers , was viewed skeptically by many in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an implicit weakening of the U.S. commitment to NATO and as destabilizing arms control negotiations . But it was promoted by science adviser George Keyworth as a challenge to the ingenuity of the nation 's scientists , and was accompanied with the promise of generous funding for any university scientist prepared to take it up.25 By contributing to such overall strategies , military-sponsored basic research , fueled by dreams of technological power and free of direct democratic controls , can itself become a threat to world peace . " No element in contemporary armaments dynamics has assumed such a central position , with such a profound impact on the arms race , as military R &D?; the core and nerve center of the race in technology , " writes Marek Thee of the International Peace Research Institute in Oslo . " It operates in a way which makes armaments dynamics organically tied to structures in economy and production , to the military establishment , the state bureaucracy , and the scientific-technological innovative adventure of the second technological revolution . . . . Military R &D; steers clear of social control and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in perspective , it is important to understand the extent to which military support of science has been used throughout the modern history of the United States as a weapon against demands for direct social accountability for the way in which public money is spent on research . The government has long acknowledged the value of publicly funded science to its military forces . This goes back to 1804 , when , in one of the first government-sponsored research programs , the War Department , at the request of Thomas Jefferson , agreed to provide supix ) rt for the Lewis and Clark expedition . Sixty years later the National  | Academy of Sciences ( NAS ) was chartered by Abraham Lincoln at the height of the Civil War to provide consultation and advice on scientific and military questions . In both cases , science was given access to valuable new resources . But scientists were also quick to explore ways in which the military 's need for science could be used to pursue political goals as well , namely to limit the degree of control the government required in return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was expected to fulfill the military 's needs , so ? at least the scientists who created it hoped ? the government should respect and assist their own aspirations for the academy , namely that it should provide a mechanism for centralizing and consolidating control within the U.S. scientific community ( i.e. , reinforce its own power base in order to strengthen its political leverage ) .27 This goal was thwarted during the second half of the nineteenth century as the federal government established its own network of scientific advisory bureaus , while large corporations began to create their own research organizations . Both steps diffused the scientific enterprise to such an extent that central control became difficult to justify . War came to the scientists ' rescue , the trigger being U.S. entry into World War I in 1917 . The president of the National Academy of Sciences , George Ellery Hale , had long been trying to raise the academy 's status ? and political influence ? by using it to coordinate centrally the work of the nation 's scientists . Previously his efforts had met with little success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to mobilize scientists to meet the German threat , President Woodrow Wilson eventually agreed to endorse Hale 's ideas and establish the National Research Council ( NRC ) as a clearinghouse for research projects and scientific information . Universities such as MIT and Throop College ? later transformed by Hale into the California Institute of Technology ? quickly pledged their support , marking the beginning of a long and fruitful partnership between university scientists and the military . ( Sixty-four years later , President Reagan 's science adviser , George Keyworth , pointed out almost offhandedly at a congressional hearing that " MIT and Cal Tech were built largely with DoD funds . " 28 ) An unexpectedly early armistice cut short the opportunity for much detailed work to be carried through by the NRC . However , the apparatus had been established for the centralized control of science by the scientific community ? a goal long sought by Hale , and the origins of what Don Price was later to refer to as the " scientific estate . " 29 This apparatus survived intact , partly because of substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guise , the NRC successfully shifted its focus from military to industrial research needs . It argued that the war had demonstrated the value of organizing the community in a collaborative effort ? and had also shown that the scientific community could qualify ? . urvvrl while keenitim its affairs within its own hands  | The scientific community 's political status remained low in the postwar period , during which the most powerful organization , largely because of its links to industry , was not the academy but the American Chemical Society . In addition , relationships between the military and the scientific community lapsed . Partly this was due to a continuing distrust on the part of many university scientists of accepting any federal funds . But in addition , many scientists were morally reluctant to work toward military goals . In turn , military authorities saw little value in basic science , arguing that most of the technical knowledge it needed to improve its weapons could be generated within its own research laboratories . Budget requests for the technical bureaus of the armed services were frequently cut back by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little inclination to challenge their decisions . Shortly before the Second World War , as Hunter Dupree has pointed out , the Army reduced its R &D; budget on the grounds that " the crisis was too serious to wait for research , " preferring to allocate the funds to the purchase of new equipment.30 Even as late as 1940 , Navy spending on all forms of R &D; was only $8.9 million . Once again war changed fundamental attitudes , not only toward science but to the way it should be governed . Previously , one reason for the gulf between the military and the civilian scientific community had been a dominant military conviction that civilian scientists and engineers could contribute to useful military R &D; only if directed and controlled by armed services officers . Soon after the outbreak of war , Vannevar Bush ? working with James B. Conant , MIT president Karl T. Compton , and NAS president Frank Jewett ( director of the Bell Laboratories ) ? convinced President Roosevelt not only of the potential importance of an organized defense research effort , but also that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( or government ) control . He therefore proceeded to mobilize civilian scientists , first through the National Defense Research Committee ( NDRC ) , subsequently through its offspring the enlarged Office of Scientific Research and Development ( OSRD ) , an independent federal agency established on the orders of President Roosevelt and reporting directly to him.31 Although operating under governmental auspices , the link remained loose . The NDRC bypassed the existing agencies responsible for the support of science , and Bush spent much of his time heading off the ambitions of potential rivals , many with active congressional backing.32 OSRD worked through providing research contracts to academic and industrial laboratories , an arrangement which not only reassured the scientists in these institutions that they were not going to be recruited into new institutions , but also placed civilians in a commanding rather than a subordinate role in organizing and carrying out military research . In this way , scientists were able to serve the war effort while maintaining their independence from outside control . In the words of Gerald Piel , editor of Scientific Ameri-  | development laboratories , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " not as contractors , but as privateers , bringing along their own novel weapons systems . " 33 And Daniel Greenberg comments that , although the arrangement negotiated by Bush " was intended to reconcile freedom with accountability , it was clearly weighted toward freedom . " 34 As the war was coming to an end , Bush successfully parlayed science 's military successes into obtaining commitments to increased federal funding for science , without direct accountability , for its continued , peacetime support . Both Congress and the federal government started to explore ways of bringing the military research apparatus that the scientific community had established within the normal framework of democratic controls . Reacting against these proposals ? just as he had opposed plans for Senator Harley Kilgore 's Office of Technological Mobilization ( see Chapter One ) ? Bush and his colleagues backed plans to establish a Research Board for National Security ( RBNS ) under the National Academy of Sciences to investigate the more fundamental scientific aspects of defense technology . This proposal , however , received equally strong criticism from the executive branch . President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was important for defense research ? indeed for all research ? to be subjected to " the same democratic control as any other activity of the government . " 3S Both sides stood firm , and attempts to reach a compromise failed . Truman , when he took over the presidency on Roosevelt 's death in June 1945 , backed Smith 's position , reportedly saying of the academy : " We can not let this outfit run the government . " *36 At the urging of Bush , Truman permitted the RBNS to remain under the academy as a temporary expedient , while attention shifted to the larger issue of who should control funds for scientific research in general . Plans for the academy-run board collapsed , but both army and navy technical bureaus started to grant funds to university researchers on the principles pushed by Bush , with the Office of Naval Research ( ONR ) being established in 1946 . Although intended purely as an interim arrangement , this system remained intact during the protracted negotiations leading to the establishment of the National Science Foundation ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By 1950 the ONR had already provided research contracts to 200 universities for 1,200 separate research contracts . In the first postwar decades it financed Footnote  | about half the students taking doctorates in the physical sciences and sponsored much subsequent basic research in areas ranging from high energy physics to X-ray astronomy . During the Korean War , scientists who had worked in military research and subsequently returned to universities enthusiastically signed up for reenlistment and were given influential positions , particularly in the U.S. Air Force . In the postwar decade the scientific community flourished under the terms of the contract Bush had negotiated ? with generous public funding , and minimal public accountability for its use . Both principles became threatened , however , as the military 's enthusiasm for science began to wane in the mid-1950s , just as it had done twenty years earlier . DoD funding for basic science remained almost constant between 1952 and 1957 , leading to a drop of about 25 percent in real terms because of the impact of inflation . In the summer of 1957 , faced with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had placed a stringent budget ceiling on the Pentagon , DoD suddenly announced it was cutting its research budget by 10 percent ? an announcement that caused the abrupt termination of numerous university research programs , many of which had come to depend almost entirely on the Pentagon as their largest provider of research funds . The result was immediate panic in the scientific community.38 Relief came sooner than expected . On October 4 the Soviet Union launched the first Sputnik , catalyzing a new national enthusiasm for basic science , and DoD funds for universities soon began to flow liberally again . As part of a general renaissance in enthusiasm for science , fanned by new fears of Soviet technological dominance , a memorandum from Defense Secretary Neil McElroy set out DoD 's new belief that basic research , an essential ingredient in what he called " potential military power " as opposed to " military power in being , " thrived on steady support rather than crash programs.39 It was a message that the university community had long waited to hear , and it responded with enthusiasm . Scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their position in Washington with a full-time presidential science adviser , and the creation of the President 's Science Advisory Committee ( PSAC ) , largely devoted in its early years to providing the President with advice on defense technologies . Military support for university science was facilitated by the fact that the Pentagon reorganized internally , giving those sympathetic to the scientific community 's demands for relative autonomy considerably more power than before . The Defense Reorganization Act of 1958 created a single office of Director of Defense Research and Engineering ( DDR &E),; who had direct authority to approve or disapprove all DoD research programs , and became both the chief spokesman for a strong military research budget and a buffer between the scientific community and its military customers . The same act created the Advanced Research  | Projects Agency ( ARPA ) , placed under the authority of the DDR &E; it has been one of the principal sources of university research support . Indeed , both the DDR &E; and ARPA ( now known as DARPA ) remain the principal . focal points for DoD support of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained and expanded by McElroy 's successor : President Kennedy 's Defense Secretary , Robert McNamara . Close links with university scientists were strengthened by the new DDR &E; physicist Harold Brown ( ex-director of the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory and later President Carter 's Secretary of Defense ) , as well as by Kennedy 's science adviser , Jerome Wiesner ( postwar director of the MIT Radiation Laboratory and previously a member of PSAC ) . The links were based on the emerging philosophy that advanced technology in all military fields , rather than brute force ? i.e. , technological quality , rather than quantity ? was the principal means by which the U.S. should maintain its military superiority over other nations , in particular the Soviet Union . Basic science , it was held , made a fundamental contribution to this strategy . Universities were soon coopted into working on projects such as the intercontinental ballistic missile ( ICBM ) , nuclear-powered strategic submarines , supersonic bombers , and high-speed reentry vehicles . McNamara tends to be remembered best for the systems analysts and their budgeting techniques that he introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than those whom James Fallows describes as " the impresarios of high technology . " With McNamara 's blessing , they " made their research and engineering division of the Pentagon the power center for decisions about new weapons , and . . . used the analysts ' economic calculations as cloaks for each new project they proposed . " 90 Within a few years , however , the cosy relationship between the universities and the military ran into a new set of problems , this time related to the lack of direct accountability on both sides . Military research became the focus of student protests over U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War and , as such , a symbol of academic collaboration with U.S. imperialism . Campuses rang with demands for " no more war research , " and saw bloody demonstrations against the " war machine " and the " knowledge factories " that fueled it . Student activists characterized the university laboratories and research institutes that constituted the military research network as a " fourth armed service , as crucial to the national defense as the three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1961 , John S. Hannah , then president of Michigan State University , had told a parents ' convocation : " Our colleges and universities must be regarded as bastions of our defense , as essential to the preservation of our country and our way of life as supersonic bombers , nuclearpowered submarines , and intercontinental bombers . " " In contrast , eight cars later , scientists across the nation were holding a symbolic one-day  | strike to protest U.S. policy in Vietnam and the way universities , with their links to the military through sponsored research , were implicitly endorsing this policy.43 Scientists , having successfully argued after the war that a free science was an essential component of democracy , were now told that a free science had become a threat to that same democracy . " The universities might have formed an effective counterweight to the military-industrial complex by strengthening their emphasis on traditional values of our democracy , but many of our leading universities have instead joined the monolith , adding greatly to its power and influence , " Senator J. William Fulbright complained in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many universities to these protests was to ban any connection with classified research . In several cases this meant separating off the contract research centers they had previously operated for the Defense Department . Stanford University , for example , split off the Stanford Research Institute , which became a separate contract research company . MIT 's Instrumentation Laboratory changed its name to the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory and shifted its focus from military guidance to space , air transportation , and related civilian research . By 1975 , five out of eight federally funded research and development centers ( FFRDCs ) previously managed by universities for the Pentagon had been phased out or transferred to other sponsorship . In the long term , however , the protests had a more significant effect , for they helped trigger new demands for direct public accountability of the content of the basic research programs supported by military funds . This was a frontal challenge to the terms of the contract drawn up by Bush ? and eventually endorsed by both the administration and Congress ? after the Second World War . Such demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a famous protest meeting at MIT on March 4 , 1969 , that efforts should be made " to prune out those items of the defense budget that are not directed specifically to military work . " 46 But the students were not alone ( nor , indeed , was it a major theme of their protests ) . President Johnson had already indicated his concern that the nation should see a return on its investment in basic science.47 Indeed , skeptical voices were increasingly heard within the military itself ; one influential study argued that the basic research sup-Footnote  | ported in the postwar years had contributed little to new weapons systems.48 The most influential skepticism , however , came from Congress , where it manifested itself in the so-called Mansfield Amendment to the 1970 Military Procurement Authorization Bill . When the bill came up for consideration by the Senate , an amendment was proposed . ( It was actually introduced by Senator J. William Fulbright , though based on concerns explored in committee hearings held by Mike Mansfield . ) The amendment stated that " none of the funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry out any research project or study unless such a project or study has a direct and apparent relationship to a specific military function or operation . " 49 In other words , the Pentagon could fund basic science only if it ? and the scientific community ? could show how it would contribute directly to specific military needs , and if Congress accepted their arguments . Perhaps overestimating the strength of the political lobby in favor of heavy government support of non-military-related research in universities , Mansfield and his supporters somewhat naively ? and , it turned out , wrongly ? predicted that much of the slack would be taken up by civilian agencies such as NSF . The amendment was approved by both the Senate and the House of Representatives , and signed into law by President Nixon ( Public Law 91-121 , Section 203 ) . Its formal effect was limited : when Pentagon officials went through 15,000 research projects to weed out those now disqualified from support , the research budget proposed for 1971 was reduced by only about $10 million out of a total of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the $64 million that Congress cut from DoD 's planned research expenditure . Furthermore , the amendment itself was modified the next year , so that rather than research having to show a " direct and apparent " relationship to military needs , it was now merely necessary that there be , " in the opinion of the Secretary of Defense , a potential relationship . " 52 Nevertheless , the amendment encapsulated a growing feeling both inside and outside Congress that a lack of direct accountability meant that society was not getting the returns to which it was entitled from its two decades of investment in basic research , and that often federal agencies were being taken for a ride by the scientific community . It sought to reverse a formula to which both the military establishment and the scientific community had long paid lip service , namely that the promise of Footnote  | basic science to the military was sufficiently high to warrant virtually indiscriminate investment . Using this formula , scientists had enjoyed a high degree of autonomy in their choice of research topics ; many freely admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim some remote military connection in order to qualify for DoD funding . S3 Mansfield had ended this by demanding public accountability for the substance of research , not merely its conduct . Just as the Rothschild Report in Great Britain two years later required many scientists to justify their research in terms of its value to a " customer " government department for which they were to operate as " contractors , " 54 so Congress now demanded a demonstration of relevance from those whose research was supported from the public purse . It was a requirement that explicitly permitted social judgments to be made on the content of individual research programs , precisely the form of democratic control that Bush and the scientific establishment had fought against so strongly ? and successfully ? twenty years before . And it was symptomatic of a broader disenchantment with Bush 's philosophy . As one former Pentagon research administrator put it at the time : " The Mansfield Amendment is important , not because its direct effects have been great , but because it is the formal expression of deeper congressional concerns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Partly as a result of the Mansfield Amendment and demands for social accountability of basic research funded by the military , partly because of general pressure on the military budget resulting from the continued involvement in Vietnam ( which pushed basic research to the bottom of the priority list ) , and partly because of the increased reluctance of university researchers to apply for DoD funding and thus be publicly identified as " bomb-makers " ? even when they might still be qualified to receive it ? military support for basic research in the universities dropped dramatically at the end of the 1960s . The decline had in fact started in 1965 , well before the Mansfield Amendment was passed . After a heady period of growth , during which military support for basic research climbed to $263 million in 1965 , there was a period of increasingly rapid decline . The budget had fallen 25 percent in real terms by 1971 , and reached a nadir of just over half its 1965 level in 1975 real terms . Since this was a period in which the research budgets of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share of total government basic research funding fell even more dramatically , from 20.1 percent in 1963 to 9.3 percent in 1975.56 The decline was felt in virtually all fields of science . Between 1971 and 1975 , the l ) oI ) share of funding of university physics departments dropped from 32 to 19 percent , while the National Science Foundation 's share increased over the same period from 19 to 35 percent . DoD support for engineering in universities ( hopped from 46 to 28 percents " This trend had not only financial but also political implications for  | science . For the budget decline helped reinforce the marginalization of scientists from positions of political influence , symbolized by Nixon 's abolition of the Office of Science Policy and the President 's Science Advisory Committee in 1973 . Furthermore , the phenomenon was not confined to the United States ; similar patterns emerged in other industrialized nations . The climate of the time was reflected in a report prepared for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris by a committee chaired by Harvey Brooks of Harvard University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries would experience a continued " shift in emphasis away from defense , national prestige , and quantitative economic growth . " 58 Yet there were many prepared to fight against this trend , for the universities still had powerful friends in the Pentagon . John Foster , director of Pentagon research from 1965 to 1973 ( and , like his predecessor Harold Brown , an ex-director of the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory ) , remained a firm supporter of the argument that basic research had a crucial role to play in meeting the military 's needs for new technology , and that universities were the best place to do it . " National security requires nothing less than the best research talent offered , " he wrote in an article in the New York Times in January 1970 . Responding directly to critics who argued that military research had no place on university campuses , he contended that " the federal government must be free to enlist those talents wherever they are found ? and they flourish particularly in the university community . " 59 The Pentagon soon found new justifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disentangled itself from the morass of Vietnam , it turned its attention in a different direction , arguing that the Soviet Union had been modernizing its military forces to a point where the U.S. no longer enjoyed the technological supremacy it had been able to establish in the early 1960s . The threat of Soviet modernization was soon being used by DoD to protect research expenditure from those , even in its own ranks , who believed any extra money should be spent on buying more conventional weapons systems ? and to justify rebuilding its links to the university scientific community , which was given deliberate priority over some of DoD 's own research laboratories.60 Through such initially relatively small-scale initiatives , military funding for basic science increased slightly between 1975 and 1976 , under President Ford , for the first time in a decade . However , it was under President Carter that the process sharply accelerated . Carter appointed Harold Brown , who had been Secretary of the Air Force under President Johnson , and then president of the California Institute of Technology , as Secretary of Defense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leagues , Brown soon announced a commitment to increase the Pentagon 's funding for basic science by 10 percent a year in real dollars for the following decade.62 The principal reason for the Pentagon 's renewed interest in universities was , as already mentioned , the crucial contribution of basic science to military high technology . Originating during the McNamara period , pursued unsuccessfully as a " technical fix " to the Vietnam War , and resurrected as a response to Soviet military strength in the late 1970s , confidence in the military promise of high technology reached a new peak during the Carter administration . It was actively promoted by Defense Secretary Brown and his research chief , William Perry . It was also warmly endorsed by Carter himself ? as well as by Wall Street ? since it seemed to provide a way of reducing arms expenditure without sacrificing military strength . Shortly after his arrival in Washington , Brown made it clear that the accelerated development of advanced military technology was going to be one of the key themes of his defense strategy , warning the Senate that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansion of Soviet weaponry . " Given our disadvantage in numbers , our technology will save us , " he told a reporter from Newsweek in 1980.63 Perry frequently voiced his own confidence in Brown 's " offset strategy , " urging the U.S. to exploit what he claimed to be a five- to ten-year lead over the Soviet Union in areas such as microelectronics , computers , and jet engines.T Perry was , in particular , the driving force behind a new military technology that epitomizes the use of basic science ? the cruise missile . Early in 1977 , as their principal answer to the Soviet 's numerical superiority in conventional long-range missiles , Perry , Carter , and Brown agreed to push for rapid development and deployment of the cruise missile , which relies on sophisticated electronics to steer close enough to the ground for hundreds of miles to avoid enemy radar . Developments such as the cruise missile provided a direct boost to DoD basic research programs , since they generated new needs from materials science to microcomputers , frequently pushing at the frontiers of knowledge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in very high speed integrated circuits ( VHSIC ) , which the cruise missile and other precision-guided munitions needed to process large amounts of infor-Footnote  | mation in short periods of time . Asked later what he considered to be his major achievement during his four years at the Pentagon , Perry replied that it had been his efforts " to reduce a twelve-year decline in DoD funding of basic technological research and to invest heavily in making smart weapons even smarter . " 65 Perry 's faith in technology was absolute ? and at times he waxed lyrical . " You might say that we are following the Beethoven approach to weapons planning . Beethoven was famous for finding a good theme and hitting it over and over again . We think this is a good theme , " he said of his efforts to apply computer technology to weapons development . " It lends itself very well to our industrial base , and we are pulling out the throttle very vigorously to exploit it to the full advantage . " 66 Explicit justification for increased DoD funding for basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1978 by the Office of Science and Technology Policy and its director , Frank Press . The panel was chaired by J. K. Galt of Sandia Laboratories ( research laboratories in New Mexico run by Western Electric for the Department of Energy ) and included four university scientists , three industrial representatives ( from the Ford Motor Company , Ford Aerospace , and TRW Systems ) , and top officials from NASA and the Department of Energy . Quick to applaud the recent reversal in DoD support for basic science , the panel claimed that " it will make possible the quality and excellence essential to the research needed to maintain the strength of the United States . " 67 The panel gave three reasons why the Pentagon should support basic science , which it claimed was " absolutely fundamental " to the Pentagon . The first two were relatively traditional . One was the need to help solve technological problems caused by gaps in knowledge ; the second , to provide new concepts leading to major changes in technological and operational capability . In addition to these reasons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a source of insight for DoD policy-makers and others in evaluating and reacting to the possibilities inherent in technical proposals and in technological developments anywhere in the world . " In other words , basic science was important to the military because of the same strategic value that private industry obtains by looking over the shoulder of university scientists to gather information about future markets , products , and processes . " The value of basic science lies in the perspective that new concepts afford in the review of technological initiatives available to the United States , " the report said . " Identifying and using these less conventional results of research require great emphasis on appreciation of the significance of new knowledge to the national defense mission . " 68 Keen to minimize the impact of public accountability for the way research funds were distributed , the panel tackled the problem of " relevance " iii military-sponsored research created by the Mansfield Amend-  | ment through a neat semantic sleight of hand . It recommended that " the criterion of relevance be applied primarily to broadly defined fields and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which every individual project must pass " 69 ? a distinction that , in practice , made the concept of relevance almost redundant ( and thus social accountability irrelevant ) , since virtually every field of science can be described as relevant to some military need or another . In line with the committee 's recommendations , Defense Secretary Brown issued a directive in May 1979 requiring all service and defense agencies to ensure that their research programs were " relevant to broad science and engineering areas with potential relationship to a military function or operation . " According to George Gamota , Brown 's DDR &E,; one of the prime functions of the memorandum was to take away some of the " misconceptions " the research community held about any lack of interest on the part of DoD in basic science , and to underline that it was no longer necessary " to scrutinize every research task and point your finger to a definite weapons system that will benefit from it . " 70 Brown 's memorandum was a signal to the scientific community that DoD was prepared once again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for maximum freedom in the choice and conduct of research projects . DoD also followed the Galt panel 's endorsement of efforts to reestablish an active relationship with the university research community , given in its claim that universities were " a logical place to expect the original and startling new ideas from research that result in scientific and engineering breakthroughs . " 7 ' The panel expressed support for other political objectives sought by the scientific community . For example , it stated that in selecting individual projects for funding , " judgment of the probable quality of the proposed research should be paramount " " ? a return to the traditional peer review process by which the scientific community has passed its own judgment on the value of research without immediate concern for its ultimate utility . With the Galt report in their hands , Brown and Press leaned heavily on the Office of Management and Budget and persuaded it to approve an extra $100 million in DoD funding for basic science in the administration 's budget request to Congress for 1979 . Congress added its own support to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Armed Services Committee in its authorization report for the fiscal year 1979 budget . The result was a 30 percent increase in DoD basic research between 1977 and 1980 ? and a 70 percent increase in DoD support for university research over the same time period . The increases were accelerated by the Reagan administration when it came to power in 1981 . The new administration 's commitment to defense research was clear not only from its budget recommendations . White ! louse officials signaled the general direction in which they antic-  | ipated the main thrusts of science policy to move by appointing George Keyworth as science adviser ? a physicist who had spent virtually his whole professional life at the Los Alamos National Laboratory ( the cradle of the atomic bomb ) and whose own field of laser physics is an area of basic science in which the military has had a deep and sustained interest . Further evidence of the high priority given to the contribution of science to national defense came in the appointments to the new White House Science Council . Chaired by Solomon Buchsbaum of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Defense Science Board ) , the council included other prominent members of the defense science establishment such as Edward Teller , the " father " of the hydrogen bomb , and Harold Agnew , previously Keyworth 's boss as director of the Los Alamos National Laboratory . The Reagan administration 's commitment to military funding of basic science was formally acknowledged in a memorandum issued by the new defense secretary , Caspar Weinberger , in the summer of 1981 , as budgets were being prepared for submission to OMB for the following fiscal year . Like his predecessor , Harold Brown , Weinberger stated that the national base of basic research was " inadequate " to meet future DoD needs , and he argued that substantial sustained growth in defense research was needed to restore this base . In the budget proposals submitted to Congress at the beginning of 1982 , universities were told to expect a 16.5 percent increase in military-sponsored R &D; funds ? to a total of $736 million . Areas slated for special emphasis included free-electron lasers , submicron microelectronics , human tolerance to environmental stress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the development of new materials , and research on new propulsion systems for ships and guns . Not surprisingly , this steady buildup of military-sponsored research has received enthusiastic endorsement from university leaders . Faced with declining support from civilian agencies , many looked increasingly toward the Pentagon to make up for the loss . For the first time in almost a decade , on April 3 , 1981 , three university presidents appeared before the research and development subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee to express their support for the administration 's moves . Presenting testimony endorsed by the American Council on Education , the National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges , and the Association of American Universities , Edward Bloustein of Rutgers told the congressmen that " the university research base for defense preparedness is in some considerable disrepair , " and that as a result " something vital to the nation 's defense . . . is presently not taking place . " 73 Keen to encourage congressional support for the Pentagon 's largesse , the university presidents played down the potential opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had changed since the  | 1960s and that the Pentagon should have few qualms about seeking to reestablish close contacts . Robert Sproull , president of the University of Rochester and previously chairman of , the Defense Science Board and director of DARPA , claimed that the protests on university campuses in the 1960s had been overplayed by the press , and that much defenserelated university research had continued unimpeded . " We are in that same position today , and we are even more willing , and there is a completely different spirit among students and faculty on campus , " Sproull informed the committee members.74 George Gamota was equally reassuring , telling the New York Times that " the problems of the 1960s are largely gone . " 75 Even some of those who had been among the Pentagon 's critics in the 1960s seemed to have had a change of heart . Alex Rich , professor of biology at MIT and one of the signatories of a 1969 faculty statement deploring the misuses of science by the military , explained that although the Vietnam War had been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new era . " The fact is we need a vigorous science program in our universities , and the Defense Department has a special responsibility , " said Rich . " We used to get Naval support for biology at MIT ; we 'd like to get that again . " 76 Several institutions , such as Rutgers University , revised rules passed eagerly by faculty members during the war so that they could once again accept classified research contracts . There was direct support from the corporate sector , too . High technology companies in particular welcomed this new burst of DoD enthusiasm for basic research in universities , since many of them looked forward to profitable returns from the Pentagon 's interest in advanced technology . Jacques Gansler has described how , with the government interested in performance as much as price , each of the modern " superweapons " costs so much that large amounts of procurement money have become concentrated in a relatively few large companies , which are therefore able to make large profits on defense contracts.77 TRW increased its operating profits on defense and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1982 , a period in which its profits on car and truck parts fell from $206 to $140 million.78 But companies producing small specialized components also found themselves in a good position to benefit from the high technology emphasis . The president of Hughes Aircraft pointed out in 1982 that in that year , while the defense industry as a whole had been flat for the previous fifteen years , " in electronics we 've seen 200 percent growth . " 79 With profits growing at this rate , many of the high technology companies soon attracted the interest of Wall Street investors . " Military Technology Is America 's Gold , " proclaimed an advertisement in the New York Times in April 1981 , promoting a newsletter published by defense analyst W. Eliot Janeway , " the acknowledged authority on how to profit from an anus buildup . " Janeway informed potential subscribers that the U.S. was  | entering the third major arms buildup since Pearl Harbor . As a result of new technologies and new political developments , however , the old-time defense stocks would not be the star @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " space-cadet " military technologies . Janeway offered to show investors how to build their investment strategy around America 's " greatest strategic asset , " her advanced technology , adding that " the high technology defense play is the financial opportunity of the decade . " 80 It was not only the brokers who were enthusiastic about high technology for the military . The banking community also embraced the basic science ? high technology defense strategy , since it promised to increase military strength without creating a major drain on the economy . In an editorial headed " Brains vs . Bucks , " for example , the Wall Street Journal asked for a crash program on the cruise missile , at least doubling anticipated production rates . Missiles , it said , had become " our main technological lead " over the Soviets : " More missiles are the quickest and cheapest things that can be done for our strategic posture . " 81 An additional reason for corporate enthusiasm was the expectation that , just as it had done with the development of the first generation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Pentagon would underwrite the basic R &D; costs of what would later become profitable civilian technologies . Such were the hopes for DoD funding for a new generation of " supercomputers " to match those the Japanese were aiming to produce for the 1990s , computers that could carry out calculations 100 to 1,000 times faster than any already in existence and whose development costs would have been far too heavy for any one company to support . If the corporate and university sectors have shared a common interest in the Pentagon 's desire for new technology , they have also benefited from other elements in current defense strategy . One such element has been the desire of parts of the defense establishment to boost what it describes as the nation 's defense industrial base ( DIB ) ? the industrial infrastructure claimed necessary to ensure an adequate defense posture . The main impact on the research community has been to stress the contribution of universities toward maintaining the strength of the industrial base by producing the necessary scientists and technologists . Early warnings about the state of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science Board in 1976 , subsequently updated by another DSB task force in the summer of 1980 . Both panels suggested the need to build an industrial infrastructure that could guarantee its ability to meet defense needs over an extended period of time . And both stressed the role of universities as an essential component of this infrastructure . Although the concept received little support from the Carter administration , under President Reagan planning for the renewal of the industrial base became a top priority at the Defense Department . It was  | strongly promoted by one of the sharpest critics of its claimed decline , Fred Ikle , and soon endorsed by Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger . Weinberger told a meeting of the American Newspaper Publishers Association in May 1981 that the U.S. should be prepared " for waging a conventional war that may extend to many parts of the globe . " This would require " a defense industry able to react quickly to wartime military needs . " S2 The universities were quick to capitalize on this new philosophy and the rhetoric that surrounded it . The nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as part of the defense base ? and hence share in any extra funding allocated for its reinforcement . The universities contended that they were needed both for their research , which would help this base raise its productivity , and to supply the scientific and technological manpower needed by the defense industry . Introducing a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee , chairman Melvin Price referred to the committee 's previous hearings on the decline of the DIB and added , " I am afraid we have a similar situation in the academic community . " With falling educational standards in schools and fewer engineers staying on in graduate school because of the attractions of the job market , " our engineering and scientific base is disappearing . " 83 Bloustein of Rutgers told the committee that the general decline in support for research in the nation 's universities during the 1970s created a situation that " bears a very important relationship to the industrial base , " for it " leaves us wanting in the university base for defense preparedness " 84 ( italics added ) . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented the case for increased federal support not merely in terms of their short-term ability to contribute knowledge for specific military products ? or even long-term technological strategies ? but , just as important , in terms of their value as a base for future contributions . These , it was argued , could be maintained only through support for the educational and research infrastructure . Conventional forms of federal funding through research grants and contracts provided infrastructure support only to the extent that it could be justified as an " indirect cost . " What the university community , as it has indicated in many reports , wants from the federal government is a source of stable funding.85 The agencies that have traditionally supported the bulk of university research , such as the National Science Foundation , are finding this increasingly difficult to do . The DIB philosophy , however ? like the National Defense Education Act , passed immediately after the Sputnik launch ? combined with the new enthusiasm for basic research in the DoD as the apparent answer to the universities ' needs . This argument was used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared by the Association of American Universities for the NSF in 1980 demonstrated a sharp decline in federal support for  | capital equipment since the 1960s.86 The Carter administration responded with a budget proposal submitted to Congress in 1980 that the NSF create a new fund , totaling $75 million in the first year , to help universities upgrade their scientific equipment . The NSF proposal fell to other budget stringencies ? first those imposed by Carter , later as one of the first " new initiatives " to be cut in the Reagan budget of March 1981 . But the Defense Department soon picked up the ball , using the argument that the decline in the universities ' research equipment created a threat to the national security . In its budget proposals for 1983 the Pentagon announced it was embarking on a five-year program to invest $150 million in university laboratory equipment . Each of the three services would contribute $10 million a year out of their annual allocation for basic research to meet this target.87 The Defense Department has also helped to fill a hole left by other agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also been identified in the late 1970s as one of the most pressing needs of the research community , : yet again initiatives proposed for the NSF soon found themselves the target of the budget ax . Defense needs , however , provided a new rationale for federal support for graduate training . The Defense Department itself estimated that in 1981 it had 5,000 civilian and military openings in the hard sciences and engineering ; many of the contract industries it relied on complained of the same problem . Partly at the AAU 's recommendation , DoD announced early in 1982 that it was introducing a graduate fellowship program " as one means of increasing the supply of U.S. nationals trained in areas of science and engineering critical to the U.S. " 88 It announced that it planned to award 125 graduate fellowships a year , at a stipend well above the conventional NSF level . The Pentagon has thus shown its willingness to assist universities by providing increased research funds , support for research equipment , and subsidies for research training ? all in the name of maintaining technological superiority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an industrial base capable of meeting the nation 's long-term military needs on the other . In this way , it has offered universities the type of federal support that had become a scarce commodity from other federal agencies . And the Defense Department has been helping the universities in other ways . DoD funding has been used by several universities with active Pentagon support to increase their links with the private sector . In several cases , such as Stanford 's Center for Integrated Systems ( established with the aid of an $8 million grant from DARPA ) , DoD funding is being used as seed money to establish a major research facility expected to be heavily used by a wide range of private companies . Similarly , the University of Michigan , which recruited Gamota after he had left DoD , won a major contract from the U.S. Air Force to provide 75 percent of the funding for a new Center for Robotics and Integrated Manufacturing ? a facility  | that many local companies , as well as Governor Robert Milliken , hope will turn Ann Arbor into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S9 Universities also received support from the Pentagon in their fight against social controls through government regulation . Many looked back with nostalgia to the immediate postwar era , when support through such institutions as the Office of Naval Research had provided maximum flexibility to university scientists with minimal accountability for the way in which research funds were used . * Like university scientists , many DoD officials considered that they could do their jobs best with the minimum of outside interference . The two communities shared a common distrust of democratic planning . Despite changes that had taken place in the intervening period , " DoD is regarded by universities as the most understanding and sensitive government manager of research , " Sproull ? a fierce critic of excessive government controls on research ? told a congressional committee.91 Indeed , DoD took little encouragement to help the universities argue against strictures laid out by the Office of Management and Budget in its Circular A-21 . Pentagon officials repeated to OMB the universities ' arguments that the result of the new rules , unless significantly relaxed , would be to decrease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , implicitly , of the nation 's security.92 The Pentagon 's congressional allies put their own muscle behind the universities ' case . With the active help of the House Armed Services Committee , a bill was hustled through Congress approving a shift from a procurement to a grants basis for defense research , a move that reduced the amount of form-filling required of university scientists receiving Pentagon funds ? but a move that reduced as well the constraints under which they were required to work . In the floor debate , the change received heated opposition from both sides of the political spectrum . Armed Services Committee member William Dickinson defended the change by stating that it was " just another tool that DoD uses , just as any other agency presently uses . " However , Jack Brooks , chairman of the Government Operations Committee , claimed that allowing the military to use grants rather than contracts for research projects could open the door to " millions of dollars of waste . " Ron Dellums of California complained that " no one member of the Committee on Armed Services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pentagon this incredible freedom to spend extraordinary amounts of money , " adding that " we should not in this incredible feeling of militarism feel we have Footnote  | to give the Pentagon every single thing that we think they want without any accountability . " The complaints generated widespread support , but they were insufficient to counter the momentum of the military and university establishments , and an attempt to delete the new provision in the defense budget was narrowly defeated by four votes.93 On the surface , the change appeared relatively minor.94 Yet it was symptomatic of the deeper trend , namely the way in which arguments about the importance of basic science to the nation 's defense were being used to justify the weakening of social controls on the way that science is carried out and the way its results are put to use . At the same time , the extra money available for military research was being used to cement common political interests among the academic , the corporate , and the military research communities , forming a powerful coalition against demands for the direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a common interest in promoting basic science in universities , they also shared an interest in rejecting some of the controls ( such as a rigid interpretation of the Mansfield Amendment ) that social pressure had led Congress to impose . But not all controls . When it was a question of those that , instead of placing science in the hands of the democratic process , tended rather to concentrate it in one of these three groups , then ? as the robber barons had found with railroad regulation at the end of the nineteenth century ? it was time for mutual compromise and accommodation if their combined political influence was going to be consolidated . One area where a compromise between academic principles and military demands has been reached ? to the exclusion of consistent demands for direct social accountability ? is over the operation of the nation 's two major nuclear weapons research laboratories : the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory in California and the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico , both managed for the Department of Energy by the University of California . Los Alamos was established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , construct , and test the atomic bomb ; Livermore was created in 1953 to take over nuclear weapons research from the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory . Both are operated by the university under a postwar agreement that weapons research should remain under civilian control ; and both have been a continuous source of controversy among university faculty and students , many of whom have criticized the university link.9s The two laboratories have been responsible for most of the basic research behind every nuclear weapon in the U.S. arsenal . Administrators and scientists at the laboratories both argue in favor of maintaining links to the university . Not only does it permit laboratory staff to take on teaching comitments , but it also gives their work an aura of academic legitimacy that , laboratory administrators claim , has increased their abil-  | ity to attract top-rate research workers . Equally important , being managed by the university means that the laboratory staff enjoys a much greater degree of freedom than would be the case if it were under government or industrial management . The university 's administrators , who benefit from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also consistently defended the arrangement . Yet the appropriateness of an academic institution being responsible for laboratories whose main research is devoted to the creation of new weapons of mass destruction has long been a bone of contention among both staff and students on campus . Some critics argue that the university should sever its links with the laboratories altogether ; in 1979 , for example , over 800 faculty members signed statements calling for an end to the university 's involvement with nuclear weapons R &D; at the two labs as " inappropriate to a university 's commitment to the free and open discovery and dissemination of knowledge . " 96 Others , however , contend that if this were to happen , the laboratories would have little difficulty in finding another manager ; already at the end of the 1970s , when the laboratory contract was coming up for its regular fiveyear renewal , a consortium of Midwestern universities submitted an alternative bid for the management contract . These latter critics have therefore focused debate on how university members could maintain responsibility for the laboratories and use this as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goals . One of the most persistent critics has been Charles Schwartz , professor of physics at the University of California 's Berkeley campus . Schwartz argues that part of the reason the weapons laboratories remain heavily and successfully engaged in defense research is that the university " provides the laboratory management with a two-sided carte blanche ; they are free of any supervision from within the university and yet the university name gives them independence from any other course of control . " 97 To back his claim , he quotes the description by the Los Alamos laboratory 's assistant director , Edward Hammel , of the role of the university as a " benevolent absentee landlord , " since the " business " of the laboratories is primarily with Washington . " UC understands that and interferes in programs not at all , " Hammel wrote in a memorandum in July 1977.98 Responding to faculty concerns , the university established a committee to look into its relationship with the laboratories when the contract came up for renewal in 1977 . In its final report , the committee confirmed this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research programs , stating that it was " particularly disturbed by the nominal leadership which the university provides . The laboratories enjoy a delightful autonomy within the protective shelter of the university , so delightful as to border on the licentious . " ' " To correct this situation , it recommended that there should be greater involvement by faculty representatives in  | the administration of the two labs . However , this was rejected by the Board of Regents , and the contract was renewed virtually on the original terms . It was the same when the contract came up for renewal in 1982 . Under student and faculty pressure another report had been prepared , this time by a new university committee chaired by former UCLA vice-chancellor William Gerberding . It suggested that a board of overseers be established to review all aspects of the laboratories ' programs " for the purpose of discharging the university 's obligation to itself and to the public , as a public institution , to be completely informed about the work , classified and unclassified , undertaken by the laboratories . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee . Furthermore , membership on the committee was to be as open as possible , the prime requirement being not necessarily the technical knowledge , but " the experience , professional or other , conducive to the exercise of public responsibility in the broadest possible sense . " 100 ( This proposal generated enthusiastic support from former California governor Jerry Brown , who had first argued for complete separation , but then suggested implementation of the Gerberding committee 's proposals for an overseeing board to review on a regular basis the major R &D; programs of the laboratories . ) The idea of greater public participation in the running of the laboratory was , however , firmly resisted by the Department of Energy ( DoE ) . In a letter to the university regents commenting on their decision to set up two overseeing committees to monitor scientific work and environmental health and safety at the labs , Duane Sewell , Assistant Secretary of Energy for Defense Programs , made the department 's views on democracy clear . The university should accept its contractual management responsibilities " in order to execute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public debate , " he stipulated , strongly hinting that DoE might seek another manager if democratic tendencies went too far . " ' DoE 's opposition put the lid on efforts to open up the overseeing of the two laboratories . The Board of Regents rejected Jerry Brown 's appeal to democratize the administration of the laboratories and voted by 15 Footnote  | to 5 to negotiate a new management contract for five years from 1982 . When the contract was eventually signed , it contained few changes from previous versions , accepting DoE 's claim to control over research at the laboratory ? subject to outside evaluation of its quality by other members of the scientific community ? but rejecting demands that the research should also be scrutinized for relevance by the wider community . Protesters kept up the pressure . Several demonstrations were held in 1982 and 1983 outside the laboratories to protest their involvement in military research , frequently leading to arrests . And in May 1983 the California Assembly 's Education Committee asked the Board of Regents of the university to study whether the laboratories could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' chief demands ? and passed a resolution stating that if the study showed this could be done , such a conversion should be carried out within three years.103 But with no direct public leverage over the laboratories ' work , there was little optimism that this would take place . The debate over the public control of research at the two weapons laboratories had its origins in an earlier compromise , one that has recently taken on added significance as the precedent on which military and national security agencies are now extending their hold on a growing number of areas of science . This was the struggle that took place at the end of the Second World War between those who felt that all nuclear research should remain under military authorities and others who argued that it should be subject to civilian control . The result was the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 ( revised in 1954 ) , under which nuclear research carried out for both military and civilian purposes was to be run by the Atomic Energy Commission ( AEC ) , responsible to the Joint Committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented a victory for those who had pushed for civilian control . Yet the military still kept its foot firmly in the door . The weapons laboratories , funded by DoE but producing research results subsequently developed by DoD weapons contractors , have all military aspects of their research placed under the control of a military officer installed within the AEC ( now DoE ) framework. * Particularly significant for science was the fact that the AEC reserved the right to classify any scientific results in research related to atomic energy that it considered potentially dangerous in the hands of the enemy ? whether or not the research that produced these results had been financed by the federal government . This soon became known as the " born classified " concept . The concept aroused controversy as soon as it was suggested . Many scientists felt there should be no secrecy attached to any type of scientific knowledge . Physicist Enrico Fermi , for Footnote  | example , claimed that " unless research is free and outside of control the United States will lose its superiority in scientific pursuit . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atomic energy bill , proposed by Senator Brien McMahon , talked of the need for the " free dissemination of scientific information and for maximum liberality in dissemination of related technical information . " 05 During its deliberations on the bill , however , members of the Special Senate Committee on Atomic Energy adopted a more conservative position , justifying strict controls on information in the name of national security and abandoning a suggestion that free dissemination of knowledge should be the basic principle of information policy for nuclear energy . * Furthermore , the committee also dropped an effort to distinguish between " basic scientific " information , which would be free of any controls , and " related technical " information , on which controls would be imposed . Instead , it created the category of " restricted data , " which left military authorities free to interpret what information could and could not be classified ? even if scientists considered this basic science . " Even some of those responsible for the legislation acknowledged the harshness of the restrictions . Two of the principal architects , James Newman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed that even if it did not restrict the liberty of scientific thought , " it without question abridges the freedom of scientific communications . " The controls on information were deliberately designed to regulate the interchange of scientific ideas ; " even those data describing the phenomena and the laws of the visible universe are under interdict , " they wrote.108 In 1958 a congressional committee that had studied the Atomic Energy Act as a possible model for other legislation concluded that its provisions for the control of information were " a latent danger to the life of this democracy . " 1 ? 9 But the AEC showed it had little concern for such political niceties and was prepared to use its powers to control scientific information to the full . In 1950 , for example , it persuaded Scientific American not to publish an article by physicist Hans Bethe on thermonuclear weapons , even though it had already been set in type . National security officials personally supervised the destruction of the magazine 's plates and removed all galley proofs of the article.110 In the mid-1960s the act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in developing techniques for enriching uranium through gas centrifuge technology , on the basis that the dissemination of such technologies was a threat to national security since it could provide a cheap method for producing fuel for nuclear weapons . Footnote  | Some of these actions were based on justifiable fears . But it soon became clear that the borderline between legitimate national security concerns and the military 's desire to control as much scientific and technical information as possible was a thin one ? indeed , that claims of " national security " were frequently doing little more than masking efforts to extend this control as widely as possible . Particular conflicts arose in the late 1970s over the control of information about the explosion of atoms . Civilian researchers wanted to publish the results of experiments using laser beams to ignite small pellets of helium and deuterium gas , causing a miniature atomic explosion similar to that which takes place within the hydrogen bomb . These results offered a potential source of nuclear energy . Military authorities , however , insisted that the technology and the scientific knowledge on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not only might it provide information about the mechanisms used in the design of nuclear weapons , but they also needed the laser for their own studies , since the pellet explosions can be used to simulate the effects of a nuclear blast and its impact on different types of material . " ' For several years the military successfully used the " born secret " provisions of the Atomic Energy Act to block publication of information about experiments exploring civilian applications through a process known as " inertial confinement fusion " ( ICF ) . Government officials defended their actions ; Los Alamos director Donald Kerr asserted that the classification of the research had not affected its progress , on the grounds that " the well-known difficulties of the experiments are a much more profound impediment to progress than any administrative or statutory impediment that classification might provide . " 12 Many scientists , however , disagreed . " The science of inertial confinement fusion would progress much faster if most of the physics was declassified , " said a scientist at one of the small companies trying to exploit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classification of target design often prevented critical evaluation by university scientists.13 The chairman of a committee established by the Department of Energy to study the classification of ICF said that he personally had " a lot more concern about the danger of inhibiting ICF energy applications by imposing security restrictions than about the danger of proliferation arising from a relaxation of those restrictions . " " 4* Another controversy over the use of the Atomic Energy Act to classify Footnote  | scientific data arose in March 1979 when the Department of Energy tried to prevent publication in the magazine The Progressive of an article by free-lance journalist Howard Morland giving details of how the hydrogen bomb works . Morland argued that he had collected all the information from public sources ? including several documents discovered on the shelves of the Los Alamos public library . DoE replied that some of the details in the article were classified and that the magazine would therefore be in violation of the act if the article were published . Even though Morland had collected his information from " public sources , " said DoE , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although it was technically in the public domain , it remained classified . #16 The U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin upheld DoE 's case against The Progressive , concluding that the information in the article could be considered as " restricted data " under the Atomic Energy Act . U.S. District Judge Robert Warren declared that even though the article did not contain enough information to enable a foreign power to build a hydrogen bomb , it could still assist such an effort by indicating which blind alleys should not be pursued . The verdict was , perhaps , predictable , given the range of the government 's power to control information about nuclear science under the terms of the Atomic Energy Act . In presenting his decision , however , Warren made a ruling with profound significance for the whole debate about the control of scientific knowledge in the name of national security . For in rejecting arguments about the unconstitutionality of efforts to control the freedom of publication , he suggested that this had to be interpreted in the context of the changing nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As a precedent for his decision , Warren cited the Supreme Court 's judgment in 1931 that it was against the national security interest to publish the movements of troops in times of war . " Now war by foot soldiers has been replaced in large part by war machines and bombs , " said Warren . Advance warning was no longer needed before a nuclear war could be commenced . " In the light of these factors , this court concludes that publication of the technical information on the hydrogen bomb contained in the article is analogous to publication of troop movements or locations in time of war and falls within the extremely narrow exception to the rule against prior constraint . " w Warren 's words provided further confirmation of the strategic role that basic science has come to play in military planning . Despite the large Footnote  | amount of evidence presented by scientists to the contrary , who argued that most of the information was already well known , Warren decided that to publish the Morland article would create " direct , immediate , and irreparable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the New York Times successfully challenged a court injunction against publishing the Pentagon Papers ) . As a result , he established a legal precedent by which the publication of any scientific information could apparently be legitimately prevented if military authorities felt they had a good reason for doing so . Warren 's verdict set the stage for what was expected to become a classic legal battle up to the Supreme Court . The case , however , was abandoned by the government soon after a Madison , Wisconsin , paper published a letter from California computer scientist Charles Hansen containing the same basic information ( the government had already successfully prevented the publication of Hansen 's letter in a student newspaper at Berkeley ) . Nevertheless , the case remains a crucial watershed in the history of the extension of military controls over scientific information . Not only was it the first case in which prior restraint has been endorsed in the name of national security , but it was also the first time that the government had obtained full judicial endorsement of the extension of national security controls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Until relatively recently the government 's interest in controlling scientific information has been focused , as in the Progressive case , on the results of nuclear research . Yet as basic research in other fields of science has become increasingly pertinent to the interests and missions of defense and national security agencies ? the principal reason , as we have already seen , for the growth in military funding of university research ? so the pressure to broaden the range of such controls , even over the results of research funded by civilian agencies , has grown accordingly . One of the first areas to feel the effect was computer science , particularly that concerned with the study of computer-based codes as both a mathematical and a practical problem , a field known as cryptography . Knowledge of how to make secret codes is often as valuable as how to break them ; many of the code-making and code-breaking techniques developed during the Second World War remain classified , on the grounds that to release the details would give an enemy an indication of the type of information the U.S. is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , until recently , been a domain jealously guarded by the National Security Agency ( NSA ) , responsible for ensuring the confidentiality of all government communications ? as shown , for example , by its prosecution of The Code Breakers . " 9 By the mid-1970s , however , two trends threatened the monopoly the NSA had until then been able to exercise over research into cryptography . The first was growing demand from the private sector for ways of protecting both  | commercial and personal information . This trend had escalated with the use of electronic data storage and transmission , which , unlike traditional methods , do not require physical access to information by someone who wants to intercept it . The second trend was that cryptographic problems had become of growing interest to theoretical mathematicians studying what makes a mathematical problem easy or difficult to solve , drawing mathematicians into a field where much of their research overlapped with the problems being worked on by cryptologists . This was particularly true where the mathematics began to point toward sophisticated coding techniques based on mathematical problems considered virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally impossible to break . Both trends contributed to growing pressure for what is known as public cryptography , the development of methods for coding and decoding data parallel to those developed by the security agencies . But they also resulted in a growing overlap between the interests of the intelligence communities and university research workers through narrowing the distinction between basic and applied research . As George Davida , associate professor of engineering and computer sciences at the University of Wisconsin , put it in testimony to a congressional committee : in computer sciences " there is very often little difference between theory and application . " With the development of microprocessors , it had become " trivial " to take a procedure that someone developed theoretically and turn it into a machine that could encrypt , he explained . " It is difficult to draw the line between basic research and applications because there are many mathematical areas in computer science theory where there is a direct bearing on cryptography which would be difficult to restrict . " 120 This blurring of the distinction between applied and basic research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies , which watched university scientists carry out and openly discuss research that they felt could seriously jeopardize their own work . Speaking at a meeting of the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association in January 1979 , Admiral Bobby Inman , director of the National Security Agency , voiced growing concerns of many in the intelligence community . " There are serious dangers to our broad national interest associated with uncontrolled dissemination of cryptologic information within the United States , " he said . " Unrestricted nongovernmental cryptologic activity poses a threat to the national security . " 121 Two events turned a smoldering conflict between the academic and intelligence communities into a full-scale public controversy . The first involved Davida , who had applied early in 1978 for a patent on a device to encipher and decipher computer information . Shortly after sending I , ic : u ) nlic ? ation to the Patent and'I'rademark Office of the Department of  | Commerce , Davida and a graduate student received notices stating that his patent application contained information " the disclosure of which might be detrimental to the national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forbidden to publish or disclose the invention , or any information related to it , to anyone not already aware of the details , subject to a fine of up to $10,000 and two years in prison.122 The letter produced a sharp outcry from the academic community , since Davida 's work was sponsored by the National Science Foundation and was therefore unclassified ; the chancellor of the University of Wisconsin , for example , told the NSF that the Patent Office 's decision infringed upon the university 's standard policy of research disclosure and , more fundamentally , established " a precedent which has a chilling effect on academic freedom . " 123 After the matter had been taken up by the university with the Secretary of Commerce , Juanita Kreps , the restriction on the patent application was lifted ? but not before it had raised broad concerns in the scientific community about the trends it represented . These concerns were reinforced a few months later by an incident that involved a conference organized by the Information Group of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers ( IEEE ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting in October 1977 in Ithaca , New York . Two months before the meeting , members of the group received a letter sent from a private address outside Washington , suggesting that the open discussion of crytography in a public forum where foreign participants might . be present could violate the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ( ITAR ) , part of the Arms Export Control Act passed by Congress in 1976 to control the export of technology and technical data with potential military applications . Again the action brought a strong reaction from university computer scientists , many of whom had previously looked on their work as basic research . One participant , Ronald Rivest of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , had already described his scheme for an unbreakable code in that month 's Scientific American , in an article purposefully written in such a way that the ideas could be used commercially . Concern increased when it was subsequently revealed that the letter 's author , J. A. Meyer , was on the staff of the National Security Agency . An agency spokesman quickly dissociated the NSA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing to do with that letter " and that Meyer had been writing in a personal capacity . Yet suspicion remained strong that Meyer 's views were widely held within the agency. * 124 Footnote  | The NSA tried to play down the two incidents . In the Davida case , Inman said later , the Commerce Department 's decision had been a " bureaucratic error " caused by the misjudgment of a relatively low-level official , who had been unaware that the research was sponsored by the National Science Foundation . And the agency continued to insist that Meyer 's actions were no reflection of NSA policy . Both incidents , insisted Inman , were the result " not of a faulty law , but of inadequate government attention to its applications . " l " Both , however , also contributed to growing tensions between the NSA and the scientific community over how research results in cryptography should be controlled ? and by whom . Already there had been controversy over the appropriate division of responsibility between the National Security Agency and the National Science Foundation , the civilian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in . Early in 1977 , two intelligence officers had visited the NSF 's division of mathematical and computer sciences ? the source of support for both Davida 's and Rivest 's research . They suggested that the foundation was operating outside a presidential directive that gave the NSA " control " over all cryptographic research . The NSF replied that it had not been able to find any such directive when the same question had been raised two years earlier . The intelligence officials then replied that in that case " they would have to get a law passed . " 127 Prolonged negotiations subsequently took place between the two agencies over how responsibility should be divided . NSF director Richard Atkinson wrote to Inman , suggesting that " a small unclassified research support program at universities ( $2 to $3 million say ) sponsored by the NSA would help prevent further problems . " 128 Eventually a compromise was reached . The NSF agreed that all grant applications for cryptography research be shown to the NSA for comment prior to a funding decision . In return , the NSA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct control over those aspects of basic research that it was most interested in . Even this , however , turned out to be controversial . Early in 1980 Martin Adleman , a computer scientist at the University of California and one of the original participants in the IEEE meeting , received a telephone call from the NSF saying that the agency was prepared to support only part of an application he had submitted to renew his research grant . The next day Inman telephoned Adleman to say that the NSA wanted to fund the rest of his research ? the first that Adleman had been told of the NSA 's interest in sponsoring his work . Initially Adleman was skeptical . " In the present climate I would not accept funds from the NSA , " he Footnote  | told one reporter , who suggested that it was the first time the NSF had refused funds to a researcher for reasons independent of the scientific merit of the proposal.129 " I 'm shocked , " said Rivest of MIT , claiming that the line between what is and what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affects our ability to do basic computer science research . " 130 Further negotiations between the NSF , the NSA , and Adleman led to a compromise , and Adleman subsequently agreed to act as a guinea pig for a new system of funding university research by the NSA . But again the incident was widely discussed in the scientific community , for it raised concerns about the potential legal , constitutional , and political problems generated by the growing overlap of interests among the academic , commercial , and intelligence agencies on basic research in computer science ? indeed , in science in general . After holding hearings on the controversy , the House Committee on Government Operations concluded , in a report published in December 1980 , that efforts by the intelligence community to restrict public cryptography posed " enormous questions of constitutional rights . " 131 Inman had already indicated that he would like Congress to give him the same authority as the federal government has under the Atomic Energy Act , allowing him to classify as " born secret " any work the intelligence agency thought might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cryptography incidents also illustrate once again how growing ambiguity between basic and applied science ? as well as between what is and what is not a security threat ? has become intrinsically bound up with questions about the social control of scientific knowledge and the division of responsibility between civilian and military agencies . One NSF official , after meeting with the intelligence officials who claimed the foundation was trespassing on the NSA 's territory , noted that the intelligence agency was partly motivated by a desire for power . " In the past the only communications with heavy security demands were military and diplomatic , " he wrote . " Now , with the marriage of computer applications with telecommunications in electronic funds transfer , electronic mail , and other large distributed processing applications , the need for highly secure digital processing has hit the civilian sector . NSA is worried , of course , that public-domain security research will compromise some of their work . However , even further , they seem to want to maintain their control and corner a bureaucratic expertise in their field . " ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community as a relatively obscure set of government rules , * soon took on a much broader significance , for they became the basis on which the Department Footnote  | of Defense started to add restrictions to nonclassified university contracts . The first case in which this occurred was over research into very high speed integrated circuits ( VHSIC ) , a key component in cruise missiles and other new military technologies . When the Carter administration decided to develop the missile early in 1977 , it began to lay plans for a major research program into the scientific knowledge required for the missile 's key technology , its guidance computers . ( These proposals were eventually submitted to Congress at the beginning of 1979 . ) Keen to keep overall control of the research under its own roof , the Pentagon argued that its requirements were likely to be different from the research directions in which commercial computing was going , where the rapidly growing demand for consumer electronics was putting a high premium on reduced price as much as improved performance . Citing the apparent reluctance of the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , William Perry announced " a new technology program intended to direct the next generation of large-scale integrated circuits to those characteristics most significant to defense applications . " This program , he added , " will insure that the U.S. maintains a commanding lead in semiconductor technology and that this technology will achieve its full potential in our next generation of weapons systems . " 136 The main purpose of the program , to be funded through DARPA , . was to investigate advanced computer and data-processing architecture and new approaches to computer aided design of complexfunction microcircuits . Also included , however , was research into the materials and physical processes needed to achieve submicron geometries ? topics that are at the leading edge of basic research in materials science . Perry suggested that a major DoD investment in these areas could accelerate the development and application of VHSIC by about five years . The proposals generated an enthusiastic response from universities . Soon Cornell , MIT , Stanford , and the University of California at Berkeley were " elbowing each other , " in the words of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $200 million that Congress approved for expenditure on the VHSIC program over a period of five years.137 However , while the research wing of the Defense Department was eager to get on with the work as quickly as possible , other Pentagon officials , supported by various members of the House Armed Services Committee , began to raise concerns about the possibility that the results of the research could make their way prematurely into the hands of military ( or commercial ) competitors . As a result , when the money for the VHSIC program was ap-Footnote  | proved , the House Armed Services Committee inserted language into its report on the authorizing legislation explicitly stating that the program was to be carried out within the ITAR framework . The implication was that government permission would be required for the export of any " technical data " developed in the course of the research , which could be interpreted to include the communication of basic research results to foreign scientists , even within the U. S.13s The potential impact of the ITAR regulations was severe , for , if scientific information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data , " the rules directly challenged the tradition of open communication among scientists . A report commissioned from the Betac Corporation of Arlington , Virginia , jointly sponsored by Perry 's office , DARPA , and the Office of International Security Affairs at DoE , pointed out that in the absence of strict formal restrictions , " control of the dissemination of data will require the voluntary cooperation of DARPA contractors " ? in other words , universities accepting VHSIC research funding would be expected to police their scientists to make sure they complied with the rules . The Betac report also noted that " if voluntary efforts to limit dissemination are unsuccessful , stronger enforcement of existing export control regulations might have to be considered " 139 ? a suggestion that led the House Government Operations Committee to comment that " researchers would be coaxed , cajoled , or bullied into withholding unclassified technical data they might generate in critical areas . " 140 Such , however , were the implications of the amendment insisted on by the House Armed Services Committee . In December 1980 the director of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each of the three forces stating that export controls would , in line with the congressional language , be applied to the research under both ITAR , administered by the State Department , and the related Export Administration Regulations ( EAR ) , administered by the Department of Commerce . * The principal targets were the prime contractors and their semiconductor suppliers . But given the difficulty in drawing the line between basic research and process technology ? the same line that had proved difficult to establish in nuclear energy and in cryptography research ? universities were not excluded from the amendment . Thus , early in 1981 , soon after the arrival of the Reagan administration in Washington , the Pentagon followed up its earlier memorandum with a second one to all universities involved in VHSIC research " suggesting " that in light of the need to comply with ITAR ? as well as the uncertainty Footnote  | about what precisely such compliance meant in practice ? various procedures should voluntarily be adopted . Among these was the recommendation that no foreign nationals be employed as research assistants on DoD-sponsored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide impact , since in some universities up to 50 percent of the research assistants in computer science came from abroad , filling a vacuum left by U.S. computer graduates who had departed for higher salaries in industry . 14 ' Despite its delicate wording , the memorandum generated a strong reaction . The presidents of five major research universities ? the four already described as " elbowing each other " for a share of the VHSIC research money , plus the California Institute of Technology , another major defense research contractor ? wrote a joint letter to the Secretary of State , the Secretary of Commerce , and the Secretary of Defense . They complained vigorously about the controls the Defense Department was seeking to impose on basic , unclassified science . The letter pointed out that , although both ITAR and EAR had existed for several years , they had never previously been applied to basic science . " In broad scientific and technical areas defined in the regulations , faculty could not conduct classroom lectures when foreign students were present , engage in the exchange of information with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symposia and conferences where foreign nationals were present , employ foreign nationals to work in their laboratories , or publish research findings in the open literature , " the university presidents suggested . ' 42 State Department officials , who have formal responsibility for administering ITAR , were conciliatory . James Buckley , Under Secretary of State for National Security , Science , and Technology Affairs , replied in a letter of July 3 , 1981 , that there had been " no change " in the Department of State 's policy with respect to the application of export controls to the activities of universities.143 Yet there were few signs of such a conciliatory attitude from the top of the Pentagon , or from the Department of Commerce , from which many of the strongest demands for stiff new controls on technology transfer had come . Indeed , even Buckley did not back away from the general thrust of the DoD memorandum , namely that academic scientists did not have any particular exemption from the requirements of the ITAR controls . Furthermore , the Pentagon and the Commerce Department had already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controls over other parts of the academic domain . Even under the Carter administration , Pentagon research director George Gamota had admitted that the VHSIC controversy had been almost accidental , since computer research just happened to be the first area where the issue of applying export controls to basic scientific research had conic up ; it could have other areas , such as materials re-  | for potential restriction . By January 1980 the Critical Technology Implementation Interagency Task Group , charged by a presidential review memorandum to identify technologies that should be controlled under both ITAR and EAR , had produced a list of fifteen areas identified by the Defense Department , and ten by the Department of Energy , as " critical technologies " ? each of which could be subject to the same restrictions as VHSIC research . 145 The list included computer networks , telecommunications , vehicular engines , underseas systems , and advanced seismic devices . In a later speech to the American Association for the Advancement of Science , Admiral Bobby Inman of the NSA indicated that the areas he was concerned about for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other electronic gear and techniques , lasers , crop projections , and manufacturing processes . " 196 In some cases , even basic research in genetic engineering was considered an appropriate subject for export controls . 147 Not only research projects are affected . The communication of scientific knowledge through public conferences , if these are attended by foreign nationals , can ? as J. A. Meyer had pointed out in his letter to the IEEE Information Group ? constitute an export of technical data under the terms of both ITAR and EAR . This was made clear to the officials of the American Vacuum Society when , in February 1980 , they organized an international scientific conference in Santa Barbara on bubble memories ? a technique for storing computer data which , ironically , was later largely abandoned by computer companies . Shortly before the meeting , the society was asked by the Central Intelligence Agency to provide a list of the topics that were going to be discussed . The conference organizers were subsequently told that under the terms of the Export Administration Act , permission from the Commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued to scientists from the Soviet Union , Eastern Europe , and the People 's Republic of China . All except the Chinese , already on their way to the conference , were contacted . When the Chinese arrived in California , the Commerce Department relented slightly , partly under pressure from the State Department , which did not want to antagonize relationships between the two countries . The organizers were told that the Chinese could be admitted provided that the conference discussed only technical data already in the public literature , or general trends in the research , and not the details of manufacturing processes . In addition , any foreign scientists were required to provide a signed guarantee that they would not pass on any of the information they learned at the conference to individuals from Eastern bloc nations.148 A similar incident took place some days later , this time when a Russian postgraduate student who had had a paper accepted for presentation at an international meeting on laser engineering and inertial confinement fusion was refused permission by the State Department to travel from  | Several Russian scientists were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came at an embarrassing moment for the scientific community , since they coincided with a strong attack on the Soviet government 's " interference " with the freedom of scientists , focusing in particular on the persecution of physicist Andrei Sakharov.149 Both these incidents took place under the Carter administration . When President Reagan arrived in Washington in 1981 , enthusiasm increased for tightening up the application of ITAR and EAR regulations , particularly after the military crackdown in Poland at the end of 1981 , when it was decided to use restrictions on access to U.S. science and technology as one form of direct reprisal against the Soviet Union . The most obvious manifestation of this was the administration 's effort to block virtually all high technology sales to the USSR . But science was swept up as well , and controls were applied even more tightly . ' 5 ? In December 1981 , for example , a professor of engineering at Stanford University was informed by officials of the National Academy of Sciences that a proposed visit by Russian computer scientist Nikolai V. Umnov had been approved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the leading scientists in his field , Umnov was only to discuss the mechanical theory of robot locomotion ? his area of research ? and was not to be given access to control units or programming techniques for robots . No industrial visits were to be permitted . And except for documents approved for public release for unlimited distribution , Umnov was not to have any access to any other research funded by DoD , whether classified or unclassified . Stanford vice-provost Gerald J. Liebermann wrote back to the academy saying that the university was not willing to accept responsibility for Umnov 's actions , either on or off campus , during his stay . Subsequent negotiations between Stanford , the academy , and the State Department again resulted in compromise . The State Department backed away from some of its initial demands , and the conditions for Umnov 's visit were relaxed slightly . Yet Stanford 's letter staked a broader position on the steady encroachment of federal controls on basic research . Liebermann told the academy that the university felt that " federal export regulations should not apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our research programs represent basic and unclassified investigations , the results of which are generally available to the public through normal channels of scholarly publications , student theses , discourse among scholars , etc. " 151 A press statement put out by the university explicitly linked Stanford 's reaction to the earlier warning over the restrictions on VHSIC research , pointing out that " as predicted by the five universities ' presidents nearly a year ago , " the attempt to apply export controls to academic activities " has been spreading . " ' 52 Despite such protests , as well as the lack of any concrete evidence that universities were a significant source of leakage of sensitive scientific  | information , * many government officials continued to argue that the openness of the scientific community was seriously weakening the relative superiority of the U.S military forces and indeed was likely to become an increasingly popular Soviet target as the U.S. tightened up on the control of the export of technical hardware . The Pentagon , for example , published a brochure on Soviet military capability in 1981 that indicted official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire " professional and open literature . " All these , it claimed , enhanced Soviet military power by virtually giving away American science and technology . Complaints from Pentagon officials that the Soviets were stealing U.S. technological secrets frequently found a sympathetic ear and mouthpiece in conservative political circles in Congress . In a conference report on the authorization of funds to carry out the Export Administration Regulations , for example , the House Committee on Foreign Affairs said that its subcommittee on international economic policy and trade had reviewed " the means employed to circumvent U.S. export controls , such as illegal exports and re-exports , technology smuggling , industrial espionage , exchange programs and conferences , and foreign acquisition of U.S. high technology companies " ( italics added ) . ' s4 On April 2 , 1982 , President Reagan showed his sympathy with these arguments when , after several revisions , he signed Executive Order No. 12356 , giving the national security agencies of the United States unprecedented authority to classify technical information as secret ? including , if felt necessary , the results of basic scientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declassification of scientific knowledge . On the surface , the new directive did acknowledge protests from the scientific community , with its specification that " basic scientific research information not clearly related to national security may not be classified . " ' " Yet , as the American Association of University Professors pointed out , given the growing number of areas of science that could be claimed to fulfill such a requirement , combined with the discretionary powers placed in the hands of national security officials , the safeguard was very weak . + It concluded that the executive order " gives unprece-Footnote  | dented authority to government officials to intrude at will in controlling academic research that depends on federal support . " 157 But the administration was insistent . In reply to scientists who invoked the First Amendment to protect their right to communicate , the administration referred to the previous conviction of a company , Edler Industries , Inc. , for exporting technical data relating to rocket and missile components.158 In appealing its conviction , the company claimed that the First Amendment , which forbids laws that restrict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technical data . The Ninth Circuit court , however , rejected this argument on the grounds that since the technical data referred to in the export control legislation was significantly related to specific items whose export was regulated for national security reasons , the First Amendment was not a legitimate defense . During the Carter administration , the Department of Justice claimed that this decision left unresolved the broader question of the constitutionality of scientific knowledge in general , where this knowledge was not directly related to a particular technology on the munitions list . However , the Reagan administration has subsequently used the Edler verdict to support its claim that restrictions on technical data ? the basis on which controls on academic research are justified ? do not infringe constitutional rights to free speech . The Reagan administration made clear that it was going to place a rigorous interpretation on the power to control scientific information , which , it claimed , it had been given by the Export Administration and the Arms Export Control Acts . In August 1982 , shortly before the opening of a meeting organized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the support of Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger , informed many of the speakers due to present papers that their remarks would have to be cleared before delivery . Of the 626 unclassified papers due for presentation , 170 were eventually withdrawn , most not because they contained sensitive information , but because the Pentagon lacked the manpower to give the necessary clearance in time . Keen to reduce tensions that such events were rapidly building in universities , leaders of the academic community soon began to negotiate a compromise with representatives of the military establishment . The National Academy of Sciences ' Corson committee , supported by both several professional societies and the Pentagon , warned that excessive controls could themselves jeopardize the nation 's long-term military , as Footnote  | well as economic , strength by obstructing the development of science . " To attempt to restrict access to basic research would require casting a net over wide areas of science that could be extremely damaging to overall scientific and economic advance as well as to military progress , " the panel commented . The corporate high technology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies contacted by the Corson committee " either stated explicitly or implied that restrictions on scientific information would be deleterious to their companies ' innovative and worldwide competitive posture . " 160 As one panel member , the chairman of the executive committee of ITEK Corporation , later put it : " If we bind our hands and feet in basic science at universities , the nation is going to suffer , and ITEK 's going to suffer . " ' 6 ' At the same time , however , the panel admitted the existence of " gray areas " where controls short of classification were warranted , and suggested a set of criteria . Indeed , it pointed out that a report produced by the Defense Science Board in 1976 , under the chairmanship of Fred Bucy of Texas Instruments , had implicitly proposed that export controls be increasingly concentrated on these gray areas . Bucy had argued that to achieve maximum effectiveness , such controls should concentrate on " technological know-how " as much as finished products , since " design and manufacturing know-how are the principal elements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed that " it is at times as important to safeguard technical know-how in areas of rapid advance as it is to protect military systems themselves . " It also suggested that research involving know-how was becoming more common in university laboratories for two reasons : first , manufacturing equipment and processes ? for example , in microelectronics ? were often only an extension of those developed to conduct basic research ; and second , universities were being encouraged to move into areas closer to engineering design and product development than in the past.163 At the time , the Bucy report 's recommendations , which were accepted almost verbatim by Defense Secretary Harold Brown in August 1977 and later incorporated into the revisions to the Export Administration Act , appeared essentially to be technical changes . But they soon took on a political character . Just as with the problems created by the growing links between the university-based scientific community and the corporate sector , the growing strategic importance of basic science ( in particular , where it intersected with this area of " technical know-how " ) raised questions about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and how great an involvement was to be permitted to democratic institutions such as Congress and the courts . As the University of Wisconsin 's vice-chancellor , Frank Cassell , had asked about the Connncrce Department 's attempts to suppress publication of the details of Davida 's cipher device : " Should the executive branch of the government be able to prevrnt a citizen from speaking or publishing without  | some involvement by the courts ? Should the executive branch of government be able to invoke the claims of national security ' without demonstrating that our national security was genuinely threatened ? " 164 The goal of achieving national security is , of course , legitimate . As the Corson committee and most academics have now accepted , the important question is not whether national security considerations are going to be incorporated in decisions about the control of science , but how this should be done.165 The difficulties of determining which actions are or are not in the national interest , and the fact that in the past such arguments were frequently made on explicitly political grounds , make it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open to public scrutiny , even respecting the fact that certain types of information may have to be excluded for genuine security reasons . Most of the negotiation that has taken place , however , has involved relatively restricted access to decision-making . In the case of cryptography , the American Council for Education , which had recognized the severe problems raised by mandatory controls , agreed to set up an eight-member Public Cryptography Study Group ( PCSG ) , largely at the prompting of Inman and the NSA . The group was directed to suggest ways of reconciling the conflicting goals of academic freedom and national security . The result was a proposal that all scientists working in the field should voluntarily submit their research papers for " comment " prior to publication to a review committee established jointly by the academic and intelligence communities.166 Buoyed by the apparent acceptance of his ideas by the ACE-sponsored study group , Inman launched an aggressive bid at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington in January 1982 . He wanted to have the same process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardware , lasers , and computer-based manufacturing processes , where , " publication of certain technical information could affect the national security in a harmful way . " He suggested that , rather than a confrontation between national security and science , the two communities would be wiser to cooperate in achieving their respective goals : " A potential balance between national security and science may lie in an agreement to include in the peer review process . . . the question of potential harm to the nation . " Inman concluded by telling his audience that they should move fast before the federal government was tempted to overreact , adding that " the tides are moving and they are moving pretty fast toward legislative solutions " 167 ? a prediction that seemed borne out later in the year , when several bills were introduced into Congress demanding precisely such stiffer restrictions.1i8 Again the scientific community was quick to protest . William Carey of the AAAS described lnman 's proposals for resolving conflicts through  | the peer review process as " nightmarish , " since scientists did not want to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walls of the military . " NAS president Frank Press was more diplomatic , but still described the proposal as a " regressive step " and suggested that " the damage would be so great as not to warrant the little good it would do . " And the Council of the AAAS , meeting the day after Inman 's talk , passed a resolution stating that the association " opposed governmental restrictions on the dissemination , exchange , or availability of unclassified knowledge . " 169 Inman 's comments , however , hit a sensitive spot . Many scientists virtually admitted that it was the principle of more government regulation ? i.e. , greater social control of their actions ? rather than its specific form ( or goals ) , that they were most concerned about . Already confronting the federal government over its attempts to regulate scientific research in other spheres , they winced when Inman asserted that " nowhere in the scientific ethos is there any requirement that restrictions can not , or should not , when necessary , be placed on science . " Society had recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , and had applied either directly , or through ethical constraints , restrictions on the research that could be done in those areas , as in the guidelines from the National Institutes of Health on recombinant DNA research . Why should national security dangers be treated differently ? Indeed , Inman added , " the scientists ' blanket claims of academic freedom are somewhat disingenuous in the light of the arrangements that academicians routinely make with private , corporate sources of funding . " 10 Similar sentiments were later expressed by Assistant Secretary of Commerce Lawrence Brady , one of the administration 's strongest supporters of tough export controls ; he suggested that one weak spot was " the desire of academia to jealously preserve its prerogatives as a community of scholars unencumbered by government regulation . " " ' Donald Kennedy of Stanford was quick to respond for the liberals , claiming that to invent and then apply a new body of regulations to university research would cost more than it would gain . " If an entire technology is so critical in a military sense that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government can classify it ? thereby permitting the universities to decide , before the fact , whether they wish to accept the restrictions that come along with the work , " he suggested.12 It was a proposal that would let universities off the hook of more controls , but it would do little to prevent the research itself from being carried out ? or from being carried out in secret . Reflecting this general distrust of any form of social control on science was the fact that it was not only liberals who complained . The campaign against more federal controls received strong support from the conservative wing of the academic community as well . Robert Sproul , president of the University of Rochester ? and an active campaigner for both  | more military research and less government regulation on university campuses ? told a congressional subcommittee that as long as military secrets were not involved , scientific research should be carried out in the open.13 The liberals even found themselves sharing an uncomfortable bed with arch-conservative Edward Teller , who had long argued that the more the Soviet Union was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the less likely it would be to try to challenge this power.14 If regulations were going to be introduced , however , the crucial question became who was going to decide on their content ? and to oversee the way in which they were carried out . The report from the American Association of University Professors pointed out the dangers to democracy in the new powers to control scientific results granted under Reagan 's Executive Order No. 12356 . The report did accept the need for some form of classification system , provided that it stated which research should be treated in confidence according to national security needs that were " clear and compelling , " thus enabling universities and their faculties to make " informed decisions " about their research . But it added : " Very different , and strongly objectionable , is a classification system that sweeps within it virtually anything that might conceivably be useful industrially , technically , or militarily to at least someone and that is administered by officials who feel compelled to classify as secret any information about which they have doubts . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the classification of technical knowledge is the degree of discretion it allows intelligence officials . Where they are uncertain , the executive order permits them to err on the side of caution , i.e. , to impose controls even if these later prove unnecessary . The order also drops the condition that threats to national security need to be " identifiable , " again making them more difficult to challenge ( and giving security agencies a greater benefit of doubt in ambiguous instances ) . Both conditions reinforce the potential power of groups able to legitimize their actions by claiming that they are necessary to protect the nation from either external or internal threats with the minimum of public discussion . Even the scientific establishment 's own suggestions , however , have frequently reflected a strong desire to keep control out of the sphere of full public debate . The conclusions of the ACE 's Public Cryptography Study Group , for example , soon came under fire as an accommodation by members of a self-selected group ( a number of professional societies Footnote  | had each been asked to nominate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of an open , democratic decision process . Davida claimed that voluntary prior restraint would have a chilling effect on cryptography research , that the NSA had a " seeming obsession with wanting to control cryptography. " 77 Even the Corson committee suggested that the arrangement depended heavily on the judgments of technical experts in the agency ? and that the integrity of such expertise could not be guaranteed in other circumstances.18 Indeed , reaction within the scientific community to the study group 's proposals was far from unanimous . A scientist from the University of Rochester claimed in a letter to Science that the result of an NSA review of research proposals and the possible classification of research would be to reduce the amount of research carried out in the area . If the NSA wanted to exercise a policy of prior restraint , " it should either be forced to obtain a legislative mandate for such a policy or be made to test its current authority in the courts . " ' 79 Various mathematical societies refused to endorse the study group 's approach , claiming it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group 's procedures to individual scientists . Further criticism came from a panel assembled by the computer science advisory committee to the National Science Foundation , chaired by MIT computer scientist John Guttag . This panel also disagreed with the ACE 's resolution of the issue , stipulating that prior restraint on publication was not the answer . " The study group says that this is the best deal we could have made , and that it would have been worse if we had gone to Congress for a bill . My position is that it is better to do this in public , " Guttag said later.180 Despite such criticisms , however ? as well as the reactions to Inman 's proposals that the procedure be extended to all potentially sensitive fields ? it was a variation on this approach that was endorsed by the National Academy of Sciences ' Corson committee . On the basis that , if anyone was going to impose regulations , then the scientific community should retain maximum control over the way they were exercised , the committee recommended that in the " gray areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a system similar to the voluntary prepublication review accepted by many cryptology research investigators be introduced . Scientific papers would be submitted to the contracting agency at the same time as they were submitted to scientific journals for publication . If scientists refused to accept modifications proposed by the agency , the government would have the ultimate right to classify the work , but the government would not have the power to " order " changes , and " the right and freedom to publish remain with the university . " 181 From one point of view , the Corson Report 's conclusions represented an acceptable compromise between the academic community and the military authorities . I.Ooked at from a different perspective , however , they can also be seen as a political bid to keen control of science in the  | hands of private decision-making , and thus remove it from the sphere of full public debate. * The strategy was successful in that the report 's conclusions were subsequently used as the basis on which the Reagan administration attempted , under the guidance of the National Security Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop a coherent policy for restricting militarily sensitive scientific data . Yet it is important that the report 's apparently " liberal " message is not allowed to obscure the extent to which it justifed the further concentration of control over science in private hands . The private sector shared the same concern for compromise with the security authorities as the universities , providing they were allowed where possible to maintain their own control over scientific knowledge . This was particularly true of companies involved in protecting computer data . At the working level , the relationship between such companies and the government was frequently close . NSA officials , for example , worked with IBM when the basic Data Encryption Standard was being developed in collaboration with the National Bureau of Standards , which had itself absorbed several NSA employees for the work.183 ( The links were strengthened when Lewis Branscomb , director of the National Bureau of Standards under President Ford , was appointed chief scientist of IBM in 1977 . ) Given the close links established through joint research efforts , it was not difficult to find a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pursue their common interests relatively undisturbed by political constraints . In August 1981 , the NSA announced that it was setting up a Security Technical Evaluation Center to encourage business to share its developments with the government . In return it guaranteed protection of proprietary rights . The center has provided an effective mechanism by which the two sides have been able to settle their differences out of the public eye ? and thus reduce the amount of public criticism that some of the large computer manufacturers , such as IBM , might otherwise have made about controls on research data.184 Similar accommodation had been reached before . During the Second World War , when companies were prevented from seeking patents on discoveries the military wanted to keep secret , the Defense Department persuaded Congress to change the law so that a patent application could initially be made in a sealed envelope ? with the patent coming into force only once the invention had been declassified and the envelope opened after the war 's end . In practice the arrangement turned out to be highly profitable for the companies concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time that a company was able to claim patent rights . 185 It was the same after the war , when companies were given rights to classified secrets that they needed to develop nuclear energy technology . In return for such favored treatment , the private sector generally acquiesced in the general thrust of federal controls on scientific knowledge justified on national security arguments . Indeed , according to Harold Green of George Washington University Law School , the fact that American industry , which has had the largest economic stake in the exploitation of nuclear energy , has " consistently shrunk from contesting the imposition , however costly , of AEC , ERDA , and DoE information controls " is one of the main reasons that the " born classified " concept , with the threat to scientific communication that it presents , has survived for thirty-five years . " It reflects a realistic appraisal that industrial profitoriented research might not prevail in constitutional litigation against what would be characterized as important national security considerations , " Green told the AAAS meeting in January 1982.186 Similarly , the desire of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the VHSIC program is said to have contributed significantly to their acquiescence in the controls imposed by the government on the research carried out under this program . 187 Since important issues of public policy are inevitably involved , many critics have demanded that discussions on appropriate controls should be channeled through democratically accountable institutions such as Congress and the courts . In the case of nuclear weapons research carried out under the auspices of the University of California ? a public body , since it is a state institution ? Charles Schwartz at Berkeley has argued strongly that more active overseeing is needed to meet the community 's responsibilities for the research . " We need to build a constituency of people who understand that democracy dies when decisions are handed over to technical experts , or hidden beneath a veil of secrecy , or sold upon hysterical exaggerations of some external threat , " contends Schwartz . " We need to work to bring the weaponeers under strict democratic control here at home before we can expect to make any serious progress in reducing the threat of nuclear arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the Progressive trial and the NSA 's campaign to develop a system of prior restraint on the publication of potentially sensitive research results ? even if carried out voluntarily ? have led others to demand that the conflicts be resolved through open democratic decision-making rather than being confined to those most closely involved . Mary Cheh suggests the need for new legislation to cover the ambiguities in the present situation , and to generate a democratic consensus on how decisions about the control of scientific information should be reached . " Given the unsatisfying conclusions of the Progressive litigation , it is imperative that Congress now confront the unccr-  | tainty it created when it first wrote a law with such sweeping and ambiguous information control provisions , " she concludes in a major review of the legal implications of the court case.189 But the prospects for such legislative changes have been kept dim by the combined efforts of universities , the scientific establishment , private corporations , and intelligence and military agencies . Each has its reasons for limiting democratic participation in the application of controls to the conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ None has shown any enthusiasm for subjecting such controls to what DoE Assistant Secretary Sewell referred to as the " crucible of public debate . " 190 Proposals for legislative changes in the Atomic Energy Act , for example , put forward in a bill proposed by Representative Paul N. ( Pete ) McCloskey of California , found few sponsors in the scientific or corporate community , and soon became lost in the congressional agenda . 191 Without open , democratic debate , however , the danger is that conflicts will be resolved with minimal consideration of broader public responsibilities ? or of social goals that may not coincide with those of the main actors . The organization and conduct of research will again become essentially a technical operation , with consideration of ultimate ends dominated by discussion of means . The result is that scientists will continue to work on basic research for DoD while isolating themselves from debates about how their work is used , and that corporations , similarly , will remain happy as long as military technology contributes to their profits ? and underwrites quantum leaps in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ computers . The military will remain free to contract the services of both , and to draw them into its escalating race of death . Without full democratic participation , the debate over controls on military research is therefore likely to remain locked onto technical solutions to military challenges , and to deflect forces for genuine change . When Wiesner , as provost of MIT , turned down an invitation to endorse a one-day strike by the university faculty in 1969 to protest against the Vietnam War , he told the organizers : " I believe that a continuing study of the problems of the arms race , the needs of developing countries , and the problems at home would yield more results . " 192 David Saxon , president of the University of California , told demonstrators that , rather than protesting against the MX missile or the university 's responsibility for the weapons research of the two laboratories it manages for the government , they should consider the advantages and disadvantages of " a renewed effort by the United Nations to foster international cultural and intellectual exchanges . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. involvement in Vietnam as much as the advice of scientists that helped persuade politicians of the need to withdraw . Similarly . campus demonstrations have played a significant part iu raising  | national consciousness about the need for new controls on nuclear weapons . After nearly thirty years of the " technical fix " approach to arms control advocated by Wiesner and his colleagues , the world seems no farther from the dangers of a nuclear holocaust than when they started . It is now generally recognized that there are no technical solutions to the problems of arms control and limitation , only political ones . After a period of relative quiet , voices of protest are beginning to be heard once more as opposition grows to the military control and uses of science . At the beginning of 1983 , for example , the governing council of the American Physical Society passed a resolution condemning nuclear weapons , and suggesting various ways in which the government might act to reduce the threat of atomic holocaust . The move was strongly attacked by President Reagan 's science adviser , George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mixing science and politics was " arrogant " and " extreme . " 194 However a few months later , the physicists ' act was implicitly endorsed by Pope John Paul II , who , in an address to the Pontifical Academy of Sciences in Rome , called on scientists to " desert the laboratories and factories of death " ; he added that it was " the indubitable task of the scientific community to monitor scientific discoveries and see that they are not put to the service of war , tyranny , and terror . " 195 As we have already seen , it is not just the military which is opposed to direct forms of social intervention ; equally strong resistance has come from universities and private corporations , the three groups forming a powerful coalition to protect military-related research from direct social controls . A clear example arose in the fall of 1983 , when this coalition successfully defeated an attempt by citizens of Cambridge , Massachusetts to pass a local law forbidding work of any type ? including research ? on nuclear weapons within the city limits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stark Draper Laboratory , a contract research laboratory working primarily on inertial guidance systems for the Department of Defense which was separated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1972 . But the move was also opposed by MIT itself , as well as Harvard University , on the grounds that a law banning nuclear research could set a " dangerous precedent " in giving local citizens the right to decide what type of research they were prepared to allow conducted in the city.196 Resistance also came from local hightechnology industries , many of which depend heavily on military contracts , others fearing more generally that the proposed law would make it more difficult to attract other similar companies to the area . The three groups mounted a vigorous television and press advertising campaign , run by a West Coast public relations expert and reportedly costing more than 20 times more than the efforts of supporters of what was to have been the Nuclear Free Cambridge Act . The success of the campaign , which resulted in the proposed law being rejected by 60 percent of local  | voters in contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was therefore as much a test of political muscle as of democratic will ( earlier in the year , a non-binding referendum declaring Cambridge a nuclear free zone was passed by 74 percent of the vote ) .197 Of course " more research is needed , " as Wiesner would argue , on arms control ; of course the potential influence of international agencies should be reinforced to help maintain world peace . But as politicians know well , both slogans can be conveniently used to mask inaction . Bringing the arms race under control means fusing means and goals ? making the individuals who contribute to it from the bottom realize the full significance of their combined efforts when seen from the top . And this applies to military research as much as , if not more than , any other area . In an environment where the actors are not neutral , and where they are frequently tempted to enter into pacts that mutually reinforce their respective political powers , trust is not enough . When a judge hearing the government 's case against publication of the Pentagon Papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the papers were published , the Defense Department sent over , under top security , a memorandum stating that if the Vietnamese knew certain codes had been broken , it would create a vast new array of problems . The case collapsed when a reporter present pointed out that the same information had already been widely publicized by DoD to demonstrate its success in breaking the code.198 When Leo Szilard circulated a petition among fellow physicists during the Second World War pleading that the atom bomb not be dropped on civilian targets , he was restrained by Robert Oppenheimer on the grounds that military " experts " had informed him that the choice of such targets was essential . Only later did it emerge that the most " essential " reason was President Truman 's desire to use the demonstrated effectiveness of the bomb as a bargaining chip with the Russians.199 Such instances demonstrate the dangers of relying on technical experts and " national security " arguments , insulated from public scrutiny accompanied by the appropriate forms of democratic control .  | SCIENCE AND FOREIGN POLICY : KNOWLEDGE AS IMPERIALISM @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF the contributions made by basic science to modern military technology has stimulated a growing desire by military authorities to place controls on the open communication of scientific knowledge . We also saw how , although in principle opposed to greater controls on science , both the academic and the corporate high technology communities have shown a willingness to accept them in a limited form ; and that the compromise , established through negotiations between these two communities and those in the military establishment sympathetic to their arguments , was proposed in order to provide all three with protection against constraints they considered excessive , arbitrary , or unnecessary . So far we have concentrated on the way this compromise , although limiting the impact of constraints on the flow of scientific information , has at the same time reinforced a broader shift in control over access to science away from openly democratic institutions , helping to concentrate control in the hands of corporate or military decision-makers , subject to a minimal degree of social accountability . There is another perspective , however , from which we can view the increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look at the way they provide a significant extension of the use of science as a lxwerful instrument of foreign policy . The nrincinal tarart of recent controls nlacrrl on %eir ? nrr to : u ? hir ? vr  | foreign policy objectives has , of course , been the Soviet Union . Both the Carter and Reagan administrations , through actions ranging from the cancellation of bilateral scientific exchange agreements to the refusal to admit Soviet scientists to conferences in the U.S. or the imposition of strict constraints on those visiting U.S. laboratories , have provided numerous examples of the way science has been used as a channel for political leverage . If access to American science was dangled enticingly as a carrot for good behavior during the period of detente in the early 1970s , its withdrawal is now being brandished as a stick in the disenchantment that has followed . ' The targets have been multiple , from the military crackdown in Poland to the treatment of Soviet physicist Andrei Sakharov . And in most cases the actions provoked as a response have been little more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only domain in which control over access to U.S. science is being used increasingly for political ends . In the case of the U.S. 's relations with other industrialized countries , for example , cooperation on scientific projects has long been used as a mechanism for building diplomatic bridges and helping to meet joint political goals . ( The most explicit example of this has been the scientific activities organized within the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO ) . Emphasizing this point , the need for greater scientific collaboration was placed firmly on the agenda of the most recent economic summit meetings of the heads of the seven advanced industrialized nations , held in Versailles in 1982 and in Williamsburg , Virginia , in 1983. * The seven nations shared a common interest in cutting the costs of large research facilities ; but the endorsement by the heads of state made it clear that the proposal for closer cooperation in science was also considered an integral part of harmonizing mediumterm policies in both the economic and the political spheres . In the case of the less-developed countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are frequently even more transparent , given the vast gulf in scientific expertise between these countries and the U.S. Even the National Science Board , the policy council of the National Science Foundation , admitted in a statement issued in September 1982 that international scientific cooperation with such countries offered " eco-Footnote  | nomic , diplomatic , and other policy benefits going beyond the immediate needs of science per se. " 3 The new prominence of science in international relations is a direct reflection of the growing importance of science-based technology , ranging from microelectronics to biotechnology , not only domestically in the U.S. but also in the global economy . Modern technology has had several major implications for the structure of global trade . It has provided the transportation and communication infrastructures that have increased the interdependence of national economies . It has also made possible the rapid growth of multinational corporations , primarily ( though increasingly less so ) dominated by U.S. capital , by allowing the global decentralization of production under the control of a single organization . And it has placed technological innovation at the heart of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overall result has been to integrate the world increasingly into a single economic system , and to institute a single international division of labor . The more the technological products and production processes that make this possible have come to depend on the fruits of basic science , the higher debates about the distribution and control of science have risen on the international agenda . Previously it was possible to identify three separate fields in which science intersected with foreign policy : the need to support science as an inherently international activity ( for example , through arranging scientific exchanges with other countries ) , the need to provide a scientific or technical perspective on particular foreign policy topics ( such as arms control or nuclear proliferation ) , and the need to address scientific problems that are global in nature ( such as the buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere ) .4 Now the role of science in economic affairs has added a fourth dimension ; and while the first three might be considered peripheral to the main thrusts of U.S. foreign policy , this fourth is central to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the steady expansion of the U.S. economy . " We have come to a transition , " Lucy Wilson Benson , Under Secretary of State for Security Assistance , Science , and Technology under President Carter , told a congressional committee in 1978 . " We are leaving an era in which science and technology were thought of as independent activities , throwing an occasional Roman candle into the foreign policy arena . We have entered an era in which the interactions between science and technology and foreign affairs are recognized increasingly as continuous and central to many of the important foreign policy problems with which we are dealing . " 5 In the process , however , science has also taken on a new political significance in international relations . A relative decline in the more overt forms of military and economic power of major industrial nations has led them increasingly to use their hegemony in science and technology to fight for positions of dominance in the international system . In a  | world where scientific knowledge has become what a report from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this knowledge , like the ownership of capital in its more conventional form , becomes the key to both economic and political power . Thomas Pickering , Assistant Secretary of State responsible for international scientific affairs under the Carter administration , has pointed out the political opportunities offered by the fact that the world wants access to U.S. science and technology : " The terms and conditions of that access can have a major impact on our political standing with affected countries . " 7 Even more directly , Henry Nau , senior staff member for international economic affairs on President Reagan 's National Security Council , has argued that increased global interdependence makes it possible for advanced countries to use the advantages of their superior scientific and technical expertise to impose " a more subtle and total form of imperialism than was possible in any previous period of history . " ' At one level , the value of science to American capitalism in international trade remains primarily commercial , and can be measured in terms of the direct contribution it makes to company profits . Part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ key to competitive success in the global marketplace is the expectation that research should pay dividends from worldwide operations . Even more than virtually all other industrialized nations , the U.S. depends on high technology products as a substantial part of its most valuable exports . Between 1969 and 1979 , for example , the U.S. trade surplus in R &D-intensive; goods rose from $10.5 billion to $39.3 billion ; during the same period its deficit in non-R &D-intensive; goods went from $6.7 billion to $34.8 billion . A large proportion of the increase was due to sales of R &D-intensive; goods to Third World countries ? exports that rose from $4.5 to $23.3 billion over the same period . Fees and royalties paid by other industrialized nations for the use of American know-how increased over 350 percent ( about 80 percent in real terms ) between 1968 and 1978.9 Overall , the economist Edwin Mansfield has calculated that more than 30 percent of an average multinational company 's returns on R &D; comes from foreign sales.1 " The significance of the transfers of knowledge that take place through such transactions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Included in the broad category of " R &D-intensive; goods " is equipment that can be used to produce new goods that can subsequently compete with American products for the same markets . Such exports therefore carry a strategic significance , since they embody the capacity to compete , which , in the modern world , is itself a source of political power ; those who own such technology are in a stronger position both economically and politically than those who do not . Evidence of this is underlined by the contrast between the enthusiasm that multinationals  | export new production processes . One survey of twenty-three major companies by Mansfield showed that when new technology was developed as a product , in 72 percent of cases it was transferred abroad through a foreign subsidiary , 24 percent by unaffiliated licensing , and only 4 percent by direct exports . In contrast , when the technology took the form of a new process , foreign subsidiaries were used in only 17 percent of the cases ; unaffiliated licensing was never used . In the remaining 83 percent of cases the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i.e. , with the process itself remaining protected at home . " This has direct implications for our arguments about the control of science . As we have seen in earlier chapters , it is precisely in its contribution to new process technologies that basic science has taken on its new economic significance . Advanced processing techniques require an increasingly sophisticated knowledge of the nature and behavior of basic materials and substances , often the same information that scientists , for ostensibly different reasons , are pursuing in the basic research laboratory and may need to build into their own laboratory production equipment . Conversely , the desire to restrict the dissemination of new processing technologies is particularly strong in science-based industries such as electronic machinery and chemicals , where companies need access to the latest innovations in the use of computers , semiconductors , integrated circuits , and advanced techniques in chemical production.12 Indeed , the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has recently agreed to define a particular subset of high technology products as a " technological control " category ? i.e. , products providing technological control ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and development , computers , telecommunications , machine tools " ( italics added ) .13 Furthermore , it is precisely because of the key nature of these " control technologies " that the science on which they frequently depend has increasingly become a target for export controls . Shifting the emphasis of such controls from technological products to design and manufacturing know-how was , as we have already seen , the main recommendation of the 1976 report produced by a subcommittee of the Defense Science Board chaired by Fred Bucy , president of Texas Instruments , and subsequently included by Congress in the revisions to the Export Administration Act made in 1979.14 The explicit intention of the change was to make controls on access to technology with potential military uses more efficient and more effective . But the change had several clear commercial advantages for high technology corporations . It left them relatively free to offer their products for sale on the world market , and it also legitimated arguments that they be permitted to tighten their control over the dissemination of process technologies , and thus by implication over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ microelectronics . Even though much of this can be counted as basic research ? and has indeed been supported by the Department of Defense ? as much effort has been put into protecting the results of the research from flowing prematurely to commercial competitors as into keeping the results from countries that might be a military threat . It has been the same situation with biotechnology . The key nature of scientific developments in the field ? many of which have taken place in U.S. universities , and have been financed by public funds ? has made access to science highly desirable . In both cases , as we have seen , control over the results of scientific research tends to be concentrated increasingly in the hands of private decision-makers . And access to these results is determined by what meets these private interests.15 The power provided by this control over access to strategically important areas of basic science has been used in different ways . In the case of the Soviet Union , leverage over the country 's internal policies ? for example , its treatment of dissidents ? has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information in such critical areas . With industrial allies , the goals have been more complex . The current enthusiasm for high technology , and the basic science that supports it , is part of a global restructuring being undertaken to escape the economic recession of the late 1970s and early 1980s . On the one hand , each country is attempting to maximize its own strength in key areas of advanced technology , determined to stake as large and as influential a claim as possible to the new international division of labor that this process of restructuring is bringing about . On the other , the countries share a collective interest in regulating ? or " rationalizing " ? overall competition to make sure that no one nation is able excessively to exploit its advantages in a way that makes the system as a whole vulnerable either to internal collapse or to external threat . Furthermore , individual countries may be tempted to use their scientific strengths to impose economic or political goals that may not be shared by others . It must be remembered that , despite much recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ producer of science in the world . And it has already shown how this position can be used , deliberately or unconsciously , to weaken the effectiveness of the scientific efforts of other nations , even those considered its political allies . One way has been through gaining cheap access to scientific expertise , for example in biotechnology , where U.S. companies have drained off much of Europe 's best scientific talent , ' ' or in computer software. * Another is by offering Footnote  | a more favorable climate for venture capital investments ; many European venture capital companies set up to invest in new , high technology companies have placed most of their funds in the U. S.19 A third way this hegemony is exercised is through the power it gives the U.S. to withdraw from international scientific agreements without fear of diplomatic reprisals , as was the case when the National Aeronautics and Space Administration backed out of a joint mission to the sun planned in cooperation with European space scientists.2 ' Finally , it allows the U.S. to exact political favors in return for access to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , the Department of Commerce agreed to let an American company ship microchip fabrication equipment to an Austrian company only after Austria had reluctantly signed an agreement to tighten the flow to the Soviet Union of high technology exports originating in the U. S.21 Similar arrangements were said to have already been made with Sweden , Finland , India , and Hong Kong . Each of these is an example of ways in which U.S. hegemony in important areas of science has ? whether intentionally or not ? undermined the ability of other developed nations to compete on equal terms , either by draining key scientific or financial resources , or by limiting the opportunity for independent maneuver.22 Perhaps the heaviest impact , however , has been on the less-developed countries ( LDCs ) of the Third World . These countries are faced with a dilemma . They provide some of the largest markets for the products of the new technologies , either in microelectronics ( such as those applied to mass education or long-distance communication ) , or for health and agricultural products developed by the latest techniques in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the same time they are even more vulnerable than the industrialized nations to the social distortions that can result from the fact that control of the science underlying these technologies lies increasingly in the private rather than the public domain , and that the applications of this science are therefore primarily determined by private profit rather than social need . The foreign companies chasing such markets in the less-developed countries have two principal goals : the first is to maximize their profit ; the second is to minimize competition . Many Third World countries complain that the combination of these two factors has several undesirable implications . One is that the technology sold to them is inappropriately matched to local needs and resources ; another is that it can be excessively priced since , in the absence of effective competition ( or with the allure of well-known brand names ) markup rates are often high . A third complaint is that it makes them excessively dependent on foreign supply sources , and that this dependence can sap local initiative and undermine efforts to pursue indigenous patterns of development that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is reflected in R &D; statistics . These show that vir-  | industrialized nations ; the less-developed cUufltties of Africa , Asia , and Latin America between them spend less than one-twentieth of the global R &D; budget , even though they contain three-quarters of its lx ) pulation . To put it another way , the U.S. currently devotes over $200 a year on research for each of its inhabitants , whereas in most Latin American countries the equivalent figure is less than $5 , and in many of the poorer countries of Africa and Asia it is less than $1 . Colin Norman has calculated that whereas the U.S. spends $175 a year on agricultural research for each of its farmers , for the world as a whole that figure is 30 cents . 23 Statistics alone tell only part of the story . When one begins to ask more detailed questions , an even more skewed picture emerges . Many scientists in the Third World work for international corporations on projects selected by foreign executives and intended primarily to benefit stockholders in the industrialized nations . Some work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products fall , unrelated to the most pressing social needs and priorities of the countries to which they belong . Others work in fields of pure science , where the agenda is set by the scientific communities of the industrialized nations , with no significant links to local productive actvities . The overall amount of research in LDCs directed toward solving their own problems has been calculated to be as low as 1 percent of the global R &D; budget , with the rest aimed at improving the quality or quantity of exports or adapting foreign products to local markets.24 This imbalance even within the research carried out in LDCs raises crucial questions about who controls the overall research effort in these countries , what the implications of this pattern of control are for the forms of knowledge that emerge , and the extent to which new technology incorporating this knowledge meets the real needs of the communities into which it is introduced . For the forms of social control that operate through science are not merely the results of external dependency . Many of the newly industrialized countries have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science and technology . Yet in practice the thrust of this strategy , as seen from a domestic perspective , is often identical to that already described as taking place in the U.S. The private sector , evoking the claims of economic efficiency and the logic of market demand , uses its control of science and technology to reinforce its own domestic political power . The less-developed countries need access to modern science in order to develop both socially and economically . To do this effectively , however , requires the indigenous ability to control this science , and thus to determine its content , in order to be able to generate the ability to respond to domestically defined needs . Increasingly , however , the results of scientific research required by such countries are also being acknowledged as valuable private assets by the world 's multinational corporations  | and are ( king concentrated in the public and private laboratories of the industrialized nations . According to one estimate , only 1 percent of the R &1); sponsored by multinational companies is carried out in the LDCs.25 The multinationals are prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results ? but at a double price . On the one hand , the science embedded in new technological products becomes a commodity bought and sold according to the conventional rules of the marketplace , often at a price the LDCs can not easily afford . On the other , the acceptance of science in commodity ( i.e. , private property ) form implies the acceptance of the social relations that create and are expressed through this form . These social relations are frequently in direct conflict both with the institutional arrangements needed to ensure that scientists work on the areas of greatest indigenous importance and with efforts to apply that science to the most pressing areas of social need . The general picture that emerges from this overview of the use of science in foreign policy is that the increasing concentration of control over science in the hands of the corporate community and its isolation from democratic decision-making , described domestically in earlier chapters , is reproduced at the international level . Indeed , in many ways it is merely a component part of this broader international movement . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a hierarchical system in which each country 's position is increasingly determined by the size of its handle on the new " control technologies " and on the science that promotes them . George Keyworth , President Reagan 's science adviser , describes U.S. leadership in science and technology as an " economic imperative " and speaks of the need , as the newly industrialized countries move toward taking a bigger share of manufactured goods , that " we , along with the other advanced nations , will increasingly have to shift to ever higher technologies and services . " 26 Yet this hierarchical structure to the world economy , which both encourages and is in turn sustained by the centralized control of access to scientific knowledge , 27 has important political implications that directly mirror the anti-democratic tendencies we have already outlined on the domestic front . Restricting the access of those lower down on the hierarchy to modern science only reinforces their lack of political power , increasing their vulnerability to the pressures and demands placed on them from above . In some cases , countries relatively near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one recent new initiative , for example , several countries in Western Europe have agreed to pool their resources in advanced computer research in an attempt to avoid eventual domination by the U.S. or Japan . ' Those at the base of the pyramid are in a Footnote  | much weaker position . The increasing control over science being exercised by the countries that form the core of the global economy ? and by the private institutions that exercise such control within these core countries through their privileged access to science ? merely accentuates the powerlessness of those on the periphery , condemning them even more forcefully to a life of deprivation , while at the same time reducing their ability to explore alternative development strategies that may be more appropriate to their real needs and resources . The use of science in helping to achieve foreign policy objectives has evolved steadily in the period since the Second World War . It was stimulated initially by America 's successful development ( and subsequent use ) of atomic weapons ; indeed , in many ways , as we have seen in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for nuclear science have since provided a paradigm for broader efforts to use science and technology as a diplomatic lever in the contemporary world . In a stroke , the atom bomb moved science and technology to the center of the world 's diplomatic stage , both as a foundation for military power and as a tool for diplomatic influence . The U.S. 's clear leadership over all other nations in the fields of nuclear science and technology gave it new sources of leverage , an opportunity that it was quick to exploit . The influence , however , could be effective only if the U.S. itself retained control of nuclear technology and the science on which it was based , and this goal was not shared by all . In the years after the war , some members of the scientific community tried to place firm reins on the genie they had let out of the bottle.29 The atom bomb had made them painfully aware of the destructive potential of a science that had , since the Scientific Revolution , been almost uniquely associated with material progress . They lobbied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future development of nuclear energy for both civilian and military purposes under international control . A group chaired by David Lilienthal , chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority , and including prominent scientists such as Vannevar Bush and J. Robert Oppenheimer , proposed the plan in a report prepared for Assistant Secretary of State Dean Acheson , based on consideration of the basic technological factors affecting the development of an international control system for all aspects of atomic energy.30 Negotiations with the international community , however , were entrusted to a delegation headed by the Wall Street financier Bernard Baruch and three other leading members of the banking establishment . Firmly instructed by Congress not to compromise America 's military power by divulging too many atomic secrets , Baruch presented his own watered-down version of the plan to the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission , on terms that rapidly proved unacceptable to the Soviet Union . After four wars of negotiations , the proposals failed to gather the  | necessary support within the United Nations and the initiative collapsed , helping to open the door to the proliferation of nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the two major nuclear powers . High on the list of reasons for the collapse of the negotiations was Soviet distrust of U.S. motives ( admittedly complemented by U.S. distrust of Soviet motives ) . The U.S. repeatedly asserted its intention to relinquish atomic weapons , yet it never reached the point of defining the conditions and timing of what it would consider to be acceptable controls on its own nuclear technology . This reluctance only emphasized suspicion that the Americans wanted to retain essential control of nuclear technology while giving the appearance of vesting this control in an international body.31 Furthermore , reflecting broader political feelings in Washington , the American delegation was unwilling to negotiate on issues , such as the limitation of national sovereignty , that were clearly unacceptable to the Soviet Union . Again the implication was that international control of nuclear science and technology , which meant voluntarily relinquishing U.S. hegemony in this field , was unacceptable to Congress ? and to Wall Street . A second initiative was more productive , at least from the U.S. point of view . This was the government-backed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the worldwide sale of nuclear energy for civilian purposes . First outlined in a speech by President Eisenhower before the United Nations General Assembly on December 8 , 1953 , and followed up with a United Nations conference two years later , Atoms for Peace had the explicit goal of averting the military buildup of nuclear weapons by diverting nuclear materials to peaceful purposes . It was also designed as a propaganda response to Soviet proposals for a worldwide ban on all atomic weapons and efforts to take the lead in developing the civilian uses of atomic energy . The initiative helped establish patterns for the international control of atomic energy , most significantly through the creation in 1956 of the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) , and the Non-Proliferation Treaty of 1968 , which established a system of international safeguards over nuclear fuels and materials . Yet in practice the effectiveness of the control system was once again undermined by U.S. reluctance to cede either military or commercial control over its own nuclear technology . IAEA itself was limited in its effectiveness by a dual responsibility for both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safeguard system was also limited by U.S. reservations , with the result that direct encouragement was given to the transfer of nuclear technology before reliable international safeguards had been established ? a basic flaw that still exists in the IAFA system. ; z The desire to promote civilian applications of nuclear energy was also tempered by caution alxmt encouraging the U.S. 's commercial compct-  | itors . Both the Nuclear Energy Agency ( NEA ) and EURATOM were established to foster commercial interest in Europe in U.S. nuclear technology . However , concern that the United Kingdom , which already had a strong government-backed program in nuclear research and development , could capture most of the world 's nuclear energy market meant that U.S. support for NEA was initially lukewarm . EURATOM 's role was confined to safeguards and promotion ; again one of the aims of the agency was to provide a means by which the U.S. could control and keep a watch on potential competitors . As noted earlier , it has even been suggested that U.S. unwillingness to share basic scientific knowledge about nuclear reactions was a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pile at the British nuclear facility at Windscale in 1957.33 From the U.S. point of view , the Atoms for Peace initiative was successful . It created an institutional framework within which the U.S. was able to reap a maximum economic and political advantage from its position of world leaderhip in nuclear science and technology , by establishing the conditions under which the U.S. could profit from the foreign sales of nuclear technology , while essentially retaining control of that technology in economic , political , and military terms . Atoms for Peace also laid the basis for subsequent efforts by U.S. diplomats to contribute to the domestic development of nuclear power by opening up markets for the infant U.S. nuclear industry , while providing opportunities for the industry to demonstrate nuclear power abroad before introducing it at home . ( As Warren Donnelly , of the Congressional Research Service , has pointed out : " Underlying the publicized , idealistic purposes of sharing U.S. nuclear science and technology were pragmatic , practical considerations of advantages to the United States . " " ) In the initial postwar decades there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same way . Science was recognized as a valuable mechanism for encouraging greater cultural cooperation between nations and for greasing the wheels for political , economic , and military cooperation ? but not necessarily seen as an integral part of such cooperation . This , for example , was the basic message of a report produced for the Department of State in 1950 by Lloyd V. Berkner.35 Strongly reflecting the then-dominant Cold War ideology , the report emphasized the importance of science and the interchange of scientific information as an effective tool of counterpropaganda . It laid down the guidelines that for more than a decade prescribed the department 's philosophical approach to science and technology ; it also suggested the creation within the State Department of a new post of science adviser and special assistant to the Secretay of State . The main emphasis was on science as an international , cultural activity . Apart from an almost ritual endorsement of international scientific activities , science took a low place on the diplomatic agenda for most of the 1950s . For example , the Office of the  | Science Adviser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became moribund four years later , while the number of overseas science attaches administered by the office fell from a peak of eleven in 1952 to zero at the end of 1955.36 Not that there was a lack of enthusiasm on the part of the scientific community . Scientists were keen to place themselves at the disposition of the state and to help meet its foreign policy objectives , often as expressed through foreign aid programs . James R. Killian , President Eisenhower 's science adviser , proposed a strengthened science program in the State Department in an article in Science in January 1961. i7 President Kennedy 's Science Advisory Committee suggested in a report to Secretary of State Dean Rusk that the post of science adviser in the department be raised in status , a proposal that was translated in the summer of 1962 into the decision to establish an Office of International Scientific Affairs . Efforts to boost the research activities of the Agency for International Development , initially resisted by many of the agency 's staff , were supported in particular by AID 's second administrator , David @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harvard University , Bell later became executive vice-president of the Ford Foundation and a key figure behind the ill-fated plans to establish an Institute for Scientific and Technical Cooperation under President Carter.38 ) Apart from the Kennedy staff in the White House , however , such proposals received little support in political circles . The post of science adviser in the State Department continued to languish in relative obscurity iii : racial poverty for most of the 1960s . The same was true of the pro I- I for an enlarged research office within AID . The President 's SciEl I I dvisory Committee suggested a research budget of $100 million a year , but Congress ? like many senior aid administrators ? was skeptical of the whole venture ; it placed an initial ceiling of $6 million on the project . After a slight expansion , the initiative fizzled , and the research office was eventually absorbed into the agency 's " war on hunger " program in 1968 . Even a report from the National Academy of Sciences published in 1965 , which advocated greater attention to the role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any more successful in attracting and keeping the attention of policy-makers.39 The lack of direct political interest in science at anything significantly more than a propaganda level was reflected in the first United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for the Benefit of Less-Developed Areas , held in Geneva in 1963 . The conference itself provided an opportunity for the scientists of the developed nations to draw up an agenda of what they considered to be the major scientific and technical needs of the Third World . The report of the conference , ambitiously entitled World of Opportunities , is full of flamboyant promises about how science and technology will " bridge the gap between the haves and the have-nots " and Quell the " revolution of rising expectations . " " ' Two  | sand papers were presented to the conference , most of them arguing that the solution to world development lay in the massive transfer of science and technology from the industrialized North to the underdeveloped South . In practice , however , the conference achieved little , and its general impact on political thinking was low . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as predicted in the years that followed , and the general historical verdict on the conference was that it had virtually no political or scientific consequences.41 In the late 1960s and early 1970s , however , a new factor arrived on the scene that was to transform the whole debate . This was the rise to economic power and political influence of giant multinational corporations such as Exxon in oil , IBM in computers , General Motors in automobiles , General Electric in electrical goods , and Goodyear in rubber and tires . ' Technological developments , particularly in communications and transportation , created the conditions under which capital could break the geographical constraints binding production to its financial or management base . Multinationals were able to exploit their new ability to move capital , materials , credit , managerial expertise , and even trained labor from one country to another according to a strategy designed solely to maximize overall profitability . Two important components that could also now be moved around freely were technical skills and intellectual property ? in other words , scientific knowledge in its material and commodity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new international division of labor by which U.S. capital was able to organize its productive operations on a global basis while maintaining centralized control . The expansion of U.S. capital through the actions of multinational companies soon met with strong opposition . In Europe governments rapidly began pumping more money into their research and development budgets in order to meet what French politician Jean-Jacques ServanSchreiber labeled " the American challenge . " 42 Reaction was even stronger among the LDCs . Many of the latter had only just emerged from the shadows of colonialism . Yet they began to feel that the economic dependence imposed by the actions of the multinational corporations was not significantly different from the political dependence to which they had previously been subject . Multinational companies were identified by the newly independent nations of Africa , Asia , and Latin America as the principal mechanisms through which new forms of dependency were being created . The control by these companies of the main channels of technology transfer was soon recognized as particularly crucial . Operating largely outside the control of individual sovereign states , multinational corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and  | defiance of them . Buoyed by the apparent success of the oil-producing nations in achieving a significant increase in the price of oil sold to the industrialized nations by organizing themselves into a cartel , the LDCs began to flex their own political muscles . Calls for international controls on technology transfer soon became a staple component of the strategy through which they sought to expand their emancipation from economic domination by the industrialized nations . The broad strategy was described as the desire to create a new international economic order , whose goals were to improve the terms of trade between developed and less-developed nations , as well as access to the developed nations ' capital and technology . Countries belonging to the so-called Group of 77 quickly characterized scientific and technological dominance as an expression of the new form of economic imperialism . The potential effectiveness of this strategy , given the degree to which the countries that supported it also offered a lucrative new outlet for sales of Western technology , was not lost on the multinational corporations . " The Group of 77 is probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of technology than on any other single effort , " warned Elliot Richardson , a past Secretary of Commerce and a leading spokesman for the liberal wing of American international capital , at a meeting organized by the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1979.43 Richardson 's warning reflected a deep-seated concern in the corporate community . Many senior executives had been shaken by the successful negotiating strategy of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) . Multinational corporations soon recognized the need for a political response to this challenge to their hegemony over the international system . On the one hand , it meant strengthening the links between the industrialized countries themselves and limiting the possible damage caused by intra-capitalist competition . On the other , it meant providing a common bargaining front to the Third World , one that would secure access to new markets without accepting the terms such countries were demanding for that access . One outcome was the creation of the Trilateral Commission in 1973 , largely due to the efforts of David Rockefeller , chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial , banking , and political establishments in the three principal regions of the industrialized capitalist world ? Japan , the U.S. , and Europe ? hence the description " trilateral . " Its purpose has been to promote the economic policies of these countries insofar as they affect the operations of multinational capital , and to encourage the coordination of their responses to the political demands of the less-developed countries . " The strategy of the private sector soon found active support in government circles . The State DepartInent was encouraged to Dav close  | attention to both the needs and the potential diplomatic value of multinational corporations in achieving its foreign policy objectives . A report prepared by the Commission on the Organization of the Government for the Conduct of Foreign Policy under the chairmanship of Robert D. Murphy , and presented to President Ford and to Congress on June 27 , 1975 , spoke of the need for " coherence " in foreign policy in a " rapidly changing , interdependent world . " Such coherence was to be explicitly achieved through the exercise of U.S. political power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " managing interdependence . " 45 Science and technology were quickly drafted to help achieve these objectives . The State Department was already being urged to make more use of science and technology in diplomatic affairs by Congress ( with the backing of the scientific community ) . Legislation passed in 1973 led to the creation of an expanded Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs ( usually known by the abbreviation OES ) after President Nixon had abolished the White House Office of Science Policy . A report from the Congressional Research Service , produced at the request of a congressional subcommittee , urged the U.S. to make active use of its scientific and technology strength to achieve foreign policy objectives : " The U.S. , as the principal national exponent in technological achievement , ought therefore to be recognized as diplomatically preeminent , but also ought to accept the responsibility for leading the way in the application of technology to the achievement of goals shared with the other nations of the world , " the report stated.46 Congress itself passed new legislation specifically mandating the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Congressional Research Services criticism that " only meager resources have been spared to search for ways to turn technology to the achievement of diplomatic goals . " 47 ( The same criticism had long been made , with apparently little effect , in the scientific community . ) Given the new importance of these issues for multinational corporations , which in the aftermath of the 1973 ? 74 recession began looking increasingly toward the LDCs as a source of new markets and as financial borrowers , the State Department , in contrast to the two previous decades , now needed little persuasion to move science and technology to the center of the diplomatic stage . A key figure in this strategy was Henry Kissinger . A close student of debates over the control of nuclear energy in the 1950s,48 when the U.S. seemed to have successfully used controls on science and technology to achieve commercial , political , and military goals simultaneously , Kissinger was keen to extend the same negotiating techniques across the complete range of science and technologies that other industrialized nations and the Third World wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. research . the successful use of sci-  | entific exchange agreements as a public manifestation of the detente negotiated with the Soviet Union by President Nixon , itself promoted by visions of the Soviet Union as a long-term market for American capital and technology . Science and technology had the advantage of offering a worthy and apparently neutral mechanism for U.S. diplomacy , which encouraged both commercial trade arid a form of dependency that , it was hoped , could be manipulated to minimize political aggression . As a headline in Science expressed it : " U.S.-Soviet Summit : Make Science , Not War . " 49 This approach was particularly attractive in the politically conscious post-Vietnam period , when the Pentagon Papers trial and exposes about the activities of the Central Intelligence Agency were creating deep skepticism about the morality of some of the techniques that had been used to achieve foreign policy objectives in the past . It also exploited the fact that the Soviet Union and the nations of Eastern Europe were beginning to turn to Western technology as a solution to their own economic problems . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cumulative balance of payment deficit and debts with the West rose from $8 billion in 1972 to $80 billion in 1981 . Kissinger 's strategy toward the less developed nations was outlined in a series of speeches to the United Nations . In April 1974 he laid the groundwork in an address to the U.N . General Assembly in which he claimed that " no human activity is less national in character than the field of science . . . no development efforts offer more hope than joint scientific and technical cooperation . " 5 ? One year later , in another major speech to the U.N . ( delivered in Kissinger 's absence by U.N . ambassador Daniel Moynihan ) , the proposals had become more concrete . Developed and less-developed countries , he said , shared a common interest in the orderly development of a " single global system of trade and monetary relations , " which meant that while the advanced nations had an interest in the growth of markets and production in the developing world , " the developing countries have a stake in the markets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " 51 Kissinger outlined nineteen separate initiatives that would , he believed , improve the access of developing nations to U.S. science and technology , while helping to restore rationality and order to the global system . Further proposals along the same lines were added in a speech to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development ( UNCTAD ) , held in Nairobi in 1976 . To those close to Kissinger , his strategy was clear . According to one of his speech writers , Kissinger " thinks that America 's ability to contribute money and run the world in the old-fashioned way of the 1950s and 1960s is now over . What we can contribute ? and what the world wants ? is our technological capabilities . " " Dixy Lee Ray , a former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission who had been appointed the first head of ( ) l S early in 1975 , was less flattering iii her description . Rav claimed  | that the leadership of the State Department had a difficult time thinking of science and technology " as anything other than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered scientific capability and management as " bargaining chips " in a political game . " It means that you 're saying to another country , If you do what I want in some sort of political situation , or alignment , or whatever , then you 'll get access to our science and technology . ' " n Not surprisingly , Kissinger 's initiatives did not receive wholehearted support from the scientific community , even from those members who welcomed the greater prominence given to science and technology in foreign affairs . To many scientists , the short-term political motivations were too blatant . Ray herself resigned in a well-publicized huff in the middle of 1975 , complaining in a letter to President Ford that the bureau she had headed for less than six months , which was supposed to offer advice on scientific questions related to diplomatic initiatives , had no independent voice and " can do little but acquiesce in the policies set by others . " S9 She cited as an example a large-scale energy research agreement with Japan , which she was told about only after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , had its reservations about Kissinger 's strategy . It agreed with the goal of persuading both developed and developing nations to accept the fruits of American science and technology in return for political favors ? including an agreement not to challenge the political conditions on which it was offered . The main reservation of corporations , however , was that the strategy involved a degree of sometimes unpredictable government intervention into their own efforts to control access to the scientific and technical knowledge on which their global power was increasingly based . ( Many were upset that they had not been consulted by Kissinger prior to his U.N . speeches , and complained that it was often difficult to relate Kissinger 's broad promises to the practical actions of the State Department 's ) Kissinger 's attempts to exploit U.S. science and technology to gain diplomatic advantages had coincided with the growing realization that for domestic corporations too , privileged access to science and technology was the root of economic success in the world marketplace . These ideas were also gaining a foothold in the State Department . William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( later director of the Central Intelligence Agency under Reagan ) , told the Industrial Research Institute in October 1973 that , although productivity , prices , exchange rates , and trade barriers were all important sources of the economic strength of U.S. companies , " today we consider none of these more important than supporting science to nourish technology , and enlisting technology to pay our way in the world . " 56 This was the period at which it was becoming clear that external trade was a vital component of the U.S. economy ? and that the comparative advantage of U.S. capital in international trade rested primarily on sci-  | ence-based industries such as electronics and computers , new energy technology , the technologies needed to exploit the resources of the ocean bed , and , most recently , biotechnology and genetic engineering . The more U.S. corporations realized that their commercial success in international markets depended on their ability to exploit the strategic advantages offered by American science , the more insistent they became that access to this science was not a gift to be given away to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political favors . Instead , it should be carefully regulated so that its political use did not threaten their own power . Furthermore , it had previously been possible to maintain a distinction between science and technology , and to argue that even if technology transfers needed to be regulated to avoid giving away excessive power ( for example , through the proliferation of nuclear weapons ) , scientific knowledge could be freely offered as a " public good . " Increasingly , however , science had become part of the same universe ? at least that strategic science which , through its close and direct links to advanced production technology , both developed and less-developed nations feel is the most relevant to their social and economic needs , and are therefore most interested in obtaining from the U.S. The reservations expressed by the private sector were rapidly absorbed into State Department thinking . Following Dixy Lee Ray 's resignation , a report on the position of science and technology within the department was commissioned by Casey 's successor as Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs , Charles W. Robinson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration , T. Keith Glennan , who went out of his way to sound out and include the opinions of the corporate community . In June 1976 a meeting was held in New York at which Glennan met with executives from several multinational corporations . The meeting was organized by Herbert Fusfeld , director of research for Kennecott Copper and a past president of the Industrial Research Institute . Companies represented at the meeting included American Cyanamid , AMAX , RCA , Sperry Rand , American Can , and General Electric ? all multinationals that carried out substantial trade with the Third World and were therefore concerned at the extent to which the Kissinger strategy might be challenging their power in the marketplace . The participants agreed that the relationship between private-sector technology and foreign policy " poses serious difficulties for both foreign policy and business opportunities if not resolved . " They demanded a coherent government position that was " both reasonable and effective , " suggesting that industry should be given the oppor-Footnote  | tunity to consult in advance with government officials over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's report faithfully reflected the connnents he received from such executives . One of its main recommendations was that close liaison be established between industry and the State Department to ensure " maximum benefit on matters of common interest . " In particular , he suggested that the Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs should " assist industry . . . to deal with the problems involved in the export of its technology . " Glennan had already proposed to the multinational corporation representatives at the New York meeting that the bureau , the main focus for scientific affairs in the State Department , also become the focus for " establishing rapport with industry on technological issues . " 58 Thus , by the time President Carter arrived in Washington at the beginning of 1977 , top officials in the State Department were already " preparing to act on the problem of science and technology , " 59 and the groundwork had been thoroughly laid for a broad-based attempt to integrate science and technology into foreign policy in a way that suited the needs of U.S. private corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community to increase the role of science in foreign affairs . Soon after his election , he received a letter from five past presidents of the American Association for the Advancement of Science , suggesting the need for greater efforts in this direction.60 Far more important in determining Carter 's strategy , however , were his links to the East Coast banking and corporate communities ? the world of international capital . These links were established primarily through his recruitment to and participation in the activities of the Trilateral Commission , the members of which had been largely responsible for promoting Carter 's candidacy as the Democratic nominee for President in 1976.61 Among the Trilateral Commission members appointed to senior positions in the new administration was Zbigniew Brzezinski , professor of public law and government at Columbia University in New York , who became Carter 's National Security Adviser . Brzezinski had helped David Rockefeller to conceive and establish the Trilateral Commission in 1973 , and he served as its executive director until joining the Carter administration at the end of 1976 . Like Kissinger , he was firmly convinced of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy . In his book Between Two Ages : America 's Role in the Technetronic Era , published in 1970 , Brzezinski set out his version of the Trilateralist credo , describing his belief that the industrialized nations were entering an age in which technology ? and especially electronics , hence the neologism " technetronic " ? was increasingly becoming the principal determinant of social change . Cooperation in science , he suggested , could help cement the political alliance between industrialized nations claimed necessary to ward off nationalistic pressures in the interests of free trade and  | capitalist solidarity . Indeed , Brzezinski portrayed international collaboration in science and technology as central to efforts to create a new global alliance of the advanced capitalist nations , proposing , for example , the creation of a " permanent information linkage ... between the universities of New York , Moscow , Tokyo , Mexico City , and Milan " to provide a " cross-national pooling of academic resources . " Such a development would form part of a " more rational division of labor in research and development , " which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access to this information.62* As we have seen , Harold Brown , another active Trilateralist ( whom Carter is said to have first met through their joint membership on the commission ) , established the framework by which the Carter administration absorbed basic science into its military strategy . Similarly , Brzezinski 's ideas ? broadly shared by other members of the commission ? helped create the framework by which science was integrated into the domain of foreign policy . The main thrust of this approach , as Brzezinski saw it , was to use U.S. hegemony in science and technology to rationalize competition between advanced capitalist nations ( for example , by sharing the costs of major research facilities ) , while at the same time reinforcing the hierarchical structure of the global economy by ensuring that control of the strategically important areas of science and technology remained concentrated in institutions at the top of the pyramid . This was the broad brief given to the various prominent members of the Trilateral Commission who were put in charge of crucial negotiations on international science and technology issues . Elliot Richardson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; his task was to negotiate an international treaty that would prevent an anarchistic freefor-all for the riches of the seabed , without providing other countries with excessive access to the advanced techniques of seabed mining that Third World countries were demanding as a prerequisite for fair competition . Gerard Smith , previously North American chairman of the commission , was given responsibility for finding a way of using the U.S. hegemony in nuclear technology to impose conditions on the use of this technology by other countries ( for example , by the ultimately unsuccessful efforts to discourage the spread of nuclear reprocessing , which , it was claimed , would increase the availability of weapons-grade plutonium ) . And Trilateralist Lucy Wilson Benson , previously chairman of the National League of Women Voters , was appointed to the new position of Under Secretary of State for Security Assistance , Science , and Technology , a position in which she was responsible for the preparations for the Footnote  | United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development ? preparations which , as we shall see below , were carried out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Policy was included in Carter 's strategy . It was made clear to Frank Press , soon after his appointment as director of the office and as Carter 's science adviser , that helping to mold diplomatic relations with other countries was expected to be one of the main functions of the new office . Press shared many of Carter 's ? and Brzezinski 's ? views about the value of science in international affairs . Indeed , Press 's own international contacts ? through , for example , his involvement in planning for the International Geophysical Year in 1957 and his chairmanship of the National Academy of Sciences ' committee for scholarly communication with the People 's Republic of China ? seem to have been among the reasons that he was selected for the job . And he later expressed a conviction that " scientific and technical assistance is a key linkage between the U.S. and the LDCs , one that has been underutilized in the past " ( italics added ) .64 In a message to Congress in March 1979 , Carter staked out the parameters for increased government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argued that although much international cooperation in science and technology takes place through private , academic or commercial channels , there was a growing role for governmental participation as other nations made new commitments to scientific and technological growth . He listed four themes that were shaping his administration 's policies : pursuing international initiatives to advance U.S. R &D; strengthening scientific exchanges ; formulating programs and institutions to help the LDCs use science and technology ; and cooperating with other nations to manage technologies with global impact . Carter was frank about his motivations : " If used wisely , these future opportunities for scientific and technological cooperation can further our foreign policy objectives . " " Perhaps the most explicit use of science as a diplomatic tool was its role in opening up political and economic relationships with the People 's Republic of China . Brzezinski had long argued that it was in the longterm interests of the U.S. to create a new relationship with China , both to establish a political counterforce to the Soviet Union and to develop China as a market for U.S. products . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in buying advanced technology from the U.S. and that there was a possibility of skirting stalled diplomatic talks by encouraging contacts through science and technology.66 His visit was therefore followed by a number of visits by leading members of the U.S. science policy establishment , culminating in a science and technology agreement signed by Chinese Vice-Premier Deng Xiaoping in Washington on January 31 , 1979 . This agreement covered such programs as the development of a satellite communications system , expanded ac-  | adeniic exchanges , the exchange of plant materials for genetics research on craps , and cooperation in high energy physics . The tactic was successful in helping to create new political bonds between the leaderships of the two nations and in enhancing the opportunities for U.S. industry to participate in China 's ambitious modernization efforts.67 The number of scientific exchange agreements increased steadily ? by 1983 there were more than twenty ? and paved the way for a substantial quantity of high technology exports . Already , however , there were signs that other parts of the administration were less than happy about those agreements , which appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department objected strongly to the promise to sell to the Chinese an advanced version of NASA 's earthmapping satellite LANDSAT . Eventually a compromise was reached , but it was made clear that trade in high technology with even those " friendly " countries unlikely to pass it to the Soviet Union was not going to remain free of controls . Even greater difficulties were experienced with Carter 's attempts to provide scientific assistance to the less-developed countries through a proposed Institute for Scientific and Technical Collaboration ( ISTC ) , intended to be a major new federal agency which would channel both public and private scientific and technical assistance to Third World countries . Packaged in a form acceptable to the corporate community , ISTC was promoted in glowing terms ; one memorandum , for example , promised that it would be " the jewel of U.S. development aid , " since it was going to make available on a stable and reliable basis " one of the best and most desirable commodities ? American know-how . " 68 However , after three years of lobbying by the administration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what had started life as a proposal for a politically autonomous agency equivalent in size and stature to the National Science Foundation ended up as no more than a new bureau within the Agency for International Development , with extra funding amounting to little more than $12 million a year . The history of ISTC helps throws some important light on the federal government 's approach to the use of science in foreign affairs ? and the reaction of the scientific community and the private sector to these efforts . For in many ways it symbolized the failure of the Kissinger strategy , namely the idea that the government should play the dominant role in providing advanced scientific knowledge to the LDCs . The concern was that this could threaten the private channels through which this same knowledge could be transferred while ensuring that access to industrially important know-how and the conditions under which it was used re-Footnote  | mained finely under the control of the corporations to which this knowhow " belonged . " The idea of separating science and technology from other aspects of foreign aid had been on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Advisory Committee in the early 1960s.69 A decade later , an International Development Institute was endorsed by President Nixon and submitted to Congress , but failed to win the necessary backing , largely because it was seen as a way of assisting potential competitors to U.S. corporations in the Third World by giving them unregulated access to U.S. technology . Kissinger 's list of proposals to the U.N . in September 1975 had included the setting up of a similarly named International Industrialization Institute , but this idea too remained grounded , primarily for the same reasons . Virtually all proposals to create a new focus for research related to Third World needs had been enthusiastically supported by the scientific community . Many scientists were dissatisfied with what they considered to be the inadequately exploited potential of American science to help the LDCs and the generally low priority given to research by official aid agencies . Moreover , a new government-funded research institute was a potential source of funding for their own research . Indeed , the National Academy of Sciences had been one of the main sources for Kissinger 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , George S. Hammond , foreign secretary of the National Academy of Sciences , and Murray Todd , executive director of the National Research Council 's Commission on International Relations , suggested the creation of " an institutional capability for the purpose of facilitating the access of developing countries to overdeveloped ' world scientific and technological activities in universities , research institutes , government laboratories , and the private sector . " 70 More significant , in light of the experience with Kissinger , the idea of creating an institutional channel for technical assistance to Third World countries , particularly one able to deal with such countries on a bilateral rather than a multilateral basis , was ? at least initially ? appealing to the private sector . Companies that had expressed concern about technology being used by the White House and the State Department as a lever to achieve short-term political goals welcomed the suggestion that a new institute be created that would oversee technology and knowledge transfer arrangements at one step removed from immediate foreign policy pressures , i.e. , without posing a direct threat to their interests . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institute as legitimating and defending their own claims to proprietary rights over transferred knowledge . The Chamber of Commerce , for example , suggested that the U.S. government " should consider establishing an office that could serve as the central focus where business firms ? and transferee nations ? can take problems that arise in connection with  | arrangements to transfer technology , and that can help the process of monitoring , negotiating , and resolving disputes . " 71 The stage had therefore been set by the time Carter and his advisers put together their foreign policy strategy . Brzezinski himself , like Kissinger , had already endorsed the idea of a Technical Assistance and Research Institute , put forward by President Nixon 's National Planning Association in 1969 , explicitly arguing that developed countries should create new institutional channels for technical aid to the countries of the Third World that were " not subject to political pressures " from these countries.72 To help develop this strategy , he recruited as adviser to the National Security Council Henry D. Owen , a co-founder of the Trilateral Commission and director of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D.C. Owen soon arranged for the State Department to sponsor a report on development assistance strategies from Brookings . The report was prepared under the close guidance of an advisory committee chaired by David E. Bell of the Ford Foundation ( and AID administrator under Kennedy ) . In addition to several university scientists and administrators , this committee included executives from Exxon and Citibank . It proposed the creation of a separate development research institute that would , among other roles , function as " a catalyst and coordinator of U.S. scientific , technical , and educational activities related to development problems . " 73 In developing the strategy for setting up such an institute , Owen established a close working relationship with Frank Press and the Office of Science and Technology Policy . ( Significantly , when Press was criticized in the New York Times for his failure to establish public advisory committees , it was Owen who leapt into print in his defense , claiming that the advisory function on important technical issues had been well served by nonpublic means.74 ) Press in turn recruited Eugene Skolnikoff to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Skolnikoff had worked in the science adviser 's office under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson and was now professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ; he was later appointed chairman of the German Marshall Fund . ) By the end of 1977 Owen had prepared a paper suggesting , in line with the Brookings report , the creation of an autonomous International Development Foundation reporting directly to the President . This was to have a headquarters staff of 200 , with ten to twelve regional offices and an annual budget of between $500 and $700 million . The Office of Management and Budget , however , soon indicated that it would oppose any major expenditure on an agency that was free of direct control over the way the money was spent . Reflecting OMB 's position , Frank Press wrote in a memo to Owen that OSTP 's " preferred option " was the creation not of a separate institute , but of a " semiautonomous " science , technology ,  | and development foundation , which would generate most of its initial funding and staff froni @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for International Development.75 The OMB-OSTP view prevailed . In a speech delivered in Caracas in March 1978 , Carter announced the creation of a new , semiautonomous Agency for Technological Cooperation ? eventually known as the Institute for Scientific and Technical Cooperation . A planning office was esablished under the wing of OSTP and AID . As described in August 1978 , the goals of the institute were " to expand knowledge and increase availability of technology and skills needed to meet critical problems of people in developing countries . " 76 Typical areas for short-term research projects included new agriculture technologies , satellite technology , information systems , forestry and energy , tropical diseases , and contraceptive technology . And an advisory board was set up , chaired by Bell , who had been influential in shaping the original Brookings study and apparently hoped the institute would take over responsibility for some of the foundation 's activities in the Third World . At the beginning of 1979 , the Carter administration asked Congress to approve the creation of the institute and allocate $25 million in new funds for the fiscal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of research being carried out by AID . If the scientific and humanitarian goals of the institute were unimpeachable , the way in which they were to be pursued ? given the political interests on which they inevitably impinged ? was more controversial . The scientific community was lukewarm in its enthusiasm for the administration 's plans . Even a semiautonomous institute , in the community 's eyes , ran the risk of being too closely tied to the broader demands of foreign policy . They preferred something more independent , less immediately amenable to government control . Many of the critics organized themselves into a group known as the Council on Science and Technology for Development ( chaired by ex-NAS president Frederick Seitz ) and put their weight behind a counterproposal , being developed in Congress by the staffs of Senator Adlai Stevenson , Jr. , and Representative George Brown , for a more independent institute . Taking as a model the freedom from direct government intervention that Vannevar Bush had established for the National Science Board after the Second World War , they argued that the institute should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whom the director of the institute was responsible , rather than a purely advisory council , with the director answering to government agencies . In other words , control of the institute and the science and technology that passed through it would be firmly placed in the hands of private rather than public decision-makers . Despite their criticisms , the scientists and politicians who proposed this alternative arrangement eventually came around to endorsing the  | administration 's proposal as the only one that was likely to succeed in Congress . They persuaded the administration to add the word " science " to the institute 's title , turning it into the Institute for Scientific and Technical Cooperation ( ISTC ) .77 But their support was never wholehearted ? one of several factors that contributed to the eventual failure of the whole initiative . From the administration 's point of view , the idea of ISTC , while legitimating its actions by appealing to the apparent neutrality of science and technology , was clearly recognized to have an important political role . The message was more subtle ? and more long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance . The U.S. was prepared to offer the best of its science and technology to developing nations through ISTC , but on condition that these countries adopted what the U.S. considered to be appropriate development strategies , in both economic and political terms , and respected the terms ? such as the proprietary rights of multinational corporations ? on which it was offered . Frank Press had pointed out in his memo to Henry Owen that ISTC had both a scientific and a political function . Opportunities for collaboration and trade with the U.S. would be " adversely affected " if other countries responded to the technical needs of the Third World , he said ; " thus more effective use of science and technology will serve expanding foreign policy requirements , as well as direct development objectives . " He criticized the idea of an autonomous agency on the grounds that " the opportunities for the foundation to contribute to the other aspects of our bilateral assistance effort would be fewer . " 78 The administration 's interest in using science and technology to mold development strategies is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consensus that scientific and technological advances , when employed within an appropriate policy and management framework , can be important factors in determining the rate and direction of economic and social development " ( italics added ) . *79 However much the scientific community distrusted the degree of government involvement planned for ISTC , the institute still received substantial support from parts of the private sector . Many companies were particularly interested in the administration 's intention to use the ISTC Footnote                     