@@773500

txt with this " English voice " from the other stations of the BBC , so why must this policy be duplicated in the Northern Ireland station ? ' 41 I trust that the Director will handle Ulster susceptibilities with caution . He should realise that he is among a people with great traditions , and I am sure he will appreciate the tenderness they feel towards their cherished Ulster tongue . ' 42 Marshall felt that John Sutthery must reply to the correspondence . Sutthery made the point that Our talks series Ulster Speaks and many other sides of our work surely disprove the assumption that we are opposed to accent and dialect ? in their proper places . We differentiate , however , between the reading of Ulster and of English authors . ' 43 Ulster Speaks was a series of talks given by the Reverend W. F. Marshall on Ulster dialects . A very popular performer on radio , he had made a lifelong study of the language of his fellow Ulster people . His talks aroused such interest that a demand arose that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ booklet were sold . In the course of the controversy one letter writer had remarked , I do hope that when Mr Sutthery finds the type of voice he wants he will not allow that voice to speak Shakespeare . ' 44 Elizabethan English was not standard English ' according to Marshall . The nearest existing analogue to it was to be found in the speech of Tyrone men . Perhaps the real Ulster answer to Sutthery was the performance of selections from A Midsummer Night 's Dream spoken in the accent of Tyrone and transmitted from the Belfast studios in June 1936 . George Marshall 's first impressions of the Belfast Station had been good . All the arrangements are very satisfactory , ' he had said.45 He was after all taking over a production set-up which was quite up-todate : two studios had been wholly built and equipped only five years earlier and the third had been opened eight months before his arrival . He was as soon to become as aware , however , of the limitations of the premises as he was of the idiosyncracies of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other features , struck the new Director of Regional Relations who arrived from Head Office at the end of March 1933 . He presented the following report to London : I reached our Belfast Station on March 17th , despite a railway strike and posses of policemen carrying rifles and revolvers , in the station and the streets . I have never been anywhere that seemed to me more like Bedlam . I can now fully credit Marshall 's claim that Belfast has to be visited to be 70 believed . The conditions are quite abnormal , and I think it a pity that Head Office staff have visited the station so little . My presence seemed to create quite a hubbub . . . and all of them really seemed to me to have something of the desert island mentality . I was not impressed with the premises , either externally or internally . Marshall 's office , nice enough in itself , was a perfect babel during rehearsals and transmissions of the orchestra . I attended a rehearsal of the orchestra , under Godfrey Brown , and noticed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the building , was very inadequate . I gather that in summer the heat is quite appalling . The accommodation for the orchestra , in terms of a band room , is also far short of normal requirements . During my visit , I lunched with the Vice-Chancellor* , who is well acquainted with our work , and is a useful outpost of intelligence , and with Mr Redwood , Editor of the Irish News , with whom Marshall and I discussed the difficulty of a fair representation of the Catholic minority interest in Northern Ireland in the Regional News'Bulletins . I have spoken to you about this , and I am shortly seeing Murray of Reuters in case any adjustment is possible .. . ... Here , as in Scotland , I was impressed with the variety of duties carried by individuals , and by the general goodwill and readiness on all sides to carry burdens and to contribute in person , as well as in invention , to local programmes.46 The outcome of this report was that additional buildings in Linenhall Street were taken over and an office and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the proposed regional role . On 9 May 1934 the Northern Ireland Region ' officially replaced the Belfast Station ' and George Marshall became Northern Ireland Regional Director ' . The new titles preceded the substance by some months . It was not until 1 October of the same year that Northern Ireland became a full member of the regional scheme . This meant that a Regional programme would be radiated from the Belfast transmitter ? that was , a programme of local items , music , plays , talks , etc. reflecting the life of the province together with certain items selected from other Regional programmes . ' 47 Belfast would now contribute twenty hours of production weekly to the regional pool compared with twenty-five from each of the other regions . The new . arrangement caused a reduction in Belfast 's production and there were some casualties as a result . For example , the Wednesday 71 afternoon concerts given by the Wireless Orchestra in the Belfast Museum and Art Gallery ceased as there was no longer a slot in the schedule available for the relays . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It broadcast the National programme . It was thus intended that listeners in Northern Ireland would have a choice ? the National or the Regional . Belfast was the last remaining station to come into the regional scheme . It had for some time previously been transmitting a mixture of Regional , National and locally originated programmes . Now anyone who wanted National programmes had to tune into Droitwich . Droitwich came on air on 7 October 1934 , but from the beginning , in spite of its strength at point of origin , the signal was poorly received off air in Northern Ireland . There were many angry reactions in the newspapers . Owners of crystal sets were , of course , now denied all National programmes but owners of anything less than a three-valve set found reception of the National programmes was marred by constant fading . Many felt that the National programmes were superior to the Regional and protested they were being fobbed off with the inferior alternative . The BBC was obliged to recognise the uproar and to admit the Droitwich signal was subject to fading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It made no apology for the fact that crystal sets would only take the signal if they were attached to high aerials which would cost more than new valve sets . The Irish News came to the BBC 's defence as regards the loss of the National programme : ... it is strange that the National programme , which , according to listeners ' letters last season , was by no means satisfactory , has apparently now become the ideal programme . The BBC have an unenviable and quite impossible task of trying to please everybody . ' 48 If the National programme had a troubled start in Northern Ireland , the Regional had its problems too . There was still to be a lapse of nearly a year and a half before the new transmitter which was being built at Blaris , near Lisburn , came on air . So for the time being the Regional programme continued to reach only listeners in the Belfast area . Nevertheless the programme makers began to prepare for the emergence of true regional coverage . A series was started called Provincial journey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northern Ireland.49 The first was on Portadown and although not of great programme value , this production brought forth a considerable volume of appreciative letters and was 72 a clear indication of its value from the point of view of licences . ' S0 Provincial journey continued dealing with town after town , but carefully avoided those which did not receive the Belfast signal until Blaris came on the air . To have dealt . . . with such places as Enniskillen , Omagh and Coleraine before then would merely have been a source of irritation to the inhabitants concerned . There are few things more irritating than for the people of the district to know that their countrymen are broadcasting , and to be unable to hear them . So you will see a steady reaching out in this direction , and the same policy will be pursued in talks and in feature programmes . . . Both these will definitely focus on the province as a whole . . . A diligent search for talent will be made in those districts in the West which have had so little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to present to you the lore and the remote existence of those in the Province who live in such places as the Sperrin Mountains and Rathlin Island , which have remained so little affected by the march of industrialism ... 51 Two series which anticipated the idea of looking at the region as a whole were Ulster Writes , which consisted of readings of selected passages from the works of a number of the most notable Ulster writers of the time ; some were read by the authors themselves . The other was Six Men went forth ; this dealt with six famous Ulstermen who went out of their native land to achieve fame elsewhere  --  Lord Dufferin , John Dunlop , Colonel Ross , Lord Kelvin , Lord Lawrence and Lord Castlereagh . The announcement that the Blaris transmitter would be opened on 21 ) March 1936 , led the Northern Whig to comment , The new development will give the Northern Ireland area a new dignity and importance among the regional stations of the United Kingdom . With the increase of power the station will he heard across the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 52 The Northern Whig further commented on the plan for the Ulster Writes and Six Men went forth series that it was an admirable idea , and gives promise of still further advance in making broadcasting a powerful cultural force as well as a source of entertainment ' .53 As the programme makers prepared to meet the challenge of providing a true Regional service , it became apparent that Radio Athlone might supply some programmes . John Sutthery , Programme I director for Northern Ireland , realised this on his first visit to Dublin to meet the Director of Broadcasting in the Irish Free State . Dr T. J. 73 Kiernan . Sutthery was enthusiastic about the possibilities for cooperation . His enthusiasm was reflected by London : It does seem that it would be an excellent thing which might achieve valuable results . ' S4 Sutthery was encouraged to develop as much cooperation as Kiernan is ready to accept . ' 55 Dr Kiernan had been appointed Director in Dublin by the republican Fianna Fail Government which came into power in 1932 . The new Government made its dissatisfaction with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the previous Govern-ment ) very public , and looked to Dr Kiernan to institute many reforms in Radio Athlone 's programming . A strong nationalistic line was to be taken . This did not , however , affect relations with the BBC Head Office . London reported , we have had very friendly relations with Dr Kiernan since his appointment ' .56 BBC London wrote to Kiernan : It seems to us , if you agree , that it would be a satisfactory plan for the detailed arrangements for specific interchange of programmes between Dublin and Belfast to be negotiated direct between our Northern Ireland offices and your own in Dublin ' .57 London hoped for programmes suitable for both the National and Regional services . Several members of the Belfast programme staff journeyed to Dublin to explore the possibilities , particularly in the drama field . News of the negotiations was leaked to the press in Britain and in the Free State , and was eventually picked up by the Belfast papers . The Daily Mail headline was PROMISE OF RADIO POOL , INTERCHANGE OF PROGRAMMES , PLANNING RELAYS FROM @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Evening Standard developed the same theme , BROADCASTS FOR ENGLISH LISTENERS FROM AN ALL-IRELAND POOL . and reported , The new arrangement will come fully into force when the new BBC high-powered station at Blaris , near Lisburn , is opened . In the meantime the two Irish stations will work harmoniously together . . . There is no political significance to this , except that radio recognises no artificial frontiers . ' S9 In the eyes of John Sutthery this press coverage complicated any scheme of programme interchange that might be desirable ' . He went on : Kiernan struck me as an extremely live wire , moderate in outlook , and progressive in policy , but I got the impression that he is hampered by financial and high policy considerations to such an extent ? to say nothing of shortage of staff ? that I very much doubt whether there is much 74 programme material emanating from Dublin , or the South generally , which is of value to us . On top of that , there is the difficulty that there is a section of the public on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trouble it can at the first sign of programme interchange and friendly relations generally between the two broadcasting systems . It is my personal belief ? not official ? that this is more likely to be very much stronger in Northern Ireland than in the Free State . As matters stand , I see no likelihood of frequent interchanges of programmes . Moreover , I think it would be undesirable . At the same time , a regular exchange of projected arrangements between the two systems would lead to the occasional taking of some non-provocative programme from one side by the other , and done with discretion , this should be to the common good . At the same time , an undesirable type of press publicity might well have the effect of turning such interchanges from good to harm . There is no doubt that there is a great deal of good programme material in Dublin , but I do n't think that the present scope of the Free State broadcasting service is sufficiently developed to handle it in a way which would be satisfactory to us.60 The newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved became entangled in a demand , for other reasons , that the Unionist Government should take over the BBC in Belfast . This proposal was made by Captain T. H. Mayes at a Unionist Party meeting in protest against the very brief news coverage by the Belfast Station of the serious sectarian riots in Belfast following the Orange parade on the Twelfth of July 1935 . However , on being pressed subsequently , Mayes said that he only demanded that the Northern Government should have the power , which apparently they do not possess at the moment , to take over the local broadcasting station in case of emergency . I do not suggest for a moment that the Government should interfere with the general running of the station programmes , which apparently satisfy the great majority of listeners . ' 61 The suggestion of co-operation with Radio Athlone was not likely to meet with a favourable reaction among unionists in Northern Ireland because , among other things , Athlone had broadcast full bulletins covering the Belfast riots and had presented a nationalist interpretation of the events . The BBC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existed to create an Irish pool of programmes , but that programmes emanate both from Northern Ireland and the Irish Free State , whose appeal is not limited by territorial boundaries , and listeners in both areas might benefit by an 75 occasional exchange of this type of programme . Nothing , however , involving the slightest deviation from the BBC 's established policy would be considered . ' 62 John Sutthery reflected , I can not say where the undesirable publicity originated , but it was almost certainly from the Dublin end , as we took no steps to ask Kiernan to regard our discussions as secret . At the same time , I think I should make it clear that the publicity from the Southern end was favourable , and friendly , and encouraging to the interchange of programmes . The general trend was " that this would be for the making of better relations between the two sides of the border " . The real trouble arose when these articles were read by the more rabid type of Ulstermen , who have no desire whatever for better relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more contact there is between Dublin and Belfast , can be read by the nationalist as a step nearer the co-ordination of the whole of Ireland on a Free State basis , and that anything which might tend in this direction is as the proverbial rag to a bull , from the Ulster point of view . ' 63 The contribution to the new regional service from south of the border , then , was going to be modest . The radio correspondent of the News Letter , Glaris ' , had been well informed and predicted that this would be so . He was , however , concerned about other aspects of the Belfast operation : ... it is a policy of local programme planning ( with which I entirely disagree ) to feel that certain subjects should be dealt with from London . There have never , for instance , been discussions from Belfast on art in Ulster , there are no reviews of local books , and no attention paid to Ulster architecture , because such subjects as art , literature and architecture are considered the prerogative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although it is neither wise nor desirable to attempt to localise any art , some allowance should be made for the fact that Belfast in this respect is not so close to London as English cities are . Northern Ireland has an art of its own and it should at least be given the same rights as Scotland which , alone among the regions , appears to have a broadcasting service completely representative of the life and culture of the country . . . I do wish that whatever our political associations with the rest of Great Britain may be , the BBC would try to think of Northern Ireland culturally , not as a kind of smaller and more backward England , but as a country , like Scotland , with some articulation of its own.64 ' Blaris ' hoped that this would be realised in the new era which commenced on 20 March 1936 , when the Blaris transmitter was 76 officially opened . The ceremony was performed by the Duke of Abercorn , the Governor of Northern Ireland , who had played the same role at the official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been decided shortly before the event that the transmitter would be named Lisnagarvey and not Blaris ; the recording made of the event in 1936 , which survives , shows that Abercorn had some difficulty in pronouncing the name of the new transmitter . Dignitaries from the Northern Ireland Government and from the BBC in London were present . There followed a week of special programmes designed to show how it was now intended to reflect the whole region . In addition , the Prime Minister , Lord Craigavon , gave a talk on the significance of broadcasting for Northern Ireland and a programme of reminiscences of 2BE was transmitted . In succeeding months Provincial Journey went to Portrush , Strabane , Newry , Cushendall and other towns previously outside the range of the Belfast signal . Another programme series , Village Opinion , was launched . Accounts of their lives and times by the inhabitants of Fintona , Feeny and other small settlements were relayed . In May 1936 the BBC took a decision which had been in the offing for some time . A completely new Broadcasting House , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which would replace the Linenhall Street offices and studios and be sited on the same block alongside them . It had for some time been clear that the existing adapted premises were inadequate . The new site was occupied by a linen factory and warehouse ; these had been acquired and their demolition duly began later in the year . The Catholic and nationalist morning paper , the Irish News , greeted the news and remarked that it meant the wireless authorities are now alive to the importance of regional stations , and intend to develop them ' . It continued : ... whether wireless can , in the long run , avoid being a standardising influence is not yet easy to say . Local or regional characteristics will persist . Speech , for instance , will have its local idiosyncracies , and we must hope that the various parts of the country which have so vigorous an individuality will retain their distinction , which contributes so much to the richness and interest of the national life . It must be recognised , however , that wireless is not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed , have to combat these other influences . Lately the Northern Ireland Station has been inclined to emphasise its individual nature but it is still a long way from being an ideal Irish station . 77 Perhaps the acquisition of a new and palatial home will encourage it to progress further in that direction.65 Six months later the Irish News returned to the topic and devoted another leader to it . Programmes from Belfast have improved considerably during the past year or so , but they still leave a lot to be desired . Listeners , for instance , still get an overdose of heavy music , and there is a general stiffness and lack of imagination about the programmes . Moreover , the Belfast Station seems to be inclined to depend on the regional ' pool ' arrangement , inaugurated about a year ago , with the result that relays from English stations are far too frequent . In some weeks the total contribution of Northern Ireland is surprisingly small . But the main drawback about the Northern Ireland Station is that it remains un-Irish in character . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are definitely in the character of the area they serve , and the Dublin Station is unmistakably Irish ; but anyone tuning into Belfast might take it for just another English station . Save for some talks of special Ulster interest , a few outside local broadcasts , and several dialect plays , there is little to give the local station the authentic atmosphere of its setting.66 The Irish News noted that Charles Siepmann , the BBC 's Director of Regional Relations , had been making an intensive study of the regions with the purpose of stopping ' the drift to London ' . The BBC , he was reported as saying , intended to ' foster local loyalties ' and to spend more on provincial programmes ; the Irish News welcomed the intention . Siepmann 's investigation of the Belfast operations of the BBC is probably the most thorough that has ever been undertaken . He came over for the opening of the Lisnagarvey transmitter and carried on from there . His report began with a critical and unflattering description of Northern Ireland ? quoted in the Introduction above ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances in Northern Ireland , a small area , a small population , awkwardly divided between town and country , slender cultural resources , cross-currents of hitter religious antagonism and a lamentable dearth of talent both among authors and artistes . So great is the dearth of talent that I found the head of one department limited to periods of rehearsal prior to 7.30 p.m. because of the frequent use of the same artistes by other departments in evening programmes . Our programme staff valiantly attempt the hopeless task of making bricks without straw . 78 Siepmann undertook a detailed analysis of the resources available to each of the major programme areas with a view to the assessment of future possibilities . His feeling was that the details confirm his depressing general diagnosis . DRAMA There has been a considerable output in the past but the standard has been poor and a small coterie of artistes has been run to death . There is not much distinctive local material to exploit . A certain amount of kitchen comedy is available and popular but there are limits to its use . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North and in the Midlands . The Ulster Players were once good but are no longer so . There are a good many amateur societies but their performances are at such a crude level of efficiency as to be of little value to us . This , despite the fact that I find our programme people inevitably more accommodating than they are or should be in other regions . While ninety-two players were in fact used last year , it was freely admitted that not ten of these even approximated to the standard of London expectations . There are a few playwrights , very few . The most promising of these , as I understand , has recently thrown his hand in , not finding the inducements of our fees alluring . LIGHT ENTERTAINMENT Use is made exclusively of amateur artistes . Auditions have hitherto revealed a low standard among applicants . Within the Province , there are two or three reasonably good syncopated turns , a single syncopated pianist ? a half-dozen turns shall we say in all and then a lapse to gloomy depths . There is but a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one real show is put on a fortnight . There are a number of minor sketches . The overall output within a year amounts to about 120 shows . Very few indeed are fit for export . OUTSIDE BROADCASTS Here , variety apart , the resources are more plentiful . There is only one theatre that we can tap and that a poor one . One church organ , one cinema , two light orchestras and two dance bands ? one very indifferent ? are wired up for repeated use but that is all . Light material is more or less on a subsidy basis . Two hotels and one road house have been induced by Sutthery to secure artistes of a standard passable for broadcasting . Something may be achieved on co-operative lines though it is difficult to see how it could he extended . The general standard in the entertainment is so low that our OB people have practically to put on the shows themselves . Things may improve but they can never he satisfactory . This apart , there are , of course , the IT Races , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ulster Derby , as a regular standby . Provincial Journey , a series of OB feature programmes , has hitherto been of doubtful standard but it has provoked local enthusiasm and is good propaganda . When the recording vans become available this side of the work should and will be considerably extended . 79 Music Here again our Orchestra and our endeavours provide the only prop to the languishing musical culture of Ulster . Our Orchestra gives eight concerts a year which are now reasonably well attended . A second tentative effort to spread interest by a visit to Londonderry proved disappointing . A military band and a brass band* supplement our activites and provide useful programme material but there seems little musical consciousness in the province at all and we can only keep our gaze on the future . TALKS Here there are possibilities despite the ban on controversy necessitated over a wide field by the political-religious issue . Sutthery is very sensible of the possibilities of talks development . The talks to farmers are already popular and a genuine public service . The recent series on dialect provoked extraordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great deal of constructive social work by the discovery on a strict factual basis of the conditions of Ulster in the sphere of health , education , etc , to the people themselves . FEATURE PROGRAMMES Here there is great scope both for programmes from the studio and extensive OB work . This indeed is the most promising field for programme development and the resources of the region are not at the moment being exploited to the full , partly through what seems to me a maladjustment of the staff , partly pending the arrival of the recording vans . Even here , however , it is likely that we shall have to draw on our own resources for the drafting of scripts . There is a serious shortage of writers and as in other departments a depressing shortage of people who are suitable as narrators or for intelligent reading . RELIGION Northern Ireland is the only region in which religious services are broadcast during church hours with the express approval of the Advisory Committee . This is rather remarkable . The only difficulty is that the Roman Catholics will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet proved possible to secure a Roman Catholic member for the Religious Advisory Committee . This , of course , is simply a reflection of the political situation . The relations of the Northern Ireland regional staff with the Roman Catholic Church being entirely cordial.67 The conclusions which Siepmann as Director of Regional Relations reached on the basis of his survey of Northern Ireland 's programme resources were drastic . He recommended that all studiobased variety and all drama production should cease . Drama had been a mainstay of Linenhall Street 's offerings since 1924 and so this suggestion proved a shock to the Belfast staff . Siepmann , however , held that the standards of performance and the quality of the plays footnote * These bands were made up of members of the Orchestra , slightly augmented . 80 hardly seems justified as an indispensable contribution to regional culture ' . Siepmann was convinced that a great future lay in the production of features and topical talks . There was a condition attached to this : I would further recommend that in any new appointments that are made special consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am much impressed by the need for a true native understanding of the conditions and outlook for the people of Ulster . An Englishman can bring sympathy to the problem but I doubt very much , particularly where field work is concerned , whether he can win the confidence of Ulster people to the extent that is necessary if we are to secure good progress . ' Siepmann favoured the two Ulstermen on the staff . He felt that Henry McMullan , who at the time was in charge of feature programmes , should , in due course , succeed John Sutthery as Programme Director , G. F. Combe , also Belfast born , and a recent recruit , should be given a post in the feature/topical talks field . Generally , Siepmann recommended staff adjustments and new posts to facilitate the shift in programme emphasis which he proposed . His recommendations did not involve an increase in the establishment . Marshall accepted much that was in the report but not the recommended closure of his drama department : Siepmann had in fact left the final decision on this to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ulster plays as one of the more important contributions Belfast could make to the development of a regional culture . A year or so later he was to claim that a good deal of what was said in Siepmann 's report no longer applies ' .68 He listed sixteen important productions intended for transmission between January and March 1938 , which he claimed illustrated Linenhall Street 's positive achievement . Nine of them , he pointed out , were to be relayed by London ( these programmes are marked here with an asterisk ) . 81 What is remarkable in this list of plays and features is the contribution of one man , Denis Johnston . For , apart from the programmes credited to him , he also produced the two plays by Teresa Deevey . He was not at the time employed by the BBC as a producer but rather as a feature scriptwriter and researcher . However , his distinction as a playwright was such that Sutthery was prompted to ask him to produce the two plays . Denis Johnston 's opportunity to join the BBC in Belfast arose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feature programmes was the richest potential field of programming for Northern Ireland . A scriptwriter and researcher was essential to promote development and it became known that Denis Johnston was interested . Johnston , a Dubliner whose family came from Ulster , was a successful barrister who had gained a national reputation as a dramatist with plays like The Old Lady Says No and The Moon in the Yellow River . He was now , however , contemplating a change in career , being very much attracted by the potential of television . lie wished to join the BBC which had begun a television service in London from Alexandra Palace in November 1936 . Johnston did not think he would get into Alexandra Palace through the front door , so he decided to try the radio back door in Belfast . There followed a short , highly productive period for the Northern Ireland Region and for Denis Johnston . He wrote a number of feature programmes of distinction which were very successful on transmission and were repeated on television and radio in later years . The most remarkable of these was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landmark in broadcasting in Ireland ' and as the most ambitious radio programme ever to be produced in Belfast ' . Johnston called Lillibulero a diorama , or radio presentation , of 82 the siege of Derry in 1688-9 . The symbolic significance of the event for the Protestant population meant that the subject was politically sensitive . Word got out about the programme before it was transmitted and reached Derry with the result that the society known as the Apprentice Boys immediately asked to see a copy of the script . When this was refused they got their Member of Parliament , Mr E. S. Murphy KC , to write to us the BBC and press for it . It appears the trouble with Derry is not the usual one of two opposing factions , namely the Protestant and the Roman Catholic , as there is no disputing the fact that the Protestants were besieged and held out till they were relieved , but , on the contrary , some sort of quarrel between the beleaguered Episcopalians and the Presbyterians , each of whom claim to have taken the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a copy of the script was , of course , again refused , but it was pointed out that the author had made a very exhaustive and careful research into the history of the siege , had examined many contemporary documents , etc. , and for the moment the enquiries seem to be satisfied . ' So wrote Marshall in a report to the BBC Board of Governors . He went on : It might have been thought that the siege of a small place like Derry two hundred and fifty years ago should have been forgotten by this time , but this is far from the case , and Mr Johnston says that the real trouble is that the Protestant elements in Derry are afraid that their siege may be " ale-bunked " and lose forever its glamorous political significance . ' 7 ? The radio critic of the News Letter considered the implications of the programme and wrote , no drama of this type has ever been broadcast in Ulster . The BBC has , in fact , acted continuously on the belief that we take such matters too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lillibulero is , therefore , the first local broadcast of its kind . ' 71 As a precaution , Marshall and Sutthery invited the press to the final rehearsal . The Irish News correspondent wrote an enthusiastic and lengthy feature on the day of transmission : , .. Whether our fathers were on the side of those who defended Derry or those who besieged it , and whether we think that the version does or does not do justice to the besiegers , we must in the first place applaud the directors of the Northern Ireland Station for giving us in good radiodramatic form an interpretation of one of the outstanding events in Irish history . The technique of the piece is excellent . Inside an hour we are given a 83 representation of a siege which lasted for several months , and in more vivid form than could have been done in the most detailed history .. . No Irishman North or South of the Border who tunes in to it will regret having done so , and many of us look forward to the day when the BBC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Irish history.72 George Marshall informed the BBC Board of Governors some time later : It is interesting to report that from the point of view of programme policy in this region , we have been gradually able to invade the realms of history and religion , subjects inextricably bound up in these parts with politics . Naturally , we have advanced slowly and prepared the ground with a great deal of careful publicity , but that something definite has been achieved is beyond question . Two recent programmes are illustrative of this , and it is hoped that a third . . . may be added . The first , Lillibulero , dealt with the siege of Derry , which has long been held by the Protestant element in Ireland as an event almost sacrosanct and therefore beyond critical investigation ; and yet the Irish News , the Nationalist and Catholic daily in Northern Ireland , was loud in its praise of the production and hardly a breath of criticism from any source was heard.73 As the radio critic of the News Letter remarked : The fears of the BBC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversial subject for a radio programme were clearly without foundation . ' 74 The second programme which Marshall considered a break through was a play by Hugh Quinn , Mrs McConaghy 's Money . At least one newspaper critic had presumed that it was the sordid nature of the theme dealt with by the playwright which had caused the BB ( to hesitate for a long time before producing it , whereas the real reason was its sectarian nature.75 The play , which had been successful on the stage in Dublin and in London , dealt with the activities of a Belfast woman who earned her livelihood by insuring the lives of workhouse inmates . It was transmitted and was received with favourable comment . Marshall described it to London as ' a strong play with a definite pro-Catholic leaning , which apparently gave all-round satisfaction to listeners and was certainly one of the best things of its kind which has been done yet ' .76 The third programme of a more adventurous kind which had not been performed when Marshall wrote to the Board of Governors was Orpheus and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a short story by Frank O'Connor . It involved 84 Protestant and Catholic elements , Temperance bands and all these imply , and there is a good deal of sarcasm and leg-pulling. ' 76 This again was well received . Marshall concluded : In past years programmes of this type would have been sedulously avoided , and the fact that they can now be heard with composure and pleasure by people of opposing creeds is highly significant . Perhaps the impartiality of the BBC is at last being realised and appreciated . ' " An alternative explanation might have been that suggested by Blaris ' in the News Letter when writing about the reception for Lillibulero : It has at least shown the BBC that its timidity about dealing with such a subject has been based entirely on a misconception of the Ulster temperament . ' 78 The basic programme policy was not affected . Marshall had always refused to countenance the overtly political and those aspects of culture which he regarded as covertly political . He endeavoured to apply his ban to both communities . In 1936 the Ulster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the provision for Gaelic speakers in Scotland , the BBC should provide programmes in Irish , especially lessons in the language , in Northern Ireland . Marshall refused : ... after careful consideration we decided we could not undertake to do so . The number of Gaelic speakers in Northern Ireland is negligible and , as far as schools are concerned , the proportion of those where the Irish language is taught is quite small and is practically confined to secondary schools . You refer to Scotland , but no doubt you will appreciate the fact that in the Highlands and Islands there is a Gaelic speaking population of about 200,000 , and in the universities there are three chairs devoted to the Gaelic language and literature . Even so there are no lessons broadcast to Gaelic although from time to time programmes are specially designed for the Highlands.79 The Irish News devoted a leader to the BBC 's refusal : When we state that the decision will cause deep regret among students of the old tongue we are probably putting it mildly . A fair-minded public will be inclined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studio have adopted this attitude towards the language . Apart from every other consideration one would have thought that the cultural value of the language would have influenced the BBC to set apart at least a short space of tine for a talk in Irish ... 80 I titer in the following year , the BBC did relay part of the Derry Leis which most of the songs were in Irish . The nationalist press 85 welcomed this departure which was to become an annual event , but it was not the kind of exposure which the Gaelic League had specifically asked for . An issue which was preoccupying Marshall and the BBC at the same time concerned the Bands Association . In some measure this was also interpreted as a covert political issue , as the bands were Protestant and their normal repertoire outside the studio included a lot of music of a sectarian nature . However , another aspect which concerned the BBC was the quality of their playing : it varied greatly and was generally considered poor . Appearances of the bands were discouraged by the very low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music Godfrey Brown formed a station band from musicians in the BBC Northern Ireland Orchestra , augmented by others drawn from regiments based locally . He used this combination in preference to the bands in the North of Ireland Bands Association . The Association was very upset and made representations to Marshall in Belfast and to Sir John Reith iii London but to no effect . In February 1937 Sir Wilson Hungerford , Unionist MP , took up the cause of the bands at an Association annual general meeting : Unfortunately what we are suffering from in Northern Ireland is that we get on the wireless not what we want to hear but what other people think we should hear . I am at a loss to understand why bands in Northern Ireland have been ignored in this connection . Probably one explanation is that those at the head of affairs in broadcasting for Northern Ireland are people who know little about the conditions and ideals of the people here . Both the Scottish and Welsh stations have people of those nationalities in authority to arrange their programmes , while we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , I am certain , anxious to do their best , but who know not Northern Ireland . We here in the North of Ireland are unique in the fact that our people , particularly our artisans , are keen musicians , and bands are composed of young men , who , after their day 's work in shipyard or factory , spend several nights a week practising music , and who also contribute out of their wages a sum each week to pay for the services of a qualified bandmaster to teach them . Surely it is not too much to expect some encouragement and support ? But that is entirely lacking from the organisation that should give them such support . . . Many of you will have read various letters published recently beseeching the BBC to put our bands on the air but alas ! without any 86 result . Yet we have the station director complaining about the lack of support for the special concerts which they give . Some of our bands are offered engagements , but at what a princely remuneration ! Three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! The station director complains of lack of support for his concerts . Let me make him this offer : that he should put on one of his symphony concerts and see what support it gets , and allow the North of Ireland hands to run a concert , the same remuneration to be given to both , and that he should take the result as a criterion of what the people want.81 Hungerford 's intervention stirred up a controversy which had been simmering for some time ; he also provided the strategy which eventually led the Regional Director , Marshall , to the negotiating ' table . The correspondence in the press was prolonged and bitter . The facts of the situation were that the bands had been given seventythree engagements from 1932 until September 1935 , with programmes lasting on average fifteen minutes . Only bands which had gained first place in various musical contests were invited to play . In September 193 ' 5 the North of Ireland Bands Association had sent a deputation to the BBC demanding a revision of fees and of the principle on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1937 no further engagements had been entered into by the BBC . Marshall 's public explanation of why this was so was scarcely convincing : I ) tiring that discussion in September 1935 the secretary of the Association read out a letter which he had received containing unfair criticisms of the BBC 's Northern Ireland Brass Band and its conductor . The BBC felt that it was hardly within the province of the Association ? whose members are all amateur players ? to associate itself in this way with an unfair criticism of professional musicians who are making their livelihood exclusively by the practice of music . In justice , therefore , to its own players , the BBC asked the Association to dissociate itself from those criticisms before the question of the re-engagement of these amateur bands was reopened . It is the failure of the Association to do this which is alone preventing the BBC from offering broadcast engagements to a number of Northern Irish bands , whose work it would be very happy to encourage , and towards which it entertains nothing but friendly feclings.82 As the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might seek interpret the mind of the ordinary disinterested listener , we would y that the reason assigned does not commend itself as being fficient in itself to close out local bands indefinitely . ' 83 87 The Bands Association then launched a campaign requesting people to sign a petition and send it to the MPs of the Imperial Parliament . Then , as a further step in their fight for recognition , the Bands Association hired two halls in Belfast , the Ulster Hall and the Grosvenor Hall , for protest concerts on the same night . Posters appeared advertising the concerts with such slogans as Come and hear the bands the BBC wo n't broadcast ' and Ulster bands for Ulster air ' . Tickets for the concerts were sold out . On the day before the concerts the Prime Minister , Lord Craigavon , intervened as mediator in the dispute . He summoned the Regional Director , Marshall , and the secretary of the Bands Association to a meeting in Stormont . There an agreement was thrashed out and Marshall conceded that higher fees would be paid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would he invited to broadcast . The agreement reached in 1937 still holds in 1984 ! Clearly , in this local variation of the highbrows ' v lowbrows ' conflict , the lowbrows ' had won a round . If the bands which marched in Orange processions could win concessions from the BBC then the Orange Order could press for radio coverage of the Twelfth of July processions . The next move ' , wrote Marshall to the Board of Governors , was a difficult one to counter . It was a request that a running commentary should be broadcast on the procession of Orange Lodges on the Twelfth of July . The political significance of this event can only be fully appreciated by the Ulsterman , and had the request been complied with the BBC would have been laid open to a charge of partiality and political partisanship ? in fact , the BBC in Northern Ireland would thereafter have been reasonably called a tool in the hands of the Government . The request for such a broadcast did not come from any insignificant source , but from the County @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was , backed up by a Cabinet Minister , the Attorney General and , finally , the Prime Minister himself . On our polite but firm refusal to broadcast such a commentary , it was some consolation to be told that compliance with the request was hardly expected84 That was in 1938 . In 1939 pressure was renewed . Again Marshal . reported to the Board of Governors explaining in the first instant what the Orange Order and the Twelfth ' was all about . He point ( ' out that the procession ended in the field ' with the leaders addressing the faithful ' : Naturally , religion is well in the background and politics in the 88 foreground , and for that reason it would be highly dangerous to convey any part of the ceremony over the microphone . None the less , each year an attempt is made to persuade , if not compel , the broadcasting authorities in Northern Ireland to alter their policy by having a running commentary on the procession and a broadcast of the speeches , and a considerable time has to be spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orange Order that such a broadcast would conflict with the BBC 's inflexible rule governing such political occasions . This year considerable copy ' was made of the fact that the ceremony of the Pope 's coronation was broadcast , and that therefore Ulster 's Protestant ceremony should also be included , and it has not been easy to convince certain people of the quite different significance of each occasion . For the present the matter has blown over ? probably because the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland himself refused to take up the case , but it will almost certainly arise again next year.85 The Second World War intervened , however , and , as regional broadcasting came to an end for the duration , the question of coverage of the Twelfth ' was deferred . The tone of the reaction to the 1939 refusal was , however , ominous . The Executive Committee of the Independent Unionist Association in a long statement said : ... we understand that this privilege has hitherto been refused on the plea that this commemoration is a narrow sectarian and political issue . Considering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this plea is an insult to the intelligence . ... we can not accept the reply of our Prime Minister that since broadcasting is an Imperial service Ulster people must accept its dictums in a passive spirit . The Northern Ireland section of the BBC draws its rrvenues from the Ulster people and should cater for Ulster interests . We have recently too much evidence of overlordship of Imperial authorities and too much meekness of our Government and Imperial members of Parliament . The time has come for Ulster people to assert themselves to maintain their just rights and privileges.86 The Ulster Evangelical Protestant Society also issued a lengthy Cement of disapproval , quoting a letter it had received from arshall which said , r have considered this celebration very carefully in previous years and , ttitr apart from the obvious difficulty of making a programme item out f a procession , we feel that its political significance makes it unsuitable ) r broadcasting , and inconsistent with our policy in political matters . 89 The Society , after hinting that Romanists ' were in control of the BBC and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ... We consider that the great Orange Institution , comprising the cream of Ulster from Lord Craigavon down , have a very great grievance against the BBC in our midst , and we certainly mean to go further with this matter , as the great majority of the Ulster people have a right to be heard and their reasonable wishes respected , and we can only express our great disappointment with your reply.87 The question of political broadcasts had arisen in Marshall 's directorship before 1939 . Election broadcasts had been permitted in Great Britain during the 1930s . When , however , an election occurred in Northern Ireland in the winter of 1933 , Marshall was advised from London that the BBC was not taking the initiative in Northern Ireland by offering air time to the parties . If , on the other hand , you should be approached by the Government or by the Opposition with a definite request to provide such faciliites , their request will , of course , have to be considered . In that case , before committing yourself , we should be glad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , based on the most equitable distribution among parties that can be devised in the circumstances . We may hope , however , that the question will not arise , and in the meantime the matter may best be treated as a sleeping dog , and as such allowed to lie . ' 88 And it did . In 1938 , however , Marshall consulted Lord Craigavon , the Prime Minister . Craigavon was very strongly of the opinion ' that there should be no election broadcasts similar to those in Britain : ... the reason being that the Opposition is so small and that there are so many conflicting interests , that a very difficult situation was bound to arise . He says , in fact , that agreement would be practically impossible as to who should represent the opposing parties and what , indeed , would be their actual platforms . ' 89 The composition of the dissolved House of Commons was as follows : Unionists 37 , Nationalists 9 , Independent Unionists 2 , Labour 2 , Republican I and Fianna Fail 1 . In the circumstances , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were no election broadcasts in Northern Ireland before the Second World War . While Marshall wove what he believed to be a consistent path between the various pressures on the BBC in Northern Ireland and 90 tried to avoid all overt and covert political broadcasting , he also endeavoured to apply the same principle to broadcasting on the BBC network which dealt with Ireland in any way . In this broader sense , however , what increasingly manifests itself is his inclination to line up with the unionist position vis-a-vis the Irish Free State/Eire . In 1937 Marshall noted that a programme broadcast by the BBC 's North Region in Britain , entitled The Irish , included the playing of the Irish National Anthem . Marshall wrote to the Controller of Programmes in London : This anthem is not National in any sense of the word , as applying to the Irish , for Northern Ireland is just as much Irish as the Free State . The song in question is called The Soldier 's Song ' and is essentially rebel ... There is no need for me to emphasise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to radiate a rebel song and to invite listeners to stand while it is played . I need hardly refer you to such words as Out yonder waits the Saxon foe ' . A broadcast such as this may have its funny side from the point of view of an English listener , but it raises the acutest indignation in the six counties of Northern Ireland , where the Irish have remained loyal . Naturally , there has been an outcry in the Press and the most violent of protests.90 A reply was sent to the Northern Ireland Regional Director on behalf of the North Regional Director . It apologised but pointed out that consultation with London had taken place , adding sharply : I should like to emphasise that the announcing was duplicated in Erse and The Soldier 's Song ' itself was sung entirely in Erse . It is difficult to understand therefore why listeners in Ulster should have interpreted it as being directed at themselves , particularly as I understand that very few of them understand Erse , which was referred to officially in the Ulster Parliament recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that in future Marshall would be consulted on such matters . Less than a year later Marshall noticed that another programme Was to include the notorious " Soldier 's Song " ' . This time it was to e played on St Patrick 's Day . He pointed out to the Controller of Programmes that when he had taken exception to the Irish programme broadcast from the North Region that the Controller had ruled : Whenever any department or Region was about to produce a programme involving a subject , of which another department or Region possessed special knowledge and experience , there should be preliminary consultation between them , ( see Programme Board Minutes No. 576 ) . 91 In this case we were not consulted in advance and I am sorry to note that while a great amount of publicity has been given in the World Radio for 17 March to this particular concert , there is no reference in that journal to our own St Patrick 's Day programme , despite the fact that part of it comes from Canada and that it is being taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the concert from Dublin on St Patrick 's Day was not organised by the BBC . It was the Irish Free State contribution to the series of concerts given by members of the International Broadcasting Union , and it so happens ? quite suitably ? that the day chosen for the Free State to give their concert is on St Patrick 's Day . These concerts are automatically rebroadcast by all members of the Union who can do so . We here , of course , have no say in the composition of this programme ... ' 93 The Controller went on to say that he regretted no mention had been made in the World Radio of the Northern Ireland programme for St Patrick 's Day . Perhaps , Marshall was eventually glad of that . For , as he reported to the BBC 's Board of Governors , the Canadian contribution was most inapposite . It has always been a matter of extreme difficulty to arrange a programme for St Patrick 's Day , owing to the controversies which are apt to start around the figure of the Saint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the occasion . This time it was felt it would be safe to provide a short musical programme from Belfast , with quite innocuous musical numbers , and with the balance of the programme from Toronto , Canada , where there are so many Ulstermen , and where the Orange Lodges are so strong . As it turned out , however , the Canadian part of the programme was a complete failure and had no reference whatever to Ulster ; in fact , it was definitely Southern Irish , and consisted of a rather poorly performed radio version of James Stephens ' novel The Crock of Gold . The Canadian Broadcasting Authorities had several months in which to arrange this programme and were thoroughly primed with the type of thing that was wanted , but the actual contents were not known until three days before the performance , i.e. , infinitely too late for any alterations.94 Right on cue came the letters of protest : The Northern Ireland Regional Station had a programme that savoured of that good old Ulster spirit , but I regret that the orchestra failed to depart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something more lively than Killeter Fair ' . Are these splendid reels and jigs not more appropriate on our festival and more descriptive of our happy 92 temperament ? When we went over to Canada we were treated to a fairy tale which seemed to come not from Ulster exiles but from the West coast of Ireland . The worst of all was the programme radiated from Dublin .. . Did the BBC know that the self-styled National Anthem , A Soldier 's Song ' , was going to be the opening piece for the Eire ' programme ? It is most repulsive to loyal Ulster to hear it , with Who Fears to Speak of ' 98 ' following immediately . Who is responsible for its radiation through the Belfast Station either here or in London ? 95 Marshall was not completely deterred by the experience . In 1939 he made another attempt to co-operate with Canada on the St Patrick 's Day programme : Very careful instructions were given to the Canadian Broadcasting authorities to ensure that Northern and not Southern Ireland was represented ? in fact it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ migrated to Canada some fifteen years ago should exchange greetings and a description of their present life with a family in Ulster . The Ulster portion of the programme was carried out to the letter , but the Canadian was a ludicrous travesty of what was intended , and consisted of some extremely vulgar back-chat followed by a series of personal messages to friends and relatives in Ulster from a number of people who were brought to the Toronto studio without any reference to Belfast whatsoever ? in fact , the occasion was merely utilised for gratuitous trans-Atlantic telephone calls from Toronto to Northern Ireland . Marshall concluded this report to the Board of Governors by observing , co-operation with Canada will no longer come within the scope of activities in the Northern Ireland region unless a very considerable change of heart comes over the broadcasting authorities in the Dominion ' .96 In the course of 1938 an opportunity occurred which enabled the Northern Ireland Region of the BBC to tie up its relationship with its nearest neighbour . Dr T. J. Kiernan , Director of Broadcasting of Radio Eireann , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saul , Co Down , in Northern Ireland , with his own equipment and commentator . He asked for the BBC 's agreement and o-operation . It seemed that this request provided an excellent opportunity to establish reciprocal arrangements for outside broadcasts in each other 's territories , and John Sutthery , Director of Programmes , travelled to Dublin to negotiate . From the BBC Northern Ireland 's point of view there were two advantages to be gained . In the first place , BBC gear , engineers and commentators 93 could in future operate in the twenty-six counties and secondly , under a gentleman 's agreement , each broadcasting organisation would keep the other informed of its programme intentions in the other 's area . Sutthery explained the first advantge in some detail to London : As you are aware , there are a number of events of first-class importance which take place in Eire each year and which are in most cases broadcast by Radio Eireann . The trouble is , however , that owing to this organisation 's shortage of money , equipment and experience , a relay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have no broadcast huts at all and work either in the open or from motor-cars . They have insufficient staff to send a programme man to an important OB and generally , proceedings are not at all what we would pass as up to the BBC standard . The Cork Grand Prix and the Phoenix Park Grand Prix Motor Races are both shows of absolutely first class importance , but are handled by commentators who have been rejected from here as unsuitable , and a system that we could not permit . The Dublin Horse Show is perhaps the most important event of its kind in the world , but is not very satisfactorily handled .. . We have been hoping for a long time that it might be possible to broadcast some of the major events in Eire with our own gear , engineers and commentators . This was obviously out of the question as things used to be , as we could not easily get a permit to take our gear into Eire and also we had so much to gain and they so much to lose ... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permit for customs clearance for the BBC . Ironically , the BBC had little to do iii return for there were no customs difficulties for Radio Eireann entering Northern Ireland . Marshall and Sutthery were acting beyond their powers in conducting these negotiations and the BBC in London was very annoyed.98 In the course of a fairly acid correspondence Sutthery revealed the significance of the other aspects of the negotiations : It is clearly understood between Kiernan and myself that no broadcast will take place in the other 's territory without the full permission of the resident director . You should , however , appreciate that it would need special steps taken by the Northern Ireland Government to prevent Kiernan broadcasting from Ulster , if he should choose ? which he will not ? to proceed in the face of the Northern Ireland Regional Director 's veto . I would like to assure you that the most thorough consultation with our 94 Government was made before these negotiations were proceeded with and that there are no difficulties to be anticipated in this quarter.98 This arrangement was allowed to stand by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1938 Marshall had manoeuvred himself into a position where he had to be consulted about all programmes produced by the BBC on Ireland and where effectively Radio Eireann could only operate in Northern Ireland with his permission . He was moving close to the position , which he achieved during the Second World War , where he could profoundly influence , if not dictate , BBC policy in and towards Ireland . The staff in Linenhall Street had three and a half years , after the Lisnagarvey transmitter opened , in which to put a regional policy into effect . During 1937 and 1938 , Denis Johnston wrote a string of features and plays which were designed to implement such a policy . These included Stentor a programme in celebration of the 200th anniversary of the Belfast News Letter ; Death at Newtownstewart which recounted the course of events in which the brutal murderer of a hank clerk was brought to trial in 1873 ; Weep for Polyphemus , an account of the domestic problems of Dean Swift ; The Parnell Commission , a dramatic reconstruction of the trial which exposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to damage Parnell ; The Birth of a Giant , a description of the building of a large ship in Harland and Wolff 's shipyard from drawing office to launching . When to these are added Lillibulero , Orpheus and his lute and Not one returns to tell , a most effective ghostly adventure ' , Johnston 's contribution in less than two years was striking . The Birth of a Giant involved a new dimension in broadcasting ; included in the programme were recordings made in the shipyard . These were made possible through the visit of a new BBC recording van from Britian . The reflection of the region through broadcasting had now become possible in a more realistic and spontaneous way . The recording van toured Northern Ireland in the summer of 1937 . It gathered material for a feature in the National Programme Series Summer over the British Isles . As a result , impressions of the famous Ould Lammas Fair at Ballycastle were heard all over the United kingdom . The first full-length programme made by the recording unit for the Northern Ireland Region was of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transmitted on 15 October 1937 . Unfortunately , the van had to return to Britain and Belfast did not get its own mobile unit until the middle of the war . 95 In the same autumn the Northern Ireland BBC executives made a determined drive to win the co-operation of their listeners . They wished to absorb and then give expression to Ulster culture ' . They were reported as wanting original Ulster airs , people with acting ability , not necessarily stage experience , ideas for features , programmes and radio discussions , and Ulster plays of all types suitable for radio ' .99 These were essential , they emphasised , if they were to succeed in carrying out their aim of establishing a closer relationship between the station and the listening public . The Belfast Directors had often in the past appealed for authors to come forward but this was a determined drive . They went on to organise competitions for short stories . An earnest of good intent was a scheme announced to preserve for all time the wealth of folk and traditional music of Northern Ireland ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Norman Hay , and gave him the task of co-ordinating a group of musicians who were to orchestrate the traditional music of the countryside ' . The team included Charles Brennan , Joan Trimble , Howard Ferguson and Redmond Friel . The question of what is an Ulster air is bound to arise , but it should be understood that there will be no attempt at invidious distinctions . Naturally , traditional music in Ulster is of all sorts and origins ; some of it will be found to have come from Scotland , some of it from the South of Ireland . The qualification , apart from intrinsic merit , of music coming within the scope of this work is not only its origin , but its adoption by the people of Ulster . ' The results of Hay 's work and that of his colleagues were broadcast from time to time in a series called Airs of Ulster . The whole scheme was regarded by the BBC as part of its function iii reflecting the life of the region to foster such work as the preservation of music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' oo In the autumn of 1938 the Northern Ireland Region launched an Ulster radio drama festival , intended as a retrospective review of plays which were typical of Ulster . The festival was carried by the London Region as well and for the sake of London listeners the Ulster dialect was toned down . Two plays a week were offered over a period of six weeks , including C. K. Ayre 's Wee Moiley Cow , and The Unlucky Baste ; Rutherford Mayne 's The Drone , George Shiels 's Insurance Money and Jack Louden 's The Ball turns once . At the press conference to launch the festival a reporter suggested that listeners might welcome a play such as Louis Walsh 's The Auction at 96 Killybuck , a fairly crude presentation of the clash between the Orange and the Green . He was told by a BBC executive that because of their religious and political touches such plays might perhaps cause offence to numerous people ' .1o1 In talks too the BBC studiously avoided controversy . The radio critic of the Northern Whig took Linenhall Street to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little eager to avoid controversy , a weakness for which I can see no excuse . Why this terror of offending someone , of hurting the feelings of some delicate suburbanite ? . . . Are we afraid of treading on someone 's toes ? People 's toes should not be so sensitive . My own beliefs and cherished opinions are constantly offended whenever I go to the cinema or to lectures , and whenever I read newspapers . Yet I and thousands like me do not go a-wailing to the authorities demanding that those with whom we disagree be silenced lest they do irreparable harm to our souls.102 It was , however , to take more than a decade before the BBC in Northern Ireland ' began to admit the possibility of debate . Even then , t he basic division in Northern Ireland 's society was not at first on the agenda . One initiative was taken in this period in the field of music that proved controversial in the long term . It occurred after the Directorship of Music in Belfast changed hands in 1937 , when Godfrey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new Director had a background in military music , having been Director of the BBC 's Military Band in London for the previous decade . He was widely and affectionately known as Bandy ' O'Donnell . When he arrived in Belfast , he made a strong commit meat to the development of music in the region . He stated that he strongly favoured the encouragement of native music and said he would devote particular attention to the work of promising Ulster composers . I understand , ' he said , that quite a lot has been done in the matter of research in folk music which may be made suitable material for an orchestra . It is essential , however , I believe , that local composers should follow the Northern Ireland folk tune idiom . ' 103 From the BBC 's own orchestra a player emerged who offered original orchestrated arrangements of Irish dance and song tunes . Henry McMullan , then the experienced Ulsterman on the BBC 's staff , recounted what happened : Bandy came to my office one day lid said , " You know David Curry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he calls Irish dance music and he wants me to audition it and see whether it would make a programme " . Bandy said he knew nothing about Irish dance music and therefore invited McMullan to come and hear it . McMullan did not know much either . I knew the ceili bands because we used them all the time . So I went up and talked to David and his group played a couple of things and when I was asked what I thought of them I said , " I like them and they are eminently saleable ' . McMullan added , when asked if they were genuine : They are sort of genuine . They are a rather sophisticated ceili band operation which I am quite sure will go down well in England . ' So began Irish Rhythms which were to prove the most successful programmes ever produced on radio in Northern Ireland . David Curry arranged and composed the music , conducting it himself for over thirty years . Irish Rhythms was relayed to Britain constantly and taken by broadcasting systems in Europe and elsewhere in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under a good deal of attack because , of course , it was suggested that it was n't representative of Northern Ireland . Various pressures were put on to get it stopped because it was giving a wrong impression of Northern Ireland and because it was claimed to belong to a " foreign culture " ' .104 It should be said that Curry was also attacked by the traditional musicians who maintained that his arrangements were a perversion of purity . The retirement of Godfrey Brown in 1937 marked the end of an era in the history of the BBC in Northern Ireland . He had worked tirelessly from 1924 to provide musical programmes and to build the BBC 's Orchestra . He had , through the Orchestra and through the Philharmonic Society , made an enormous individual contribution to the musical life of the region in the 1920s and 1930s . He was highly regarded by the BBC in London , and Reith in his diaries recorded an appreciation of him.105 The success of the Orchestra , judged by attendance at public concerts , was uneven during his time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later thirties to less frequent and less well-patronised functions , although occasionally , as , for example , when Elizabeth Schumann performed with the Orchestra , hundreds had to be turned away . The achievement of the BBC in music in this period did not go unchallenged . The music critic of the Belfast Telegraph , Rathcol ' ( the Ulster musician , Norman Hay ) , was a consistent critic of the Corporation 's activities and policies . He wrote from the point of 98 view of an u. d elitist . ' Music is no longer the cherished mistress of the connoisseur . It is now the handmaid of the million .. . It is the age of the wireless and the gramophone : is the world the better for it ? Is there a real growth of music among the millions ? ' ' Rathcol ' diagnosed the disadvantages of broadcast music as : ' Me imperfect , uncertain transmission . . . The eternal insistence on music without ceasing , which is breeding a race who hear without listening , or else who , listening , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nightly onslaught of trash . The slow but sure killing of home musicmaking .. . ' Rathcol ' again and again expressed a resentment : Are we going to go on accepting tamely all that these mightly pundits of superior English stock in the BBC devise for the good of our soul 's good ? ' Is Ulster sleeping ? ' asked an eminent literary man visiting Belfast St John Ervine ? a man whose reputation is almost worldwide and who , when invited to broadcast , had his script ruthlessly ' cut ' and tampered with . Is Ulster , indeed , sleeping ? lob ' They have blossomed forth , " Rathcol ' wrote four years later , in 1939 , as the self-appointed mentors of Ulster musicians . They have a lofty desire to propagate Ulster music , always provided that they have not merely a finger , but both hands in the making of the pie . Witness the present position of the Belfast Philharmonic Society , which , as I have already pointed out , is within the octopodous grip of the BBC even to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the choice of the music it performs . How long is Ulster going to stand for this dictatorshi ' Rathcol ' in his attacks on the BBC did at times reveal the details of negotiations which perhaps the BBC would not have wished to have made public . He endeavoured to show that the original sixpenny concerts in 1930 were a deliberate attempt to undercut alternative commercial arrangements . In 1939 he disclosed that when the BBC was asked by Belfast Corporation to continue its concerts in the l lister Hall it had insisted on a range of higher prices because the concerts had been losing money . The BBC , so ' Rathcol ' stated , had in any case suggested that ' it was desirable to cater for a wealthier class of audience , one official actually hinting that an audience of the evening-dress order of society ought to be cultivated ' . The Belfast Corporation refused to countenance either this suggestion or the 99 price rises . Rathcol ' then praised the retired Godfrey Brown for his efforts to provide an alternative series of concerts but alleged that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ players to perform with the alternative orchestra , it responded with a blank refusal ' . ' ? 8 Rathcol ' may not have been an unbiased observer but his critical appraisal of the BBC 's role needs to be taken into account alongside the positive , more appreciative assessments which were common.109 There was one field in which the pre-war BBC made little progress in Northern Ireland , that of schools ' broadcasting . In one of his last reports to the Board of Governors before the outbreak of war , the Regional Director tried to account for the failure . In the first instance he suggested that the reorganisation of the educational system subsequent to the establishment of Northern Ireland had impeded the introduction of the new medium . Then the reception of the programmes off air had not been good for some time . A weak signal came from Daventry and the early demonstrations of wireless in the classroom for teachers had been complete failures . The reputation established then had been hard to repair . Marshall offered his third reason : Northern Ireland , being a self-contained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always been more concerned with questions of politics and religion than anything else , as well as a strong predilection for everything pertaining to the six counties of which Northern Ireland is composed . Those , therefore , connected with education in the Province have always retorted to the Corporation 's suggestions about the use of wireless in schools that Ulster topics should be provided for the scholars , and that until this is done , little or no progress will be made . ' 110 Marshall had , during the late thirties , organised a number of demonstrations and conferences and these had , on the surface , seemed to go well . However , the number of schools in the region using broadcasts had scarcely reached one hundred by September 1939 . There was , perhaps , another reason which inhibited the advance of schools ' broadcasting in Northern Ireland . Laurence Lynch , a Catholic science teacher , had attended one of the BBC conferences and afterwards wrote in the Irish News a long critical article on his experience : Looking at the programmes listed for the coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include one on " The Succession of Life on Earth " , another on " Evidences of Evolution " , again another on " Causes of Evolution " and still another on " The Ancestors of 100 Man " ' . Mr Lynch wrote of ' this travesty of education ' and then launched into a diatribe against the theory of evolution which took up almost thirty inches in the newspaper 's columns . He concluded , .. it is obvious that the BBC has departed very far from the ABC in its apparent desire for good . In so doing it is making it impossible for all teachers to welcome its efforts to help in the work of education , and depriving particular schools of services to which they have a right . ' t " If such an attitude was prevalent , and it probably was , Catholic schools in Northern Ireland at the time were unlikely to become avid users of BBC broadcasts . Throughout 1939 the British Broadcasting Corporation was preparing its plans for what it would do on the outbreak of war . By the spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posts of those who were called up would be held open for them until their return ; those who volunteered for the armed forces would be similarly treated provided they requested it . All such BBC employees , conscripted or volunteers , would be entitled to have their service pay supplemented where necessary to bring their earnings up to the level of their BBC pay . As far as the BBC itself was concerned the war plan was to disperse the production centres so that they would be less likely to be attacked from the air . All transmitters were to be synchronised on two wavelengths ; if they remained transmitting independently on local regional wavelengths they would effectively provide enemy aircraft with distinctive radio beams by which they could plot their way to targets . This synchronisation was to have one immediate effect : regional broadcasting would end for the duration of the war . The Northern Ireland regional service would close , like other regional services . Another incidental consequence of the fact that enemy aircraft could use local transmitter signals in this way was that Radio Eireann would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the BBC picked up and relayed Radio Eireann over a consider-able portion of the British Isles during the early years of the war . The Irish government was not told of this arrangement for some time . In September 1939 war was declared . Almost the whole Northern Ireland Orchestra immediately joined up and other members of staff were transferred to England . On the last night of transmission , Henry McMullan , then Assistant Director of Programmes , remembered : I was in the little news studio in what we called ' the extension ' ? that part 101 which had been added to the original linen warehouse in 1934 and included the Regional Director 's office and a canteen . There was nobody in the building except me , the commissionaire and the engineers . The last broadcast consisted of a series of announcements . I remember the last of all being a request for anyone with nursing experience in Northern Ireland to register . This was , of course , because of what was thought to be the imminent threat of bombing . Good night ! Good bye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the war . ' I remember going down the stairs and getting into my car and that was the first time I had ever driven at night with the headlights almost completely blacked out . It was most eerie . I drove back home in a state of utter depression.112 In spite of the closedown , the building of the new Broadcasting House next door went on and was completed in 1941 . It was a firm indication that the BBC intended to return to regional broadcasting . For those very few who worked in the BBC in Northern Ireland before the Second World War and who were to experience life in the new Broadcasting House after it , the earlier period had some characteristics which clearly distinguished it from later times . The style of life in Linenhall Street was amateur , although in the studio the fact that all broadcasts were live and scripted imposed a rigid discipline on performance . It was a discipline to some extent welcome , for the programme staff was almost entirely English and Scottish and felt alien and insecure . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although somewhat inevitably they tended to support the Unionist regime because their existence in Ireland depended on it . The ethos of their programming was middle-class and Reithian in that they believed that the audience could be improved as well as entertained . The reliability and correctness of the BBC 's values was vouchsafed in 1933 by a young Church of Ireland cleric who was one day to become Archbishop of Dublin . The Reverend Alan Buchanan in a broadcast Sunday address , pleaded , . in the name of God , I ask the film producers if they are trying to destroy our modern civilization by the same habits and practices as wrought the downfall of Greece and Rome . If I have used the courtesy of the BBC to attack another interest I apologise sincerely . But this is not an attack . It is an appeal , I appeal to the cinema industry to produce programmes as wholesome and up-lifting as the BBC itself ... 113 The pre-war staff had good intentions and sought earnestly to give the best that local resources and budget constraints would allow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with this end in view . It should be remembered that there were few of them . In 1924 there was a Station Director and three assistants or producers . In 1939 there was a Regional Director and fifteen assistants . An assessment of what the Belfast staff achieved is available from an unusual source . In 1944 , Deasun O'Raghaille , a young Cork science graduate with an interest in radio , published a booklet entitled A Listener 's Opinion in Tralee , Co Kerry . He wrote of Belfast : Before the war this station was , in many ways , doing much more for Irish broadcasting than the stations on this side of the Border .. . The Belfast Station encouraged young Irish writers , which is more than Radio Eireann has done . They broadcast several series of Irish Tales ' , and in selecting these tales , they selected the stories on their merits alone , no matter what side of the Border they came from , and whether the writer had made a big name in writing or no . They introduced new ideas into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competent to say whether these changes were orthodox from the point of view of Irish music , but from the ordinary listener 's point of view they transformed what was becoming the monotonous beat and steady rhythm of Irish dance tunes into lively airs and sparkling melody . These Irish tunes as played in Belfast were called Irish Rhythms ' and became world famous . . . why should change in form be deplored ? Surely if the music be really alive it must change with the times . At any rate , Radio Eireann gave no sign they had seen any change .. . I could quote many other instances of the Belfast Station beating Radio Eireann at its own game , as it were , and making a better hand of serving the Irish public . For instance , some years ago a comparison drawn between the St Patrick 's Day features broadcast from both stations reflected anything but favourably on our own service ... 14 Deasun O'Raghaille may have been using the Belfast stick to beat the Dublin ass ? the subtitle of his booklet was Improvements needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street had a creditable record as an Irish station . Reflections of two who worked there are significant in many ways . Henry McMullan recalled in 1974 that broadcasting in Belfast before the war bore no resemblance to life as we live it now in the BBC . It was a question of somebody putting their head around the door and saying " The Orchestra is on the air in two minutes and we ca n't find the announcer " . I would hastily don my dinner jacket and 103 rush up to the studio ? I mean literally people wore dinner jackets in case somebody arrived in a dinner jacket and one would appear rude if one was n't in one too . We all kept dinner jackets in Linenhall Street . When I say " all " , there were n't many of us. ' " s Ursula Eason , a young Londoner who came in 1932 to run Children 's Hour , remembered in 1983 : It never occurred to me that I might not be welcome , provided I could do the job . I did get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English and my accent , saying they could n't understand me and why did n't I speak plain English . But what I felt was very wrong was that I should pretend and try to put on a local accent . I would use local words , like throughother ' and stunner ' . I was aware that quite a lot of the stuff we were doing was quite outside the local audience and that we must draw more material from the Province but it was quite hard to find writers . . . I was very keen to do a lot of folklore programmes , traditional stories and the great sagas . I remember doing a three-part drama on Cuchulainn . I would have liked to have done more . Of course , what we did n't do in Children 's Hour were stories about the present day in Ulster . That was to come after the War.116 A notable characteristic of pre-war broadcasting was that every word spoken over the air had to be scripted , including of course Children 's Hour . Ursula Eason commented on this tyranny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Yes , I would entirely agree that it was a tyranny now . I would not have at the time because I was nervous . I think I was more nervous because I was not a native of the place . I had to understand the difficulties , the prejudices and the divisions from the outside . For an outsider it was extremely difficult . So that the script to me was a lifeline , a safety piece . But what a lot of poor broadcasting , actual performances , as a result.117 Henry McMullan felt that the prescribed use of scripts was only a tyranny for some : I think it was absolutely true in case of somebody who was n't used to script reading . Of course most of our actors ? you have to accept that there was a group of actors in Northern Ireland who appeared a great deal , possibly too frequently , but they were the best of the acting talent ? they became completely acclimatised . . . The most important thing about broadcasting then was that it was live . I always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recording into televison a bit of flash went out of the performance ... 118 104 McMullan , who became Head of Programmes in 1945 , felt on his return from war service that regional broadcasting had to change from what it had been before the war . He put it this way in 1974 : F here was a feeling among the people I worked with then that we must stop sitting on one side of the fence and sit on top of the fence and get everybody to play with us. ' 119 105 4 The War Years and After After closedown on 3 September 1939 Linenhall Street was a fairly empty place . The Regional Director , two programme staff , an administrator and studio engineers remained in and around the premises . The programme people were Ursula Eason , who had just been made acting Programme Director having been assistant , or producer , in charge of Children 's Hour since 1932 , and James Mageean , drama assistant . As they were the only producers permanently in Belfast until the end of the war , the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were none . From September until the New Year there was no production whatsoever . The ostensible reason why Belfast was not asked to contribute to either the Home or Forces Programmes was that the lines to Britain were ' chancey ' .1 The Post Office could not make them available with any certainty because of the war . The radio link had ceased to exist once all BBC transmitters were synchronised . Contact with the rest of the system had to be by telephone or post . When the Northern Ireland Government wished to have announcements made over the air to the population of the region , the text had to be telephoned to Glasgow and read out from the studios there . Ursula Eason recalled : One felt totally isolated . I was not used to being Programme Director . I had done Children 's Hour and that was all , apart from an occasional evening programme . What should I do ? How could I prepare for when we would start again ? Not knowing if the War itself would start or what would happen , I wasted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same way . We were not able to record or we might have recorded ; i few plays and had them on ice for when they were wanted . Our link was entirely with the lines and we had n't got any lines . . . We just followed the news , read the monitoring reports and tried to keep in touch . I felt terribly sorry that people in Northern Ireland could n't be reflected in any kind of way . Not that very much was happening here . Everything was waiting , waiting ... 2 106 It is difficult to say why Belfast was allowed to continue as a production centre . Marshall , the Regional Director , had himself recommended that it should cease to be so and that he himself be left on his own to look after the interests of the Corporation . He could oversee the building of the new Broadcasting House and maintain liaison with the Northern Ireland Government . London clearly dithered for some time about what to do . By December it had become apparent , however , that the Post Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twice a week provided three weeks ' notice was given . There was , however , a real reluctance in Head Office to involve Belfast in programming . ' There is a good deal of programme policy mixed up with the line restrictions in programmes from Northern Ireland , ' wrote a BBC executive , ' so I would be careful how much . . . you pass back to Northern Ireland . ' When it was discovered that lines would be available , he added , ' I learned that Assistant Controller ( Programmes ) was rather upset because he had hoped that the line situation would eliminate Belfast ! ... ' 3 Now that it was possible to begin production again , talks , outside broadcasts and only a very occasional studio programme were all that could be attempted . Ursula Eason reflected years later , it was quite hard to get material accepted because some of it was not of a very good standard and because we were a very small region . It was really only news that was wanted . ' The tiny staff , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ensure that orthern Ireland was reflected on the Home and Forces rogrammes . ' People across the water in Britain simply did not know orthern Ireland , unlike Southern Ireland which they knew was cutral. ' a It was not surprising , therefore , that one of the first programmes from Belfast was a talk on ' Ulster 's Part in the War ' , 1% en by the Prime Minister , Lord Craigavon.5 Production gradually picked up and during the three weeks from 3 to 23 March 1940 the BeIfast studios produced the following : 107 1 Contribution to Children 's Hour lasting 30 minutes ( Home ) 1 Irish Rhythms ( Forces ) The last three were studio based . Irish Rhythms was provided by David Curry who kept an orchestra going through most of the war and was given frequent engagements by the BBC . Thus the Irish Rhythms Orchestra was to be a participant in the St Patrick 's Day programme which was offered to Head Office as early as January . Ursula Eason 's detailed proposals were accepted without enthusiasm.6 The eventual broadcast was castigated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the views he expressed were shared by BBC executives : Gallumfry ' . . . the St Patrick 's Day programme from Northern Ireland , certainly lived up to its title , which means a mixture . A set dance and a reel , played by the Irish Rhythm Orchestra , an inconclusive little playlet , a contralto solo , and a choral hymn by the Queen 's Island Male Voice Choir were flung at the listener in a rather take-it-or-leave-it ' fashion , no attempt being made to bind the mixture together . The fact that the programme began five minutes late owing to the exuberances of The Dream of Gerontius did not prevent it ending a minute or two before its time , so that sympathy with the producer on that count proved unnecessary . Altogether one felt that Northern Ireland had not wasted much effort on the broadcast .. The fact that the programme had been made in the Belfast studios , however , served an unexpected purpose . It meant that the studios were not available when Radio Eireann sought to hire them to make a St @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. Marshall , the Regional Director , had an immediate excuse for refusing the request of his opposite number in Dublin , Dr T. J. Kiernan , but he was determined not to co-operate in any case . Since the outbreak of war relations between Northern Ireland and Eire had steadily deteriorated . The Unionist Government regarded the south 's policy of neutrality as treacherous and favoured non-cooperation with the regime . The British Government did not share this Unionist view ; on the contrary , it endeavoured to encourage good relations . Its purpose was to secure an accommodation with Dublin or to persuade the Irish Government to enter the war . The British Government desperately needed the naval bases in Eire which it had handed over to de Valera as a gesture of friendship in 19 ; S. 108 ' The Treaty Ports ' of Cobh and Lough Swilly would enable it to conduct the war in the Atlantic much more effectively . So when the Dominions Office , which was responsible for conducting the British Government 's relations with Eire , learned of 1 ) r Kiernan 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keen that the BBC should accommodate him . Marshall , who took his line from Stormont , obstructed . Consultation inside the BBC went as high as the Director General who let it be known that he did not wish any pressure to be brought to bear on Mr Marshall and that the studios are not to be lent to Kiernan ( whatever the Dominions Office ay say ) unless Mr Marshall himself changed his mind about it . ' 8 By his time Kiernan had made a second request . He would like studio facilities at any time to suit Belfast 's convenience ' for a broadcast crsion of a parlour game . Marshall 's interpretation of this inquiry was that Kiernan wanted studio space for a team of about ten or more people who would undoubtedly be Irish Nationalists who would be selected by Eire ' . This request could not be dismissed as the first had been on the grounds that the facilities were not available . he Home Office was consulted ; it contacted the Home Department in Northern Ireland and got a negative answer , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deal with Kiernan on a friendly informal basis . He was told that in turning down Kiernan 's request , he should not involve either the Home Office or the Dominions Office , but say that he felt obliged to consult the Northern Ireland authorities and that , as a result , he did not feel able to accept responsibility for arranging such a broadcast in these times . gain , it was stressed that it was undesirable for Marshall to present the case as if he had had special orders from the Government ruling out such broadcasts. ) ' 10 So Marshall telephoned Kiernan and mpletely mystified him , as he gave no hint that the Northern Ireland Ministry of Home Affairs was behind the refusal . Marshall had no sooner dealt with this than he got a request from ithin the BBC for studio facilities on St Patrick 's Day . The Overseas service wished Sean O'Faolain , the Cork author , to give a talk from Ilast . Marshall could not accede to the request , having turned awn Radio Eireann . In order to be consistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a studio in Britain ; this O'Faolain d , although it was at very short notice . Marshall was very annoyed with the Overseas Service over the cident and seized the lateness and inopportuneness of the request 109 to ask for a new and more precise version of the ruling which had been given in 1937 that he should be consulted in all cases where BBC departments were considering programmes on Ireland . He recalled once again the case of the singing of The Soldier 's Song ' which he had brought up then and he cited two recent instances of provocative ' statements in news bulletins . He admitted these would probably seem childish to the average Englishman , but in this Region are looked upon as of paramount importance ' . He pointed out , we live on the spot and are conversant with the problems peculiar to Ireland ? problems which can not be understood by anyone living across the water ' . Marshall came to the point : . . what I am anxious to ensure is prior consultation , that is , reference to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact , any plans put in hand which might either directly or indirectly impinge on Northern Ireland and thus cause friction which , particularly at the present juncture , might result from apparently trifling causes . The activities of certain lawless people are giving the Government of Northern Ireland a great deal of anxiety , and we have to exercise the greatest possible care to avoid saying or doing anything which might add to its difficulties . The present situation may prove to be more serious than the average person thinks , and I would therefore urge that I be kept informed in advance about any projected contacts with Eire or programmes dealing with it ... " Marshall 's appeal was received sympathetically and the Controller of Programmes issued the following memo to all senior members of BBC staff : RELATIONS BETWEEN EIRE AND NORTHERN IRELAND 19 April 1940 Relations between Eire and Northern Ireland are at the moment extremely delicate , and without going into all the political complications , 1 should like you and members of your staff to realise that they must be careful about ( a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and ( b ) any reference in their own programmes to either country . The following should be adopted as working rules : I No commitment for a broadcast from Northern Ireland should be entered into without prior reference to Northern Ireland Director . 2 No commitment for a broadcast from Eire should be entered into except through Assistant Controller Operator , who will be responsible for prior consultation with Northern Ireland Director . 110 .3 No programme dealing with either country should be prepared without reference to Northern Ireland Director . 4 Reference to either country in news bulletins and elsewhere should be carefully watched . ' Marshall had now found a role and significance for himself . He may have had nothing to do from the outbreak of war until January 940 , and very little to do from then until April , but from that month forward he was forever busy . He expected to be kept informed of all BBC programmes which had anything whatsoever to do with Ireland . In case he was not informed he listened assiduously to his radio and if he missed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of view he could always be told about it by one of the Cabinet Ministers whom he met in the Ulster Club , where he lunched every day . In the meantime , the Dominions Office was seriously looking into the question of improving relations with Eire . It asked the BBC if Nazi broadcasts to Ireland could be jammed and if it was known w many people in Eire listened to BBC broadcasts . The Dominions Office wondered if items of special Irish or Catholic interest might be ressed in order to win a greater audience . It made one inquiry which directly concerned Belfast . It was forwarded to Marshall . Whether it would be practicable to introduce a Gaelic period into the programmes broadcast from the Belfast Station , ostensibly for the benefit of Gaelic speaking people in Northern Ireland and among the Irish population of English and Scottish cities . " Marshall replied : I do not quite understand what the Dominions Office mean by the introduction of a Gaelic period into the programmes broadcast from the Belfast station , because they ought to know by this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Belfast . Quite apart from that , however , you might point out that there are no Gaelic speakers in Northern Ireland , by Inch I assume is meant Erse or Irish , and the Scottish items in Gaelic rtainly fall on deaf ears as far as this area is concerned . From another point of view , however , it would he most unwise to introduce the Irish language into programmes from the transmitter in orthern Ireland , as this would certainly bring a great deal of criticism ow listeners in this Region . Surely all items in Irish should be reserved for Athlone.14 Soon after , the war began to go very badly for Britain on the Conntinent and on the Atlantic . Greater efforts were needed to entice Eire into the war ; de Valera was even offered the end of partition as the price of his involvement . The Northern Ireland Government was not , of course , party to these negotiations . The Ministry charged with the task of conducting propaganda during the war was the Ministry of Information and although its relationship with the BBC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct the BBC to carry out its policies . The Ministry of Information , in pursuit of the Government 's Irish objectives , consequently issued the following directive to the BBC : It is generally inadvisable to engage in controversy or propaganda about the Partition of Ireland . If , however , there is important Irish news which makes it inevitable that the question will be raised , the point to he consistently made is that Partition is a problem for the Irish themselves to solve : the British Government would be ready to accept any agreement reached by the different sections of the Irish people . In other words , the agitation against the British Government and people on this point is made at the wrong address.15 As the British Government pressed for a policy of rapprochement with the Irish Government and people to be expressed in part through broadcasting , Marshall found himself in a position to frustrate its endeavours . He shared the view of the Northern Ireland Government that the British Government 's policy amounted to appeasement . He was determined that nothing in programmes oil the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northern Ireland Government or the unionist majority and as consequence he , in effect , operated on their behalf . Marshall had the power and interfered all the time in program plans and scripts with a view to altering or suppressing them in t Northern Ireland interest . When programme makers failed to folio the required procedures he alerted the Controller of Programmes , for instance , in July 1940 , when he received a request to book Jam McCafferty , a well-known singer from Derry who had given ma performances from the Belfast studios before the war . McCaffe had , in fact , already been approached by a producer and asked submit a list of songs he would be prepared to sing . Marshall refused to do anything because he had not been consulted about the inten programme . He pointed out to the Controller that McCafferty h already been used by the same producer earlier in the year with ( his knowledge . As you are well aware it is not only the question programmes , but also the artistes into whose antecedents we ha 112 now to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credentials are in order , this does not absolve compilers of programmes from consulting me in advance . ' 16 Marshall requested that programme staff be reminded of the need for prior consultation with him . Within a short time , however , Marshall , with a certain air of triumph , was able to inform Head Office that henceforth travel permits would not be issued to artistes resident in Northern Ireland and this ruling was absolutely rigid ' .17 Later in the year , in November 1940 , two instances of programmes concerned with Ireland which gave rise to controversy permitted Marshall to intervene and strengthen his hand . The political commentator , Commander Stephen King-Hall , gave a talk on Children 's Hour about the combined defence of both parts of partitioned Ireland . His observations were not far removed from the concepts which were being aired in Whitehall at the time . His roadcast provoked a strong reaction in Belfast : there were letters in the papers and the Northern Ireland Government made presentations in Whitehall and complained to the BBC 's Director General . The Controller of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had not been consulted , that it was none of his business as King-Hall 's talk was a news talk . Marshall fought back , quoting the Controller 's circular to programme staff : orthern Ireland Director should be consulted in advance on any /erence whatsoever to Ireland in our programmes . ' He pointed out at already earlier in the year he had asked that news talks about land should be referred to him because of an unfortunate news k to schools on Irish affairs which offended the Nationalist party here . . . I would submit with respect that I am in a better position to judge of the effect of such a talk in the region , than either an cutive in the Talks Department or certain people in the Ministry Information , and the fact remains that the talk did give grave nce to the Northern Ireland Government , as well as to many other people . ' 18 At the same time as the King-Hall controversy was going on , her arose . It was prompted by a programme entitled Music from given by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Northern Ireland . Marshall had not , of course , informed about the programme , so he tackled the producer : Actally I know that it is difficult for you and others to appreciate the man for such consultation but , even in a programme of straight music , 113 the touchiness of people in Ireland is such that we frequently have to delete songs and other musical items from our programmes , and in fact , it is a constant worry to us here to have to spend so much time on such an apparently trivial matter . Such songs as , for example , The Minstrel Boy ' offend certain sections of the public , while The Boyne Water ' offends another and these are two examples out of many.19 Marshall was very much aware that tire 's neutrality had heightened unionist sensitivities and sectarian attitudes generally . In December , the Controller of Programmes backed down and issued a directive , No. 47 , to all programme staff that they must consult Marshall on all Irish programme matters . He pointed out that this included last-minute topical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' , 2o It would not have been surprising had those who made programmes in London and elsewhere felt increasingly , as they were to in somewhat similar circumstances after the war , that programmes on Ireland or referring to Ireland in any way were simply not worth the trouble . The BBC was , however , under strong pressure from the Ministry of Information to produce programmes designed to encourage listening in Eire . The Ministry of Information began to push the matter . Will you consider whether there is anything the BBC can do which it is not now doing to attract Irish listeners , i.e. Eire listeners . Both this Ministry and the Dominions Office are anxious that as many Southern Irish people as possible should be led to listen to British programmes , and particularly British bulletins , ' wrote the Director of the Ministry 's Broadcasting Division to the Controller of Pro grammes , BBC.21 Marshall was duly asked for suggestions ; his reply was totally negative . The Controller felt that the BBC would have to do better than that but the programme hoards failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put forward was ultimately to be acted on . It was felt that an Irish programme close to a news bulletin might attract Irish listeners and hold them for the bulletin.22 In January 1941 the Ministry for Information indicated its determination that the BBC programmes for St Patrick 's Day should be of real worth and should appeal to all Irishmen.23 Ursula Eason , unknowingly , offered a similar Northern Ireland based programme to the one so poorly received in the previous year . It was not what Head Office had in mind . Marshall , however , held out : Any St Patrick 's Day feature in the Home and Overseas programmes should be confined to Northern Ireland from which we could present 114 something appropriate to the occasion , but not along the lines suggested by the MOI . If Eire must be represented then the programme should , I suggest , be taken from Dublin , where I assume a special St Patrick 's Day programme is being arranged , but there again we must have the script in advance . ' 24 What was eventually proposed was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Empire Theatre in Belfast where Jimmy O'Dea , the Dublin comedian , was appearing , and from the Abbey Theatre in Dublin where the microphone would pick up the final act of an Ulster play which was being performed there . Before it was even broadcast , this joint programme was bitterly attacked in Northern Ireland . Under the title , More Appeasement ' , the Northern Whig devoted a leader to it : We invite the attention of our readers to the curious programme for St Patrick 's Day which has specially been arranged by the BBC . It is to consist of a joint entertainment from Eire and Northern Ireland and will ' ignore the political frontier . There is no sort of hint that Ulster is fighting side by side in the War against Germany and Italy while Eire is nominally neutral , but is actually aiding the Empire 's foes in a number of ways .. . The pretence is that Ireland is united , that Eire is still part of the British Empire , that in fact all might be well were it not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit of Munich all over again ... 25 The Northern Ireland Government was protesting behind the : ones about shaking hands with murder ' .26 On the night , the timing the programme went wrong : in Belfast , the microphone picked up n unsuitable sequence by arriving too early at the Empire Theatre nd in Dublin it came up during the interval with the pit orchestra laying some execrable music . Fortunately the programme was ved from complete disaster by other items . Marshall was not put It , remarking that we did not wish to collaborate with Eire at I ' .27 The Irish Times radio critic was quite enthusiastic but that ay have been more for political than artistic reasons.28 The negotiations for this programme , especially those in Dublin , ad been carried out for the BBC by Denis Johnston , the Dublin laywright who had joined the Corporation in 1937 . Johnston had en sent to Dublin in July 1940 to explore the possibility of roviding talks from there for the BBC 's Overseas Service . He had cis set a considerable task because he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Radio Eireann to provide facilities and n to get the scripts passed by the Eire censors , by Marshall in 115 Northern Ireland and by the British censors . He was constantly under Marshall 's surveillance because Belfast was meant to be his base . Johnston knew Marshall of old from his period in 1937 and 1938 when he was features writer for the Northern Ireland Region . Since that time he had been with BBC Television until the War closed it down and thereafter had been the BBC 's liaison officer with broadcasters from the United States stationed in Britain . Although he had to censor their despatches , he was popular with them and in fact , on being sent to Dublin , he was invited to prepare talks from there for the US radio networks . In February 1941 a meeting took place in London at the Ministry of Information attended by top Ministry of Information officials and BBC executives , with Denis Johnston present . The Ministry 's policy of addressing programmes to Eire and Eire citizens was discussed . It was felt that if , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Northern Ireland they would quite frequently conflict with the wishes of the Northern Ireland Government , whose wishes the Northern Ireland Director is bound to consider . The develop ment of programmes for Irish listeners from London would he considerably simplified if it could be divorced from considerations of Northern Ireland policy . ' It was concluded that a Ministry ruling to this effect should be obtained before there was a commitment to Irish programmes on any scale.29 It had become quite clear that the Ministry of Information 's view was not that of the Northern Ireland Government and that reference to Marshall in Belfast was not desirable.30 Marshall was somewhat alarmed.31 The Ministry of Information began to press even more determinedly for programmes for Eire , and it was leaked to the BB that a directive was on the way.32 Denis Johnston 's role and advice were considered essential . It was also made clear that if the BB needed Irish speakers and artistes for programmes , travel restriction would be removed for them . Johnston was pushing ahead with the arrangements for his ow talks from Dublin and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aimed at fulfilling the Ministry Information 's policy objectives . Inside the BBC another Dublin ma Lynton Fletcher , also produced an elaborate memorandum similar suggestions.33 Marshall became aware that things we happening in which he had no part , so he wrote to the Controller Programmes , copying the letter to the Director General , You wt recall that it was agreed that , before anything of this sort was don 116 I was to be fully informed of the proposals and given an opportunity of consulting the Northern Ireland Government in order to discover their general attitude to the scheme . ' 34 Marshall was , however , still kept in the dark . The expected directive from the Ministry of Information that programmes for Eire must be provided had arrived . At the same time Belfast was administered a severe snub . Ursula ason had made strong representations that there should be a special . Ilk to mark the twentieth anniversary of Northern Ireland 's foundation with the new Prime Minister , J. M. Andrews , as speaker . 1 he proposal was firmly rejected . Comments behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not think in these days we want to stress the tragic division in Ireland itself ' and I 'm inclined to leave the Ulster ? Eire stew alone for the minute ' .35 The discussions within the BBC ranged over a variety of formats for a regular Irish programme . Some advocated a magazine-type programme which would include serious informational items ; others favoured pure entertainment . When the Northern Ireland Prime Minister learned that the argument was running in favour of the former and that its title would likely be Irish Magazine , he wrote immediately to the Director General : I have no very precise information as to the scope of the new programme , hilt it seems to me that the term Irish ' implies that the material will cover both Ulster and Eire , and I am reinforced in this by information which I have received that Mr P. Whelan has called at our Ulster Office in London and asked for our co-operation and to be supplied with Northern Ireland material . I understand that references to Ulster Regiments are to he included in the programme and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland ' , both North and South , and Irishmen everywhere , in the war effort , by telling them and the world how Irishmen are helping in the present struggle . This , in my view , would be an insidious form of propaganda which would entirely misrepresent the position of Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom and would slur over the neutral and most unhelpful attitude which Eire has taken up during the war . I feel sure that , if I am correctly informed of the position , you would not approve of any such proposal , and I feel strongly that steps should be taken to put a stop to propaganda of this character in whatever quarter it may originate . Andrews added in his own handwriting , Why not leave Eire " to nigh her lonely furrow " ? ' 36 // Marshall followed this up with a letter to the Director General which concluded : The Prime Minister did not wish to go over our head direct to the British Government but , if we can honestly say that the matter is one which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is for the Ministry of Information to decide , then I think that we should make that clear to the Northern Ireland Government , who could then take further steps , if they wish to do so.37 The Director General , Ogilvie , who , as a previous ViceChancellor of Queen 's University , was very familiar with the local scene , replied to the Northern Ireland Prime Minister , saying that the BBC had on reflection decided to confine the programme to material which was fundamentally of Eire interest . You ask in your letter : " Why not leave Eire to plough her lone furrow ? " We have long felt , however , that we ought to concern ourselves , not so much with Eire , as with those loyal men and women , tens of thousands of them apparently , who , leaving Eire , have joined His Majesty 's forces here and elsewhere in the Empire have thrown their lot ? plough-teams , lives and all ? with our common cause . ' 38 Andrews came back : My opinion , for what it is worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the War and refuses even to lend the Ports , she should be left alone . I an , speaking of the Empire 's interest , for I am firmly of the opinion that a policy of appeasement which has never succeeded with Eire never will succeed and that it is only through strength that she will be got to change her ways.39 Andrews clearly persuaded Marshall to add a further gloss in a memo to the Director General . Marshall said that the Prime Minister hoped the programme would be clearly signposted as being for those members of the Forces whose homes were in tire and that that did not mean the people of Eire as a whole . ' Marshall went on : I feel that he is perfectly logical in this respect , but that it will be extremely difficult to devise a programme limited in this way , and perhaps therefore it might be better to abandon the project entirely rather than to attempt what may prove to be impossible . I certainly agree with the PM that a policy of appeasement is quite useless with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Programmes ? when it was originally mooted that a programme of this sort would have no effect in helping to achieve the results which apparently the Ministry of Information have in view.40 118 The BBC pressed ahead , having now decided that the Irish programme would have a variety entertainment format . Participants who were suggested were John MacCormack , Jimmy O'Dea , Barbara Mullen ? later to be of Dr Finlay 's Casebook fame ? and Delia Murphy . Jimmy O'Dea and Harry O'Donovan were anxious to take part . O'Donovan was to script and Joe Linnane was to compere , besides helping with the production . The programmes were to be made in the BBC 's wartime production centre in Bangor , North Wales . Irish Half Hour , for that was to be its title , was carefully sold to official Irish circles in advance . John Betjeman , then serving as British Cultural and Press Attache in Dublin , provided the definition of the purpose of the programmes : it was a series which would keep alive among soldiers serving away from home the sense of Irish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United Kingdom 's Representative in Eire , Sir John Maffey , much approved of the project . The Radio Eireann authorities , although autious , were enthusiastic and were anxious to be as helpful as ossible . Theatrical circles in Dublin were keen because for them the uid pro quo was that British artistes were to be allowed to travel to ire for stage appearances for the first time since the war began . ' I'he producer , Francis Worsley , wished to include a few words of rse , which would be enormously appreciated in some quarters ' .42 c also wanted to know if Delia Murphy was persona grata , it being amoured that she and her husband , Dr T. J. Kiernan , now transferred from the Directorship of Radio Eireann , were pro-German . The Controller of Programmes referred these matters to Marshall in Belfast who immediately consulted the Prime Minister . Andrews replied to Marshall : In the first place , I can not understand what is the underlying aim to be achieved by broadcasts on the lines suggested and particularly by including in them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I have no hesitation in saying that there would be considerable resentment in Northern Ireland if Erse were spoken during c broadcasts . It occurs to me also to mention that , as I understand these rogrammes are intended for loyal Irishmen in the British Forces , I can not why greetings should be given in a language which is so little understood . Secondly , I am satisfied that our people generally would take the congest possible exception to the inclusion in any of these broadcasts of lady alleged to be pro-German in her sympathies . 119 My view is that the Ministry of Information 's aim should be to endeavour to produce a public feeling in Eire in favour of the Allied cause as opposed to the present anti-British attitude . I feel that the policy which the Ministry now seems to be adopting will he taken as weakness and to mean that Britain recognises that Eire is justified in maintaining her policy of independence and of opposition to the British Empire . I hope that the Ministry will reconsider the whole position.43 As a consequence , Irish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take part . However , the BBC paid no attention to the suggestion that it should reconsider the whole position . Irish Half Hour went on the air , and Marshall kept a close eye on it , with scripts sent to him in advance . He began by criticising the signature tune on the grounds that the use of " the Minstrel Boy " is not universally approved of in Northern Ireland ' . In January 1942 one of the early scripts did not reach him before transmission and he immediately complained to the Controller of Programmes : ... I am sorry I did not see it in advance as , had I done so , I should have certainly deleted the compere 's words at the beginning , It 's all yours Ireland ' . It was agreed , as you know , that Northern Ireland should be excluded , but to refer to Eire as Ireland is entirely wrong and gives the very impression in the North which we wish to avoid . Apart from this , however , several people have complained recently that the programme is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and only last week the Prime Minister wrote to me to the same effect . Eire is the official name of the twenty-six counties and I think that as the programme is intended for loyalists in the British Forces whose homes are in Eire and not in Northern Ireland , it should be given the correct title.44 The Controller of Programmes brought Marshall 's complaints to the Control Board and then wrote to the Irish Half Hour producer : ... it was agreed that we could continue to use the adjective Irish ' , but must drop the word Ireland ' and substitute Eire ' . I imagine , therefore , that you will drop such references altogether , as Eire is scarcely a romantic word and does not bring tears to the eyes like the mention of ould Ireland ' . Of course , you need not edit songs about shamrocks and little bits of heaven , which may have the word Ireland in them.45 Marshall was not satisfied and kept returning to the demand that it be called Eire Half Hour ' and not Irish Half Hour . Irish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlasted the War . When it had to be dropped for a short time in February and March 1942 , because Jimmy O'Dea was not available , Sir John Maffey , the 120                     