@@773531

txt Introduction To deal properly with the influence new information technologies could have on the learning of scientific and technological concepts , the Working Group had to consider not only the learning of concepts , but also the learning of : procedures ( skills and processes ) by which concepts are built ; facts ( empirical data ) which the concepts help to organize ; and values , according to which the concepts , procedures , and facts are evaluated . This report deals not only with learning about established theories and existing technology but also with learning the processes of theory-building and design . ISSUES IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION Science and technology have affected every aspect of our lives and have become critical components of a modern education in both developed and developing countries . We need well-educated citizens not only to continue scientific and technological activity , but to understand , evaluate , and direct that activity . Rapid development has created new educational issues and left old issues unresolved . Some of the issues that technology might help to resolve are described in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning their secondary school programmes . Obtaining the best balance of courses in science , technology and other subjects is not always possible , given the separate requirements of vocational and academic programmes . While some students are very successful at mastering the concepts , facts , and procedures taught in secondary school science , others experience frustration and lack of success . Motivation and interest vary widely among students . Not all are willing to make the ' sustained effort to understand scientific concepts and to develop skills in reasoning , problemsolving , and experimentation . In subtle ways , education often works better for boys than for girls . This is particularly the case in science and mathematics . Lower participation rates of girls in technological studies , science , and mathematics is of great concern . Issues Concerning Teachers Ongoing professional development is needed to help teachers deal with rapid changes in subject matter , instrumentation , and experimental technique , and to deal with changes in student attitudes and societal values . Furthermore , in some countries such as the USA , there arc shortages of well-qualified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide a full programme of courses offered by specialists in each field . The careful development of concepts and processes is a great challenge for teachers . Teachers must not only explain concepts well , but must help students bridge the gap between their own theories about nature and the theories they are taught . 1ci Teachers wishing to change the content of their courses or to increase the emphasis on ; oncepts and processes sometimes meet with opposition from students who simply want to now the facts or from colleagues who will have to teach the students in the following year . For example , at the end of a year in which extensive use had been made of computers , a student asked his teacher , " Will we be allowed to think like this next year ? " Curriculum Issues Because science and technology are progressing rapidly on many fronts , it is difficult for school courses to reflect current developments . It will not be enough to continue to revise curricula every five to ten years . More flexibility is needed in curriculum development and implementation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results to teaching concepts , processes , and values . Giving students the opportunity to articulate and test their own theories , to create their own designs , and to work individually or in small groups at their own pace is commonly accepted as an effective mode of learning in science and technology . Accommodating this form of individualization creates major problems in the organisation of instruction and facilities . The separation of technology from science in education is ingrained in public schooling by the separation of academic and technical streams at the secondary level . Few students in the academic stream take technical courses either because there is no room in the programme of elective courses , or the students view the courses as intellectually and socially unattractive . The same separation exists in teacher education programmes . Implementation Issues It is desirable not only that students of science and technology work with ideas froth both those fields but that they use the tools of science and technology in the same way professionals do . Upgrading facilities and equipment is a complex problem . Schools are expected to provide resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy to use , motivating , and up to date . It is hoped that the large-scale introduction of the new information technologies will help meet these severe constraints . THE POSSIBILITIES AFFORDED BY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES We are now in the Information Age . A debate has been going on for a quarter of century on how the tools of that age should be used to address the problems of education . Extensive use is made of computers for educational administration and for instruction in specialized areas such as business studies and computer science . The cost-effectiveness of computers for training in business and industry has been proven , but it is still far too early t0 assess the cost-effectiveness of computer instruction in the public schools . The benefits of using information technologies appear to be non-economic . The computer offers possibilities for greater flexibility in the curriculum , for keeping courses up to date , for increased individualization , for improved motivation , for gaining a deeper understanding of the concepts and processes of science , and for developing the self-esteem of students . There are now many examples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science and technology . The following examples provide a quick tour ; although there are other examples of high quality courseware in Canada , the United Kingdom and Japan , among other places : ? For young children , the series Mademoiselle Merveille ( Canada ) introduces the basic concepts of the world around them ; - For elementary schools , The Voyage of the Mimi ( United States ) develops similar concepts using a widely varied environment ( microcomputer , film , book ) . A range of microworlds is available for explaining various simple concepts ; - For secondary schools , a best-seller like Rocky 's Boots ( United States ) is an effective method of teaching the somewhat complex concepts of logic circuits ; other courseware exploits the possibilities of databases or certain educational games , such as People Pyramid and Dirigible in Australia and other interesting examples in the United Kingdom and France . The programming language LOGO is widely known and has been used as a learning environment in many elementary and a very few secondary schools , particularly in relation to mathematics and problem-solving and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher education , the very successful Physics Courses of the Open University ( United Kingdom ) and the Educational Technology Center at the University of California , Irvine ( United States ) use tutorials , exercises , problem-solving activities and a wide range of simulations . They are now becoming available on microcom-puters ; - In the laboratory and workshop , Microcomputer Based Instrumentation ( MBI ) has extensive and cost-effective applications in fields ranging from gas chromatography to Computer-Assisted Design and Manufacture ( CAD/CAM ) using instruments which , although not highly accurate , demonstrate all the basic principles ( e.g. some of the products of British manufacturers or the Conservatoire National des Arts et Metiers , France ) ; - In the information technology , chemical and biological industries in most industrialised countries , and particularly in Japan , Computer-Assisted Training is considered cost-effective in such areas as the operation and use of a microprocessor , chemical analysis by nuclear para-magnetic resonance , and genetic engineering . A steelworks that switched over to special steels considers that the success of this operation was due to the use of Computer-Based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional methods of training ) ; ? For pilots and astronauts , training involves the use of extremely sophisticated simulation of the complete working environment including instrumentation , view , and movement . At all levels , there is a place for Intelligent Tutoring Systems ( ITS ) , which provide individualised instruction based on recent developments in cognitive science brought about by the use of these very technologies ( mainly in the US , although some development has been done in Japan and Europe , i.e. the United Kingdom , Germany , France and the Netherlands ) . Educators will have to work out a new balance of roles for themselves and for the computer ? teacher as instructor , teacher as guide and collaborator , computer as instructor , computer as tool . It is not clear what that new balance will be or how it will be worked out ; it is Inevitable that the balance will change . We now have enough experience to assess the potential of new information technologies in science and technology education . Much research , development , and evaluation is needed In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide the background and direction for that activity . Chapter 1 SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION This chapter serves as background for the parts which follow and describes the nature of , cience and technology and the aims of education in science and technology of various countries , and comments on the current curriculum , teaching resources , and the problem of ender differences . THE NATURE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Science and technology reflect the human capacities for rational thought and technical introduction . Through the capacity for rational thought , our curiosity has driven us to increase our knowledge of our environment and ourselves . Through the capacity for technical producion , our desire to improve the quality of life has driven us to change our environment for our own benefit . Science and technology are intricately interwoven ; both are concerned with human purpose and human benefit ; both are concerned with solving problems through a combination of imagination , experiment and logical reasoning ; both involve doing as well as rowing ; both have led to changes in our physical environment , our social and economic life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; both shape our world view . We are slowly beginning to realise that science and technology are themselves a part of nature : In our society , with its wide spectrum of cognitive techniques , science occupies a peculiar position , that of a poetical interrogation of nature , in the etymological sense that the poet is a " maker " , active , manipulating and exploring . Moreover , science is now capable of respecting the nature it investigates . Out of the dialogue with nature initiated by classical science , with its view of nature as an automaton , has grown a quite different view in which the activity of questioning nature is part of its intrinsic activity . ( Prigoginc and Stengers , 1984 , p.301 ) . We need new ecological values for judging science and technology . The application of science Lnd technology in this century to agriculture , manufacturing , nuclear power and aid to thirdvorld countries has had highly undesirable and unpredicted consequences : loss of soil nutrients , pollution of water tables , radiation from nuclear accidents , and increased dependlency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based on means-ends inalysis rather than on ecological considerations . Education is needed , not only to continue cientific and technological development , but to create and maintain a knowledgeable citizenry that can evaluate and direct its science and technology wisely . The new science of the mind , cognitive science , and the computer are finding their way into education . In adapting them to education and in adapting education itself we need to respect the full essence of the mind and not merely those aspects of it which we can now model computationally . Nowhere do we see nature questioning itself more clearly than in the study of the mind . The answers it finds must support a pedagogy which respects the individual in trying to make sense of the world both individually and in collaboration with others . Scientific Knowledge It is important for science educators to distinguish the various forms of scientific knowledge : concepts , by which data are organised , and from which theories are built ; processes , skills or procedures , including forms of argument ; data , facts , or empirical knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other forms of knowledge are judged . a ) Concepts Scientists make use of a small number of basic concepts having wide applicability . The following examples are drawn primarily from the physical and natural sciences : Systems : figure Similar lists , organised according to various schemes , appear in curriculum documents . For example : Life , Energy , Matter , Earth , Space . b ) Processes If students are to understand science , they need to develop relevant processes , or general skills . In broad terms , the processes relevant to science and technology education are : ? Communicating ; - Formulating questions ; - Experimenting ; - Collecting data ; - Generating knowledge ; ? Evaluating . As part of an activity/thinking approach to the curriculum , the development of processes can not only enhance the acquisition of scientific concepts , it can lead to further refinement of the processes themselves . For example , the student who collects data about the number of people passing a certain point and then draws a graph to illustrate the data , is using his/her communication skills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curriculum , say " movement of people in society " . It is through such examples that processes are seen to be just as important as concepts as goals of science and technology education . icc c ) Values Science has well-established values by which the validity and appropriateness of its concepts , procedures , and data are judged . Criteria of validity include reproducibility and refutability . Criteria of appropriateness include simplicity and correctness . More subtle values have to do with what questions are interesting to pursue , for what research funding should be sought , and what concern should be given to the consequences of applying the knowledge obtained . Important ethical considerations are brought into play when scientists compete for scarce resources or the glory of being the first to make a discovery , or when the investigation entails extensive exploitation of natural or human resources , or the use of animal or human subjects . Scientific Theories Much science teaching reflects a view of science as a highly-organised body of es tablished facts and procedures . There is plenty of evidence to support this view . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definitions , classifications and facts reported in charts , graphs , and text . By contrast , in much scientific research science may bseen in less formal terms . In the constructivist view , the process of creating theories is natural process by which all human beings make sense of the world and learn to function in i Even new-born babies create theories : in the development of the concept of " object " , fo example , and later in the development of language . Science evolved from this natural process by making the theories explicit . It seems reasonable , therefore , to help students become scientists by asking the equipped perhaps with appropriate computer tools , to create and study hypothetical world for example , a universe in which gravity is not quite an inverse square force or a world like ' Mr. Tomkin 's Stories ( Gamow , 1950 ) , in which quantum and relativistic phenomena are pa of everyday experience . Through practice in exploring competing theories as scientists d ? students can begin to express their own ideas and subject them to scientific scrutiny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a matter of applying accepted forms of reason ing and judgement to systematically gathered data . Intuition and insight , which are not w understood , are of great importance . Intuition seems to be at work in selecting which several hypotheses to investigate , in solving problems for which algorithms are not known , f ? working through unusually complex arguments , and for imagining the behaviour of a syste under various conditions . The thought experiments which scientists often carry out to exe cise and test their intuition can now be carried out through computer simulations , an exciti development for science education . Links with Other Disciplines Science has always had a strong link with mathematics . Much of mathematics h : developed to meet the needs of science for expressing relationships , for building conceptu models , for predictive calculation , and for the analysis of data . Most developments , even i pure mathematics , have found their way eventually into science . Programmable calculato and computers have made it possible for scientists to perform complicated calculations without having to learn explicit techniques . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mathematical expressions . The qualitative features of complex systems governed by non-linear relationships can thus be explored computationally by students who have access to appropriate software . This computational power should be a great boon to students who feel a lack of confidence in dealing with mathematics . The concept of science is progressively being broadened to include a wide range of disciplines which use the same methods of reasoning and confirmation , the same techniques of modelling and calculation or the same methods of processing information . Progress in disciplines such as geography , history , psychology , sociology or economics depends on the scientific abilities of their practitioners . For example , the use of mathematical models in economics has made skills in mathematics and the use of computers a normal part of university training in economics . AIMS OF EDUCATION IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY The aims of education in science and technology reflect concerns for a scientifically and technologically literate society , for social and economic development , and for the preparation of men and women who will use the science and technology of today wisely and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that as many people as possible be educated to appreciate and evaluate the impact of science and technology and to understand and enjoy life more fully as a result of their education . The aims and objectives of science education have been listed frequently , in various forms . At a United Nations Conference on " Science and Technology for Development " held in 1979 , the main implications envisaged for education , if Science and technology were to play their full role in national development , were given as : IJ emphasizing the teaching of science as a traditional value ; and ii ) organising educational activities around problems where modern science and traditional values can be integrated , while encouraging a climate of opinion favourable for social and economic changes desired by individual countries . The compelling reasons for scientific literacy have been stated by Chisman ( 1983 ) as : ? To function successfully and responsibly in a scientific and technologically-based society , and to be safe , healthy and comfortable in that society ; - To maintain a vigorous democratic state in which citizens of the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete understanding of scientific practice requires that children be provided with opportunities to think creatively . Indeed it has been argued that technology is a better vehicle than science for fostering creativity , in that many technological problems have more than a single correct solution . In this area , project work , case studies and Computer-Assisted Learning have been identified as good instigators of creativity . With the above in mind , the aims of science education have been summarised as follows : ? The acquisition of factual and theoretical knowledge ; - The acquisition of laboratory skills and techniques ; - The critical scrutiny of evidence and arguments for and against particular theories ; ? Practice in using theories for explaining phenomena ; - Using theory for prediction ; Testing predictions and other consequences of particular theories ; Designing experiments to test hypotheses or to illustrate theories ; - Hypothesis generation ; ? Testing hypotheses by logical criticism internal consistency and compatibility with other existing theories ; - Testing hypotheses by experiment ; - An appreciation of social , historical and economic issues concerning science and its applications . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives special con ; ideration to the role of the individual in the construction of personal knowledge . From this viewpoint , the aims of science education should include the following ( UNESCO , 1981 ) : ? To introduce students to examples of how scientists have defined concepts in ways useful to them , but which conflict with commonsense experience and usage ; - To make explicit the world views of natural phenomena that students hold and to relate these to world views held now and in the past by scientists ; ? To enable students to recognise that scientists invent general concepts which idealise and over-simplify real substances and phenomena ; - To help students relate scientific concepts to a wide variety of examples ; - To help students take a natural phenomenon or piece of technology and identify several features with their corresponding scientific concepts ; - To help students recognise and use varieties of representation used by chemists and physicists to describe substances and physical conditions . Consideration of the structure of science , scientific knowledge and scientific method ? even though there was no universal agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of many science education curricula of the 1960s and 1970s . It was subsequently considered that such a view presented a distorted image of scientists as " objective , open-minded , unbiased and possessing a critical and infallible method " . The neglect of social and humanitarian considerations was not only detrimental to the production of future scientists but even more detrimental to the production of a scientifically literate citizenry . The image of science as impersonal and lacking in social responsibility has been identified as responsible for turning many students , especially girls , away from science . Consequently , it is felt that a programme of science education is incomplete if it neglects to include any of the following ( Hodson , 1985 ) : A concern for scientific knowledge ( certain facts , principles and theories worth knowing ) , a concern for the processes and methods of science ( reasoning and investigating ) , direct experience of scientific activity , appreciation of the complex relationship between science and society and the fostering of positive attitudes towards science . THE CURRENT SITUATION In many countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this level most teachers do not have specialised training in science education . In the upper grades of elementary school , some teachers teach science to their students , while others defer to more confident colleagues or to specially-trained consultants . The teaching of science as a separate subject begins halfway through secondary education . In the English-speaking countries and many others , the main aspects are taught under the heading of " General Science " , with the separation between physics , chemistry and biology occurring only at the end of secondary education . Other countries offer separate courses in physics , chemistry and natural sciences ( biology and geology ) from the outset . In the United States up until about the 1950s , secondary schools emphasized individual laboratory work , demonstrations , problem-solving and informal lecturing and discussion . Since then , there has been a marked tendency towards a stricter description and methodological classification of phenomena . In other countries , and particularly France , the move has been in the opposite direction . Up until about 1980 , schools emphasized memorisation of facts and principles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and verbal treatment of an organised body of scientific facts . Since then the aim and the tendency has been to give students more contact with the practical aspects , shifting the emphasis from a purely descriptive approach to an understanding of facts and phenomena . In Ontario ( Canada ) , teachers are encouraged to adopt a perspective which is a personally determined balance of emphasis on " scientific literacy " , " science , technology and decisions " , " scientific processes " , and " the structure of science " ( Ministry of Education , Ontario , 1978 ) . Curricula Curricula in many countries emphasize both processes and content . For example , the science and technology curriculum for elementary schools in France is : ? First year . Learning basic methods : observing/classifying/ manipulating/observing materials ( tools ) , living things ( one 's own body , plant growth , animal growth ) , common devices . - Second and third years . More extensive and detailed treatment of the above subjects : Solids/liquids/gases , air and water , soils and rocks ; Reproduction , nutrition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirements of water and light , seeds , cuttings ; Mechanics , electricity , simple technologies . - Last two years . Problem construction , hypotheses , experimentation , reasoning . Rudiments of geology , astronomy , physics , energy ; Electromechanics , electronics , logic , computers ; Biological evolution , respiration , digestion , sexuality . Students learn some of the processes of science by making observations , comparisons , d measurements , and organising them through simple records , sketches , diagrams , charts , d tables . They develop a sense of how simple technology is related to science through designing and constructing various devices , and using simple tools of measurement . Through the topics selected for study , students begin to see science and technology as part of their ial and economic environment . Implicit or Hidden Curriculum in Technology The technological curriculum in schools is taught both explicitly , in courses about techlogy , and implicitly , through the way technology is used in education . Students learn techogical concepts and processes in large part through using technology . They acquire values m their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How access to technology is controlled ( availability of equipment , allocation for various purposes , availability of information on how to use it , attitudes towards users ) ; - Whether educational institutions adapt the technology to education or simply adapt education to fit the technology ; ? Whether or not the uses of technology in school are connected to uses outside school ; - Whether the social structure of the use of technology fosters competition and isolation or co-operation , collaboration , and a sense of self-esteem . The Utilisation of the Usual Teaching Material a ) Textbooks Textbooks in the physical sciences first appeared in the 18th century following the industrial revolution . Materials were more widely available and textbooks were reproduced more rapidly . As scientific bodies of knowledge came to be identified under separate subject headings and examinations began to determine the content of syllabi , the textbook became a essential part of the teaching and learning of science . Textbooks serve well as sources of conceptual and factual information . Textbooks als. serve as sources of information about scientific values and procedures , but acquiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processes of design , experimentatio analysis and discussion . Textbooks are also limited in helping students bridge the go. ; between their own theories and those presented in the text . Some texts are written in modula fashion , allowing students to work at topics in various orders . It is quite common for texts t have a core of initial chapters which are in a tight sequence followed by optional chapte which can be studied in any order . It is possible that the usefulness of textbooks could b extended by coupling them with computer-based materials to provide students with i dividual experience and attention . b ) Other Instructional Media Excellent films , filmloops , filmstrips with audio cassettes , and , more recently , video c. settes have been prepared for educational purposes but have not found widespread use science and technology classrooms . In order to guard against the computer becoming " just another medium " to collect dust , it is important to consider reasons for the underuse of i structional media , including cost-effectiveness , availability , flexibility , ease of use , and fo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use and are quite reliable . T videodisk offers new flexibility , but the range of materials available is still too limited generate widespread use . Educational games , which are often inexpensive , are sometime used to provide a comfortable and motivating form of learning through social interaction . T computer , coupled in some cases with the videodisk , promises to be a far more flexible a interactive medium than any of the others mentioned . Serious attention must be given to e. of use and availability . c ) Equipment for Practical Work It is important that students be involved in designing , preparing , adapting , and use apparatus of varying complexity . Much important learning can occur with the use of comrnonplace , inexpensive materials ( boards , marbles , seeds , tadpoles , small electronic co , ponents ) . The use of household materials makes it easier to encourage students to contin their work at home . Excellent kits of materials , such as those on meal worms , batteries a bulbs , and mapmaking to accompany the Elementary Science Series , can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the teacher to adapt them to local conditions and student interest . When computers are more readily available , it will be possible to couple the use of these kits with computer-based simulations and data analysis . In the science and technology labs of secondary schools , equipment is more specialised and standardized . Computers are scarce outside of computer science and business studies laboratories . Digital electronics devices are used in technical laboratories , but there is little computer use in science laboratories . There are rich opportunities for the use of computers in experimental measurement , data analysis , and simulation . Gender , Science and the New Information Technologies The ability , motivation , participation rates and achievement of girls in science subjects in schools relative to boys have been extensively studied in many countries , and a common pattern emerges . Girls have low participation rates in the physical sciences ( physics , chemistry ) , but often high participation rates in the natural sciences . In an informed , scientifically literate world , there is an equal need for both men and women to be scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigations of the cognitive abilities of boys and girls have found few and only small differences . It is doubtful whether these differences are innate , especially since social factors which affect them are strong and well documented . Even so , the differences are too small to account for the difference in participation rates in science subjects . Many proposals have been put forward aimed at improving the participation and performance of girls in the physical sciences . For example : ? Science curricula should emphasize practical applications and the social implications of science , reflecting the interests and experiences of girls as well as boys ; - In the design of science curricula , the inter-relatedness of science with other disciplines needs to be emphasized wherever appropriate ; - Teachers should provide activities for girls which address the imbalance in relevant experience brought by boys and girls to the science classroom ; - Curriculum materials should be examined to identify sex-role stereotypes , gender bias and cultural bias , and appropriate classroom action taken ; - Wherever possible , courses should be developed which integrate the natural and physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES This chapter discusses learning as seen through the eyes of the new science of thinki and learning ? cognitive science . Cognitive scientists assume the existence of thought stru tures and processes and proceed to study their development . The following principles a features characterise cognitive science ( Gardner , 1985 ) : ? That activities of the mind can be understood in terms of mental representation ; - That computers and computer-based models are essential tools for understandi cognition ; - That many disciplines ( philosophy , psychology , artificial intelligence , linguisti. anthropology and neuroscience ) contribute to our understanding of cognition . MODELLING OF STUDENTS ' KNOWLEDGE AND PROCESSING Research in cognitive science has made extensive use of new information technology developing models of human mental activity ( Anderson , 1985 ; Glaser , 1984 ) . Such process as solving a mathematics problem or searching one 's memory to find a category into which fit a given word have been represented as computer programs . Comparing the performance the program with human performance suggests how well the theory that specifies the rules the program fits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific models concerning particular domains for - ample , various scientific areas ( White and Fisher , 1985 ) or specialised cognitive activities ( example , arithmetic operations , comprehension in reading , programming techniques , etc . ( Anderson , 1983 ) . In addition , it is necessary to take individual differences into account . use models that can be specialised for each particular student . Declarative and Procedural Knowledge Cognitive science suggests that there are two different kinds of human knowled declarative knowledge and procedural knowledge . Declarative knowledge comprises the fa . we know , procedural knowledge refers to the cognitive skills we know how to perform . And son ( 1985 ) describes the acquisition of cognitive procedures in three steps : a cognitive sta in which a description of the procedure is learned ; an associative stage , in which the met for performing the skill is practised ; and an autonomous stage , in which the skill beco rapid and automatic . Procedures can be taught to students , but they must then be pract ' to become attention free . Production Systems The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of production systems . Originally , production rules were condition-action pairs of the " if ... , then ... " form , with the " if ... " part specifying some sort of general knowledge , and the " then ... " part defining an action to be carried out . This schema was closely related with the stimulusresponse schema used in behavioural psychology . However , the restriction that the second part of such a production must be an action in the real world was given up long ago . This part may be a cognitive process , adding new data elements to an individual 's working memory . An example of a production rule is , " if Person A is the father of Person B and Person B is the father of Person C , then Person A is the grandfather of Person C ' . Production systems are sets of productions ( or production rules ) used to perform various cognitive tasks . They are well-suited to representing procedural knowledge used in problem solving and in inductive and deductive reasoning ( Newell and Simon , 1972 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ computers to model specific cognitive processes such as adding numbers or thinking about physical phenomena . For such tasks , production systems allow good prediction of errors . Knowledge Structures Declarative knowledge is often represented in the form of semantic or conceptual netwrorks ( Norman and Rumelhart , 1975 ; Brachman , 1979 ) . Cognitive science emphasizes the tole of prior knowledge in learning ( Glaser , 1984 ) . Strongly connected , hierarchically struclured collections of human knowledge , often called cognitive schemata , prototypes , frames , Scenarios , or macrostructures ( Minsky , 1977 ; Schank , 1982 ) permit linkage of new knowledge to old . Concepts are a particular sub-class . Schemata are viewed as bundles of formation , consisting of invariant cognitive components or relations , and values or sets of lues . Schemata can be abstracted from out-of-school experience or through instructional rning . In science education , several studies have shown the differences between novices and experts in applying cognitive schemata in solving problems ( Chi et al. , 1982 ) . Mental Models Representation of parts of the world , e.g. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the student 's mind , can be assumed to have the form of " mental models " . c teacher must have a model of this model in his/her own mind . Although the concept " mental model " is used variously by different authors ( Gentner and Stevens , 1983 ; JohnsonLaird , 1983 ) , the main idea is that a propositional or conceptual representation does not suffice for describing the student 's knowledge and misconceptions . The concept of mental el seems to be especially useful in the context of representing the knowledge of novices experts about phenomena of physical science and about technical devices . Mental imagery , about which little is known , must be taken into account . Another important question is how particular knowledge is used in the solution of general and abstract problems . For example , Johnson-Laird ( 1983 ) provides evidence that most people , when asked to solve syllogisms containing the quantifiers " all " or " some " , use . very small sets of mental objects and make logic computations on them : if they are told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representation of perhaps six C objects , of which four are B and Ono arc non-B , and make their deductions on these sets . In a somewhat different version of " mental model " notion , the role of analogy in the formation and use of concepts in physics been well demonstrated . Diagnosis of Individual Knowledge The rule-driven character of errors and misconceptions has been confirmed ( cf. De Corte and Verschaffel , 1985 ) . This result is in line with a general finding in cognitive psychology . The more one knows about the subjective problem space of a person ? the rules and possible procedures he or she thinks of as applicable in solving a problem ? the more one is able to detect systematic errors instead of erratic behaviour . This parallels a well-known trend towards qualitative assessment of knowledge , e.g. of arithmetic skills . The probabilistic quantitative models of the early seventies ( Spada , 1976 ) predicting the number of correct answers , will be replaced by qualitative deterministic models , which are constructed to give a detailed account of various forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a diagnosis may be related to didactic and cognitive objectives . Diagnosis , information abou the current state of knowledge of a particular student , is a sub-goal of the instructional goals Diagnosis is particularly important when it provides evidence of misconceptions or disfun . tion in the student 's reasoning . New technologies will allow diagnosis to be partly automated . In particular , techniqu are being developed to diagnose problem-solving processes in the student , going far ahead conventional evaluation based on multiple-choice questions . This can be useful only if a car ful classification of possible cognitive errors , misconceptions or disfunction in the student h been previously carried out by teachers , and if methods for overcoming these have bee devised . In this case , new technologies can provide a powerful tool for application of such knowledge about the student . On-line recording of cognitive errors , their analysis and classification is realised in the KAVIS-III System ( see Chapters 3 and 4 ) . Intelligent Tutoring Systems ( ITS ) use dialogue to build up models of the knowledge the student ( Sleeman and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dialogue between tw learning systems ? the student and the ITS . Through the dialogue , the ITS constructs formal representation of the student 's knowledge and skills . This representation is used govern the performance of the ITS in presenting problems to the student , giving advice an asking questions . The techniques to assess the domain-specific knowledge of a student a his/her skills in information processing have to be improved , combining the structural a proach of " bug " diagnosis ( Brown and Burton , 1978 ) with a quantitative approach . The diagnosis of individual knowledge and its change over time is of relevance not on in connection with Intelligent Tutoring Systems but with all types of learning and instructio Powerful statistical methods exist to assess quantitative change ( Mobus and Nagel , 198 Fisher , 1976 ) , but it is a common view today in cognitive psychology that differences knowledge have to be understood as qualitative differences in its content , structure and plicability ( Elshout , in press ) . The literature shows how difficult it is to assess qualitati differences . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) reactions in a dete ministic way . This assumption presupposes data free of measurement errors and a cogniti model that takes into account every relevant detail . ACQUISITION OF KNOWLEDGE Conditions for the Acquisition of Knowledge Knowledge can be acquired through direct perception or through language ( i.e. pert tion of spoken or written discourse ) , pictures , etc . The relative influence of these source varies according to the age of the student and the subject matter itself . There is no reason assume an a priori preference for one source to the other . Recent psychological work semantic memory has shown the interaction of information coming from both sources . I lowever , the role given to the language source can not be viewed independently from the relationship that exists , at a given age and time , between the content of the student 's semantic memory and his or her past perceptual experience . How efficient verbal teaching is closely depends on the representations the student activates when hearing or reading words , sentences or lectures . Insufficient previous knowledge or misconceptions are frequent causes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solved by means of diagnoses oriented to these particular questions . The role of attention and intention-to-learn in knowledge acquisition is of special importance . Most early acquisitions are unintentional . They depend mainly on the richness of the child 's environment . Presumably , incidental learning gives rise to inter-individual cognitive differences , attributable to the social environment . In contrast to how children learn incidentally , conventional instruction is largely based on students ' capacity to do intentional learning . Some modern methods of instruction systematically try to arouse spontaneous attentional states in students , to take advantage of both motivated and incidental learning . The new methods manipulate the student 's environment in various ways which may be individualised . New technologies make it possible to create situations specially designed to arouse attention and motivation . At the same time , these situations , which are artificial but may be made very close to actual ones by simulation , can provide information to the student in a way most suited to cognitive processing in knowledge acquisition . The role of the student 's action in knowledge acquisition depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquired . Any acquisition involves active information processing in e student 's mind : in this sense , no learning is passive . Declarative knowledge may be acuired through ordinary experience , by working with specially devised microworlds , or by preservation and processing of information presented . The role of previous knowledge for the process of learning and teaching was mentioned discussing the relevance of a thorough diagnosis of individual knowledge . Current psychological research emphasizes a property of human long-term memory , according to hich acquisition of knowledge is in no way cumulative or modular . Any new knowledge is coIlected , processed , and integrated into memory by using the schemata or frames of previous owledge . Acquisition of new knowledge interacts with previous knowledge , causing positive fects of transfer or negative effects of interference . Further research is needed on the following questions : When does it help to provide new information in acquiring knowledge ? hen is such acquisition impaired ? Does previously acquired knowledge deteriorate ? In the me context , an important problem , concerning curricula , is the following : is it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual optimal orders ? for information esentation to the students that would increase instructional efficiency ? cquisition of Concepts by Abstraction Concepts may be acquired by abstraction from sets of empirical examples , or through ritten or spoken text . The first form of acquisition is often identified with acquisition of totypes . The role of typicality has been strongly emphasized in this process of acquisition Rosch and Lloyd , 1978 ) and merits more investigation in connection with use of new techlogies . Similarly , acquisition of concepts through language involves problems about mean , knowledge representations , relationships between language and knowledge , role of verbal mples , etc ... On examining the format of typical definitions , a rather small number of lationships seems to predominate : the class of concepts to which a concept belongs , the properties which tend to make the concept unique , and examples of the concept . Naturally-acquired concepts may be misconceptions in the sense that they do not stand up to scientific scrutiny . Investigating misconceptions is of particular importance : teaching scientific concepts implies not only detection of misconceptions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better comprehension of environmental , educational , and psychological factors that have caused them . The problem of correcting erroneous concepts presents a great challenge for the use of new technologies . Acquisition of Concepts through Instruction The ideas of concept formation held by the psychology of thinking are now converging with the memory-based approach of knowledge representation just described . Aebli ( 1981 ) has shown that most of the former investigations were concerned with the attainment of concepts in the case in which an individual develops a concept by abstraction on the basis of particular examples . This case , however , appears to be quite rare . Normally , the student is confronted with established concepts , which are taught through direct instruction with the help of textbooks . Thus , most of the concepts are introduced intentionally rather than exten sionally . In the case of teaching concepts by direct instruction , the learning is still a constructive process . According to Aebli ( 1981 ) , concepts are not attained but built . What happens for instance , in reading a text or following a computer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on the basis of prior knowledge , concepts are continuously being built an , existing concepts are being modified . Acquisition of Misconceptions through Instructional Analogies The heuristic of drawing analogies may impede the construction of concepts if the stu dent draws incorrect inferences . White and Gunstone ( 1980 ) discovered such a case in thei study of knowledge structures in the domain of electricity : a college science graduate wh. had been given the water flow analogy during his early instructional experience with electri current had extended the analogy by comparing a water pipe to the electrical insulation su rounding a wire . As a consequence , he believed that electrical leakage was akin to a hole in water pipe and that it could result from a bare electrical conductor . He had deduced tha much of the research effort in electrical engineering was devoted to the production of mor efficient ( i.e. less friction-generating ) insulating covers for wires . Understanding the limits analogies in teaching deserves more attention . The use of analogies in teaching concepts ma be improved through assessment of the construction of new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This type of individualised teaching may be enhanced b new information technologies . Acquisition of Strategies The concept " strategy " is understood in different ways by different authors . If we c " strategies " procedures that can not be made entirely explicit for the student , or can not acquired by making the student aware of their structures , practice is the best method avai able for acquiring them . For example , reading and comprehension involve very comp ! - strategies for eye movements . These strategies are perceptual , in so far as they control inf. mation grasping in reading . But they are also under control of higher cognitive processes th take place during comprehension . As a matter of fact , such strategies can not be made ful explicit for every particular reader , and even if they could this would hardly help the read to improve . However , as soon as maladapted strategies have been detected in a reader , for example , too many backtracks , special reading situations can be set up for him or her , in particular by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposition of the text , so that more efficient strategies of eye movements can be shaped in this student . Similarly , problem solving involves many implicit strategies ( problem solving is discussed below ) . Many authors discuss the form of strategies called metacognitive procedures and their role in memory or problem solving ( Flavell , 1976 ) . The improvement of metacognitive abilities is an important goal of education in science and technology . Teaching Cognitive Strategies In the analysis of problem solving and knowledge acquisition , it has been recently emphasized ( Brown , 1983 ) that metacognitive processes should receive more consideration in the development of teaching programs . If training measures are applied only at the operative level , then one can not expect the student to develop metacognitive abilities , which are used to assess the task , to monitor work on the task , and to evaluate outcomes . Nor can one expect that cognitive operations which are not deliberately reflected upon and elaborated will be retained in long-term memory . According to Brown ( 1978 ) , a teaching program should help explicitly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cognitive skills . Some of these mechanisms are strategies for planning , sequencing of cognitive operations , and monitoring procedures . Acquiring cognitive strategies is a central learning goal which can be addressed by using the new information technologies to provide opportunities for individualised , adaptive learning . Recent studies of training in the development of cognitive strategies demonstrate the success of cognitive and metacognitive training measures with students with learning disabilities , students with different levels of maturity , and students in different college semesters ( Brown , 1983 ; Campione , 1983 ) . A promising way of learning science is to formulate hypotheses and to test them by means of experiments simulated on the computer . Such microworld learning environments might reflect the laws of classical mechanics , the laws of geometrical optics , or laws invented by the student . Students would acquire domain-specific knowledge and improve their skills in gathering and processing information . Students might learn how to design good and informative experiments , how to test and refine hypotheses , and how to use feedback . These are Important cognitive procedures in science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new information technologies . Problem Solving Only twenty years ago , problem solving would not have been one of the main themes in a discussion of learning and instruction . To improve problem-solving capability , the teaching of general domain-independent heuristics was recommended . In artificial intelligence , the soothed power-based systems , which were developed as general problem-solving tools ( Newell , Shaw and Simon , 1965 ) , represented such an attempt . Today , in artificial intelligence , research is conducted on various types of knowledge-based systems . In psychology , parallel studies were conducted on problem solving . Today there is no doubt that a thorough analysis of the domain-specific knowledge of a person is a necessary condition for understanding the person 's problem-solving activities in each domain ( Glaser , 1984 ) . Application , and modification over time , is closely linked to the analysis of problem ' Diving and investigations in the field of learning and instruction . Investigators who stress the active role of the learner and the constructive aspects of acquiring knowledge believe that acquiring knowledge and developing problem solving are complementary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem solving . Conversely , effective problem solving is an important way of acquiring flexibly organised knowledge . Many theoretical and empirical investigations have been conducted in recent years . General views of human problem solving , mainly based on a means-end approach , and the elaboration of artificial intelligence methods , either for automatic problem solving ( e.g. theorem demonstration ) or for assistance to humans ( expert systems ) have proved to be very helpful in understanding the acquisition of problem-solving abilities . It has been shown that students go beyond rational methods when they solve problems . Both novices and experts readily assign every particular problem they meet to a " problem class " , of which they appear to have a representation in their minds . How the classes of problems are represented is related to problem-solving efficiency . In particular , it has been shown that novices take into consideration more surface features and fewer deep ( relational ) features of the problem than do experts . Consequently , teaching problem solving should include instruction about the relevant features of various problems and methods of assigning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of problems should take these principles into account to allow appropriate generalisations by the students , rather than generalisation based on incidental features . Guidance in problem analysis and classification can also be adapted to the analysis o problems that are not well-defined . It is important that students have experience with a multi plicity of points of view in analysing problems . Relevant studies on problem solving in physi have been conducted by Larkin ( 1981 ) . Teaching Problem Solving The improvement of domain-specific knowledge and of general heuristics is seen to be of special importance in furthering the problem-solving capacity of a student . Elshout ( in press ) has suggested how to combine the teaching of domain-specific knowledge and general problem-solving heuristics . In studies by Mettes ( in press ) , this approach is exemplified by a curriculum for the solution of science problems . In two courses on thermodynamics and electromagnetism , the regular subject matter is taught together with useful heuristics and methods . Declarative and procedural knowledge are taught in an integrated form . Both typof knowledge are acquired by the students in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods are adapted to the specifics of the domain of application . The . resultin curricula are fine examples of guided learning by doing and , as the results of empirical evaluations have shown , they have been successful . Reif and Heller ( 1982 ) have formulated a model describing the types of knowledge and cognitive procedures that are conducive to effective problem solving in physics . Their model includes components for the following : ? Describing and analysing a problem to facilitate solution ; - Decomposing a problem into manageable sub-problems ; and - Assessing the correctness of the solution and determining whether it is optimal . I Reif and Heller ( 1982 ) emphasize that several quite common teaching practices may hinder the development of students ' problem-solving skills . They provide several examples : ? In natural science , a desire for precision often impels instructors and authors of t textbooks to overemphasize mathematical formalism at the expense of a more qualitative mode of description . As a result , students may even come to regard su qualitative descriptions as scientifically illegitimate . But seemingly vague verbal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of solutions ; they are also commonly used by experts . Hence one needs to teach both qualitative and quantitative problem representations ; The most common method of teaching scientific problem solving is to provide students with examples and practice . But most students ' problem-solving skills are quite primitive and improve only slowly . Furthermore , many students find the problem solving required in college-level physics courses difficult or even unmanageable . Reif and Heller argue that cognitive mechanisms needed for effective scientific problem solving are so complex that they are not easily learned from examples and practice without special support and training . In a subsequent study , Heller and Reif ( 1984 ) have shown that their model can be used to guide accurate problem representation in controlled learning situations , and to improve the problem-solving performance of students who have already taken a physics course . In contrast to the carefully controlled conditions of Heller and Reif 's ( 1984 ) study , Hewson and Hewson ( 1983 ) have implemented a conceptual change model that deals directly with students ' misconceptions in a more realistic instructional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for replacing or modifying the alternative conceptions that students have prior to formal instruction . Motivational Factors Assimilation of new information is possible only by using previous knowledge . The relationship between the newly-presented information and the previous knowledge is a source of positive or negative cognitive motivation for the student . It is commonly accepted that novelty of information plays an important role in this respect , and that there exists an optimal novelty , which may be different for every subject . If the novelty of the presented information to be learned or problem to be solved is close to this optimum , a positive state of motivation is treated , and presumably is associated with this subject , or with instruction in general . If , on the contrary , the new information or problem is either too novel , thus creating unfruitful fforts , failure and frustration , or not novel enough , thus creating boredom , negative states of otivation may be aroused which impede work at the current task and may then be as- fated with the particular subject , or with instruction in general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a student at his/her n pace , permitting control of novelty and optimisation of the motivational states of the tudent . Continuous feedback is of high relevance for motivating the student to improve his/her solution processes and correct wrong ones . New technologies also allow very detailed feedback based on the knowledge state of the learner . Recent trends in motivation and attribution theory show that feedback is neither information per se nor is it reinforcement or encouragement per se . The interpretation of a feedback event is subject to a switch between both components dependent upon the learner 's success/failure . There may even be a time independent " filter " installed at the side of the learner reflecting his earlier learning history respective of his success/failure orientation . There are recent suggestions to prevent the learner from premature , aversive feedback interpretations by stressing " hits " rather than " misses " in the beginning , while error-collecting feedback should be administered only after some mastery has taken place . Feedback-based tutoring systems should take this into account as is the case with the KAVIS-III System . Chapter 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be used to extend existing modes of teaching and learning , to help teachers adapt their work to meet individual needs , and to improve motivation . At the same time , introducing new technologies into the classroom places additional demands on the teacher to develop new competencies , to adapt established teaching routines , and to modify the teaching and learning environment . TEACHING MODES , ADAPTIVE TEACHING AND MOTIVATION Chapter 2 dealt with aspects of learning : types of knowledge ( concepts , cognitive procedures , cognitive strategies , problem solving ) and the acquisition of knowledge . This chapter deals with aspects of teaching : teaching modes ( system-oriented or discoveryoriented ) , adapting teaching to the individual , and motivation . Teaching Modes a ) System-oriented Teaching A question teachers face is whether to present information to the learner directly or to provide for discovery learning . In system-oriented teaching , for example in expository learning , the learning material is presented as a complete system and the sequence of the learning steps ensues from the logical relations within the system . This procedure seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very quickly into a completely new field of knowledge or if he already possesses sufficient knowledge about the domain . Ausubel ( 1968 ) , a proponent of this teaching method , assumes that the knowledge in every academic discipline has a specific structure which can be arranged hierarchically . Learning is viewed as a process of continuing differentiation of yet undifferentiated concepts . Ausubel assumes that meaningful material can be learned and retained only if the person has existing concepts which will retrieve and integrate the information to be learned . This information must be anchored within the existing cognitive structures of the pupil and must be protected against being forgetten . According to Ausubel and others , the learning and storing of meaningful= material can be facilitated by advance organisers , progressive differentiation and sequential ) organisation . b ) Discovery-oriented Teaching In system-oriented teaching , the aim is to present a complete knowledge structure . In discovery-oriented teaching , the learner must discover the path of knowledge acquisition . Proponents of this method claim that knowledge acquired this way is more flexible in use , can be better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly . Discovery-oriented teaching can be carried out very effectively using the new information technologies , especially using computerised forms of feedback-based learning , microworld learning environments and simulation programs . A central feature of successful discovery learning is a highly supportive context . New information technologies provide many possibilities to create such contexts . In discovery-oriented teaching , the learner has to form conclusions inductively . He/she uses examples or individual facts and , via the inductive method , may find laws governing the relationships . Starting with an opaque problem situation , the learner is invited to think , to use his/her own discovery abilities and thus to gain increasing insight into the area . Since all the pertinent facts of a particular knowledge domain can not be acquired through discovery within a reasonable time-frame , central problems have to be highlighted or presented as examples . The learner has to set up hypotheses which are either confirmed or rejected . If they are rejected , the learner has to construct new hypotheses . c ) Drill-and-Practice Programmes In addition to system-oriented and discovery-oriented teaching methods , drill and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some computerised instruction has proven to be very helpful in this context . Such drill-and-practice teaching programs usually consist of a sequence of exercise problems which are presented in the following manner : presentation of task , acceptance of the answer of the learner , assessment of answer , feedback to the learner , and change over to the next problem . In many programs , the feedback is simply provided in terms of the answer " true " or " false " . Fast individual feedback is seen as a positive characteristic of such computerised teaching programs . The better drill-and-practice programs adjust the degree of difficulty and type of problem to the level and ability of the student . Adaptive Teaching Teaching is called adaptive if it adjusts either to differences between students or to an Individual student 's changes in knowledge , cognitive skills and motivation at different stages Of learning . a ) Aptitude Treatment Interaction Students might be differentiated according to characteristics such as cognitive learning prerequisites , motivation and performance . In order to achieve optimal success in learning , teaching methods should match these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teacher in managing the development of effective instructional strategies are great . Interactions between learner characteristics and teaching methods , called " aptitude treatment interaction " ( ATI ) , is the subject of extensive research ( Gagne and Dick , 1983 , p.282 ) . b ) Tutorial Programs : Teaching the Individual Learner Current computerised tutorial programs can be classified by how much student initiative they permit . Collins ( 1977 ) describes a theory of Socratic tutoring which he considers capable of teaching new knowledge and skills so that the knowledge can be transferred to new problems and situations more easily . The teaching dialogue of such a system consists of diagnostic and corrective strategies : the tutor analyses the student 's knowledge and uses errors as clues to misconceptions . It is assumed that the learner not only acquires knowledge structures which are more completely interconnected but also that his/her ability to utilise querying strategies is improved . For this interactive tutoring , Collins developed several heuristic rules that generate questions for the dialogue . These ideas were applied to topics such as geography , biology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the following major advantages for this type of teaching strategy : ? Certain aspects of scientific thinking are imitated ; - The tutor has to respond in an individualistic manner to the individual student ; ? The transfer of the learned material to new situations is facilitated . Mention should be made here that this control notion was first seen and reflected by Mand and Fischer ( 1985 ) and Fischer and Mandl ( 1987 ) . Recently , attempts have been made to realise discovery learning with " microworld tutorial systems ( Lesgold , in press ) in which the learner monitors and directs his/her ow learning . When learning with the computer , the learner is supposed to attain a deeper under standing of basic facts through research and discovery done in a specific domain , and to gai general skills in information search and problem solving . A microworld is a compute representation of a specific content area which enables the learner to acquire factu. knowledge from some domain , e.g. from geometric optics ( Spada and Reimann , in press Microworld systems allow the learner to simulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , e.g. the refraction of a beam of light in an optical medium . Based o this information , the learner can construct hypotheses about the laws governing th phenomena of the microworld . For example , he may set up hypotheses about the electro-magnetic force , current and resistance in an electric circuit and test them . The hypotheses a tested by the learner changing certain parameters and watching the effects on the scree+ produced via the computer simulation . Simulation programs aim at imitating real systems , e.g. an ecological system ( Op ' and Spada , 1985 ) or a technical system . The learner can vary all or some of the input va ables of the system in order to get some insight into the modelled relations of the componen by observing the system run on the computer . The outcome of the simulation is presented graphical or tabular form . If needed , commentaries or feedback are given as interpreti assistance . Simulations are usually embedded in larger teaching units . They provide relevant opportunity for discovery learning , especially of complex systems . Relevant reseal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dorner et al . ( 1983 ) . In recent years , much effort has been devoted to developing Intelligent Tutoring Sy tems ( ITS ) ( Sleeman and Brown , 1982 ) . ITS , emerging from research in cognitive psych ogy , instructional science and artificial intelligence , receive increasing interest as instru tional tools . ITS which use dialogue to build up a model of the knowledge of the stude constitute a very interesting development . The techniques to assess the domain-specific knowledge of a student and his skills in obtaining and processing information have to improved , however , combining the structural approach of " bug " diagnosis with a quantitati one . Intelligent systems perform the following tasks based on an analysis of the dialogue wi the student : a ) building up a representation of the student 's knowledge in a domain of stud b ) comparing this model with a criterion model , for example , an expert model of the domai in order to evaluate the student 's knowledge at various points of the learning process ; and c ) using didactic heuristics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be done . These systems offer the learner flexible access to information and an adaptive dialogue based on the knowledge of the learner . They are labelled intelligent because they are highly flexible and adaptable in deciding when and how to intervene in the learning process . In adapting instruction to individual students , it should also be kept in mind that students come to school with individual conceptual frameworks , including theories of nature , beliefs , and value orientations . Snively ( in Driver and Erikson , 1983 ) has classified students ' orientations along utilitarian , aesthetic , spiritual , scientific and recreational lines . He argues that it is important , in attaining instructional objectives , to make significant contact with students ' preferred orientations and beliefs . For students to experience science , they must be given opportunities to explore both phenomena and new ideas , to listen to and appreciate alternative points of view without losing confidence in their own capabilities to comprehend and to act ; to construct their own knowledge and perhaps by so doing , gain some appreciation of science as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifest in : ? Sensory experience ( hence the importance of computers in simulating , replaying , and otherwise manipulating sensory experience ) ; - Language and available metaphor ( hence the importance of the computational perspective : nature as computer , problem solving and theory building as program-ming ) ; - Analogy ( which results in ideas that are likely to be more idiosyncratic and more fluid than those based on sensory experience and metaphor ) . Students retain much of what is taught in the form of propositional knowledge , but make use of their world through knowledge-in-action . How can the new information technology used to help teachers identify and understand the conceptual frameworks of their students nd help students reconcile their propositional knowledge with their knowledge-in-action ? It ms particularly important to have software which allows students to manipulate systems y creating laws , imposing constraints , specifying states , and observing and responding to the nsequences . The science classroom of the information age will have to integrate student-student and student-teacher dialogue with student-computer dialogue in a way that treats the students ' own ideas not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Motivational Aspects in the Construction of Computer-Based Learning Motivation may be extrinsic or intrinsic . Extrinsic motivation is built into many " drill-and-practice " programs in the form of sound and graphics unrelated to the learning activity . Piaget and Bruner emphasized the importance of intrinsically motivated , playlike activities for many forms of learning . Some researchers ( Lepper , 1985 ; and Malone , 1980 ) have looked to computer games to provide intrinsic motivation . According to Malone , the learning situation has to have a challenging character in order to facilitate intrinsically motivated learning behaviour . Malone suggests that the learner 's curiosity will be stimulated when he or she feels at his or her knowledge is incomplete or inconsistent with new information and experience . when the learner realises that the knowledge he/she has acquired enables him/her to execute meaningful activities , he/she will feel challenged to study the material . Besides the motivating , instigating nature of challenging computerised learning , aversive tingencies and/or by-products of overt or covert feedback events in such systems should reflected . Carefully planned feedback and/or diagnostic components @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ LEARNING Individualisation of Learning r The capacity of new information technology to accommodate individual differences is well-illustrated by a student-computer dialogue developed at the Educational Technology Center at the University of California , Irvine . Batteries and Bulbs is based on an earlier non-computer module developed in the Elementary Science Study series at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) . The average student takes about two hours to complete the dialogue , developing and testing a simple theory of how electrical circuits behave . In this first module , about fifteen minutes long , the task is to light a bulb , given a battery and wires . In testing with 12-year-old students , only one student out of seven could initially accomplish this task . At first , the student proceeds with the task , with little help except seeing if the bulb lights or not . The dialogue keeps an internal record of what connections were tried . If the student is making no progress , some aid is offered , based on what has been tried . In effect , the range of the intended discovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the discovery , but at different levels . The discovery processs is individualised to meet the background and interest of each student . Based on the rationale that feedback events ( are they overt as explicit tutoring feedback or are they more or less covert as part of the diagnostic component ? ) are interpreted by the learner , the KAVIS-III System by Fischer and Mandl lays heavy emphasis on the role of metacognitive guidance and control . The learner is offered the capability at any time of his learning with the system to diagnose his current learning state and to localise his shortcomings . Since he is the agent of deliberate self-control by deciding whether and when he wants to be diagnosed and since he decides whether he is willing to follow the system 's advice , learning in KAVIS-III is largely autonomous . Many other examples , using a wide range of pedagogical strategies , could be given . Even in the narrow field of computer-based testing , several strategies of individualising tests have been employed . One aim is to allow shorter and more reliable testing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Intelligence Techniques Artificial intelligence techniques can be used to facilitate the man/machine dialogue , for example through voice recognition or semantic analysis of a question or answer . These techniques are used in intelligent tutoring systems , although the approach is still at the experimental stage and requires sophisticated hardware ; less ambitious methods could be introduced fairly quickly for the teaching of technology . The use of simulations and exploratory environments is an approach that would enable : ? A device to be presented in stages via a series of models of increasing complexity and realism ; - Interlinked devices to be studied separately by adjusting the " black box " operation of the computer on the basis of an experimentally established classification of the difficulties that arise ; ? The student , by means of a kind of " construction game " , to recreate some of the heuristics that have gone into the building of the device in question . It would seem that this form of learning , by making use of the flexibility of representation that is possible with a computer , encourages the transfer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are similar . This approach can be an extremely fruitful one for instruction in new technologies . There is still a great deal of discussion about whether artificial intelligence techniques can be used to simulate human intelligence and thus be of help in education . Some , like Hubert L. Dreyfus ( 1985 ) , consider that computers can not be used to simulate human intuition and that their use in education should therefore be restricted : Computers can and should be used only to provide the drill and practice by means of which human beings take the first step in their progress from analytic problem solving to intuitive action . Lawler suggests that interacting with computers ( especially when the student is in control ) serves a transitional role as the child builds self-understanding and as we develop fuller theories of the mind ( Lawler , 1985 , p. 112 ) : Although we may criticise a culture or subculture for leading people to think mechanistically about themselves , approximate , wrong theories can be a first step towards something better . Those children 's theories of mind that will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can serve as precursors to mature computational theories of mind which look toward sufficient complexity that they do not demean the person . The adepts of artificial intelligence endeavour to simulate certain simple instances of intuition or flair by establishing an overall qualitative view of phenomena and by devising imple predictive rules based on " common sense " ( see D.G. Bobrow et al. , 1977 ) . They con'der that it is possible to develop courseware that calls for a higher order of thinking skills : essment of a situation , problem-solving strategy , applying an algorithm . There is no substantial evidence yet that Intelligent Computer-Assisted Instruction hemes are able to develop expert behaviour in novices , or that , if such improvements can be hieved in the Intelligent Computer-Assisted Instruction ( ICAI ) context , they will transfer to other contexts . Interaction of the Student with the Environment The importance of this interaction has been emphasized by S. Murray and L. Vogler 1984 ) in the context of the use of the microcomputer in the classroom . Olson and Brunner ' 1974 ) , in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a definition of the rning environment which seems to fit computer learning particularly well . They make ference to the external and internal environments of the learner , and to the development of odels of the environment : ? The external environment ... consists of the information , concepts , skills , processes and attitudes which the teacher wishes the student to experience and learn , together with the physical environment ; for example the classroom itself , the teacher , the other students , learning materials , technological resources , and even the football game visible through the window . Other elements which are not physical objects contribute to the learner 's external environment ; for example , the teaching strategies used in a lesson , the attitudes of the teacher and other students , or even the logic and thought processes of other people . Perhaps it would be even more accurate to say that it is the way in which these non-objective elements manifest themselves to the learner which forms part of his/her external environment . The internal environment consists of the student 's own knowledge ( facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his/her own knowledge and thinking . The internal environment includes representations of itself and of the external environment . A model of what a teacher does may be constructed using the notions of internal and external environments . The teacher shapes certain aspects of the external environment in order to influence students ' internal environments . The teacher also monitors carefully the interaction of the student with his/her external environment . Introducing computers into the classroom can bring major changes in students ' external environment and the way they interact with it . REQUISITE TEACHER COMPETENCIES The specific competencies a teacher in the areas of science and technology must have to make effective use of new information technologies depend very much on the applications envisaged , the complexity of the technology to be used , and the access which the teacher has to the technology . Because the demands and expectations placed upon teachers are likely to change rapidly in the next few years , the following list of competencies and dispositions is intended to apply to teachers who wish to make extensive use of information technologies : ? Knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Understanding of the uses of information technology by practising scientists an , leading educators ; - Vision of appropriate pedagogical applications of information technology . In par ticular , a sense of how to use the technology to help students develop learnin strategies , a strong sense of self-worth , and a spirit of collaboration and co-operation ? Sensitivity to the messages conveyed in using the technology ; - Awareness of recent developments in science and technology ; - Willingness to invest time in re-examining old teaching methods , views on learnin ; and the organisation of the learning environment ; ? Perspective on computation as a way of knowing and learning . Competency in itself is not enough . Teachers must be given adequate support if they ar to make effective use of the technology . In particular , they must have : the support and e couragement of their colleagues and superiors ; time to learn how to use the new technolog sufficient access to resources ; and good communication with colleagues doing similar work . Chapter 4 EXAMPLES OF COURSEWARE Courseware used for education in science and technology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality . The examples described in this chapter are organised according to purpose and form . The first two sections describe the most common software , used for drill and practice and for direct instruction ( tutorial programs ) . The third section describes software to help students solve simple problems , to develop problem-solving strategies , and to develop complex arguments . The fourth and fifth sections describe courseware that allows students to manipulate data and explore relationships . The sixth section describes in detail types and examples of simulations . The seventh section deals briefly with software which uses animation to explain concepts and processes . The eigth section , on interactive educational fames , includes examples of various purposes and forms , but having a game-like quality . The last section describes tutorial courseware of greater complexity , using notions from the field of artificial intelligence . There is no significance to the selection of courseware according to country , nor should the examples given be considered as a list of the best available in every category . PROGRAMMED INSTRUCTION ON COMPUTERS The first work in this area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1972 ) , involved the transfer onto a computer of tutorials or drill-and-practice exercises prepared in accordance with the principles of programmed instruction , i.e. step-by-step progress , limited branching , emphasis on mastery , and simple responses . The programs employed a restricted rm of dialogue , presenting only multiple choice or text completion questions , and made no of graphics . The drill-and-practice exercises can be prepared at random and are usually splayed on a black and white screen with 20 or 24 lines of 40 or 80 characters ; the student puts his reply by means of a keyboard . Courseware packages based on these principles Ithough with improved readability ) have been and continue to be produced in the thousands . A number of simple authoring systems enable the teacher to construct them himself without difficulty , using a set teaching strategy . Many software catalogues list tutorial programs in the scientific field , e.g. the CONIT Packages ( United States ) on mechanics ( movement , impacts , force , energy , etc. ) , on tics ( lenses , diffraction , etc. ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , on thermodynamics ( heat , temperature , heat engines ) , on chemistry ( elements and compounds , reaction equation , chemical equilibrium , chemical kinetics , etc. ) , on biology ( cell division , Mendel 's 1aws , etc . ) . All too often , however , the tutorial is no more than a series of electronically turned badges and the exercises merely a numerical comparison with no other comment than " Well done " or " Wrong , start again " . IMPROVEMENTS IN TUTORIAL AND DRILL-AND-PRACTICE COURSEWARE Drill-and-practice courseware and tutorials have improved in part because of advances in hardware and in part due to better documentation , increased involvement of the student , and software design based on a careful analysis of teaching and learning . Improvements in video display technology including better colour , graphics and character forms have made it possible to display diagrams , graphs , tables , and text with more flexibility . The availability of other means of input , e.g. the graphics tablet , and of display , e.g. the videodisc , offer yet more flexibility to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better design or better teaching , but it does remove undesirable restrictions imposed upon earlier courseware . Science tutorials of varying quality are now available in many subjects , including the following : ? General review for exams ; - Physics ( mechanics , heat , light , gravity , diffusion , acoustics , strength of materials , energy consumption of the human body or of a house ) ; ? Earth science ( meteorology , geology , erosion , astronomy , comets ) ; - Technology ( integrated circuits , plastics , materials ) ; - Chemistry ( aromatics , atomic models , periodic table , formulae , equations , spectr scopy , chemistry concepts ) ; - Ecology ( acid rain , land and water analyses , pollution ) ; ? Biology ( anatomy , digestion , reproduction , circulation , cells , plants , photosynthesi zoology , dinosaurs ) ; - Health ( physical and mental , nutrition , venereal diseases , the harmful effects of al cohol and tobacco ) . In some cases the courseware package is accompanied by a printed document and television programme . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street College o Education , United States ) : 13 episodes and 13 fifteen-minute documentaries , a 160-pag book , a teacher guide of 112 pages and four courseware modules with a teacher guide and student guide . During the course of an exciting whaling expedition a whole series of concept operations and factual details are introduced : whales and their environment , measurement o the physical characteristics of sea water , reading a chart , methods of navigation , meteorol ogy , solar energy , ecosystems on a desert island , repairing a ship , a visit to one of MIT ' laboratories , etc . The main improvements have come from an analysis of teaching and learning , with t commentary being adapted to the assumed student error . CONDUIT , for example , has e couraged science teachers to improve the quality of their courseware in this way ( see H. Peters , in Bork , 1980 ) . In order to remove the restriction of courseware dialogue to multiple choice questions , some development teams have designed and used tools that will analyse sentence by key words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numerical result in different systems of units so as to maintain the dialogue ( PLATO , United States ; OP France ) ( see Le Corre , 1973 ) . A good example of effective dialogue is the series of physics tutorials used at the Edu tional Technology Center ( ETC ) in Irvine , United States . These are in the form of a set quizzes which switch over to a tutorial mode as soon as the student encounters a difficul ( Bork , 1981 and 1985 ) . The program Heat is a good illustration of this : the student engaged in a number of thought experiments about familiar experiences with heat ( readi thermometers , observing temperature changes , mixing hot and cold water , melting ice a boiling water ) . These exercises guide the student towards an understanding of the difference between the concepts of heat and temperature . The program has a conversational tone and unconstrained input . In France , a number of software developers use dialogues in a tutorial mode , where the student has to intervene frequently , e.g. on the principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rudiments of atomic physics and safety ( Electricite de France ) . More recently , techniques from artificial intelligence have been used to facilitate dialogue through voice recognition and through semantic analysis . The methods used for tutorials are the same as for other types of dialogues discussed in the following sections . PROBLEM SOLVING In problem-solving courseware , the student has to find an algorithm to solve each problem . Here we shall consider only those programs that do not use simulation . Often this merely involves carrying out a simple , straightforward operation ( see Gauche , 1984 ) , e.g. in chemistry : the calculation of the number of moles released in a reaction , the calculation of degrees of oxidisation , the possible extensions of a simple organic chemistry formula , working out pH values ; in mechanics : calculating speeds and angles after an impact ; in thermodynamics : applying isothermic or adiabatic laws of change . In many cases the calculation elf is done by the microcomputer once the student has clearly established his strategy for solving the problem . Sometimes the problem that has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ errors in strategy . Examples of this are two diskettes produced by A. Bork et al . under the tle Problem solving in science and a CNDP ( Centre national de documentation pedagogiue , France ) courseware package called Radac which involves first learning how to write a ction between an atomic nucleus and alpha , beta , n or p particles and then , with a number conditional branches , predicting what types of particles are produced when all that is own are the nuclei or colliding particles . In other cases , the object is to encourage logical reasoning . Some of the " best sellers " for ildren have a game-playing aspect : Gertrude 's secret and Gertrude 's puzzles ( The LearnCompany ) , The Pond ( Sunburst Communications ) . The last of these is subtitled trategies in Problem Solving " ; according to a description of it by Michael Shelly , the gram applies " only two cognitive control strategies " amongst the 20 or so identified . A es of lily pads in the pond poses a problem for a frog . Only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explore the pond by jumping from lily pad to lily pad until a pattern is gnised . A successful pattern allows the frog to cross the pond . " It is doubtful that the Its developed in the search for patterns in a pond will transfer effectively to other types of blem . " One particular type of software consists of aids for problem solving , e.g. Trouble ter ( Kepner-Tregoe ) . This software obliges the student to follow an analytical procedure : defining the problem ; ii ) developing possible causes ; iii ) testing possible causes . Each of e parts is then broken down further and further . Examples of problems are given in order Illustrate this procedure , which can be quite effective . Similar software has been prepared g techniques of artificial intelligence and therefore requiring specially adapted rocomputers . Notecards ( Xerox ) allows complex arguments to be assembled into a base . Relations between assertions of an argument structure can be indicated explicitly cen pieces of text , graphics , and other information sources . When used to analyse the ity of arguments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument to be noticed more easily . USE OF DATABASES Some courseware incorporates small databases , such as a catalogue of chemical elements and compounds or the classification scheme of living organisms . These databases act as reference documents for use during the program . Other database courseware allows the student greater manipulation of the data . For example , People Pyramids ( Education Department of South Australia ) , is a demography program which comprises three diskettes and constitutes a database and simulation of the populations of countries . It enables students to : ? View the population data for over one hundred countries as numbers or graphically - Enter new population data ; - Obtain projections of a population structure for any number of five-year periods ; ? Print the numeric or graphical data on a printer . It thus allows students to engage in the scientific processes of displaying data , adding to data testing hypotheses , and communicating the results . EXPLORATION AND DISCOVERY In some courseware , students are given the opportunity to interpret phenomena through an imaginary experiment , the results of which are similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the sense that they are not designed to permit the student build or explore models of the phenomena . For example , Chemistryland ( Martin Lam University of Toronto ) provides students with an environment for the exploratory construction of atoms and molecules and the exploration of transitions of phase , using the first 1 elements of the periodic table . The program is in three parts : ? " Atom Factory " in which students combine nucleons to form nuclei ; " Elemental Explorations " in which students control the temperature and observe t state ; " Make a Molecule " in which students combine atoms to form binary molecules . St dents can easily and quickly move from one part to another . The program indicat which combinations are stable , which substances are poisonous , and , when a propriate , state , colour , whether compounds are acidic or basic , and whether rea tions are exothermic or endothermic . The following example comes from Japan , where some 1 500 programs are availab Relationship is a role-playing game in biology which enables the student to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spread of disease ( malaria The program 's objectives are to show the students how disease depends upon a multiplicity biological factors , such as : figure The program contains a database of records from villages , where medical teams have attempted to control the spread of disease . The student adopts the role of medical officer for one village . SIMULATION The simulations discussed in this section are based upon an explicit model of the phenomenon to be studied . Simulations in which the student has to determine the model are called model-building simulations . Simulations in which the model is given for the student to work with are called behavioural simulations , which are of three types : ? Dynamic simulation : implications of the model ( influence of the parameters ) ; - Methodological simulation : suitability of the model ( range of validity ) ; ? Operational simulation : behaviour of the model ( simulated operation ) . Simulation has to be distinguished from explanatory animation , which will be dealt with in a subsequent section . Model-Building Simulation The object of a model-building simulation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data by devising a strategy of exploration that is close to the experimental procedure , entifying the significant variables , and determining their approximate relationships . In ' me cases , the area dealt with is governed by more or less imaginary laws that have to be discovered ( microworlds ) . In the case of simple programs , the discovery process is guided in constrained manner . In many cases the display is not very elaborate : there are some rather poor quality programs in use in French schools on Ohm 's law , the Wheatstone bridge , resonant circuits , the movement of a projectile in a vacuum , Joule 's law , etc . A typical example , many versions of which can be found in a number of countries , is a ulation of Millikan 's experiment , in which studying the equilibrium of an electrically arged droplet under the combined effect of gravity and a vertical electrical field is a tradinal method of demonstrating the discontinuous nature of electrical charges . The ten or so ' grams on this subject that were examined treated this equilibrium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the numerical value of the electrical field in relation to the ss of the particle . Only one of these programs considered the case where the charge was a ultiple of the elementary charge : not one made use of a simple dialogue to check whether c student had grasped the underlying concepts . In some cases , the simulation is not closely guided and the student has to use his own tiative and imagination . There are many examples of this in mechanics ( the movement of projectiles on land or in a gravitational field , the movement of charged particles in an electric d/or magnetic field , the refraction of light by a prism , acids and bases in solution ) . The ? lowing example is a program called Flame Life produced by John Olson , Elisabeth urcher and Sandra Eaton : Students are given the opportunity to make repeated runs of a simulated experiment to determine the length of time candles will burn under an inverted beaker . Students may vary the size of the beaker , the number of candles , and the length of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in graphical and tabular form . Students learn to label axes , select scales , and plot coordinates . They gain experience in predicting , controlling variables , hypothesising , and interpreting data . The use of the program is readily integrated with conducting the actual experiment . The simulation , based on actual data , allows students to focus on the organisation and interpretation of a greater volume of data than they would normally have time to gather in a science course . Here are two other examples from Bork et al . ( 1980 ) : ? Tribbles Families . In this module , the student , behaving like a scientist , performs experiments , collecting evidence and building a simple Mendelian model of genetic inheritance . The extra-terrestrial creatures are studied to determine their attributes , how to predict whether they will mate with each other , and what rules govern the characteristics of their offspring . - Whirly Bird . This program is designed to be used along with a piece of physical equipment , the Whirly Bird of the elementary school science curriculum . The student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiments , and enter data into the computer . The program promotes a dialogue with students , encourag ing them to develop skills of identifying and controlling variables , and to construct : model system to meet a given specification . The LOGO programming language , which can be used for developing logic or geomet microworlds , can be used in other ways of relevance to science and technology education . Fo example , sprites ? graphical characters whose movement on the screen is governed b programmed rules ? may be used to discover the rules of statistics , mechanics or the arrangement of gears CNDP , France : Des ailes pour la tortue ( Wings for the Tortoise ) . In some cases , the model building simulation is coupled with a practical manipulatio , exercise . Another example from Japan ( Grade four , Takezonohigashi Elementary School ) ' a program dealing with the principle of balance . Students construct a balance of wood , strin aluminum plates , and nails . They explore , at their own pace and in their own sequence , th factors affecting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and arms , the shape an position of an unknown body made of modelling clay . They are frequently encouraged record their results in their notebooks . Students also make use of a computer simulation of the balance . Following the use of th computer , students are required to write a summary of their study . The teacher keeps an e out for students who need to be helped . The computer itself may refer students to the teach . with the message , " raise your hand and consult the teacher " . This gives more contact wi pupils than in ordinary classroom lessons . Using the study unit creates a manageme problem : how does the teacher organise the learning activities when fast learners finish t course within five hours but slow learners can not finish the course in nine hours ? Dynamic Simulation Some dynamic simulations are designed to familiarise students with the significance simple models that deviate from linear laws ( energy dissipated by the Joule effect , Keple laws , the trajectory of a particle in a vacuum , collisions from a certain angle ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parameters on more complex models : generations Drosophilae , the mechanism of Embryogenesis ( Anxolabehere et al. , 1984 ) ; Collision Molecules ( pressure on a wall , diffusion , rate of chemical reaction , etc. ) ; the Control of machine by coded instructions ; the development of two or three Competing populatio ( CNDP : grass/rabbit/fox with epidemics and seasonal migrations ) . The program Dynam Modelling System ( Chelsea College , United Kingdom ) allows students to insert mathema cal models of physical and other systems . The student also chooses the variables and initial relationships and can observe how these variables are related to each other based upon t chosen models . For example : to study the population growth of rabbits , a young science student may introduce the model R = R + B , where the number of rabbits R increases in each generation by the number of babies B where B is a constant . A more realistic model of population growth would include a variation in the number of babies according to the food available . The student could then introduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide an introduction to the physics of sound , for example : Musicland . University of Toronto . Innovations Foundation ( Martin Lamb ) . This program , operated using a graphics tablet , is a tool in four parts for creating and editing blocks of music ( Music Doodles ) , orchestrating them with various timbres and articulations ( Timbre Painting ) , assembling the blocks into a complete composition ( Tune Blocks ) , and , of special interest for this report , designing the sounds themselves ( Sound Factory ) . In Sound Factory , the following can be controlled : ? The amplitude of each of the first 16 harmonics ; ? The amplitude of four points of the sound envelope ; - Frequency , amplitude and duration ; ? Vibrato ( by shifting the frequency of two otherwise identical components ) . In addition , the waveform itself can be edited graphically to produce very complex sounds . Here is an Australian example : Lens is a computer simulation which traces a ray of light through a spherical lens . It is designed to assist year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of light . The manual explains the fundamental principles of optics and gives a brief outline of light and its properties . The program allows users to modify easily those parameters which will affect the path taken by light through a lens . Users are able to specify the type , position and aims of lens , the refractive indices of the mediums through which the ray of light will pass and the position and angle of that ray . The trace of the ray produced on the screen can be saved for later use and traces can be superimposed over each other for comparison . Lens also offers the facility to create a Slide show which allows up to twenty screens to be saved and displayed . Methodological Simulation With methodological simulation , the aim is not to study the effects of one or more models by varying their parameters but to compare them with experience or common sense . thing methodological simulations can help students realise that a simulation is someone 's theory of the phenomena being simulated , a theory which is wrong at its " edges " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simulations of nature . In fact , it is useful to ask students , whenever they are using a simulation , to find its domain of usefulness , outside of which it is either inaccurate or worse . The CNDP 's Gal ( France ) , for example , requires students to compare the law of ideal jaws with the results displayed , which are closer to those for a real gas ( the hidden model is van der Vaals ' equation ) . The students have to note that at high pressures the volume of gas is sot nil ( they have to reason in terms of the natural volume of molecules or the gas/liquid change of state ) . Taking the comparison further , they have to note that the pressure is not Inversely proportional to the " free " volume but they need help if they are to understand that the qualifying term is due to the mutual attraction of molecules . The following three examples are programs produced by Bork et al . ( 1980 ) : ? Distance . The module emphasizes the role of measurement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to develop conceptual understanding of velocity ; - Optics . The task is to strike the target with a beam of light by bouncing it off a mirror . Data obtained from variants of this task are used either to support or to refute various models of reflection which are proposed . In addition , there are a number of programs dealing with the non-validity of Aristotle 's world ( force considered to be proportional to speed whereas it is proportional to acceleration ) , e.g. a program produced by Leopold Klopfer ( Learning Research and Development Center , Pittsburgh ) . At the IPN ( Institute for Science Education ) in Germany , programs were developed under the direction of H. Hartel in : ? Electricity . The electric circuit ; voltage and surface charges ; topology of circuits ; - Hydrodynamics . Current through a resistor ; branching of a current ; - Mechanics . Force and acceleration ; force , acceleration and friction ; conservation o momentum ; collision of two bars ; contact forces and field forces . The CUM-Project ( Computer als Unterrichtsmedium ) in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the construction of a computer interface for steer ing physical experiments and evaluating measured values ; - Simulation programs for informatics ( searching , sorting , handling of linked lists an . theoretical models as finite machines , Turing machines , etc . ) . Operational Simulation This involves simulating an experiment or a device and thereby learning the processes the models and the systems , e.g. firing on a target or making chemical compounds react . Fo children , a " best seller " is Rocky 's Boots ( Learning Co. , United States ) where the object is t. construct logic circuits on the screen ( combination of the AND , OR , NOT functions ) . Th humorous animation is tailored to a young public . The same subject is treated in a differen way in Black Box Technology ( Fiveways ) , which can be used as an aid to design . The folio ing two programs are Australian : Dirigible enables a student to vary temperature , volum and wind speed to move a dirigible from A to B in a variety of wind conditions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fish population in a lake . Two other examples are : ? Circuit Design Program . This is a program to help students learn the process required to design fairly simple circuits which produce the required results ; - Batteries and Bulbs . ( Bork et al . ) . The student conducts an empirical investigati. of electric circuits using batteries , bulbs and wires simulated on the computer . Co cepts of current , circuit , resistance and parallel and series arrangements a developed in a qualitative fashion . Simulation may be essential , as in the case of slow , rapid , dangerous , complex or expe sive experiments , which are simulated by a number of different programs , e.g. Chem La ( Simon and Schuster ) ; in other cases , except on grounds of cost , it might seem unnecessary t simulate laboratory experiments at a school or university . The best method in many cases is to expose the students to simulation before taki them to the laboratory . At the OPE ( University of Paris VII ) it was noticed that students i @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as fast after four hours of simulation . The program Prelab studies for general , organic and biological chemistry ( John Wiley and Sons , nine disks ) is designed for this purpose but uses a tutorial approach . The Huntington Computer Project ( United Kingdom ) provides complete support materials . Some of its 23 simulations in biology , physics and social sciences still are exemplary for this mode of computer use . With operational simulation it is possible to adjust the parameters of a model . For example , for the game of Tennis , Durey ( 1984 ) studies the trajectories of balls and their effects in relation to the characteristics of the air , the racket and the surface . He analyses the movements of top-ranking players and examines how performance can be improved by using different rackets for different surfaces . One aspect of operational simulation is diagnosis , which is used in teaching how to detect faults in electrical circuits , electronic equipment ( e.g. DAO , CNDP , France ) , computers , cars , helicopters , etc . It is also used in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemical analysis using NMR . Biol ( Salome et al. , INRP , France ) presents batches of frogs that have metamorphic anomalies and requires the student to decide what medication or surgery they need . The student has to identify the nature of the anomaly ( the role of the thyroid/pituitary in the hormonal control of the frog 's metamorphosis ) . Operational simulations sometimes require sophisticated hardware as in the case of Guidon ( Clancey ) , which is based on a Mycin ( medical diagnosis ) expert system . The knowledge contained in the Mycin rules is screened by a set of pedagogical rules that make it possible to monitor and corroborate ( or criticise ) the logic of the expert system , which displays the probability of its conclusions . Operational simulation is still the method of choice for simulating the behaviour of a ? mplex system . Some types of simulator can be extremely expensive , e.g. the Space Shuttle ASA ) , an Aircraft ( Airbus Industrie et Aeroformation ) , and a Nuclear power station Electricite de France ( EDF ) . Some highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aviator is a well-known one and is used to test the convertibility of microcomputers . Three Mile Island from Muse Software and Scram from tan 's Program Exchange are impressive tools of exploring the design of nuclear reactors d serve as strong motivators for discussions ; however , they are set up to make system ilure likely , even unavoidable , in order to make the play of the " game " challenging . ElectriPower Systems ( Imperial College , London , 1984 ) is the planning , design and operation of power system to ensure minimum disruption of electricity supply . The package contains eractive programs for load flow , security enhancement and fault level calculations . EXPLANATORY ANIMATION The first examples of explanatory animation on a computer date back to the 1960s when ' Judah Schwartz displayed on a computer screen the wave functions in a potential well , the movement of different bodies and the relative distortion of a parallelepiped , and was thus ablc to produce instructional filmloops . In physics , animation can now be performed on microcomputers , e.g. longditudinal and transversal Waves , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) ; In technology , animation will help to explain clearly the operation of a Petrol engine , a Robot , a Microprocessor , a Turbine ( EDF ) . In biology , there is the IRL Press material on Muscle contraction , pH titration . Photosynthesis , Protein structure , Genetic code . - In anatomy , The Body in Focus ( CBS , Greenwich ) , explains and shows major body systems and allows students to peel away layers of the head , torso and arm to reveal underlying structures . A review feature tests student comprehension . - In chemistry , Molecules are represented by wire , spheres and rods , or compact models , or models of molecular surfaces , for demonstrating the topology of molecules , the dynamics of molecular configurations , the designing of medicines , the correlation between structure and activity , the calculation and representation of individual mechanisms , etc. ( see J. Weber , University of Geneva : Infographie ) . For the latest applications powerful computers are necessary , but there are many educational programs for microcomputers . These can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control the various parameters , or by the teacher in front of the class . INTERACTIVE EDUCATIONAL GAMES Video games have found their way into most types of educational software . The game may have little to do with learning about science and technology or it may be designed on pedagogical principles . In some instances , a video game is offered simply as a reward to a student who has obtained a good score in a number of exercises . In other cases , the game has a weak connection to scientific ideas . In one program students may play Pac-Man in a labyrinth where a flask pursued by a beaker has to find the right chemical compound . Similarly , Chemrain is the equivalent in chemistry of Space-invaders . The educational value of these games is not proven ; nevertheless , skills associated with data handling , discussion , research , planning , analysing , hypothesis generation and testing , forecasting , exploring , discovering , observing and organising can be developed through the use of games , particularly interactive computer games . The better educational games require that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ways , map out strategies , enter correctly spelled directions , and work with a partner , and encourage students to concentrate on a task ' which engages them for periods of 30 minutes to an hour . They combine learning with entertainment , and make it a pleasant experience . For children who are not yet able to read , the Mademoiselle Merveille series . ( L'Esperance-Labelle , Guerin , Montreal ) introduces them to a number of animals , forms o transport , stringed instruments , the difference between sweet and sour , tools and even some - simple operations on a microcomputer such as entering into memory what they have drawn . We referred earlier to the game-like nature of a number of programs : Dirigible can be played by as many as six teams . Two other examples are : Mind Games Biology ( DEE , Lafayette ) : up to four students compete in an on-screen board game . Players advance b answering one of 140 biology questions correctly . Teachers can add their own questions Weather Command : A Science Game ( Educational Audio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity to provide ideal weather conditions for space visitors . If the student full utilises the option to view and study " weather hints " , it is possible to learn the effects o increasing air pressure , producing a cold or warm front , or how to generate a thunderstorm . This program requires considerable prior knowledge to succeed in changing weather patterns . Electricity and Magnetism ( DCH Educational Software ) helps students to complete an electrical circuit . The game involves finding the missing elements in an island divided into 60 segments , but this involves a considerable waste of time and is of no great instructional value Sir Isaac Newton 's Games ( Sunburst Communications Inc. , USA ) is a series of games whic deals nicely with the transition from Aristotelian intuitions about motion to Newtonian one Qualities such as co-operation and persistence at a task are evident where adventure games are used with children . The range of adventure games is now sufficiently broad to allow the teacher to choose different games for students of different interests and abilities from Farenheit 451 to Flowers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more meaningful scenario . A bowl of food has to reach its final destinations by discovering the complicated routes that lead there : mastication with the help of an input of saliva , the journey down to the stomach and the intestines with the action of gastric juice , bile , etc . INTELLIGENT TUTORING SYSTEMS ( ITS ) Intelligent tutoring systems have evolved from earlier tutorial software in the 1960s , which in turn was an improvement over exercises that involved filling in blanks , multiplechoice questions and electronic page-turning . A turning point was reached in 1972 when Carbonell developed the program Scholar . It employed three techniques which are characteristic of intelligent tutoring systems : ? Analysis of user responses to allow fairly unconstrained dialogue ; - Assessment on the basis of knowledge and inference rules ; ? Use of tutoring strategies based on the progress of the student . The techniques were developed in an attempt to allow the program to understand the student 's comments , to determine what reasons the student was using and in what order , and to figure out why the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Examples of tutoring systems designed to address the same concerns using similar techniques are given in the remainder of this section . Improvements in Tutorial Dialogues Recent advances in computer technology make possible improved communication between the student and the computer . Improvement of the Dialogue in Natural Language It has been possible to achieve a virtually natural dialogue on limited subjects through a logical analysis of key-word skeletons ( PLATO 1965 , OPE 1967 ) . Considerable progress has been made in the techniques of comprehending syntax and semantics . The advances that have been made by the Centre de Recherches en informatique de Nancy ( CRIN ) and the osaique project at Grenoble are two examples of what can now be achieved on a microcomputer . ACE ( Analyse Complex Explanation ) is capable of analysing in detail an inconsistent ad incomplete explanation on a narrow subject ( nuclear paramagnetic resonance ) . The analysers are even expected to provide a response to an unforeseen move on the part of the studcnt by taking the context into account . Improvement of Graphics and Verbal Presentations Improvements in graphics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ching foreign languages , music , reading and writing ; for speech therapy , teaching , and for simulation . Improvements will also be used in the Sirene program for persons with hearin defects . The Steamer program ( 1979 ) , which demonstrates how a heat engine works , ushigh-quality graphics to illustrate various operations . Expert Systems on Microcomputers User-friendly systems and interfaces can be created that will accept abbreviations , spell ing mistakes and syntax errors in the dialogue with no loss of meaning . Expert systems usin inference/deduction techniques for special applications can follow a line of reasoning invol ing incomplete , inconsistent and garbled data . Some small-scale systems can operate o microcomputers : George ( Cabrol et al. ) is an aid for problem solving in chemistry an provides simple heuristics for solving a given elementary problem . Expert Systems on Minicomputers A tutorial program can be linked to a larger-scale expert system . For example , the ope tions simulated in the Steamer program have to be performed in a given sequence . An expe system detects and comments on errors of operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as , " The circuit must be drained before opening this valve " . The Sphi system , expert in diagnosing jaundices , also serves as a teaching device by guiding a criticising the student , informing him/her of errors , premature diagnoses , and the pertinen. of his/her remarks . The Titus system , expert in CAD ( Computer-Assisted Design ) , can he the student by relieving him of routine calculations . The student , being guided at each stag chooses the physical models , the mathematical equations , the mathematical procedures , t methods of problem solving , and the input into the machine ( geometry , physical constan limit conditions , visualisation of the results ) . These systems , unlike those we shall be exami ing later , are not designed to handle educational psychology data . Use of Databanks Artificial intelligence can be of assistance in retrieving information from a database . It worth noting that most of the work being done in Japan on the educational applications artificial intelligence concentrate on this aspect : ? Developing a generative database for each course ; - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - Determining strategy on the basis of a classification of errors . Modelling the Student 's Reasoning By building rules of inference into the programs it is possible to improve on the anal of the learner 's behaviour without actually constructing an elaborate representation of t learning process . A good analysis of the student 's comments is needed both to carry on meaningful dialogue and to identify the rules of inference the student is employing even if t arguments are incomplete . The programs include heuristics to handle such ambiguity . system is designed to help the student learn by doing . SOPHIE was the first major program to use artificial intelligence techniques f psychological applications . It was originally developed and worked on for about ten years Burton and Brown and thereafter in conjunction with de Kleer . In 1973 the aim was provide instruction on how to carry out electronic repairs on a regulated power supply used by the US Air Force . Initial work at the University of Irvine ( California ) was followed by two years ' research at Bolt , Beranek and Newman ( BBN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1975 ) was capable of evaluating the learner 's hypotheses , criticising his measurements and accepting virtually any question raised on the subject . - SOPHIE II ( 1976 ) was improved by the addition of new instructional elements and , in particular , because the expert revealed his strategy and tactics ( becoming a " glass box " rather than a " black box " ) . - SOPHIE III ( 1978 ) incorporated improved educational strategies and improved techniques for modelling the reasoning and the learning process . It then became clear that further improvements would seriously reduce response time on the equipment being used ( PDP 10 , 256 K ) . e authors , who are currently with Xerox ( Palo Alto ) , continue to draw lessons from PHIE : their opinion in 1982 was that they had " put the cart before the horse " because hat they needed was a theory of human understanding . Students would ask for qualitative planations , whereas SOPHIE III would deliver only pre-compiled explanations for the es of its specific circuit . The authors therefore turned their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjects . The following Intelligent Tutoring Systems have the same sophistication as the preceding examples , but in addition , are constructed using a model of the learner . They are of portance in research in the fields of cognitive psychology and artificial intelligence . The rliest examples , Buggy ( Brown and Burton , 1978 ) and LMS ( Sleeman and Smith , 1981 ) ncern arithmetic and algebra . The learner is modelled by a system applying right and ng rules against a background of noise caused by spelling mistakes . Listed below are several examples of programs produced by the Learning Research and velopment Center ( LRDC ) at Pittsburgh , United States , and designed for a top-of-thenge computer system with window and mouse facilities ( Xerox 1108 ) . ? Logic . This program , designed by Marty Kent , requires the student to build an electronic circuit incorporating logic gates . It checks the coherence of the construction and displays the flows produced . The circuits can be memorised for subsequent use in more complex constructions . Logic can trace dynamically the history of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed by a tutorial package incorporated in the program . - Optics . This tutor , which was developed by Peter Reimann , involves analysing the path of a ray refracted through a lens . It enables the student to construct an experimental situation , predict the refraction and compare his prediction with that worked out by the system . A refinement is planned whereby the student would be able to describe in pseudo-natural language the phenomena he has to predict . Ohm Tutor . The system , designed by J. Bonar and J. Ivill , is designed to teach Ohm 's and Kirchhofrs laws . It incorporates a series of exercises in which circuits are presented to students who have means of measuring and varying voltage , resistance , and current . The following programs were developed in Europe : ? Electre ( Caillot et al. , 1984 ) deals with resistance systems incorporating a number of batteries . The learner is modelled by an expert system using metarules , rules and heuristics . ? An intelligent learning environment on the superposition of motion is being developed by Mandl et @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of knowledge at various stages of the learning process in which the actual knowledge of the learner ( learner model ) is compared to the knowledge of an expert in a corresponding learning or problem-solving situation ( expert model ) . - KAVIS-III ( Fischer and Mandl , 1986 ) is an interactive audiovisual instructio system centrally based on on-line feedback . Feedback is administered either as . Prologue informing the learner about the logical status of his error , as audiovisua feedback correcting misconception , or as a combination of both . According to th nature of the learner 's error , feedback is attuned differentially . Diagnostic protocol further inform the learner about his current state . Chapter 5 HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE Current developments in computer hardware bring new possibilities for enriching educaon in science and technology . It is becoming easier to connect laboratory equipment to mputers . Inexpensive devices for display , measurement and control are coming onto the arket . Flexible software for controlling all devices is being developed . While these advances far from complete , we can now begin to put in the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of engineers and scientists . Just as we can now give students new fessional tools for writing , calculating and organising data , we can also give them tools for perimentation and design . ARDWARE AND COURSEWARE SPECIFIC TO SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY rrent Situation Educational decision-makers face difficult choices in acquiring computer hardware . At sent there is a large and increasing gap between the sophistication of equipment used in ence and industry and that commonly found in schools . At the same time , school systems not yet in a position to provide students with full access even to the least expensive carolers . Nevertheless , it is important to set criteria for hardware selection in order to ensure t whatever equipment is purchased will be useful for a reasonable length of time . I n order to provide for the applications discussed in this first part , it is important to have uipment with the following characteristics : Good characters , choice of fonts and sizes ; Good graphics with high resolution ( 788 or 1 024 or better , TV aspect ratio ) ; Possibility of animation ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a much larger total palette ; Standardized operating system to support portability of software ; Standardized interfaces for measurements and for control and feedback experiments . Decision-makers can choose , as many have done , to purchase existing hardware , or they n encourage the development of hardware specially adapted for educational use , as has -n done in several countries . For example , in Canada , the Ontario Ministry of Education created functional specifications and provides grants to school boards to cover a large ion of the cost of microcomputers meeting the specifications . The Ministry is currently blishing more advanced specifications which it expects will attract large international manufacturers . Material Designed for Disabled Students Some computers have been adapted for use by handicapped students . An Australia designed computer has won the British Institution of Electrical Engineers prize for helpin disabled people . The computer called CEDRIC , features a cursor that responds to eye mov ments , and is designed as a communication and control aid for people with high level - paralysis and loss of speech . The user may issue commands by focussing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blinking . The system is relatively expensive ( $20 000 ) . The South Australian Education Department has designed a low-cost wri ing/games/communicator microcomputer ( Educomm ) for physically or mentally disablchildren , with an estimated price of approximately $750 . The Educomm device has bedesigned to accept any momentary action type switch to provide input , and to use a standa television as the output device . Courseware Concerned with Hardware There are many educational packages concerned with the functioning of a computer a its interfaces . Many of them are written for a specific home computer . Some are mo general . For example : ? Understanding Computers ( Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corporation ) is single package for a wide-ranging survey course , designed to introduce junior hi school students to computers . The activities include multiple choice quizzes , simu tions , demonstrations and tool programs for several computer applications . Anot example is Microprimer , written as part of a United Kingdom program for prim . school teachers ; - The Information Connection ( Ski Soft Inc. ) is designed to promote better understanding of computer telecommunications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their previous computer experience . It defines the basic concepts , plains the necessary peripherals for telecommunication and presents steps to be f lowed . The program predicts possible mistakes or errors and is designed to preve them . There are many animated films describing the behaviour of memory units during t various operations performed by a microprocessor , for example : ? Peeko-Compter ( Acorn-electron ) simulates on the screen the simplified operation a microcomputer with a view to familiarising learners with machine language : ba instructions , step-by-step or complete operation of the programs entered , represen tion of the content of memory and registers . The Centre Mondial Informatique Ressource Humaine has developed microworlds on the same subject : Microprocesseur , 1'Interpreteur , l'Arbre . THE USE OF VIDEODISCS IN SCIENCE EDUCATION The Videodisc System as a Self-Study Tool Using the quick search function of the videodisc , a student can learn topics by himse In this case , a computer is not necessary . The menu of the contents may be printed on pa . or recorded on special frames on the disc . This application could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have missed classes or for students who do not learn well through group instruction . Videodisc with a Computer as Interactive Video Tool An interactive video learning environment may be realised by controlling the videodisc ayer with a microcomputer . Tutorials and simulations , which have often been used in science and technology courseware , will become more realistic and effective by using video gages , even with small and inexpensive CAI systems . Very little computing power is needed control a videodisc player effectively . Videodisc System as a Teaching Aid in the Classroom The videodisc system is also useful for teaching in science . It may be used in three ses of classroom instruction : - Introduction of new concepts . Video images may be used to arouse students ' curiosity . For example , after showing an elephant supported by paper cups , a teacher could introduce the composition and decomposition of forces . Large-scale experiments , which are impossible to do in the classroom , may be experienced indirectly using a videodisc ; - Experimentation and observation . For explaining important points of an experiment and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene of a moving picture . Computer-generated display may be easily superimposed , for example , to show force vectors ; Consolidation and review . Students may compare their predictions and explanations with those accompanying the video images . Since the videodisc has two voice channels , the teacher can first suppress the channel on which the explanation of the results is recorded and tell students to develop their own hypotheses . The teacher can then replay the same scene with the explanation audible . The same part of the videodisc can thus be used several times for different educational purposes . Preparing Learning Materials on Videodisc To permit the most flexible use of the videodisc in science education , individual scenes could be short ( 30 seconds to three minutes per topic ) compared with the duration typical of video tape recorder ( VTR ) materials ( five to twenty minutes ) . It should be kept in mind t scenes will be used in much more detail on a videodisc than with a VTR because of easy 11dum access to individual frames . Examples of Using the Interactive Videodisc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for lower secondary schools ( Physics , Chemistry , Earth Science , Biology ) . A special project using videodiscs in secondary schools is underway and tests show that the effectiveness in self-study is cornrabic to that of having a teacher carry out experiments . The Open University ( United Kingdom ) has developed programmes in scientific and technical education ( CET-NIVE , 1985 ) dealing with such topics as stress on various materials , a case simulation made for a pharmaceutical company ( diagnosis and treatment of gastric ulcers ) , and a programme on anatomy at the University of London . According to Laurillard ( 1984 ) , videodisc use in the United States is of three types : tutorial dialogue ( University of California , University of Utah ) , multiple choice ( UCLA , Wicat ) and database management ( Washington , ISO , MIT ) . The tutorial dialogue is highly didactic , difficult to design and tends to make relatively little use of the random access feature of videodiscs as most of the individualised responses come from the dialogue itself . The multiple choice method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response , but makes good use of the videodisc . The database management technique gives much greater freedom to the student to explore the source material on the disc but to use it well , the user needs much better forms of accessing and indexing than are currently available . Proper choice and design of forms of interaction are critical for the success of interactive video . There is a videodisc made by the Educational Technology Center at Harvard calle Seeing the unseen , that deals with the making and testing of hypotheses . In occupational training , examples of the use of videodiscs are : ? Electronic maintenance/repair manuals : McDonnell-Douglas , Motorcar mai tenance , Aeroformation ( Airbus Industries ) ; - Skills training/upgrading : American Heart Association to teach Cardiopulmona Resuscitation ( CPR ) . The program employs a videodisc player , computer and a lif sized dummy , wired to respond to the student 's efforts to get the heart pumpin again ; ? British Steel Gartcosh calculate that they have already saved four times the cost producing a training programme through a dramatic improvement in operator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Telecommunications and Plumbing Union ) a using interactive video as a means of extending and enhancing training in introdu Cory solid state electronics . MICROCOMPUTER-BASED INSTRUMENTATION OR LABORATORY ( MBI or MBL ) Most computers can be readily connected to a variety of devices for measurement , d play , and control . They can be used for teaching in science and technology as follows : ? Measurement of any phenomenon : electrical , mechanical , chemical , optical , acous cal ; Printing or plotting graphs ; - Processing of data with a view to modelling ; ? Controlling all types of actuators . Robert Tinker of Technical Education Research Center , Cambridge , MA and his group ha devised a wide range of transducers for use as data collection front ends to microcomputer including distance and velocity ranging , temperature measurement , light level and soul level detectors and now spectrometers . The Microelectronics For All ( MFA ) project developed by MEP ( England ) as a course for twelve to thirteen-year-old students , introduce the key elements of modern digital electronics . Many companies sell interfaces adapted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 4-bit Switch input . A simple application would be in biology ; four pressure pads can be distributed around a small animal cage to detect the frequency of visits to key areas , such as water , food , sleep and exercise ; ? 8-channel , 8-bit Analogue Digital Converter ( ADC ) . Many items of laboratory equipment such as pH meters , sensors and oxygen meters are fitted with separate outputs for connection to chart recorders . Use of the ADC can easily be enhanced by combining it with an output control feature . For example , an input from a pressure sensor can be monitored and the equipment switched off when a particular or dangerous pressure is achieved ; ? 8-bit TTL input and output ports are often used together to allow the computer to talk to digital electronic units such as LEDs , electronic bleepers , and push-button switches . For example , traffic lights may be simulated using switches and LEDs ; ? 4-bit relay output . The relays may be used to control small motors , lamps , solenoids or secondary relays to switch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ captors ( input devices ) are marketed at less than $100 for measuring temperature , pressure , magnetic fields , movement and light . There are also inexpensive ( about $30 ) simple Output devices such as stepping motors , gearboxes , and liquid pumps , as well as more mplex devices such as robot turtles ( $150 ) , three-wheeled robots ( $200 ) , and robotic arms $600 ) . The Fischertechnik series ( Germany ) is made up of robotics kits that are assembled like nstruction games and enable the learner to put together small plastic robots that can be nnected to the computer . VELA ( Educational Electronics ) is a VErsatile LAboratory instrument that can be used place of conventional instruments such as scalers , frequency meters , storage oscilloscopes d data loggers . VELA has 17 programs in permanent memory which allow VELA to beme many different instruments , ranging from transient analyser to waveform generator to dio-active pulse analyser . In the LOGO/Lego project of MIT Professor Seymour Papert , school children are testprototypes of materials ( which should be available in late 1987 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and touch sensors , together with a computer interface and a rsion of LOGO which includes commands to control the input and output devices . In this y , children can automate and control a wide range of mechanical devices ( e.g. vehicles and liances ) , all built from Lego parts . Similar projects combining LOGO and Lego are undery in other countries . As part of the French EVARISTE project ( Etude et Valorisation des Applications de la herche en Informatique sur les Systemes Tutoriels d'Enseignement ) , software has been uced for modelling simulation ( developing a model ) and methodological simulation ( contation of the model with actual experience ) in the following subjects : Metabolism : oxygen probe for man , mouse or plants ; Kinetics of chemical reactions : conductimeter , spectrophotometer , photometer ; ? Characteristics of multipoles : test plate ; Movement of trolley , disk or pendulum : elongation and time captors ; - Traffic light operating cycle : model of lights ; - Control of a crane : modified toy crane ; Machine tool ( lathe ) : tool holder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     