@@774262

txt  | switched to a cholesterol-lowering diet , and when autopsied had far less atherosclerosis , indicating that the diet caused the condition to regress.18 Still another monkey experiment suggests that exercise may be more important than proper diet in preventing heart disease . In this experiment , monkeys were given one of three treatments : 1 . High fat/cholesterol diet with exercise conditioning 2 . High fat/cholesterol diet with no exercise conditioning 3 . Low fat/cholesterol diet with no exercise conditioning There was a striking difference between the first two groups : The exercise-conditioned monkeys had about one-third as much atherosclerosis as the sedentary monkeys on the same diet . They also had larger and stronger heart muscles than either of the other two groups.19 Monkeys , of course , are not miniature physiological replicas of humans , so these studies have to be interpreted cautiously . The normal average cholesterol level of monkeys , for example , is almost twice that of adult Americans ( 400 milligrams per deciliter vs. 225 ) . And of course Americans do n't ordinarily live in cages , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed atherosclerosis in a very artificial way ? by massive feeding of saturates and cholesterol over a period of , at most , two years . Human atherosclerosis develops over a longer period and may not regress so easily in response to a change in diet . Evidence that human atherosclerosis regresses after the change to a cholesterol-lowering diet is hard to obtain because there is as yet no fully reliable noninvasive technique for measuring changes in the arteries . Angiography , a technique in which X rays are taken following injection of a radiopaque substance into the vessels , has provided some sketchy evidence that a cholesterol-lowering diet may lead to regression among some people.20 CLINICAL TRIALS In theory , clinical trials should be able to resolve the cholesterol controversy , but unfortunately , those that have been done are flawed in design and execution . Furthermore , they have not at-  | tempted to evaluate the American Heart Association diet or any diet that historically has been associated with a low incidence of heart disease , such as the very low-fat Japanese diet or the Greek diet with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead , the trials have tested diets in which polyunsaturates predominate . There are two trials that meet minimum quality standards , one conducted among elderly men in a Los Angeles veterans ' home and the other among middle-aged inmates of Helsinki mental hospitals . In both trials , the amount of polyunsaturated fat was substantially higher than recommended by the American Heart Association . ( See Table 3 . ) Diets high in polyunsaturates had never been widely used anywhere until the 1960 's , when vegetable oil and margarine processors began advertising their products heavily to the American public . Table The Los Angeles and Helsinki studies showed what appeared to be a modest benefit for the diet , but because they had important design limitations , the proponents of the cholesterol theory have not leaned too heavily on this evidence.22 Jeremiah Stamler , a strong advocate of the cholesterol theory , describes the results as  | " encouraging ... but not clear-cut , consistent , and unequivocal . " 23 One finding of these trials caused consternation : Deaths from causes other than heart disease , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cholesterol-lowering diets . Overall mortality among these groups was no better than that of the controls . This unexpected finding raised questions about the safety of cholesterol-lowering diets , and particularly about the possibility that they might cause cancer . To shed light on this problem , researchers looked at several long-term cohort studies that have been done on heart disease . These showed , as expected , that heart-disease mortality among men fell as serum cholesterol decreased , but there was a simultaneous rise in cancer deaths.24 The result is a J-shaped curve for total mortality that looks something like this : The discovery of the J curve , which seems to apply to men but not women , raised considerable speculation . One of the most interesting speculations comes from a prominent British investigator , Dr. Michael Oliver of the University of Edinburgh , who suggests that the proper functioning of aging human cells may be dependent on a critical concentration of cholesterol . The typical increase in serum cholesterol that occurs with advancing age may be a beneficial adaptive response to the cells ' need for cholesterol . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be an unnatural intrusion upon the body 's normal adaptive response , and this intrusion may possibly have harmful results.25 Another speculative explanation is that diets high in polyunsaturated fat may be toxic . Much of the polyunsaturates in processed foods ? and this is particularly true of margarine ? are in the form of trans-fatty acids , substances not found in nature . There has been much speculation that these substances may be a cause of cancer , since they appear to disturb normal cell function.26 Polyunsaturates are not essential for cholesterol lowering , and it is possible to greatly reduce the amount of trans-fatty acids in foods by a change in the manufacturing process . Dietary changes are of course only one among several measures that might reduce the risk of heart disease . Exercise , reduction of blood pressure , and renunciation of smoking are also being tested as preventive measures . Researchers are trying several of these measures in combination on the sensible assumption that none would ordinarily be used in isolation by those at risk . There are in progress now at least three of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One is being conducted in Oslo , Norway , another in several locations in the United States , and the third , which is under the direction of the World Health Organization , is being conducted in five European countries . The Norwegian and American studies deal with men who are at high risk of coronary heart disease because they have high serum cholesterol , smoke cigarettes , or have other risk factors . In the Oslo study , men with high serum cholesterol gave up smoking and went on a cholesterol-lowering diet . After five years of this regimen , which was very much like that recommended by the American Heart Association , there was a modest drop in the incidence of coronary heart disease.27 According to the authors ' estimate , 60 percent of this drop was caused by the change in diet , but the validity of this estimate has been questioned because the study was designed to measure the combined effect of a cholesterollowering diet and renunciation of smoking , not diet alone.28 One happy finding from the Oslo study is that non-heart-disease deaths did not increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , called the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial , or MRFIT for short , proved to be inconclusive . One of the reasons for the failure of this $115 million study to provide  | useful information was the unexpected behavior of the controls , many of whom took up risk-reducing measures , such as the renunciation of smoking and cholesterol-lowering diets.29 The World Health Organization study , unlike the Oslo and MRFIT studies , was not a clinical trial but a community trial conducted in eighty-eight factories located in Great Britain , Belgium , Italy , Poland , and Spain . In half the factories , the workers were exhorted to stop smoking , lose weight , eat a cholesterol-lowering diet , and increase their leisure-time physical activity . In the remaining factories , no special measures were taken . The preliminary results from this study show substantial decreases in the incidence of coronary heart disease in Italy and Belgium ? 32 percent and 21 percent respectively ? and virtually no change in Great Britain . ( Results from Poland and Spain are not yet available . ) The changes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the countries.30 No estimate has yet been published regarding the contribution of cholesterol-lowering diets to these results . THE FUTURE OF THE CHOLESTEROL CONTROVERSY The version of the cholesterol theory advocated by the American Heart Association and others ? that cholesterol-lowering diets are the master key to preventing heart disease and should be adopted by everyone ? does not satisfy the criteria for judging medical hypotheses ( discussed in Chapter 3 ) . Despite a vigorous effort , a strong association has not been demonstrated except in ecological studies . The criterion for consistency is not satisfied because the ecological studies , small-scale human experiments , and vegetarian studies are not in agreement with the cohort and migrant studies . There is no compelling evidence for a clear-cut dose-response relationship between diet and the disease except in ecological studies . Despite vigorous efforts , a temporal relationship has not been demonstrated , nor has the predictive value of the theory been demonstrated in straightforward fashion . Finally , the plausibility of alternative theories has not been ruled out . This last point is particularly important in judging the American Heart Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denies the validity of other explanations that presume to explain the fundamental cause of coronary heart disease .  | Although the AHA version of the cholesterol theory does not do well as measured by the criteria , it would probably be unwise to bury it at this point . It is possible that the theory is correct if applied on a lifelong basis . The experience of the Seventh Day Adventist vegetarians , who enjoy a low incidence of coronary heart disease and follow a cholesterol-lowering diet largely from birth , is consistent with this possibility . For this reason , the AHA version of the cholesterol theory should not be discarded yet . It is also possible that the regimen recommended by the AHA applies to people at high risk , particularly those who have genetic defects in lipid ( fat ) metabolism . A less ambitious version of the cholesterol theory ? that cholesterol-lowering diets are one of several measures that should be taken to reduce risk ? is a stronger contender . The Oslo study suggests that the theory can be successfully applied to men at high risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventually provide important information on the application of the theory to both high-risk men and to men generally . The wait-and-see attitude of the National Research Council regarding the value of cholesterol-lowering diets seems to be justified . The debate , of course , will go on and so will the research , which is even now producing new information that could radically change the cholesterol theory or conceivably send it to the dustbin of medical history . One of the most important of the new developments of the last decade is the realization that cholesterol in the body is a far more complex substance than originally thought . Cholesterol does not travel loose in the blood but combines with protein in complexes called lipoproteins . Of the several types of lipoprotein , at least two appear to have an effect on the course of heart disease : the low-density lipoproteins ( LDL ) and the highdensity lipoproteins ( HDL ) . A high level of LDL is associated with increased risk of heart disease , while a high level of HDL is associated with reduced risk . The level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diet . The level of HDL is in part hereditary and rises with weight reduction , exercise , cessation of smoking , and with alcohol ingestion . ( However , anything over one or two drinks a day has little effect on the HDL level . ) The properties of HDL are affected by dietary cholesterol and fat in ways that are not completely understood.31 In one large cohort study , low HDL emerged as the dominant factor associated with the risk of  | heart disease . If other studies confirm this , the cholesterol theory will require important revision.32 Another development that may affect the cholesterol theory is the realization that serum cholesterol is affected by many factors in addition to dietary fat and cholesterol . Among the other influences are stress , weight , exercise , and other elements of diet , such as coffee , dairy products , fiber , amino-acid balance , carbohydrates , nutrient bulk , amount of food eaten at a sitting , and certain minerals ? calcium , zinc , and vanadium . There is little knowledge about the way in which these variables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is it clear which of the many influences on serumcholesterol level are the more important . More information on these less-discussed factors could alter the cholesterol theory . Since the beginning , the fundamental question about coronary heart disease has been , What causes it ? The cholesterol theory was an attempt to answer the question , and for a while , the majority of researchers believed that it was a successful answer . But now the theory is losing ground and researchers are likely to concentrate on other explanations . There are dozens of alternative theories that attempt to explain the disease and , undoubtedly , new theories will be born in the years ahead . Eventually , from this stew of contending ideas , there will emerge one theory that explains all of the many conflicting facts about the disease . This theory could be a natural extension of familiar ideas ? a variation of the cholesterol theory , for example ? or it may be something entirely new . Whatever this notion might be , one thing is certain : It will be recognized as one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make possible the conquest of the number-one killer in the industrialized countries of the world .  | Food and Cancer Are the Dangers of Eating Exaggerated ? Forty years ago , cancer was thought to be a constitutional disorder and largely nonpreventable . Today , cancer is considered to be primarily an environmental disease . Environment ? defined in its broadest sense to include all influences other than heredity ? may be the cause of up to 85 percent of all cancer . Tobacco , alcohol , sunlight , radiation , occupational exposure to chemicals , behavioral and cultural patterns , and diet are all related in some way to human cancer . Dr. John Higginson , who is the founding director of the World Health Organization 's International Agency for Research on Cancer , has made estimates of the proportion of cancer attributable to each of the various types of environmental influence . According to his estimates , diet is the leading cause of the disease : The proportion of cancer attributable to diet is approximately 40 percent for women and 25 percent for men.l Other researchers , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diet-related portion even higher ? 50 percent for women and 33 percent for men.2 Higginson is careful to point out that certain environmental influences ? tobacco , alcohol , sunlight , occupational exposure to chemicals , radiation , and doctor-induced ( iatrogenic ) hazards ? have been clearly defined as causal . Cigarette smoking , for example , is most certainly a cause of lung cancer . Diet , however , is in the class of presumed environmental contributors to cancer , because its links  | to the disease have proved particularly difficult to pin down . To isolate one dietary component , say , fat , and to relate it to , say , colon cancer , is exceedingly difficult , because the effect of many other dietary components must be taken into account . A second difficulty has to do with the long incubation period of most cancers . Colon cancer could be affected not only by the current diet but by the diet of twenty or thirty years ago , and this presents obvious difficulties in data gathering . There is also another problem : the difficulty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vary considerably from day to day , month to month , and year to year . These difficulties have impeded research on the diet-cancer link . Yet progress has been made , and it has inspired some researchers to make dietary recommendations for prevention . Dr. Ernst Wynder recommends that Americans generally should reduce their consumption of calories , cholesterol , and saturated fat.4 Dr. Takeshi Hirayama , of the National Cancer Center Research Institute in Tokyo , speaks of the " urgent necessity to alert the government , the public , and individuals to the possible danger of excess dietary fat and resulting obesity " in promoting breast cancer.5 Dr. Arthur Upton , former head of the National Cancer Institute , advises Americans to consume less fat and eat more high-fiber foods ? fruits , vegetables , and whole grains.6 But there is less than unanimity among medical researchers about the value of such advice . Dr. A. Stewart Truswell of the University of Sydney says : " It is too early to include cancer prevention among the reasons for dietary advice . " 7 Dr. Irwin Bross , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diet-cancer theory as a " fad. " 8 Dr. Baruch Modan , of the Tel Aviv University Medical Center , cautions cancer researchers against repeating the mistakes of heart researchers who are giving advice before the facts are in . " Unsubstantiated . . . recommendations . . . on specific dietary components . . . particularly fats , are dangerous , and may once again lead to a situation where one is bound to a single nutritional theory , which is not necessarily valid . " 9 Why should diet be a major cause of cancer ? There are two key epidemiological facts that strongly suggest that diet is indeed a major cause . The first fact is that the incidence of particular types of cancer varies considerably from country to country but when people migrate , they tend to acquire the types of cancer typical of  | their new country . The Japanese , for example , have a low rate of colon cancer , but when they migrate to the United States and take up American ways , including diet , their risk of the disease rises and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the incidence of cancer , except for lung cancer , has not changed much in this century , which suggests that industrialization has not played a decisive role in promoting the disease . ' ? Diet is clearly a plausible place to look for culprits because , of all the outside chemical influences acting on the interior of the body , food by volume alone is obviously of very great importance . The cumulative effect over many years could be to change normal tissue into cancerous tissue , or , more likely , to provide an internal environment in which carcinogenic processes can take place . But in addition to this underlying assumption , there is another assumption , largely untestable , that is shared by many researchers in the diet-cancer field . Gio Gori , formerly of the National Cancer Institute , expressed the assumption this way : " From an evolutionary point of view modern man is still outfitted with a body that over millions of years has adapted to Stone Age conditions , when the foods available were very different from our modern diet . " i1 Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to explain hormone-related cancers , such as cancer of the breast and prostate , put this thought in a different way : " Mankind generally evolved . under conditions of prudent ( i.e. , low-fat and protein ) nutrition and - ... the present affluent diet from childhood onward may overstimulate the endocrine system , producing the same effect that one would obtain running a diesel engine on high-octane airplane fuel . " 12 DIETARY FAT AND CANCER Among the " high-octane " fuels that supposedly cause so much grief , the most controversial is dietary fat . Dr. Ernst Wynder and his associates at the American Health Foundation , who have done considerable research on the fat-cancer link , believe that dietary fat contributes to cancer of the colon , rectum , breast , and other sites.13 How could fat promote cancer ? Wynder theorizes that fat consumption promotes the production of substances known as bile acids and neutral sterols , some of which may enhance chemically induced colon tumors in rats . People on typical American high-fat diets have a high rate of colon cancer and excrete large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrast , groups with lower fat consumption , such as American vegetarians , the Japanese , and the Chinese , have considerably lower rates of colon cancer and excrete far smaller amounts of bile acids . Studies have shown that people with colon cancer excrete more of these substances than cancer-free controls.14 However , it is not clear which causes which : Does the higher excretion cause the cancer or does the cancer cause the higher excretion ? Wynder and others have suggested that breast cancer and cancers of other female endocrine organs ; such as the uterus and ovaries , may be related to hormonal imbalance induced by excessive fat . No one yet knows how fat could upset hormonal balance , but there has been much speculation . One hypothesis links prolactin , a hormone involved in lactation , to the development of breast cancer . A highfat diet fed to rats increases their blood levels of this hormone and promotes breast tumors . Furthermore , women who eat a high-fat diet have elevated levels of prolactin in their blood.1 s However , the prolactin hypothesis has not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable research on the fat-cancer link , including international statistical comparisons , to animal experiments , 17 and a number of studies of humans . The international comparisons ? they are ecological studies ? and the animal experiments give substantial support to the fat-cancer theory , but researchers have found studies based on individuals difficult to interpret because of a basic methodological problem . The problem is the difficulty of distinguishing between the effect of fat on the one hand and meat and protein on the other . People who eat high-fat diets almost always eat large amounts of meat protein , and thus it is very difficult to determine whether the cancer is associated with the fat or the meat protein . Furthermore , those who eat large amounts of fat often eat small amounts of vegetables , foods that may protect against cancer . The problem is illustrated by three of the more sophisticated studies yet done on the subject . A well-designed case-control study showed that the greater the consumption of fat , the greater the risk of colon cancer . However , consumption of animal protein was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cross-sectional study conducted among the five main ethnic groups in Hawaii , both fat and protein were associated with cancer of the  | breast , prostate , and corpus uteri but not with colon cancer.19 An exceptionally large cohort study from Japan showed that heavy consumers of meat ( mostly pork ) are more prone to cancer of the breast and pancreas than are light consumers or nonconsumers of meat . The most provocative result of this study was the finding that heavy consumers of meat are far less prone to cancer of the colon and rectum than light or nonconsumers . The Japanese study did not attempt to measure fat consumption but presumably fat had much the same relationship to cancer as meat.20 The results of these studies illustrate the contradictions that researchers have found in investigating the fat-cancer link . For example , an association between fat and colon cancer was found in the case-control study but not in the Hawaiian study . Such contradictions are apparent in a number of case-control studies done on cancer of the breast , colon , and other sites.21 Because of this and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other food constituents , researchers have not been able to provide convincing evidence that fat either causes or promotes cancer . Some suggest that the villain may not be fat in its natural form but substances called trans-fatty acids , an artificial form of fat produced by hydrogenation and found in varying concentrations in margarine , cooking oils , and vegetable shortening . The trans- fattyacid theory needs considerably more investigation before judgment can be made.22 MEAT AND PROTEIN AS CAUSES OF CANCER If meat ? or large amounts of protein ? causes cancer , then vegetarians should be less afflicted with this type of disease . The Seventh Day Adventists , a conservative Protestant denomination about half of whose members are vegetarians , have less cancer than the population at large . They neither smoke nor drink and so it is not surprising that they are relatively immune to those types of cancer associated with cigarettes and alcohol , such as lung and esophageal cancer . However , they also have substantially less cancer of the colon and breast and other sites that are not affected by smoking or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Utah Mormons , who are believed to eat about as much meat as the average American . The Mormons , like the Adventists , shun tobacco and alcohol and enjoy roughly the same cancer rate.24  | Similar contradictions have been found in more than a dozen case-control studies , few of which found an association between diets high in meat or protein and cancer of the colon25 or breast.26 As in the study of the fat-cancer link , there is the difficulty of separating the effect of protein from that of other food constituents . How could large amounts of meat or protein in the diet possibly lead to cancer ? According to one theory , protein from food breaks down into a number of substances including ammonia , which is suspected of being mutagenic and therefore possibly carcinogenic.27 Other protein breakdown products ? substances called tryptophan metabolites28 and others called volatile phenols ? are also suspect.29 Mutagens have been found in fried and broiled hamburgers , including those sold by national fast-food chains.30 Mutagenic formation is low at moderate-temperature frying ( 290 ? ) but considerable at higher temperatures ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Wynder believes that people generally should limit cholesterol consumption to three hundred milligrams a day to help prevent colon cancer.32 ( The average American consumes about four hundred fifty to five hundred fifty milligrams . ) There is , he says , suggestive evidence that the metabolic products of cholesterol in the body may be related to carcinogens in the colon.33 Others have suggested that cholesterol facilitates cancer but does not initiate it.34 In contrast to Wynder , Dr. John R. Sabine , of the University of Adelaide in Australia , theorizes that there is an association between lower than normal serum cholesterol and cancer . Adequate cholesterol is critical for the functional integrity of cell and subcellular membranes . According to the hypothesis , a lower than normal amount of this vital substance in the system promotes the growth and proliferation of tumors . Among the evidence he cites is that relating to a suspected relationship between some forms of cancer , especially leukemia , and very low blood cholesterol . He also notes that cholesterol-lowering diets have increased the incidence of cancer in laboratory animals.35 The blood cholesterol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but one implication of Sabine 's hypothesis is that adoption of cholesterol-lowering diets ? diets high in polyunsaturated fat and low in saturated fat and cholesterol  | ? may promote certain types of cancer . There is some evidence from cohort studies that men with low serum-cholesterol levels suffer a greater incidence of cancer than those with higher levels but whether cholesterol-lowering diets are the cause of the greater cancer incidence among these men is uncertain . ( See page 102 . ) DIETARY FIBER AND CANCER The possibility that lack of fiber in the diet may promote cancer of the colon and rectum was advanced by Dr. Dennis Burkitt in 1971 . Burkitt , an English physician who spent many years in Africa , observed that the Bantu , in contrast to people in industrialized societies , ate a high-fiber diet and rarely got colorectal cancer . He theorizes that high-fiber diets result in a more rapid transit time of material through the gut , and so reduce the opportunity for bacteria in the colon to produce carcinogens and the opportunity for the carcinogens to work on the wall of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he says , dilutes the carcinogens.36 How closely does this interesting theory conform to the facts ? Unfortunately , epidemiological evidence on the link between fiber and colon cancer is relatively sparse because of the difficulty of obtaining reliable information on fiber consumption . One of the few studies with good information on fiber consumption focused on men living in four areas of Scandinavia with widely different colon cancer incidence . This study found a rough correlation between low-fiber diets and colon cancer . However , there was no correlation between transit time and incidence of the disease : In the area with the lowest incidence , for example , transit times averaged exactly the same as in the area with the highest incidence . There was a suggestive association between large fecal bulk and low colon cancer incidence but this was not statistically significant . " A second study compared a group at low risk of colon cancer Japanese men living in Japan ? with two groups at high risk of the disease ? Japanese and Caucasian men living in Hawaii . Transit times were similar in the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The stools of those living in Japan weighed far more than those of the two other groups.38 These two cross-sectional studies suggest that fecal bulk but not transit time is associated with colon cancer and indeed there is no unequivocal evidence that high-fiber diets always reduce transit time.39  | Other evidence on the fiber-colon-cancer link has also been equivocal . Experiments with animals given high-fiber diets produced mixed results.40 Some case-control studies support a link4 i but others , including one of the most sophisticated studies of this type , do not.42 An ecological analysis found that consumption of pentose , a fiber constituent , tended to be higher in those areas of Great Britain with the lowest incidence of colon and rectal cancer.43 The fiber-colon-cancer hypothesis continues to evolve . Recent work suggests that the substance may exert a beneficial effect through a combination of shortened transit time , dilution of colonic material , alteration of bacterial metabolism in the intestine , and , possibly , through removal of potentially harmful substances.44 There is a growing awareness that dietary fiber is a much more complex substance than originally thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other components of the diet including fat and so it is likely that its relation to colon cancer will not be apparent until these interactions are understood.45 Thus far , there is no unequivocal evidence that a high-fiber diet helps prevent the disease . VEGETABLES AND CANCER One of the most promising and least heralded developments of the 1970 's is the accumulation of evidence that certain common vegetables may help prevent cancer . The family of vegetables known as cruciferae , which includes broccoli , cabbage , Brussels sprouts , cauliflower , and turnips , contain substances called indoles that promote production in rats of the enzyme AHH ( aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase ) . AHH serves as a barrier to the entry of noxious chemicals through the mucosa of the gastrointestinal tract , lung , skin , and placenta . When indoles are fed to rats , they inhibit the development of breast and stomach cancer.46 At least two case-control studies have found that colon-cancer patients ate lesser amounts of cruciferous vegetables than controls , 47 while another study of the same type found this to be true of bladder-cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo has done much of the work on the vegetable-cancer link , has speculated that animal fat may help to produce colon cancer in the absence but not  | the presence of cruciferous vegetables . However , he feels that the protective effect of cruciferous vegetables has not yet been established.49 At least three case-control studies show that consumption of raw vegetables is associated with a low risk of stomach cancer.50 Another study of the same type suggests that daily use of fruits and vegetables ? raw and cooked ? is associated with low risk of the disease.51 Other researchers found that plant sterols ? they are the vegetable counterpart of cholesterol ? protect rats against colon cancer.52 Why raw vegetables or sterols should have a beneficial effect is not apparent . Dr. Graham speculates that raw vegetables may be beneficial because of the fiber or because they contain more vitamins than processed vegetables.53 Green-yellow vegetables such as carrots , broccoli , spinach , sweet potatoes , and winter squash may have a beneficial effect because of their high content of carotenes , which the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a critical role in maintaining epithelial cells ? those that line the various cavities and tubes in the body and also form the skin . A deficiency of the vitamin transforms normal mucus-secreting epithelial cells into hardened , nonsecreting cells . This condition , known as squamous metaplasia , is pre-malignant . At least three case-control studies show that cancer at various sites is associated with low consumption of green-yellow vegetables.S4 Of all foods , green-yellow vegetables are the only type clearly associated with lower cancer incidence in cohort studies : According to the large cohort study done in Japan , heavy consumers of greenyellow vegetables have less stomach , lung , and prostate cancer.55 Two other cohort studies show that people with a high level of retinol in their blood are less apt to develop cancer than those with low levels.56 Dr. Saxon Graham says that " I find it difficult to escape the suspicion that vitamin A may be related to reduction of risk of cancer at some sites . " S7 However , he adds that all of the evidence is not in and that therefore taking a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is unwise to take large amounts of Vitamin A supplements as they may have unpleasant side effects such as headache , muscular stiffness , and enlarged liver . In a few cases , large doses have caused death . It is even conceivable that , in addition to these well-known toxic effects of large doses , the vitamin may actually promote some types of human cancer while  | reducing the risk of others . In a few animal experiments the vitamin has promoted tumors and in one case-control study , Graham and his colleagues found an association between the vitamin and prostate cancer . In view of these tentative warning signals , Graham has urged that the testing of retinol for cancer prevention take into account the possibility that it may also promote cancer of some types and particularly cancer of the prostate.58 ( The National Cancer Institute is currently researching synthetic analogues of the vitamin for cancer prevention . ) Graham emphasizes that his study may be a fluke and that there is no reason that people should stop eating green-yellow vegetables , which supply beta carotene , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in addition to retinol may play a protective role , including Vitamin C. ( See page 153 . ) Several common foods have been tentatively linked to cancer . Coffee has been associated with bladder cancer , 60 heavy salt consumption with stomach cancer , 61 and pepper with tumors at several sites.62 Strong evidence links the combination of alcohol and tobacco to cancer of the upper gastrointestinal tract . Alcohol is also linked to liver cancer.63 Yogurt , on the other hand , may inhibit tumor cell proliferation64 and there is some suggestive evidence that milk protects against colon cancer.65 THE FUTURE OF THE DIET-CANCER LINK The evidence strongly suggests that diet is in some way strongly related to cancer . What has puzzled many scientists is how it is related and what components of the diet are involved . One group that has taken a stand on this is the Committee on Diet , Nutrition , and Cancer of the National Research Council , which in 1982 issued an exhaustive study on the subject . Most of its recommendations ? for example , to eat more fruit , vegetables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salt-cured and smoked foods ? were not particularly controversial . However , the committee made one recommendation that is bound to be a source of contention for years to come . Its review of the evidence led it to conclude that high fat consumption is linked to cancer , particularly cancer of the colon  | and breast . It therefore recommended that Americans reduce their consumption of fat from the present level of approximately 40 percent of caloric intake to 30 percent . The committee noted that the scientific data could be used to justify an even lower fat intake , but it fixed on the figure of 30 percent as being " a moderate and practical target . " 66 It recommended reduction of both saturated and unsaturated fat . Did the committee apply generally accepted epidemiological criteria in judging the evidence for and against the fat-cancer link ? Apparently it did not . For example , it did not demonstrate a strong association between fat and cancer nor did it show that the findings are consistent from one type of study to another . International statistical comparisons and animal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colon and breast but studies based on individuals are inconsistent . The committee did not show that heavy consumption of fat precedes the occurrence of cancer , nor did it rule out the plausibility of alternative theories ? for example , the theory that protein far in excess of normal requirements promotes cancer . Of course , there are some who will argue that a reduction in fat ? a largely nutrient-free type of food ? is unlikely to do harm . Indeed , cutting down on fat , which has twice the caloric density of carbohydrates , may help to curb excessive caloric intake . Why then should anyone object to this well-intentioned advice ? There are several reasons . Dr. Robert Olson of the University of Pittsburgh says that the NRC commits a fallacy in making a blanket recommendation for all Americans regardless of their special needs . He points out that young people and those who are very active , such as athletes and military personnel , need a lot of fat for energy.67 For many , substantial amounts of fat are the ingredients that make meals palatable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of less than adequate information comes uncomfortably close to using science for promoting asceticism . Another reason to object to the NRC recommendation on fat is that it could conceivably do harm . Many of those who cut down on fat are likely to switch from such high-fat foods as hamburger and cheese to poultry and seafood . In doing this they would greatly increase the amount of protein in their diet . Now , if it eventually turns out that protein in large amounts promotes cancer ? a possibil-  | ity that the NRC has not ruled out then their advice would be disastrous . As a semi-official arm of the United States government , the NRC 's word carries great weight and so one has the right to expect that its policy recommendations will be based on sound scientific judgment . If the recommendation is incorrect , millions may be deceived into believing that their cancer risk will be greatly reduced by following it . Furthermore , the NRC recommendation , because it is based on less than complete evidence and questionable logic , risks bringing medical science into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may see a parallel with the fat-cancer theory . The American Heart Association , after twenty years of promoting the theory that less fat and cholesterol in the diet is the master key to preventing heart disease , is seeing its theory unravel . That theory was elevated to the status of dogma because the heart researchers failed to apply the criteria of scientific judgment . If the fat-cancer theory , like the AHA 's version of the cholesterol theory , is not supported by the evidence , people may get the idea that the science of nutrition is no more reliable than stock-market forecasting or palm reading , and that would be a pity .  | Electroconvulsive Therapy ( Electric Shock Therapy ) Do Patients Benefit from This Controversial Treatment ? 0 f all psychiatric treatments , probably the most controversial are electroconvulsive therapy , popularly known as electric shock therapy , and psychosurgery , often called lobotomy . Both of these were conceived more than forty years ago and at the time they were considered to be benign alternatives to traditional methods of treatment such as the straitjacket , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the growth of the patient-rights movement in recent years , electroconvulsive therapy and psychosurgery have become the focus of bitter controversy . Electroconvulsive therapy , which is by far the more widely used technique , is explored in this chapter while the following chapter deals with psychosurgery . Electroconvulsive therapy ( ECT ) has been attacked for being ineffective and for causing irreversible damage to the brain , including permanent memory loss . Its critics claim that it is often used not to benefit patients but rather to benefit their custodians , including those in charge of the criminally insane . Peter Breggin , who is in the private practice of psychiatry and is director of the Center for the Study of Psychiatry , says that " for forty years a massive amount of evidence has been accumulated that proves that ECT causes brain damage and dysfunction. " 1 John Friedberg , a neurologist in private practice and a well-known activist in the fight against ECT , claims  | that " it is highly unlikely that ECT , if critically examined , would be found acceptable by today 's standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinical psychopharmacology , Albert Einstein College of Medicine , says of the more enthusiastic proponents of ECT that their " excited certainty . . . is frightening to me. " 3 Gruen , unlike Breggin and Friedberg , is not an anti-ECT activist . Some former mental patients , such as Leonard Frank of San Francisco , have bitter feelings about the treatment . Frank , a spokesman for the Bay Area Committee for Alternatives to Psychiatry , believes " that psychiatrists deceive and force patients to undergo ECT .... . They use it as a tool for punishment and social control . " 4 There is substantial resistance to ECT within the psychiatric profession or at least there was in 1978 when the American Psychiatric Association surveyed its members . It found that 2 percent were totally opposed to its use while 22 percent were generally opposed except as a last resort in a few selected cases . In addition , 8 percent had no strong feelings but were more opposed than favorable . ' The majority of the psychiatrists in the 1978 survey were favorably disposed toward ECT and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way . One of those in the majority is Dr. Max Fink , professor of psychiatry at the State University of New York at Stonybrook and the author of a leading textbook on the subject . Fink says that " statements that it is ' assaultive ' and ' punitive ' can be dismissed out of hand . . . . ECT carries little more anxiety and trauma than that produced by anesthesia . . . . It should be used more often and more openly than now is the case . " 6 Lothar Kalinowsky , clinical professor of psychiatry at New York Medical College and a pioneer in shock therapy , says that " the effect of ECT in . . . depressions is one of the most spectacular therapeutic responses in medicine . " 7 An anonymous practicing psychiatrist who underwent ECT for depression says that " there seems to be much groundless fear of ECT .... It is a great pity to withhold it from mistaken ideas of kindness to the patient . " 8 Some of the popular opposition to ECT springs from a misconception . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given the treatment while conscious whereas now they are anesthetized and given a muscle relaxant to prevent the violent convulsions that in earlier times often resulted in broken bones . Those who saw McMurphy being given ECT in the 1975 film One Flew Over the Cuckoo 's Nest had a demonstration of the pre-1950 treatment in  | which anesthesia and muscle relaxants were not used . In the current , far more benign practice , electrodes are applied to the head , usually one to each side ( bilateral ) but sometimes both on one side ( unilateral ) . Oxygen is given and the electricity is applied for one tenth to one half a second , inducing a brain seizure similar to that which happens in epilepsy . The patient , who stops breathing because of the muscle relaxant , remains almost still for about twenty seconds , after which his big toes , thumbs , and eyelids begin to twitch , a sign that the seizure is taking place . After the seizure is over and the muscle relaxant has worn off , the patient begins to breathe again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten to twenty minutes is fully alert . A typical course of treatment consists of six to eight shocks spread over two to four weeks.9 What does the ECT patient actually feel ? The anonymous practicing psychiatrist quoted above ? he underwent two series of treatments with anesthesia and muscle relaxants ? says that " the patient loses consciousness pleasantly and quickly and is aware of nothing until he wakes up in the recovery room . " 10 For several hours following the treatment , the psychiatrist-patient felt unsteady and had difficulty with muscular coordination . At times he felt nauseous or had a stiffness in the jaw following treatment . In the early days , ECT was used indiscriminately for a wide variety of conditions , including intractable pain , alcoholism , homosexuality , and personality disorders . Nowadays , it is used primarily for severe depression and to a much lesser extent for schizophrenia and manic excitement . With the introduction of antidepressive and antipsychotic drugs in the early 1950 's , interest in ECT declined , but it revived in the 1960 's , when the limitations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of treating severe depression , schizophrenia , and manic excitement , but they have troublesome side effects and are risky for patients with certain conditions . The most commonly used drugs for depression , the tricyclics , carry a greater risk for cardiac patients than ECT . In pregnancy and lactation , ECT is safe to use , whereas the safety of the tricyclics is uncertain . Another type of drug , the phenothiazines , may cause severe central nervous system problems , including tardive dyskinesia , a condition in which the victim exhibits bizarre movements of the tongue , face , and neck and which may last for years after the drugs are discontinued . According to current practice , not all depressed people are candi-  | dates for ECT . Those who become depressed solely because of personal tragedy do not respond well to ECT , nor do patients with neurotic personality traits . Patients whose depression has no apparent cause , and those with nihilistic or paranoid delusions , are said to respond dramatically , as do those who have refused to eat or drink or have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use ECT only after drug therapy has failed . DOES SHOCK THERAPY DAMAGE THE BRAIN ? Dr. Peter Breggin , who has emerged as its major critic , believes that ECT produces unacceptable damage to the brain . In support of his charge , Breggin cites evidence that ECT causes long-term memory loss . Indeed , this is the most important complaint of those who have had the treatment.11 Most objective tests that have attempted to evaluate memory show that it is not permanently affected by the treatment in a significant way . Immediately after ECT , there is a marked loss of memory lasting for a period of weeks or months , but it returns gradually until recall is good except for the events immediately preceding and following treatment.12 However , a few reports suggest that there may be longer-lasting effects . One of these reports , which was based on a well-designed follow-up study , found that , seven months after treatment , patients who received eight to nine shocks had difficulty recalling some of the details of the Watergate scandal that had occurred six months to three years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about memory loss , has kept the question of possible long-term adverse effects alive and it will probably prompt additional study . Does ECT impair the ability to think logically and to learn new things ? A well-designed clinical test found little difference in these faculties six months after treatment among those who received ECT as compared to those given simulated ECT.14 Most of the complaints about memory loss come from people who have been given bilateral ECT . Unilateral electrodes applied to the nondominant side of the brain ? the side that governs visual memory ? results in far less memory loss . A well-designed comparative trial showed that patients given unilateral ECT had better visual and verbal recall than those receiving bilateral treatment.l s Most  | specialists in the United States continue to use bilateral ECT , but more on this later . IS ELECTROCONVULSIVE THERAPY EFFECTIVE ? The best way to determine whether ECT works is to compare it to a simulated or placebo procedure . Simulation is usually accomplished by giving control patients anesthesia and a muscle relaxant but no shock . In eight out of nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , real ECT was more effective.16 In another type of trial , ECT was pitted against tricyclic drugs and found to be more effective in five out of six studies . ' ? ECT was also matched against a drug placebo and won in three out of three trials . ' $ ECT has never been considered a permanent cure for depression and therefore all of these trials have dealt with the shortterm outcome ? six months at most . Of all these trials , perhaps the best designed is the one conducted at Northwick Park Hospital in Harrow , England . In this study , in which treatment ran for four weeks , real ECT was pitted against simulated ECT . No antidepressant drugs were given during this period . At the end of the first week , there was no difference in effectiveness between the real and the simulated treatment , but at the end of the second , third , and fourth weeks , the patients who were given the real ECT were less depressed than the controls . However , a month after treatment and again six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patients took antidepressant drugs , there was no difference in depressive symptoms between the real and the simulation groups . The patients in both groups had largely recovered . The researchers concluded that these " results confirrn that many depressive illnesses , although severe , may have a favorable outcome with intensive nursing and medical care even if ECT is not given . " 19 Proponents of ECT were quick to point out that the real thing worked faster than the placebo , an important consideration when dealing with a suicidal or anorectic patient . In 1977 , the British Royal College of Psychiatrists concluded that there is " substantial and incontrovertible evidence that the ECT procedure is an effective treatment in severe depressive illness . " 20 In 1978 , a task force of the American Psychiatric Association issued a report in which it concluded that ECT is effective in severe depression when there is a risk of suicide or when the patient is not  | taking adequate food . It also found the treatment effective in cases where drug therapy carries a high risk and takes too long to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully accepted by all in the profession . In part , the reservations were due to questions about the quality of many of the clinical trials . In some trials , the evaluators may not have been " blind " because bilateral ECT , which was used in most , produces memory loss and confusion that may be apparent to the observers . In some trials , the patients were not assigned in random fashion , and in others , the patients were chosen in a way that may have created a bias in favor of ECT . However , since the American Psychiatric Association report was issued , several new and better designed studies , including the Northwick Park trial , have been reported and they provide convincing evidence that the therapy is effective in severe depression.22 A key argument in favor of ECT is that , because it is quick-acting , it helps prevent suicide . There are at least four studies that compare the suicide rate among depressed patients treated with ECT against those who did not receive the treatment . In every case , both suicides and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies were not rigorously controlled randomized trials . In some cases , the controls were patients who were treated in the 1930 's and earlier ? before the ECT era . In other cases , the controls were patients whose psychiatrists decided against ECT and prescribed drug therapy or other treatments . This evidence , although not conclusive , gives some support to the proponents of ECT who claim that it helps prevent suicide . One advantage for ECT in treating suicidal patients is that it does not , like drugs , give the patients a ready means for taking their own lives . Why does ECT work ? There has been much speculation about this and considerable work has been done but the process is not fully understood . However , it is apparent that the essential action is a generalized seizure of the central nervous system induced by electricity.24 Now that the question of efficacy is apparently settled , new research will probably focus on the more benign unilateral method , which , at least under test conditions , is just as effective as the bilateral method.25 Dr. Max @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading authority on ECT , believes that in actual practice , the unilateral method is less satisfactory because it does not always  | induce the necessary seizure . Fink notes that it works well under laboratory conditions , but he believes that in actual practice , where the therapists do not usually use the same thorough monitoring procedures , missed and aborted seizures are more frequent.26 On the other hand , the British journal Lancet claims that opinions regarding the superiority of the bilateral method are " based on poor clinical practice and ignorance " and it insists that the unilateral method requires only slightly more skill to be effective.27 The unilateral method may have one important advantage for the psychiatric profession : Its adoption could help quell much of the criticism regarding the allegations of brain damage . PATIENT RIGHTS ECT , like any treatment applied to confined mental patients , has a potential for abuse and so it is not surprising that several disquieting stories have been reported . One of the stories involves a technique called regressive ECT in which large numbers of shocks are applied several times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patient to regress to an almost infantile state . He becomes incontinent , requires spoon feeding , is confused and apathetic , and if not mute , tends to slur his speech . This technique has never been adequately tested and it is unlikely that it will ever be in any place that has adequate patient safeguards . In one of the early experiments on regressive ECT , reported in 1950 , eighteen schizophrenic patients were , apparently without their consent , subjected to seven ECTs a day until they regressed . Several received seventy or more treatments . The patients lost weight and in two cases the loss was twenty-one pounds in slightly over a week . Two of the patients died several days after treatment , although the cause of death was not clearly due to ECT . The treatment was ineffective for the sixteen survivors.28 Over the years , there have been reports that ECT has been used not to cure but to punish and control patients , especially those judged to be criminally insane . It is impossible to prove that the treatment has ever been used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patients in a way that would be unacceptable today . In a report published in 1950 , two psychiatrists from a California state mental hospital frankly stated that they used ECT not to cure but to manage psychotic patients . Generally , the more aggressive  | patients were chosen , apparently without their consent , and given additional shocks . Some cases were subjected to more than one hundred treatments in a three-month period . In the words of the supervising psychiatrists , " Patients . . . became better ward citizens . ' " 29 It is unlikely that abuses such as the two examples cited occur today because the patient-rights movement , which began in the 1970 's , has made psychiatrists intensely aware of the need to avoid excesses . Today , they routinely get the patient 's written consent and where the patient is judged incompetent , the consent of a relative is sought . Most states now have laws governing the application of psychiatric therapy , and at least eighteen have set specific standards for use of ECT . Generally , the laws guarantee the patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judged competent , but psychiatrists are usually the ones to determine competency . A few states make provision for review of each case by other psychiatrists or by the courts or by a specially appointed review board . Although the enactment of laws to regulate ECT and other psychiatric therapies may have eliminated most of the abuses , it has failed to quell the controversy . A few critics , like John Friedberg , question whether psychiatrists should offer their patients the option of shock therapy.30 Peter Breggin would ban it for involuntary mental patients , prisoners , children , and those under guardianship , but would not legally prohibit it for voluntary patients . He would have the psychiatrist give the patient a strongly worded statement regarding the ill effects of the treatment and the lack of conclusive proof regarding its efficacy.31 Robert Plotkin , an attorney with the mental health law project in Washington , D.C. , says that " the state has simply delegated to psychiatrists too much naked authority for deciding the fate of involuntarily committed persons . . . " He believes that persons incompetent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most limited circumstances.32 A British psychiatrist , Anthony Clare , feels that " in those few cases in which ECT appears mandatory , lifesaving even , it does seem reasonable to ask the medical authority to justify his decision before an independent tribunal . " 33 Some psychiatrists vehemently oppose these views . R. A. Moore of the University of California , San Diego , claims that " those in the patients ' rights movements betray an arrogance that may trample civil rights when they presume to decide for themselves what rights  | of others shall be protected ... " 34 Two psychiatrists from Los Angeles , Peter Roy-Byrne and Robert Gerner , assert that " current California laws regulating ECT ... are so cumbersome that many patients who may only respond to ECT are denied the treatment . " 35 Most proponents of ECT feel that restrictive legislation , such as that in California and Oregon , which takes the treatment decision out of the hand of the psychiatrist , is likely to impede their ability to treat severely ill patients . Much of the controversy arises from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patients ( or at least ameliorate their symptoms ) and the need to protect them against overzealous psychiatrists . The controversy has been complicated by the inability of psychiatrists and their critics to agree on a definition of incompetency , a fact that is vividly illustrated by a study in which two groups ? . The first patient , who refused ECT , was well oriented but seemed hopeless and pessimistic about the outcome of treatment . The psychiatrists overwhelmingly voted him incompetent and favored taking the treatment decision out of his hands , but a majority of the lawyers felt that the patient 's wishes should be respected . The second patient had consented to ECT but appeared confused , disorganized , and uncertain about the benefits of the treatment , and here again the psychiatrists and lawyers split in the same way . The third patient refused ECT and was alert , responsive , and appeared to be knowledgeable about the treatment . The lawyers were , by a large margin , in favor of respecting his wishes but a large minority of the psychiatrists voted the other way.36 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to follow the wishes of patients who resist ECT . As the authors of the study hint , psychiatrists tend to take the refusal to accept treatment as a sign of the patients ' incompetence and illness . This does not necessarily imply that the lawyers made better decisions for the depressed patients . By insisting on freedom of choice , they may have been doing the patients a disservice . Some patients who are coerced into treatment are grateful afterward that the decision was taken out of their hands . Undoubtedly , there are also cases in which coerced patients complain afterward . Clearly , the problem of deciding who decides is a complex one and in some cases where the  | patient objects to treatment , there may be no satisfactory resolution of the problem . One of the least satisfactory ways of deciding who gets ECT is by way of the ballot box . This unlikely method was used in November 1982 when the citizens of Berkeley , California , voted to make the use of the treatment by psychiatrists a misdemeanor . There is much to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complicated medical controversies , it is much like voting on the guilt or innocence of an alleged murderer . Fortunately , a California Superior Court overturned the ban in 1983.  | Psychosurgery ( tbotomy ) Does This Treatmt of Last Resort Reaki ( ork ? P sychosurgery ? the destruction of brain tissue for the purpose of alienating severe psychiatric disorders ? was so highly esteemed in the194O 's that its chief developer , the Portuguese neurologist Egas Moniz , shared in the 1949 Nobel Prize for Physiology and MediciaeMost of the operations done before the mid-195O 's were lobotomies , in which large parts of the prefrontal lobes were removed . ( SeeFigure 6 . ) Later , these operations earned a deservedly bad reputation ? patients were said to become " vegetables , " although it was not clear to what extent intellectual functioning degenerated , When drug therapy was developed in the 195O 's , these radicallobotomies fell into disfavor . In all , perhaps twenty-five thousaudpeople in the United States ? fifty thousand to one hundred thousand worldwide ? had been given this type of operation by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four hundred to five hundred operations a year icice United States , and probably somewhat more in Great Britain Although small in number of patients , it is important in a symbolic sense because it has become the emblem of an allegedly arrogaucand manipulative psychiatric ethic . Ironically , in its declining years , psychosurgery has become a less brutal and far more sophisticated operation that now employs such advanced techniques such as ultrasound , radioisotope implantation , proton beams , direct current , andheezing in addition to the surgi-  | cal knife . These new procedures are more precise and are usually used to remove only a small amount of brain tissue . In the United States , operations on the prefrontal lobes are now fairly rare , the most popular target being the nerve fibers in the cingulate gyrus . These fibers connect the various parts of the limbic system , which is associated with learning and emotional behavior. kSee Figures 6 and 7 . ) A limited number of operations have been done on the amygdala , a walnut-sized part of the limbic system associated with the emotions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is somewhat more popular , operations are usually done on the frontal lobes using the newer , more refined techniques . Although several parts of the brain in addition to the frontal lobes are now operated upon for psychiatric reasons , the term " lobotomy " is often used to denote psychiatric surgery for all parts of the brain . In the early days of psychosurgery , most of the patients given radical lobotomies were classified as schizophrenic . Although a few schizophrenics are still operated upon , psychosurgery is now used principally to alleviate severe depression that has not responded to other treatments , including electric shock therapy . It is also used to treat severe obsessive-compulsive neuroses ? for example , persistent and uncontrollable urge to constantly check doors , water taps , and gas lines . A relatively large number of brain operations are done to relieve pain of a nonpsychiatric origin such as abdominal or low-back pain , but these operations are not ordinarily classified as psychosurgery . Perhaps the most outspoken critic of psychosurgery is Dr. Peter R. Breggin , a Bethesda , Maryland , psychiatrist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Psychiatry . He claims that psychosurgery has been used not simply as therapy but as a means of social control . It is , he says , a way of controlling prisoners , people in institutions for the retarded , children with behavioral problems , and sexual deviants . ' But Breggin 's most serious charge is that certain physicians have promoted psychosurgery as a means to control urban violence , a use that he labels " psychiatric totalitarianism. " 2 PSYCHOSURGERY AS A CURE FOR GHETTO VIOLENCE In the late 1960 's and early 1970 's , several proponents of psychosurgery made some imprudent statements . Writing in the lour-  | nal of the American Medical Association , Drs . Vernon Mark , Frank Ervin , and William Sweet of Boston spoke of the need for intensive study of urban rioters . " The goal of such studies would be to pinpoint , diagnose , and treat those people with low violence thresholds before they contribute to further tragedies . " 3 ( Emphasis added . ) Ernest Rodin , a neurologist , proposed a combination of psychosurgery and castration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " tolerance and encouragement of free thought is probably excellent for the high I.Q. bracket , but not advisable for the lower one . " 4 This was not simply idle talk by crackpots . Later , Mark and Ervin got funding from the National Institute of Mental Health and the United States Department of Justice for research on violence , and Rodin got funding from the state of Michigan for research on psychosurgery and castration . These illadvised projects would have gone forward had it not been for Breggin and others who recognized the threat to civil liberties . The most important legal victory for the psychosurgery opponents came in a 1973 case in which an attorney named Gabe Kaimowitz argued successfully in a Michigan court that patients involuntarily confined to mental institutions can not be subjected to psychosurgery because they can not give informed consent . ' The protest against psychosurgery led to an independent investigation by the National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavior Research . The general expectation was that the commission would recommend an end to psychosurgery . However , its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It refused to recommend a ban and suggested that the treatment could be used under certain tightly monitored conditions on prisoners and involuntarily confined mental patients with their consent . However , it came out against the use of psychosurgery except to treat individual patients , a stand that presumably excluded its use for preventing social unrest.6 The commission had doubts about the effectiveness of psychosurgery that grew out of the work of Dr. Elliott Valenstein , a psychologist from the University of Michigan . At the request of the commission , Dr. Valenstein made a thorough review of the efficacy of psychosurgical methods . He found that of 180 studies on the subject , not one satisfied reasonable scientific standards . which re-  | quire the use of control groups , employment of independent testers , use of objective , reproducible test measures , and provision for a sufficiently long post-operative period of evaluation. ? The commission therefore concluded that psychosurgery could not , at least yet , be considered accepted practice . Thus , like Dr. Breggin , the commission raised a key question about psychosurgery : Does it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of psychosurgery rest their case for its effectiveness on clinical experience , a basis that has often proved unsound in the evaluation of other therapies . The advocates feel strongly that they are dealing with problems that can not be resolved by less controversial means . Dr. Paul Bridges , consultant psychiatrist to the Geoffrey Knight Psychosurgical Unit in Brook General Hospital , London , says that opponents of psychosurgery do not usually suggest how patients with severe psychiatric illness " might alternatively be helped , bearing in mind that all else has been tried . " 8 In support of psychosurgery , Bridges cites the large decline in suicide attempts following the operation at his hospital.9 Dr. J. D. Earp , who is the author of a favorable position paper on psychosurgery written for the Canadian Psychiatric Association , believes that " to withhold such legitimate procedures from suffering patients is an exercise which flies in the face of the ethical basis of medical practice . " 10 Advocates maintain that the precise and localized techniques of modern psychosurgery have not had a severe effect on intellectual functioning . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fewer undesirable side effects than the outdated radical lobotomies , it is not evident to what extent the highest human faculties ? those associated with artistic creation and intellectual originality ? are impaired . A rigorous test of the efficacy and adverse effects of psychosurgery can only be made in a double-blind clinical trial . " Blinding " of the patients is particularly important in the case of any therapy liable to arouse strong expectations that could influence the course of the disease , and psychosurgery , being a drastic remedy of last resort , is apt to arouse such expectations . In order to insure blinding of the patients , a trial would have to include placebo operations on  | control subjects in which the skull is opened but the brain left intact . But placebo operations of this sort are ethically improper and thus psychosurgery is a therapy that by its nature can not be rigorously tested , and without a rigorous test , the skeptics are unlikely to be convinced .  | Home Birth versus the Electronic Maternity Ward Traditionalists Tilt with the Proponents of High Tech A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says that advocates of home birth are " kooks , the lunatic fringe , people who have emotional problems they are acting out . " i The executive director of the college , Dr. Warren Pearse , says that " home delivery . . . is child abuse . " 2 " What baffles me , " says Dr. Pearse , " is why this is considered by some to be a great leap forward in birth care . " 3 Dr. Richard Thornton of the Yankton ( South Dakota ) Clinic says that " the nebulous advantages of home delivery are bought dearly , risking life and health of mother and infant . " 4 Dr. J. K. Russell , a British doctor who dealt with the complications of home birth in the early days of his career , when it was standard practice , says that " it is a side of obstetric practice that I would rather not see return . " , And occasionally there are horror stories about infants who die during home deliveries because the midwives are unable to handle complications such as a knot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A few physicians argue that home delivery is safer than hospital delivery . Dr. Gregory White of Franklin Park , Illinois , says that this may be so because the home is safer bacteriologically and because physicians are more diligent and cautious in the home.6 Dr. C. N. Barry , a British general practitioner , feels that " the onus of proof  | now seems to lie with those who advocate 100 percent hospital confinement . " 7 Dr. David Birnbaum of Chicago claims that hospital delivery is more dangerous than delivery in the home for several reasons including the risk of hospital-acquired infections.8 Dr. Herbert Ratner , editor of Child and Family Journal , says that American obstetrical delivery became dehumanized when obstetricians began to apply their methods not just to the complicated cases calling for special skills and experience , but to all normal deliveries.9 Ashley Montagu , the anthropologist , sees the " breakdown of the family " as partly due to " the unnatural surroundings of the hospital . " 10 The driving energy for home birth comes from the feminist and natural-childbirth movements . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of obstetrics manipulates women in a sexist , dehumanizing manner . They claim that the obstetricians want to preserve their near monopoly by trying to make midwifery illegal . At present , about ninety-nine out of one hundred births are attended by physicians in a hospital . " The advocates of natural childbirth tend to be followers of the Lamaze , Le Boyer , or Dick-Read birth methods. * In general , they emphasize the advantages of being awake , aware , and undrugged , of mother-infant bonding , and of having the father present during birth to support the mother . Except for emergencies , they discourage the use of such practices as using oxytocin ( an artificial hormone ) to stimulate labor , episiotomy ( surgical incision between the anus and vagina to prevent lacerations ) , Cesarean birth , and electronic fetal monitoring . This last practice , which is particularly abhorred by natural-birth proponents , involves use of an electrode placed on the mother 's abdomen or inserted through the cervix and attached directly to the fetus . Natural-childbirth proponents emphasize the psychological advantages for the mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they feel , is an important family event in which modern technology should not intrude , unless , of course , there are complications . Presumably , women at high risk of complications during childbirth would go to the hospital . However , Footnote  | some women classified as low risk do have complications and thus there is the chance of harm to the mother or child , particularly if there are less than adequate arrangements for transfer to a hospital . Whether there is indeed greater risk for healthy women to give birth at home rather than in a hospital is the central issue in the controversy . The controversy has turned bitter with charges that obstetricians and their allies in other specialties have used unfair methods in order to stamp out competition from midwives . Physicians who deliver babies at home have lost their hospital privileges and have had difficulty getting insurance . State health departments have not been sympathetic . In New York , for example , the Department of Health suspended for sixty days the license of Dr. George Wooton , one of the few physicians in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better argument in this incident ? The answer is not evident for it is not clear whether or not Dr. Wooton took unnecessary risks with his patients . Obstetricians have generally tried to discourage midwives who have performed home births without physician supervision , yet in some cases , physicians who cooperate with midwives have been condemned by their colleagues . Midwives are licensed to practice home deliveries in only a few states . Many states make a distinction between certified-nurse midwives , who are registered nurses , and lay midwives , who often have no formal training . In several states , such as Maryland and North Carolina , the physicians attempted unsuccessfully to get state legislatures to repeal laws on the books that permit midwifery . In Ohio , they failed by one vote to get the legislature to make the practice of midwifery a criminal offense , and in some states there have been criminal prosecutions . Were the physicians in these cases protecting the public from unnecessary risk or were they , as the home-birth proponents charge , merely interested in protecting their monopoly of obstetrical practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some hospitals attempt to counter the home-birth movement by making maternity wards less forbidding and by making anesthetics , labor stimulants , and electronic fetal monitoring optional . Some hospitals have established so-called alternative birth centers , which are special sections made to look like a real home . There might be a queen-size bed , carpeting on the floor , a stereo , and a dining table . Typically , in these centers , the women labor and give birth in the  | same bed and the infant is not taken away from the mother as is the case in the traditional maternity ward . Friends , relatives , and husband can be present . Advocates of home birth claim that the alternative birth center tends to take control out of the hands of the mother . The medical setting , they charge , increases the tendency of the attending physicians to discover complications that require transfer to the regular maternity ward . A compromise between home birth and the hospital obstetric ward is the independent birth clinic in which natural-childbirth procedures are usually adhered to . Such clinics offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a back-up hospital is available for emergencies . Such clinics are staffed by nurse-midwives , certified midwives , and obstetricians . Among a group of eleven birth clinics that participated in a study , there were 4.6 deaths per 1,000 in the first four weeks of life ? a low rate ? and complications of labor seemed to be fairly low . The researchers who did the study would have liked to have had a hospital comparison , but they were unable to get one because , they claimed , hospitals were unwilling to cooperate.13 The American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology does not approve of independent birth clinics . Much of the warfare between the home-birth advocates and their antagonists has been waged with ecological statistics , weapons that are inherently incapable of being decisive . The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists produced statistics showing that in eleven states , mortality in the perinatal period ? the twentyeighth week of gestation to the seventh day after delivery ? was only 22.3 per 1,000 in hospitals as compared to 95.3 per 1,000 for out-of-hospital delivery.14 Advocates of home birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those in the homebirth movement , because it includes women with poor nutrition and poor medical care who can not afford hospital care and excludes many who had successful home births . They point out that an outof-hospital fatality is almost always likely to be registered , whereas a successful outcome is less likely to be registered . A similar and equally indecisive argument has been raging in Great Britain.15 The most interesting evidence produced thus far comes from a case-control study done in northern California by Dr. Lewis Mehl and his associates . They examined the medical records of 1,146 women who planned to have their babies at home . These women ,  | who were served by three physician groups and two midwife groups , were compared to a like number of women who had hospital deliveries . The two groups were identical in terms of age , number of previous children , socioeconomic status , education , and risk factors for pregnancy . In both groups , perinatal deaths were very low ? three in the home-birth group and two in the hospital group . None of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chose home birth , as well as their infants , had far fewer complications . Most of the women who chose hospitalization had oxytocin , episiotomy , and anesthesia or analgesia , whereas few of the women who chose home birth had these procedures . ' 6 Those who were attended by midwives at home had , according to the report , slightly fewer complications than those attended by physicians at home . ' 7 In another similarly designed study , Dr. Mehl and his associates compared home delivery by experienced non-nurse midwives against hospital delivery by physicians . Among hundreds of home births attended by the midwives , there were fewer complications than among a matched group of hospital births attended by physicians.18 The studies by Dr. Mehl and his colleagues give support to the home-birth movement , but they are unlikely to convince the skeptics . The information was gathered retrospectively and thus there is no assurance that the complications of birth were diagnosed and reported with equal reliability by the home-birth and hospital practitioners . The midwives , for example , may not have recognized certain complications that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women who developed complications during pregnancy may have decided against home birth and thus the homebirth group would have been healthier than the hospital group . For these reasons , there is a possible bias in the Mehl studies favoring those who have their babies at home . Future studies would be more convincing if done on a prospective basis ; that is , with the research planned prior to the births . This would allow the researchers to specify that the information from the home deliveries be gathered in the same way as information on hospital deliveries . Furthermore , they could match the two groups for their general health , thus eliminating a possible bias that may have been present in Mehl 's studies . A certain number of those who chose home birth would develop complications that would compel those supervising the trial to insist upon delivery in the hospital . The key comparison ,  | therefore , would be between women without predelivery complications who chose home birth versus a similar group who chose hospital birth . The research should be based not on thousands but on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miss what is nowadays a rare event , the death of a mother in childbirth . The studies would gain credibility if researchers on both sides would agree to participate or if researchers who had no commitment to either position were put in charge . In the current highly charged atmosphere , any study directed solely by partisans of one side is unlikely to settle this extraordinarily contentious issue . A properly designed test is likely to be expensive and so may be considered unaffordable by some . Furthermore , it may not change the opinions of those who have made up their minds . However , it would be of great value to those obstetricians and prospective mothers who wish to make decisions on the basis of the best facts obtainable .  | Hyperactivity and Food Additives Does Dr. Feingold Have the Cure for This Disruptive Problem of Childhood ? Most children at one time or another appear to be hyperactive , but this is normal , particularly during playtime . There are a few children ? perhaps 3 percent of elementary schoolers , perhaps fewer ? who have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentrate in the classroom , they are not able to organize their activities , and they disrupt others at play and work . Usually , but not invariably , they are fidgety in a highly visible way , and so the term " hyperactive " is often applied as a label to these children whose basic problem is inability to concentrate . The clinical name for the syndrome of which hyperactivity is usually the most visible feature is attention-deficit disorder . * Hyperactivity diminishes with age but other problems associated with it , including inability to concentrate , tend to remain . Many of those afflicted become normal adults , but some still have emotional problems as adults even though no longer afflicted with hyperactive behavior . Among one unrepresentative group of twelve hyper-Footnote  | active children followed into adolescence , three were institutionalized and two others were considered to be " prepsychotic " by consulting psychologists . ' Hyperactivity is one of those numerous conditions that seem to defy explanation . Some speculate that it might be primarily genetic in origin . Others suggest that it might have psychological roots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological and genetic circumstance . But there is one theory that has caught the public fancy ? the theory that food additives are to blame . The food-additive theory was originated by Benjamin F. Feingold , the late chief emeritus of the Department of Allergy at KaiserPermanente Medical Center in San Francisco . Dr. Feingold , who first advocated his theory in the early 1970 's , claimed that approximately 50 percent of children with the syndrome improve when additives are eliminated from the diet . A three to five year old , he says , may show improvement by the third day of an additive-free diet , while for an adolescent , the response will be slower and often less satisfactory . Children who respond favorably to his diet therapy are , he believes , born with a genetic predisposition to the condition . The food additives cause a toxic reaction among these genetically susceptible children . The reaction is not allergic in nature , because the immune system is not primarily involved.2 The Feingold theory has had great appeal because it suggests an alternative to treatment with amphetamines and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effect of lessening hyperactive behavior by helping the child to concentrate , but they may have side effects , including temporary suppression of growth.3 Critics charge that the drugs destroy willpower and that they are often used for the convenience of teachers frustrated with the problem of dealing with unruly classrooms . They are , in the critics ' view , overprescribed , and should not be used as a substitute for dealing with the problems of poor schooling , poor parental care , and poverty.4 Drug therapy , however , is effective in helping most children with a diagnosed attention-deficit disorder to concentrate , but not enough is known about the long-term effects of the drugs . ' The Feingold theory has other appealing features . Many parents of hyperactive children apparently feel guilty about suggestions that they are the cause of the problem . The Feingold diet allows them to shift the guilt to the food industry and it also allows them  | to get a measure of control over their children 's diet , a difficult feat in this era of television commercials and vending machines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pediatrician and later shifted to the treatment of allergy , is not primarily a medical researcher . It is therefore not surprising that he provided little scientific support for his hypothesis , his evidence being primarily in the form of case histories . He also claimed that there has been an increase in hyperactivity coinciding with increased consumption of synthetic colors and flavors since World War II.6 It is not evident , however , that there has been a real increase in the incidence of hyperactivity , for reliable statistics on this condition do not exist . Perhaps , as some analysts suggest , there has been no increase in hyperactivity but merely an increase in awareness of the condition . One observer suggested that as recently as 1940 , children with attention-deficit disorder simply dropped out of school to go to work , whereas now they must stay in school , where their failures attract attention. ? Feingold 's hypothesis must , of course , be judged on the basis of sound research . Clinical testing has proved very difficult . One reason has been Feingold 's failure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additives might be involved . If several additives could be isolated as possible causes of hyperactivity , the problem of testing is much simpler than if all additives are considered suspect . The problem was resolved by excluding from testing the thousands of food flavors currently used in the United States . Most artificial food flavors , unlike the artificial colors , are chemically identical to their naturally occurring counterparts , and so there was little theoretical justification for including them in tests . As there are only nine artificial colors , the problem of testing was greatly simplified . Another problem that researchers have encountered is insuring that their tests are truly " blind . " In one of the first reported tests , this may have been a problem . In this study , fifteen families tried both the Feingold additive-free diet and a very similar control diet containing additives . Both teachers and parents noted a marked behavior improvement on the Feingold diet as compared to the control diet.8 The research team , which was headed by Dr. C. Keith Conners , then of the University of Pittsburgh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , concluded that " the Feingold ) diet may reduce hyperkinetic symptoms , though this result is  | put forward with caution in view of the several features inherent in the present study which need further evaluation . " 9 The major problem with the study is that any parent who had read Dr. Feingold 's book , Why Your Child is Hyperactive , would have been able to distinguish his diet from the control diet . This flaw was not present in a second study conducted by a group from the University of Wisconsin headed by Dr. Preston Harley . The Harley group , which relied on a larger sample ? forty-six children ? removed all food from homes of participating families and supplied them with new foods to be used during the experiment . The additive-free diet was indistinguishable from the control diet . Under these conditions , the researchers found no advantage for the Feingold diet , at least for school-age children . There was , however , a subsample of ten preschool children , who reacted more favorably to the diet , according to their parents ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted by Feingold is seriously overstated with respect to school-age children but we are not in a position to refute his claims regarding the possible causative effect played by artificial food colors in pre-school children . " io The full-scale trials conducted by Conners and Harley were very expensive , and there was no assurance that the children had kept to the prescribed diets . Even one small infraction of the additivefree diet , according to Feingold , could trigger a hyperactive reaction and thus invalidate the test . Investigators therefore turned to a more easily controlled type of experiment using what is known as a " challenge design . " The children were put on an additive-free diet for a period of days or weeks and then were challenged with a specially prepared snack containing food dyes . The typical challenge amount was 13.5 milligrams . Given twice a day , this amount is equivalent to the average per capita consumption of artificial colors in the United States . Each of nine colors permitted by the Food and Drug Administration was represented in the snack in proportion to its estimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies , ratings were made by parent , teacher , and sometimes by independent observers . In some studies , laboratory tests were made to gauge the children 's problem-solving ability . In nine of these tests , the children generally did not deteriorate when given the challenge material . In some cases , the mothers  | discerned a deterioration , but this was not corroborated by teachers , other observers , or laboratory tests . There were hints from some of these studies that the effects of the dye challenge were immediate and not long-lasting , and that younger children were more likely to react adversely . " A tenth challenge study was done under somewhat different conditions . The designers of the study , Dr. James Swanson of the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto and Dr. Marcel Kinsbourne of the University of Toronto , obtained information from the Food and Drug Administration indicating that , on the average , children ingest seventy-five milligrams of dyes per day , almost three times as much as the level assumed by most other investigators . The FDA information also showed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milligrams and that those six to twelve averaged 146 milligrams . They therefore used challenge doses of 100 and 150 milligrams . Their subjects ? twenty hyperactive children and twenty who were less hyperactive ? were kept in a hospital for four to six days on an additive-free diet before being given a challenge capsule . The children were tested for their ability to learn new material at a point half an hour before taking the challenge capsule and again at one and a half , and three and a half hours after the challenge . The ability of the hyperactive children to do the tests declined markedly after ingesting the dyes but not after taking a placebo . The less hyperactive children , however , reacted in the same way to both placebo and challenge.12 More than any other trial , this one suggests that food dye may have a transient effect on children 's behavior , at least when taken in very large doses . Whether the findings apply to a more typical situation in which the same amount of dyes would be ingested over the course of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been faulted for certain inconsistencies in the data , needs to be replicated , preferably with nonhyperactive controls . How much support do these studies give to the Feingold hypothesis that 50 percent of hyperactive children improve on an additivefree diet ? In the best-controlled study of the complete Feingold diet ? that by Harley and his associates ? there was little improvement . In most of the challenge studies , the children 's behavior did not deteriorate when they were given food dyes . Feingold 's theory that 50 percent of hyperactive children benefit from an additive-free diet is therefore not well supported by the evidence .  | The Nutrition Foundation , an organization funded by leading companies in the food and other industries , appointed an independent group of scientists to assess the problem . This group , known as the National Advisory Committee on Hyperkinesis and Food Additives , said in its 1980 report that there is " sufficient evidence to refute the claim that artificial food colorings and artificial flavors . . . produce hyperactivity and/or learning disability . " 13 In 1982 a conference sponsored by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion.t4 There is a feeling among some researchers that there are a few children who may be helped by the diet . Dr. C. Keith Conners , for example , suggests that 5 percent of the genuinely hyperactive children are sensitive to these dyes . " Dr. Bernard Weiss , who is professor of toxicology at the University of Rochester and the chief investigator in one of the challenge studies , goes much much further . He believes that " the total evidence , although not wholly consistent , nevertheless suggests that the hypothesis is , in principle , correct . " He feels that very young children are more sensitive to food dyes than older children . The proportion who improve when dyes are removed is , in his opinion , yet to be determined.t6 Conventional medical researchers must have found Feingold a difficult person to cope with . He once told Dr. Conners that " I do n't have time for the sacred cows of science , the double-blind placebo controlled trials . " 17 He never specified which among many thousands of additives were to blame . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which left them open to charges by Feingold that they were not testing his theory . Feingold changed his theory several times , creating additional problems for the researchers . For example , he originally insisted that any deviation from the prescribed diet , no matter how small , would trigger hyperactive behavior , but later apparently shifted his view : In criticizing recent studies , he complained that they employed only twentysix milligrams of dye a day instead of the much higher amount estimated by the Food and Drug Administration to be the average intake of American children.ls Feingold 's unconventional methods have not dimmed the enthusiasm of his followers , among whom are a small number of physicians and many parents of hyperactive children . By one count , there are twenty thousand families organized in one hundred local chapters of the Feingold Association who follow the additive-free diet .  | Undoubtedly , additional thousands who have read his best-selling books also follow the regimen . Fortunately for Feingold adherents , his diet advice is unlikely to cause physical harm . Some critics have objected that parents who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , treatment such as psychotherapy , behavior modification , or drugs . But most of the critics , including those on the National Advisory Committee on Hyperkinesis and Food Additives , take the relaxed view that the diet is harmless , at least when supervised by a physician . The diet may actually have a positive effect , not because of its content , but because it unites the family in a common goal ? the elimination of additives from their food supply ? and because it gives both parents and children primary responsibility for their actions , something they do not have with drug therapy . Indeed , a possible explanation for the successes claimed by Feingold is the change in family dynamics due to adoption of his regimen . Feingold 's remedy , ironically , may not be dietetic but psychological . However , any potential benefit must be weighed against the potential harm of falsely communicating to a child that his behavior is determined by what he eats rather than what he feels or thinks .  | Orthomolecular Medicine The Eminent Linus Pauling versus Orthodox Science Linus Pauling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's greatest chemist , but recently his activities have caused considerable consternation among other scientists . He has aroused their ire by disregarding the rules of scientific evidence . Worse still , in their eyes , he has promoted unproven ideas to a public that has no way of evaluating them critically . His detractors have called his recent work destructive and irresponsible , and one of them , Dr. Fred J. Stare of the Harvard School of Public Health , labeled his best-selling book Vitamin C and the Common Cold a " nutritional fairytale . " 1 Pauling 's work on Vitamin C and the common cold is part of what he calls orthomolecular medicine , which he defines as the preservation of good health and the treatment of disease by varying the concentration of natural substances in the human body . In orthomolecular medicine ? literally , medication with " the right molecules " ? the diet is supplemented with large amounts of vitamins ? " megavitamins " ? minerals , hormones , and other substances . Pauling predicts that hundreds of diseases will eventually be controlled by orthomolecular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implausible . They point , for example , to the fact that excess water-soluble vitamins are not used as vitamins but are rapidly excreted from the body . The new orthomolecular approach , because it is based on substances normally present in the human body , is , in his view , more  | in harmony with the body 's natural defense mechanisms than is the conventional medical approach , which depends on powerful synthetic and plant drugs that often have adverse side effects.2 Thus far , orthomolecular research has been restricted to cancer therapy , psychiatric therapy , and the prevention and treatment of the common cold . VITAMIN C AND THE COMMON COLD It is in the treatment of the common cold that Pauling has made his most spectacular public impression . Hundreds of thousands , possibly millions , have taken large amounts of Vitamin C tablets every day to prevent or to alleviate the symptoms . Pauling 's prescription calls for one or two grams of Vitamin C daily during good health , to be supplemented by an additional one or two grams an hour when cold symptoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cold is from five to twenty grams a day , or up to 333 times the Recommended Dietary Allowance . Pauling suggests that this regimen is effective because Vitamin C is involved in the synthesis and activity of interferon , a protein that protects against viral infection.3 However , there is no satisfactory evidence from in vitro studies that Vitamin C is an effective antiviral agent against infections of the upper respiratory tract , 4 although there is evidence that large doses relieve constriction of the air passages and so might mitigate this symptom of the common cold.5 Pauling claims that " regular ingestion of Vitamin C supplements provides protection against the common cold , decreasing the amount of illness by nearly half " and , in support , cites seven clinical trials that show an average reduction in illness of 44 percent.6 In computing this figure , he excludes seven additional studies that he considers less reliable , but the criteria for exclusion are not entirely clear . Several of the studies he discounts appear to be reasonably sound , while two of his favorable studies might justifiably be ignored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that illness from colds could be nearly halved , many additional trials have been made . There are now sixteen randomized , double-blind clinical trials in which doses of Vitamin C of the size recommended by  | Pauling have been tested . Six of these trials show a statistically significant benefit apparently due to Vitamin C ? the subjects had either fewer colds or colds of shorter duration or less severity than those suffered by controls taking a placebo. ? The remaining ten studies fail to show a benefit from the vitamin.8 Why is there disagreement among these studies ? Colds are caused by a variety of viruses , some of which may be more responsive than others to large amounts of Vitamin C. If the disease agent keeps changing its form from year to year and differs region by region , test results may be contradictory . In addition , when studying the common cold , investigators ordinarily depend on their subjects for diagnosis and evaluation , a nonstandardized procedure that could produce divergent results . And in some studies , the participants , simply by tasting the tablets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a placebo , thus partially invalidating the double-blind design . Dr. John Coulehan of the University of Pittsburgh , one of the more experienced investigators in the field , suggests another reason for the contradictory results : Researchers may not be asking the right questions.9 Presumably , if there were better knowledge of the biological function of Vitamin C , researchers could pose more productive questions . Whatever the reasons for the inconsistent results , one thing is clear : Pauling does not have adequate data to back his claim that Vitamin C reduces illness due to the common cold by " nearly half . " However , some researchers who are skeptical of this claim do believe that Vitamin C may cause a modest reduction in the severity of cold symptoms . As evidence , they note that in eleven of the sixteen clinical trials there was an advantage for the vitamin-treated group , although the advantage was statistically significant in only six of the trials . At least one skeptic , Dr. Terrence Anderson of the University of British Columbia , believes that research on Vitamin C and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a group that conducted several of the larger clinical trials , suggests that there may be a limited role for the vitamin in treating colds . He speculates that 100 to 150 milligrams daily ? an amount at which the tissues are said to be saturated ? may be the optimum intake on a long-term basis.1 , Intake in this range ? two to three times the Recommended Dietary Allowance ? was tested in one small-scale  | trial with a favorable but modest effect on cold symptoms . " This regimen has not yet been tested in a large-scale study . Are there risks in taking doses of Vitamin C of the size recommended by Pauling ? In none of the many trials have there been reports of ill effects . Only healthy people were included in the trials , and they took Vitamin C for several months at most . But what happens when not-so-healthy people take large amounts or when healthy people take large amounts over a period of many years ? There has been considerable speculation in the medical journals about harmful effects under these circumstances , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blood , thus precipitating gout in susceptible people . People with a congenital deficiency of the enzyme G6-PD ( glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase ) may suffer hemolytic anemia when they take 1.5 grams or more of Vitamin C daily . A substantial proportion of those in certain racial groups , including blacks , Orientals , and Sephardic Jews , have a deficiency of this enzyme . There is also a possible danger to infants whose mothers have taken large amounts of Vitamin C while pregnant . The ability of the mother and the fetus to eliminate Vitamin C is speeded up . The newborn retains this ability to destroy the vitamin at an accelerated pace , but if it depends only on breast milk or formula , its supply of the vitamin is drastically reduced . 1 2 The result may be scurvy , a life-threatening disease . Troubling reports such as these led one reviewer , Dr. Thomas Chalmers of Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York , to say that " I , who have colds as often and as severe as any man , do not consider the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either the effort or the risk , no matter how slight the latter might be . " 13 VITAMIN C AND CANCER The Scottish surgeon Ewan Cameron collaborated with Pauling in studying the effects of Vitamin C on cancer patients . They claim that " startling recent experiments indicate that vitamin C has a dramatic life-extending benefit for patients with terminal cancer . ... Terminally ill patients treated with vitamin C in proper dosage ... also benefitted from a dramatically improved quality of life .  | Their pain diminished or disappeared , appetite improved , and a greater sense of well-being was achieved . " 14 Pauling and Cameron believe that Vitamin C in large amounts aids the natural defenses of the body in inhibiting the growth of cancer . In their view , it blocks the natural tendency of cancer cells to invade surrounding tissue and therefore inhibits all types of cancer. * They claim that it is beneficial in advanced cancer and that eventually it will prove to be even more beneficial in the earlier stages and even in the prevention of the disease . They believe that Vitamin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radiation therapy , hormone therapy , immunotherapy , and chemotherapy ? although intensive prior chemotherapy blocks the effect of Vitamin C. There is considerable research suggesting that Vitamin C , at least in moderate amounts , does protect against cancer . For example , in animal experiments it blocked the formation in the stomach of nitrosamines , which are suspected carcinogens15 and in other experiments it inhibited the formation of bladder tumors. ' 6 Several case-control studies have found that people with cancer of the stomach , larynx , and esophagus are less apt to have eaten fruits and vegetables high in Vitamin C.17 However , not all the evidence is favorable : Some animal experiments found that the vitamin enhances tumor formation while an in vitro experiment found that large doses caused mutations and chromosome damage.18 The Pauling-Cameron claims are not based primarily on the animal and case-control reports but on trials made at the Vale of Leven Hospital , Loch Lomandale , Scotland , where Dr. Cameron is chief consultant surgeon . In their principal trial , a group of one hundred terminally ill cancer patients were given ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that of one thousand Footnote  | matched controls . Those receiving Vitamin C lived , on average , three hundred days longer than the controls . Twenty-two percent survived for more than a year , as compared with only 0.4 percent in the control group who survived that long.19 The Pauling-Cameron claims for " a dramatically improved quality of life " for terminally ill cancer patients given large doses of Vitamin C are based upon an uncontrolled study of fifty such patients.20 Neither of these studies has convinced the skeptics . The controlled trial was neither double-blind nor properly randomized , and it suffered from other shortcomings . A better-designed study was made by Dr. Edward Creagan and his colleagues at the Mayo Clinic . This study showed that sixty advanced cancer patients given ten grams of Vitamin C daily lived no longer on average than sixty-three who received a placebo . There was no evidence from the study to support the Pauling-Cameron claim for a greater sense of well-being due to Vitamin C.21 Why should there be such a difference between the Scottish and the Mayo Clinic studies ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies . But there is another possible reason . Pauling and Cameron believe that patients who have had intensive chemotherapy will not respond to Vitamin C because , according to their hypothesis , the vitamin exerts its beneficial effect through the immune system , whose function is suppressed by chemotherapy . In their studies , they included few people who had had chemotherapy , whereas in the Mayo Clinic study , most of the patients had had this treatment . The controversy over Vitamin C and cancer therapy is unlikely to be resolved unless additional tests are conducted with people who have not been intensively treated with chemotherapy . If they are to be convincing , these tests must , of course , be done on a randomized double-blind basis . Dr. Cameron refuses , on ethical grounds , to do this type of test because it would deprive the control patients of Vitamin C. Dr. Creagan and his colleagues at the Mayo Clinic are now doing a test with patients who have symptomless yet advanced colorectal cancer and who are not judged to be candidates for conventional chemotherapy . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely that the Pauling-Cameron thesis will be laid to rest . Pauling and Cameron believe that large amounts of Vitamin C  | should be taken by healthy people for cancer prevention . They recommend at least 250 milligrams daily and suggest that , for most people , the optimum amount is between 1 and 10 grams . The long-term effect of taking 250 milligrams or more daily has not been tested . ORTHOMOLECULAR PSYCHIATRY Megavitamin therapy for psychiatric disorders originated in the 1950 's with a group of Canadian physicians led by Abram Hoffer and Humphrey Osmond . This form of treatment , which uses huge amounts of water-soluble vitamins , would probably have remained obscure had it not been for Linus Pauling , who came to its defense in 1968 . In his rationale , which appeared in the widely read journal Science , Pauling defined orthomolecular psychiatry as " the treatment of mental disease by the provision of the optimum molecular environment of the mind , especially the optimum concentrations of substances present in the brain . " There are some people , according to Pauling , who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abnormalities , such as decreased permeability of the blood-brain barrier . The biochemical defects , he claims , can be corrected by large doses of vitamins . Pauling does not indicate the specific chemical mechanism through which this beneficial result might occur.22 After Pauling 's 1968 publication , megavitamin therapists changed their rationale and their name but not the essential nature of their treatment . Orthomolecular therapy includes not only the use of large amounts of vitamins ? megavitamin therapy ? but also the use of mineral supplements , electric-shock treatment , and antihypoglycemic diets , that is , diets that raise blood sugar . When the therapy was originated in the 1950 's , the emphasis was upon Vitamin B3 ( niacin or nicotinic acid ) . Since then , Vitamin C , Vitamin B6 , Vitamin B12i Vitamin E , folic acid , pantothenic acid , zinc , and manganese have been added to the regimen . Those few who practice orthomolecular psychiatry use it primarily for schizophrenia , but it has also been applied to the problems of alcoholism , neuroses , depression , hyperactivity in children , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of treatment with conventional drug therapy as an adjunct . In schizophrenia , for example , orthomolecular methods are applied with the  | phenothiazine drugs ( such as chloropromazine and trifluoperazine ) that have been the foundation of conventional therapy for many years . Orthomolecular psychiatrists claim that the combination of their therapy with the phenothiazines is superior to drugs alone . They say that short-term results are quicker when drugs are used in severe cases but long-term results require orthomolecular treatment with vitamins and minerals . They also claim that with orthomolecular techniques , the amount of phenothiazines can be cut down and sometimes eliminated , an advantage for those who suffer side effects from the drugs.23 In the 1950 's , when Hoffer and Osmond first advanced their thesis , it was not particularly controversial . Their initial claims were modest and seemed to be supported by the early studies , but later , antagonism grew between orthomolecular and orthodox psychiatrists . Hoffer and Osmond may have offended orthodox practitioners by taking their incompletely supported case to the public in the book How to Live with Schizophrenia ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antagonism among the orthodox by their involvement in lay support groups , such as the American Schizophrenia Association , an organization of patients and their families . The critics have not been kind . Dr. Bernard Kaufman of the National Institutes of Health says that lay supporters of orthomolecular therapy are " fanatics . " 24 Dr. Morris Lipton , chairman of an American Psychiatric Association ( APA ) task force that examined orthomolecular claims in 1973 , says that " the mischief the megavitamin practitioners can generate is fantastic . " 25 His task force found that " megavitamin treatment , especially with nicotinic acid , has been examined and found wanting . " 26 Defenders of orthomolecular psychiatry , such as Dr. Susan Chizek , director of research in a halfway house for schizophrenic adolescents , feel that the critics are biased . The American Psychiatric Association task force report is " a vituperative error-filled document , " she says . According to Chizek , " The drug companies have little interest in orthomolecular psychiatry because most substances used in the treatment occur in nature and therefore can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " have no interest in biochemistry . . . . They enjoy high incomes and great prestige and see no reason to change . " 27 This latter set of charges is vigorously  | contested by Dr. Lipton , the chairman of the APA panel . He points out that he himself has a Ph.D . in biochemistry in addition to an M.D. degree and that he is both a professor of biochemistry and a professor of psychiatry . He feels that those who are most skeptical of orthomolecular methods are the academic psychiatrists , whose research interests are often heavily biochemical and whose incomes tend to be lower than those in full-time practice.28 The APA task force report still figures prominently in the debate . It focused primarily on the use of Vitamin B3 . Although other vitamins are used by orthomolecular psychiatrists , the task force believed that B3 has been given the most emphasis and that it played a crucial role in the therapy . The APA noted that several clinical trials of Vitamin B3 conducted by proponents had shown favorable results but that other investigators with no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their trials . In trying to explain the differences , the APA suggested that the tests conducted by the advocates were flawed . In a conclusion that may have infuriated the orthomolecular proponents , the APA said that " the total failure to obtain positive findings when the therapeutic procedure was attempted by other investigators diminishes the credibility of the niacin advocates as critical clinical researchers . " 29 The case for Vitamin B3 in treating schizophrenia rests primarily on five controlled trials published in the 1950 's and early 1960's.30 The APA found this research to be deeply flawed and cited many faults that apply to one or more of the studies : failure to assign subjects randomly to the Vitamin B3 and placebo groups , failure to make a clear diagnosis of schizophrenia , failure to fully define the criteria for judging improvement , failure to match treatment and control groups in terms of pre-treatment prognosis , and failure to test Vitamin B3 against the leading drug therapies . Another problem was that many of the patients in these trials were given electroconvulsive therapy ( shock therapy ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assessing the effect of the vitamin was compounded . Among the half dozen studies that do not support the orthomolecular hypothesis , at least two are outstanding for their thoroughness . 31 The 1973 APA review focused on schizophrenia . Controlled trials done since then have also failed to show an advantage for large amounts of vitamins in treating minimal brain dysfunction and  | learning disorders among children.32 One study suggested an advantage for high doses of Vitamin B3 in treating autistic children , " but its reliability has been criticized for design shortcomings.34 The American Academy of Pediatrics , in a 1976 statement , strongly opposed megavitamin therapy for children and noted that there is evidence that long-term administration of nicotinic acid in large doses may have adverse effects , including liver damage.35 Professor Loren Mosher , a member of the APA panel who teaches psychiatry at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda , Maryland , urges caution in prescribing the vitamin for women of childbearing age and patients with a history of ulcer , gout , diabetes , as well as those with liver disease.36 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of folic acid.37 Proponents of orthomolecular therapy take the position that many of the clinical trials conducted to date are not relevant . Abram Hoffer 's namesake , Dr. John Hoffer of Montreal , says that the negative tests done by the skeptics did not include electroconvulsive therapy which , he says , is a vital part of orthomolecular treatment . ( It is not clear why electroconvulsive therapy should be vital to orthomolecular therapy , which , according to Pauling , emphasizes natural substances . ) In Hoffer 's view , the omission of convulsive therapy may explain the failure of many trials to show positive results . Another consideration , he says , is that orthomolecular therapy has changed considerably since the time of the early trials in the 1950 's and early 1960 's and now includes a variety of vitamins and minerals in addition to a diet designed to raise blood-sugar levels . In current practice , treatment is individualized with the physician adjusting the dosage to the patient 's needs . For this reason , Hoffer believes that the trials of Vitamin B3 conducted by nonorthomolecular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force noted that it is virtually impossible to do studies in which each patient gets highly individualized treatment . It took the position that claims for the newer , more complicated procedures were not yet backed up by sufficient evidence to warrant testing or serious consideration by the task force.39 Four of the five original studies that showed a positive effect for Vitamin B3 were done with fixed amounts ? usually three grams per day for all test subjects ? and in most studies done by the skeptics , a uniform dose was also used . The only recent controlled trials in which  | the dose was varied failed to show a conclusive advantage for Vitamin B3 over a placebo.40 Critics say that it is now up to the proponents to produce acceptable supporting evidence . Proponents such as Linus Pauling are so convinced of the value of orthomolecular psychiatry that they believe that it would be unethical to withhold the therapy from half of their patients , which would be required in a clinical trial . Dr. Donald Klein , professor of psychiatry at Columbia University , probably speaks for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orthomolecular psychiatrists who subscribe to this attitude are , he feels , self-serving.4 The future of orthomolecular psychiatry is clouded . It has , as Klein says , " failed to sell in the marketplace of scientific investigators . " There is little prospect that new and decisive evidence will soon be available to quell the controversy . Orthomolecular therapists refuse to do additional testing , and the skeptics , as Klein notes , feel that their time is too valuable " to waste on unsubstantiated or actually disproved claims . " We are , he believes , " faced with the unpleasant likelihood that this treatment will continue to be used without adequate scientific assessment . ' ' 42 VITAMIN C AND OTHER DISEASES Advocates of Vitamin C claim that large amounts are useful in treating a variety of diseases , including influenza , arthritis , and heart disease . It is impossible to judge these claims , because no adequate clinical trials have been reported . THE FUTURE OF ORTHOMOLECULAR MEDICINE Although Linus Pauling has a large public following , he has only a few supporters in the ranks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who earned a Nobel prize for his work in synthesizing Vitamin C in the 1930 's . Another is Dr. Russell Lee of Stanford University , who says , of Vitamin C and the Common Cold , " More books like this would shake up the doctors as they need to be shaken . " 43 But the general feeling against Pauling is suggested by the reluctance of the leading medical publications to accept his work .  | Perhaps the doctors need to be shaken up . Perhaps , as Pauling claims , they do n't " know how to recognize new ideas that are worthwhile . " 44 There may be some truth in these allegations , but one thing is clear : Pauling has not yet produced convincing evidence to support his claims .  | Fiber Does a High-Fiber Diet Prevent Disease ? The idea that fiber in food promotes good health is extraordinary in at least one respect . In most cases , a medical hypothesis attempts to explain only one disease . The fiber theory , in contrast , attempts to account for a whole range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the colon , gallbladder disease , obesity , and others . As the fiber concept has evolved , it has not only attempted to explain the causes of these disorders , but in some cases to provide treatment for them as well . Several generations of physicians have toyed with the fiber idea . The first was probably Dr. John Harvey Kellogg , founder of the Battle Creek ( Michigan ) Sanitarium , who preached the virtues of " roughage , " as he called it , near the turn of the century . But the fiber theory never made a serious impression in scientific circles until the mid-1960 's , when Surgeon-Captain T. L. Cleave of the British Royal Navy attempted to develop the concept in a more systematic fashion . Cleave was impressed by the fact that some of the principal ailments in Europe and North America , including heart disease and diabetes and diseases of the colon , were rare in Third World countries . He argued that these " diseases of civilization " were due primarily to changes in the environment , and in particular , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of refined carbohydrates , primarily sugar and white bread . The refining of carbohydrates has several consequences . One of these is the removal of the fiber , which , Cleave said , has undesirable  | effects on several organ systems including the digestive and circulatory systems . Refining also concentrates the carbohydrates , particularly in the case of sugar , and this concentration encourages overconsumption . Disease is promoted , according to his theory , because humans have not been able to adjust in an evolutionary way to refined carbohydrates.1 Cleave 's theory was soon developed and expanded by other physicians , mainly in Britain . Two of the most prominent of these , Dennis Burkitt and Hugh Trowell , had , independently of Cleave , arrived at much the same conclusions , but their emphasis was on the lack of fiber rather than on the overconsumption of refined foods . Both had been associated with Makere Hospital in Kampala , Uganda , and while there had been struck by the rarity of " diseases of civilization " among the Africans who ate the traditional highfiber diet . Urbanized Africans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of refined foods increased.2 By the mid-1970 's , dozens of popular books appeared touting the virtues of fibrous foods . Food companies soon realized that " fiber " was magic in the same way as " no cholesterol " and " high in polyunsaturates . " However , scientists were generally skeptical of the fiber theory , if for no other reason because of their natural distrust of any concept that seems too all-embracing . Furthermore , the supporting epidemiological work was sketchy . Cleave , Burkitt , and Trowel ) assumed that there had been an increase in the incidence of " diseases of civilization " in the last century . The incidence of these diseases has risen with the remarkable increase in longevity since early in the century . But has the incidence risen over and above what might be expected simply because we live longer ? Is there any evidence , for example , that men in their forties and fifties are more subject to heart attacks than their nineteenth-century and early twentieth-century ancestors of the same age ? The question is impossible to answer , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those for earlier decades in this century are not comparable to more recent data because the diagnostic criteria have changed . Others have questioned whether the rural Africans cited by Burkitt and Trowel ) enjoy their apparent immunity to diseases of civilization because of fiber or because of some other aspect of their way of living or culture . They also ask whether other Third World groups with generally low rates of " civilized " diseases eat large amounts of fiber.  | If fiber were a simple thing to measure such as , for example , weight or height , the problem could be explored with relative ease . But measuring most components of diet is notoriously difficult , and with fiber the problem is made more difficult because of the complexity of the substance . The " fiber complex , " as it is sometimes called , contains at least six types of compounds : cellulose , hemicellulose , pectin , lignin , cutin , and gums . Each of these comes in subvarieties and each subvariety may have a different metabolic effect . These complexities have slowed the gathering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , * but despite this , fiber research has made progress on several fronts . One of the most promising of these is in the treatment of diabetes . FIBER AND DIABETES MELLITUS Diabetes mellitus is caused by lack of insulin in the blood , but sometimes the condition arises when the body 's cells become resistent to insulin . The pancreas , in order to compensate for this insensitivity , produces more and more insulin , and consequently the level in the blood rises . These conditions ? either lack of insulin or an insensitivity to insulin by the cells ? leads to hyperglycemia ? high levels of glucose in the blood . Hyperglycemia was once thought to be innocuous in itself , but the general view now is that it contributes to blindness and atherosclerosis , which are common consequences of untreated diabetes . One of the principal aims of therapy is to normalize blood-glucose levels through diet , insulin therapy , and glucose-lowering drugs . Fiber has been used in two forms : as a supplement added to low-fiber meals , and in the natural form of high-fiber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pectin have reduced blood-glucose levels.3 Guar is a fibrous substance found in several foods , most notably beans , while pectin , which is found in fruit , is familiar to those who use it as a jelling agent in making preserves . A short-term experiment conducted with fiber in its natural form yielded similar results.4 However , it is not clear exactly what role natural fiber plays . In another short-term experiment , diabetics who Footnote  | ate foods very high in fiber and carbohydrate ? 70 percent of the calories were in carbohydrates ? were able to reduce or eliminate their dependence on insulin . But patients in a matched group that ate a similar high-carbohydrate diet from which the fiber had been largely removed were able to cut their insulin to the same extent . Thus , the reduced dependence on insulin in these experiments was apparently due not to the fiber but to some other factor , presumably either the high-carbohydrate or the low-fat content of the diet . The fiber played a major role in reducing serum triglycerides and may have helped to lower serum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blood is a threatening complication of diabetes . The very large amounts of carbohydrates used in these shortterm experiments would be unpalatable to some . Happily , a longerterm experiment showed that a lower amount of carbohydrates ? 55 to 60 percent of calories ? achieved much the same result . Insulin-dependent diabetics who went on this diet for fifteen months enjoyed improved glucose metabolism and had no side effects.6 However , even this diet may not appeal to many diabetics , because it emphasizes plant food and does not allow much room for meat , white bread , and sugary foods . There have been over a dozen small-scale clinical tests ? most of them of short duration ? in which the effect of high-fiber , highcarbohydrate diets have been evaluated. ? Because most of these tests have had positive results , the American , British , and Canadian diabetes associations now advocate the use of moderately highcarbohydrate , high-fiber diets as one of several elements in programs to control diabetes.8 The American Diabetes Association , for example , suggests that 50 to 60 percent of the diet be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substitution of unrefined for refined foods , that is , foods high in natural fiber . As for fiber supplements such as guar , it feels that additional evidence is needed before it can recommend them.9 There are some who are critical of high-carbohydrate , high-fiber diets for diabetics . Lancet , in a 1981 editorial , spoke of the " uncritical advocacy of fibre " and noted that " many of the suggested regimens have little scientific basis . " 10 Lancet 's point is well taken . Of the dozen or so tests of high-carbohydrate , high-fiber diets , all are small-scale and only two were carried on for as long as eighteen months . Clearly , what is needed is a bigger test carried on for several years . More work also needs to be done on guar and pectin ,  | because large amounts of these substances are not typical of Western diets and it is possible that their long-term use might create problems . High-fiber diets as prevention for diabetes have not gained as much acceptance as fiber for therapy . The rationale sounds plausible : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus , after a meal , glucose in the blood rises moderately and subsides gradually . Refined foods , because they are absorbed more quickly , result in a precipitous but comparatively short-lived rise in blood glucose . According to the theory , this precipitous rise favors the development of diabetes . ' 1 Dr. Hugh Trowell , who was the first to do research on this aspect of fiber , points out that diabetes is rare among primitive rural people in Africa but has become common among African blacks who adopt a Western diet.12 A study of eleven diverse population groups suggests that abnormal glucose tolerance is more prevalent where fiber consumption is low . For example , in Bangladesh , where fiber consumption is probably high , only 2 percent of people tested had abnormal glucose tolerance as compared to 15 percent in the United States , where fiber consumption is low.13 FIBER AND CORONARY HEART DISEASE Dr. Trowell theorizes that a diet of unrefined carbohydrates protects against coronary heart disease by reducing serum cholesterol . Certain kinds of fibrous foods , such as whole oats , legumes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cholesterol , but wheat bran does not.14 Several small-scale , short-term experiments suggest that fiber decreases the amount of low-density lipoproteins ? the so-called bad cholesterol ? while not affecting the amount of high-density lipoproteins , sometimes referred to as the good cholesterol.15 Fiber is only one among many influences on lipoproteins and it is not clear how important it is in relation to other influences . Trowell also suggests that fiber protects against heart disease by reducing the time needed for dissolving of blood clots in the arteries . Faster dissolution of blood clots would reduce the risk of thrombosis in coronary arteries . Many people who eat high-fiber diets ? such as rural Africans ? have faster clot-dissolution times than Europeans , but it is not clear what role fiber plays in this.16 Clues to the role of fiber in heart disease come from three cohort  | studies . The largest of these , which followed over ten thousand people for seven years , found no association between fiber and the disease . ' 7 Of the two other studies ? each had far less than one thousand subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not.19 These contradictory findings suggest that the fiber-heart disease requires more work before judgment can be made . DIVERTICULAR DISEASE AND FIBER Diverticula are little outpouches or hernias that form on the wall of the alimentary tract and particularly in the descending colon . The presence of diverticula is known as diverticulosis , a condition that is usually symptomless but occasionally painful . Sometimes the pouches become inflamed , and then the condition is known as diverticulitis . In its acute form , diverticulitis is accompanied by abdominal pain and tenderness leading to perforation of the colon , formation of abscesses , and gangrene . Up to 30 percent of Americans and Britons over the age of sixty have diverticulosis , but only 5 or 10 percent of these progress to diverticulitis . Drs . Neil Painter and Dennis Burkitt , who have done much of the research on fiber and diverticular disease , say that the condition was a medical rarity in 1900 , and that even by 1916 it was not important enough to be mentioned in textbooks . They trace the origins of the modern British epidemic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began around 1880 , when stone-grinding of flour gave way to roller-milling.20 Diverticular disease takes about forty years to develop , so its emergence about 1920 fits in well with their hypothesis . How could a lack of fiber in the diet lead to the disease , and how could a high-fiber diet prevent it ? Painter and Burkitt say that a high-fiber diet results in less pressure on the wall of the colon , and hence no diverticula form . To understand how this might happen , think of the colon as a series of chambers . At the entrance and exit to each chamber there is a circular valve of muscle that contracts and expands . As the valve at one end of a chamber contracts , the valve at the other end relaxes , and the feces move forward . The large bulk created by a high-fiber diet requires a large-diameter colon . In a large-bore colon , the feces normally flow through with ease , because the bands of muscle dividing the segmented chambers do not close completely . In a small-bore colon , which they  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create greater pressure because they close down more efficiently . The greater pressure thus creates diverticula at the weakest points in the colon wall . Painter and Burkitt theorize that pressure is lessened by the decreased transit time induced by a high-fiber diet . In addition , they say that fiber may also reduce pressure by eliminating constipation.21 Their explanation of the way in which fiber works has been questioned by other researchers who have found that those with diverticular disease have about the same stool weights , transit times , and the same amount of pressure within the colon as diseasefree people.22 In support of their hypothesis , Painter and Burkitt note the virtual absence of diverticular disease among people who are said to live on high-fiber diets , such as rural Africans , Asian residents of Singapore , Malaysians , Fijians , Iranians , Koreans , and others . Europeans living in these places are more apt to have the disease.23 In many industrialized countries , including America , diverticulosis is the chief disorder of the colon . This association between fiber and diverticular disease does not necessarily imply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other in more ways than fiber consumption . But do people with diverticular disease ordinarily eat less fiber than those who are healthy ? A case-control study showed that they do , but unfortunately there is the suspicion that the diseased people in this study may have cut their fiber intake with the onset of symptoms.24 In another study , researchers compared two groups of people who had no symptoms ? vegetarians , who are naturally high consumers of fiber , and meat eaters , who typically eat far less fiber . Diverticulosis , as determined by barium enema , was found in 33 percent of the meat eaters but in only 12 percent of the vegetarians.25 This study suggests the protective value of fiber , but is inconclusive because the vegetarians and meat eaters were not matched by age and sex . High-fiber diets as prevention for diverticular disease are unproven but remain a promising possibility . Fiber as therapy for diverticulitis has fared better . Traditionally , those with diverticulitis were treated with low-fiber foods , but now treatment has shifted to use of high-fiber diets . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinical trial , in which patients who added  | bran to their diet enjoyed greater alleviation of their symptoms than the controls.26 This was a very small-scale trial , and furthermore it is not clear whether it was truly double-blind . Patients were given either high-fiber or low-fiber biscuits , but it would have been easy for them to judge the fiber content . A larger study using virtually the same regimen for patients with less severe symptoms failed to give much support to the Painter-Burkitt theory . With the exception of constipation , the symptoms of the disease were not alleviated.27 Why did these two trials disagree ? A possible explanation is that patients in the first trial had more severe symptoms of the disease than those in the second trial , and for this reason might have responded more positively to the bran supplement . In both of the tests , the patients may not have consumed enough fiber to have an effect . Despite the lack of solid evidence for its therapeutic value , a high-fiber regimen is now recommended in medical textbooks for those who have painful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some clinicians seems to be that the treatment is unlikely to do harm , is inexpensive , and probably makes the patient feel better.28 Others , however , take a more cautious view . Dr. Kurt Isselbacher , who is Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and chief of the gastrointestinal unit at Massachusetts General Hospital , says that he is reluctant to prescribe a high-fiber diet routinely . This type of diet , he notes , causes a lot more intestinal gas due to the action of bacteria working on the non-digested material in the colon . He also feels that the fiber may be caught in the diverticuli of the colon and thus may act as an irritant.29 Clearly , more testing is needed if the claims of the fiber proponents are to be validated . Among the questions that need to be answered are : What kind of patients , if any , benefit most ? Those with severe symptoms ? Those with mild symptoms ? And what is the optimum amount of fiber that a patient should take ? FIBER AND IRRITABLE BOWEL SYNDROME Irritable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western societies , is characterized by colonic pain , altered bowel habits , and the passage of mucus in the stools . The  | terms " spastic colon " and " nervous diarrhea " are often used to describe the symptoms . The relationship of irritable bowel to diverticular disease is not always clear . About half of patients with diverticulosis have symptoms suggestive of irritable bowel syndrome . Dr. Neil Painter , the British physician who has done most of the work on diverticulosis , believes that the irritable bowel syndrome is caused by a fiber deficiency and he claims success in treating the condition with a high-fiber diet.30 Of three clinical trials in which wheat bran was used as therapy for the syndrome , two studies showed a favorable effect but the third did not.31 Unfortunately , the quality of these trials is in question . One of the favorable studies was done on a single-blind basis . In the other two studies , an attempt was made to follow a double-blind procedure , but it is not clear that the attempt was successful . In a fourth trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the husk of the ipsaghula plant was effective in reducing symptoms in a minority of patients.32 Dr. Sidney Phillips , who is professor of medicine at Mayo Medical School and consultant in gastroenterology at the Mayo Clinic , suggests that the effect of fiber on the syndrome is not clear in part because fiber is such a heterogeneous substance . Fibers may vary in their effect depending upon the type of cereal from which they are derived and the physical form , particularly the particle size to which they are ground . For this reason , Dr. Phillips likens the testing of fiber to the testing of a drug where the dose and strength are not known precisely.33 Dr. Phillips feels that the dividing line between irritable bowel syndrome and simple constipation is blurred and that to the extent that a patient with the syndrome has constipation , high-fiber diets may be beneficial because they provide bulk.34 Although the evidence is not solid , some medical textbooks now recommend high-fiber diets in treating irritable bowel syndrome . No information on the value of fiber in preventing the syndrome has been reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ researcher from the University of Bristol , has suggested that overconsumption of refined carbohydrates ? primarily refined sugar ? causes gallstones . To understand  | how this could happen , think of the gallbladder as a small storage bag that holds about one and a half to two and a half ounces . Bile , which is produced by the liver , aids in the digestion of fat in the intestine . It is carried to the duodenum ? the first part of the small intestine ? by the bile duct . The gallbladder , which branches off from the bile duct , concentrates and stores the bile , and then , during meals , delivers it to the duodenum . Cholesterol , which is normally insoluble in water , is found in very high concentration in bile . Bile , lecithin , and bile salts make the cholesterol soluble . If there is excessive cholesterol or insufficient bile salts or lecithin , the cholesterol precipitates out of the bile solution , forming a gallstone . Small gallstones may pass harmlessly through the bile duct to the intestine , but larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this painful , but since bile no longer enters the intestine , the liver may be damaged and infection may arise in the blocked part of the duct . Dr. Heaton theorizes that a low-fiber diet increases the risk of gallstones in two different ways . First , it may promote obesity , and obesity in turn may stimulate oversecretion of cholesterol into the bile . Secondly , it may promote cholesterol secretion by affecting the proportion of two bile salts , deoxycholate and chenodeoxycholate . An excess of the former enhances cholesterol secretion , while an excess of the latter suppresses it . In an experiment , people who ate bran , an extremely concentrated source of fiber , experienced reduced deoxycholate and increased chenodeoxycholate output in the bile . Consequently , their cholesterol secretion was suppressed.35 Against this favorable result may be set another smallscale experiment in which a special fiber-fortified bread given to very obese people failed to lower the cholesterol content of their bile.36 Gallstones are widespread in industrialized countries , where large amounts of refined carbohydrate ? sugar and white bread ? are eaten , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carbohydrates are a staple . Every year , over three hundred thousand Americans have their gallbladders removed . However , Dennis Burkitt , in seventeen years of surgical practice in East Africa , operated on only two patients with gallstones , and one of these was a tribal queen , who presumably could buy Western foods . At least half a dozen animal species get gallstones when they are fed very large amounts of sugar . In one study , gallstones formed in  | mice on a high-sugar diet but dissolved when they returned to an unrefined-carbohydrate diet.37 Does a diet high in unrefined carbohydrates reduce the risk of gallstones for humans ? Will such a diet reduce gallstones once they are formed ? Good answers to both questions can not be given until more thorough research is conducted . URINARY STONES There is a condition called idiopathic hypercalciuria ( excessive urinary excretion of calcium , cause unknown ) , which is associated with formation of stones in the urinary passages . It has been known for some time that if urinary calcium excretion can be reduced and maintained at normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inhibited . In an uncontrolled study , 86 percent of patients who supplemented their meals with unprocessed bran experienced a drop in calcium excretion with some of them reaching normal levels . After they stopped taking the bran , their calcium excretion rose . Some of the patients took the bran for six months and had no recurrence of stones.38 This is encouraging , but clearly the use of bran supplements for urinary stones needs to be tested in controlled trials . CROHN 'S DISEASE Crohn 's disease is an inflammation that occurs in almost any part of the intestinal tract but has a special predilection for the lower part of the small intestine and the large intestine . When fiber-rich diets were given to patients with the disease , they fared better than controls who ate a typical low-fiber diet . This suggests that fiber is beneficial in treating this disease but the trial is not too convincing because the researchers used historical controls , a method that is inferior to contemporaneous control.39 ( See pp. 33-34 . ) Dr. Irwin Rosenberg , who is professor of medicine and co-director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , says that a fiber-rich diet is not satisfactory as a general means of managing Crohn 's disease . Low-fiber diets , he says , are better tolerated by some patients who have severely narrowed intestines due to the inflammation and scarring caused by the disease . Some pa-  | tients , he notes , have fewer symptoms on a low-fiber diet because the diet results in less frequent bowel movements . He feels that use of either high- or low-fiber diets is , at best , only an adjunct to the use of antiinflammatory drugs.40 Dr. Kurt Isselbacher of Harvard is concerned that because patients with Crohn 's disease often have a narrowing of the small intestine , high-fiber diets may cause an obstruction . He notes that patients on such a diet tend to become distended with cramps.41 FIBER AND HEMORRHOIDS Burkitt has suggested that dietary fiber , because it relieves constipation , may prevent and help alleviate the symptoms of hemorrhoids . There is some support for the therapeutic role of fiber . Patients who ate ipsaghula husk , which is high in fiber , had significantly greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diet.42 This treatment needs to be evaluated in additional trials before judgment on its efficacy can be made . FIBER AND COLON CANCER There is some supporting evidence that high-fiber diets help prevent cancer of the colon . The fiber-colon cancer hypothesis competes with other unproved theories that have comparable support , such as the dietary-fat ? colon-cancer hypothesis . A possibility that needs more exploration is the link between colon cancer and the combination of low fiber and high fat in the diet . ( See Chapter 9 ? Food and Cancer . ) FIBER AND OBESITY Dr. Heaton , in addition to proposing the fiber-gallstones theory , also suggests that a high-fiber diet prevents obesity . It does this , he says , by creating three physiological obstacles to energy intake . It displaces nutrients in the diet , such as fat . It forces increased chewing , which reduces the rate of food ingestion and promotes secretion of saliva and gastric juices that contribute to stomach distension . Thus , it promotes satiety . Finally , it reduces slightly the efficiency with which the small intestine absorbs food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ epidemiological evidence that fiber may inhibit obesity . People in undeveloped countries , where high-fiber diets are the rule , are said to be leaner . Dr. Hugh Trowell points out that Kenyans , a normally lean people , live on diets largely of unrefined carbohydrates and do not ordinarily eat all of the food on their plates.44 It could be argued , of course , that Kenyans are lean because they are active . Dr. Trowell , on examining the paintings in the National Portrait Gallery in London , found that obesity is a relatively modern phenomenon among the English upper classes . There were no royal double chins until Henry VIII and no royal pot bellies until Charles II . By the Restoration , aristocratic portraits , almost without exception , display gross double chins , pot bellies , and thick thighs . In the Middle Ages , the English upper classes , unlike many of their social inferiors , suffered no shortage of rich foods such as butter , milk , and meat , yet they stayed lean . Trowell suggests that the introduction of fiber-depleted foods beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aristocratic adiposity . These foods ? sugar from the West Indies and bread with a somewhat lower fiber content ? were available only to the few who could afford the high price . Historical arguments such as this are impossible to evaluate , because little is known about the habits of the upper classes . Did they ride to hounds less often ? Did they spend more time at the gaming table ? Did they abandon the horse for the sedan chair ? More to the point , what is the evidence that modern humans suffer obesity because of fiber deficiency ? In one recent experiment , normal-weight people ate apples in three forms : as whole apples , as puree , and as juice . Apple juice is , in effect , apples from which the fiber has been almost wholly removed . In apple puree , the fiber remains but its structure is destroyed so that it requires no chewing . It took seventeen minutes on average for the test subjects to eat the apples but only six minutes to eat the puree and a minute and a half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satiated than the puree eaters , who , in turn , were more satiated than the juice drinkers . This experiment is consistent with Heaton 's theory that the greater satiety that comes from eating the whole apples depends on the need to chew the fiber.45 In another controlled experiment , people were asked to eat either white or whole-wheat bread to a point of " comfortable  | fullness . " Most of those who were given the white bread ate significantly more.46 Other experiments have given contradictory results . In one of these , young women who increased their consumption of fiber actually ingested more calories.47 In one inadequately controlled trial , a fiber supplement given to obese people appeared to help them reduce.48 Are people in Western societies who habitually eat a high-fiber diet leaner than those who do n't ? Among the leanest people in industrialized countries are the vegans , people who consume no foods of animal origin and who consequently ingest very large amounts of fiber . According to one report , vegans tend to be leaner than lacto-ovo vegetarians , although both groups consume about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from large-scale cohort studies or clinical trials , and so most researchers in the field are cautious about accepting it . However , there is one thing in its favor : Those who eat high-fiber diets tend to consume more carbohydrate and less fat , and fat has twice the calories of carbohydrate . FIBER AND OTHER DISEASES Among the other diseases that lack of fiber is said to exacerbate are appendicitis , ulcerative colitis , varicose veins , deep vein thrombosis , hiatus hernia , dental caries , periodontal disease , and peptic ulcers . No controlled tests or other significant research has yet been reported on the effect of fiber on these conditions . THE FUTURE OF FIBER The development of theories about high-fiber diets in the prevention of disease has been hindered by a lack of epidemiological data on which to base judgment . The spotty information on fiber as prevention for diabetes and for diverticular disease is consistent , but more data are needed before a judgment can be made . The data on fiber as prevention for heart disease are inconsistent . The data on fiber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theory continues to evolve as more becomes known about the interaction of fiber with other constituents of the diet in the gastrointestinal tract . Sir Richard Doll , Regius Professor of Medicine at Oxford , has  | said that every ten years or so there emerges a new idea that captures the imagination of the medical community . Fiber , he says , is such an idea . But will it prove to have the staying power of such great ideas as the germ theory of disease or vitamin deficiency ? Writing in 1975 , he said , " I have little doubt that the fiber hypothesis will . . . establish for itself a permanent place in the structure of medical knowledge . " 50 Sir Richard 's prognosis appears to be on the way to fulfillment . Although the notion that high-fiber diets prevent diseases of civilization has not gained wide scientific acceptance , fiber as therapy for certain diseases seems to be inching its way into medical immortality .  | Sugar Is It Really a Villain ? I n the first half of the nineteenth century , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of refined sugar a year . But about 1850 , improvements in processing led to progressively lower prices for the staple , and so there was a pronounced rise in consumption that has continued almost to the present day . The average Briton now consumes about ninety pounds of refined sugar a year , and in America , which has experienced a roughly parallel rise in consumption , the average is about eighty pounds . It is the thesis of Dr. John Yudkin , emeritus professor of nutrition at the University of London , that this great increase in sugar consumption has come about so quickly ? measured on an evolutionary scale ? that humans have not had time to adapt to it . The consequence , according to Yudkin , has been a marked increase in major diseases in the past hundred years , including , most importantly , diabetes and heart disease . ' There are few reliable disease statistics for the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , and so it is impossible to determine if any disease correlates with the rise in sugar consumption . However , recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yudkin 's basic thesis that sugar promotes ill health . In the case of diabetes , for example , there has been substantial work on the effects of sugar .  | SUGAR AND DIABETES MELLITUS Diabetes mellitus is characterized by a high level of blood sugar glucose ? due to an absolute or relative deficiency of insulin , the hormone that facilitates the entry of glucose into the body 's cells . This occurs because the pancreas fails to produce sufficient insulin or because the cells become insensitive to insulin , thus causing the pancreas to overproduce the hormone . In either case , the result is a high level of glucose in the blood . Yudkin believes that excessive sugar in the diet stimulates the pancreas to become more effective in producing insulin . His thesis is that the pancreas is overstimulated and , like any organ under abnormal stress , eventually wears out and so is unable to produce sufficient amounts of the hormone.2 As evidence for this , he cites experiments in which rats fed large amounts of sugar for weeks or months developed abnormal glucose metabolism.3 However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ healthy men who ate large amounts of sugar for fourteen days . The experiment revealed no problem with glucose intolerance , but about a third of the subjects developed high levels of blood insulin , a likely indication that the cells had developed insulin resistance . These results suggested to Yudkin that there is a group that is particularly susceptible to diabetes if they eat large amounts of refined sugar.4 At least four similar experiments have been done by other researchers . Two of these found that blood-insulin levels were increased by sugar , although in one study the increase was marginal. , Two other studies yielded different results after a high-sugar diet : One found no change , while the other found a decrease in insulin levels.6 Most people rarely consume more than 15 to 20 percent of calories as sugar , but in all of these studies , including Yudkin 's , the amount of sugar was far higher . Other evidence is also contradictory . During both world wars , sugar consumption in England declined precipitously with rationing , and during both wars there was also a marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between sugar consumption and diabetes mortality in twenty-two countries. ? However , other researchers who examined similar data found a  | very low correlation.8 A cross-sectional study done among several groups in England found no association between dietary sugar and blood-sugar level or glucose intolerance.9 However , the strongest evidence against the sugar-diabetes link comes from a cohort study of ten thousand Israeli men : Those who developed diabetes ate no more sugar than nondiabetics.l ? The only diet-related factor that predisposes to diabetes ? and this shows up in study after study ? is obesity . Yudkin has not produced convincing evidence that excessive sugar is a cause of diabetes . However , some of the evidence and particularly that from the human experiments may keep the theory alive . If further work is done on the sugar-diabetes theory , it will have to take into account the closely related rival theory that lack of fiber in the diet is a cause of diabetes . ( See pp. 163-165 . ) Sugar , of course , is free of fiber , and so , in epidemiological studies , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence of the other . SUGAR AND HEART DISEASE In support of his hypothesis that sugar contributes to heart disease , Yudkin cites the same small-scale experiment used to support the sugar-diabetes link . In this experiment , some of the men experienced increased adhesiveness of platelets , very small , irregularly shaped disks in the blood that play a role in blood coagulation . " Increased platelet adhesiveness promotes the formation of blood clots in the arteries , a precursor to thrombosis . Two small-scale case-control studies conducted by Yudkin and his colleagues showed that people who had suffered heart attacks ate considerably more sugar than controls who did not have heart disease , 12 but a third case-control study did not confirm these results.13 More important , a cohort study found no difference in sugar consumption between those who subsequently developed the disease and those who did not.14 In analyzing data for fifteen countries , Yudkin found a correlation between coronary mortality and sugar consumption. ) s Among other researchers who have looked at the same type of data , some found an association 16 and some did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of Yudkin 's associates , Professor Richard Ahrens , suggests  | that sugar contributes to hypertension , one of the major risk factors in coronary heart disease.19 An experiment with monkeys found that sugar enhances the well-known effect of sodium in raising blood pressure.20 However , researchers in South Africa found no relationship between blood pressure and sugar consumption in schoolchildren.21 OBESITY The popular notion that sugar is uniquely fattening also gets little support from the evidence . Numerous studies show that fat people eat less sugar than those who are lean.22 Fat women lost just as much weight on a high-sugar reducing diet ( 50 percent of calories ) as on a low-sugar reducing diet ( 3 percent of calories. ) 23 South African schoolchildren who eat large amounts of sugar weigh about the same as those who eat little.24 KIDNEY DISEASE Experiments with rats show that a high-sucrose diet causes calcification of the kidney.25 The possibility that sucrose causes damage in human kidneys has apparently not been investigated . SUGAR AND CANCER Yudkin suggests that excessive amounts of sugar changes the intestinal flora in a way that promotes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promote breast cancer.26 The greatest incidence of these diseases occurs in countries where sugar consumption is high , but these are countries where consumption of fat and protein also tend to be high.27 The sugar-cancer link has gotten little acceptance from other scientists . SUGAR AS " EMPTY CALORIES " For some , it is an article of faith that sugar , being virtually devoid of all nutrients except calories , is an important cause of poor nutrition . The assumption is that sugar displaces nutritious foods , and hence that those who consume large amounts are likely to get less than adequate quantities of vitamins and minerals .  | This subject has not been adequately researched . Several crosssectional studies have found that some people , particularly those with low income , get less than the recommended amounts of certain vitamins and minerals , including Vitamin A and iron.28 However , these studies did not attempt to find out if sugar was a factor in the poor nutrition of these people . SUGAR AND DENTAL CARIES Refined sugar contributes to tooth decay , but this is true of other carbohydrate-rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several forms of cereal caused more dental caries than sucrose.29 The amount of sugar consumed is not as important as the length of contact with the teeth . Between 1945 and 1951 , Swedish researchers conducted a controlled trial in a mental hospital to measure the effect of sucrose in different forms . They found that large amounts in solution taken with meals produced virtually no increase in dental caries , but when taken between meals in the form of sticky candy , such as toffee , it produced a sharp increase . Chocolate candy taken between meals had an intermediate effect.30 THE FUTURE OF SUGAR AS A NUTRITIONAL VILLAIN Refined sugar has been a target of food reformers for more than a century . The record shows that it was accused of causing diabetes at least as early as 1859 , and since then it has been indicted with monotonous regularity as the cause of one disease or another . Although often accused , it has never been convicted of killing anyone . The evidence supporting the sugar-diabetes and sugarheart disease links is not consistent , and , perhaps most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Refined sugar , it seems , is a villain but only because of its role in dental decay , particularly when eaten in sticky foods . However , if it is to be indicted , other carbohydrate-rich foods that stick to the pits and fissures of teeth , such as honey and dried fruit , should be co-defendants.  | Laetrile An Unproved Remedy Challenges Medical Science O f all the unorthodox cancer remedies in this century , laetrile has been far the most successful in getting popular support . Its appeal is so powerful that otherwise law-abiding people have defied the courts in its name . This was true of the parents of three-year-old Chad Green who suffered from acute lymphocytic leukemia . Although Chad had enjoyed a complete remission without significant side effects when given chemotherapy , the Greens discontinued the therapy and put their son on a regimen that included laetrile . After Chad suffered a relapse , the Massachusetts Superior Court placed him in the legal custody of the state in order to protect his rights . Although the child again had a complete remission without significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico in order to continue laetrile therapy . Seven months later Chad died . Before he was given laetrile , his chances of living a normal life-span were high : Victims of acute lymphocytic leukemia who achieve remission have four chances out of five of surviving . ' Laetrile has thousands of fervent adherents such as the Greens , but it also has a wide base of popular support . Although the medical community has been opposed to it for years , and although it is banned in interstate commerce by the Food and Drug Administration , twenty-seven state legislatures have legalized it within their borders . A nationwide Harris poll conducted in 1977 showed that 68 percent of Americans favored legalization even when told that  | the Food and Drug Administration wanted to ban the drug.2 Why does laetrile have such a powerful attraction ? For those who are faced with cancer , there is , of course , the desperate search for relief , particularly when conventional therapy has seemingly failed . It is perhaps not surprising that in a poll conducted in Minneapolis , two thirds of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terminal cancer . As one woman in the survey said , " I would try anything that might help . " Paradoxically , few of them believed that laetrile cures cancer and none seemed to be aware that the drug , because it contains cyanide , might actually hasten death.3 Those who favor laetrile may be motivated by more than a simple instinct to survive . Dr. Congdon Wood of the American Cancer Society attributes some of the drug 's popularity to " the national interest in the occult , faith healing , astrology , and UFOs. " 4 Dr. Victor Herbert , vice-chairman of medicine at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center , suggests that the laetrile movement springs partly from the " magical thinking " of childhood , which is reawakened in adulthood by fear of cancer or other dread disease. , Dr. George Crile , of the Cleveland Clinic , says that " the charm of laetrile is derived from the public impression that it was banned by a conspiracy of physicians bent on deriving profit from conventional forms of treatment . " 6 Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Houston , says that " laetrile 's success is part of the anti-establishment mood of the country . " The laetrile supporters ' quarrel , he says , is with bureaucrats and " bigshot doctors . " * 7 A group of sociologists from Western Michigan University who studied what might be called hard-core laetrile proponents found that they distrust physicians , tend to patronize health-food stores , are opposed to fluoridation of water , and are politically conservative . Many of them believe that the United States government , together with multinational corporations and the medical profession , have conspired to suppress the laetrile movement for financial reasons . Although fairly well educated as a group , they tend to be in low-prestige occupations . Many of them take laetrile for prevention of cancer . The authors of the study speculate that laetrile sat-Footnote  | isfies a deep psychological need even for those who are free of disease , because it attempts to make cancer comprehensible and manageable.9 THE TESTING OF LAETRILE Laetrile is the trade name for amygdalin , a substance naturally present in apricot pits and other plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the work of two men , Ernst Krebs , Sr. , M.D. , and his son , Ernst Krebs , Jr. , who flunked out of medical school . The elder Krebs had been involved with amygdalin as early as the 1920 's , but it was Krebs Junior who coined the name " laetrile " in the early 1950 's . Laetrile is also called " Vitamin B17 " but this is simply a trade name , also coined by Krebs . Laetrile is not a vitamin because it does not promote any physiological process vital to life , nor does a lack of the substance cause disease . Amygdalin contains cyanide ? 6 percent by weight ? and it is this compound , according to proponents , that selectively kills cancer cells but not normal cells . There is no evidence that selective killing of cancer cells actually occurs and indeed there is an in vitro study showing that amygdalin destroys both healthy and leukemic cells indiscriminately.10 Federal standards for purity and strength have never been set so there is little assurance that laetrile is uncontaminated and contains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in conjunction with a so-called metabolic diet . The composition of the diet varies from one practitioner to the next , but typically excludes all animal foods and may include multivitamin supplements , large doses of vitamins A , C , and E , aminoacid tablets , minerals , liquid protein , pancreatic enzyme tablets , and pangamic acid , sometimes erroneously called " Vitamin B15 . " In the early 1950 's the Krebses became embroiled with the Cancer Commission of the California Medical Association over the effectiveness of their remedy . The commission wanted to test laetrile but Ernst Krebs , Jr. , refused to provide a supply of the drug unless a physician of his own choosing could be put in charge of the trial . Krebs felt that only a physician familiar with laetrile was capable of conducting a valid test . The commission properly resisted Krebs 's insistence on having his own man do the research and eventually it obtained samples , which it used in experiments on mice , from the Food and Drug Administration . On the basis of  | these experiments and case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was no evidence to support the effectiveness of the drug . " If this had been an ordinary scientific issue , laetrile would have been put to rest in 1953 when the Cancer Commission published its report . But this was not an ordinary issue because the laetrile proponents refused to accept usual scientific standards of judgment . In the years since 1953 , they have insisted that tests be done their way and when the orthodox researchers produced negative results , they would claim that the tests were not done properly . The prolaetrile group , by accusing their opponents of bias and distortion , kept the issue alive and in this effort they were aided by the mistakes ? or , as the pro-laetrilists would claim , the bad faith ? of several of their opponents in handling a key series of experiments . The train of events that led to this episode was set in motion by Benno Schmidt , a member of the board of Sloan-Kettering Institute and a science adviser to President Nixon . In 1972 , he requested that the Institute reassess the value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was difficult to refuse and so the institute researchers embarked on a series of mouse experiments conducted by its most experienced investigator , Kanematsu Sugiura , a man who had spent over half a century in cancer research . Unexpectedly , Sugiura found that laetrile inhibited the growth of secondary tumors , although it did not destroy primary tumors . Sugiura repeated the same experiment five times with the same results . Normally such findings would have found their way into one of the medical journals in a year or two , but these did not , apparently because the institute researchers were skeptical of these findings and wished to check them against additional research.12 Unfortunately for Sloan-Kettering , the findings were leaked to a leading pro-laetrile organization , The Committee for Freedom of Choice in Cancer Therapy , which published its own account of the experiments under the title , Anatomy of a Cover-Up . 13 The SloanKettering researchers published the results of their additional animal testing , along with Sugiura 's findings , in 1978 . The additional tests , done with more than ten different tumor types , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ineffective . The authors of the report believed that Sugiura 's test results were an anomaly , a not uncommon occurrence in animal testing , particularly when subjective measures of evaluation such as visual inspec-  | tion of tumors are used . Sugiura 's work was based largely on subjective measures of evaluation . In support of their position , the authors point to a replication of his original experiments . In the original experiments , Sugiura was not " blind " while assessing the mouse tumors , but in the new experiment he was . When blinding was done , Sugiura found no difference between mice who had received laetrile and those given an inert substance . However , despite this , Sugiura himself continued to insist that laetrile , although not a cure for cancer , inhibited the growth of secondary tumors in mice.14 Other experiments in the Sloan-Kettering series relied on the bioassay method , which provides an objective measure of tumor presence that is far less subject to researcher bias than visual inspection . Before the Sloan-Kettering report was published in early 1978 , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newsletter claimed that Sugiura was correct and charged that the management of the institute was " terrified of reporting any positive results with laetrile , even if these are modified with more negative findings . " 15 It pointed out several errors in the reports , including what could be construed as an attempt to prejudice the results against laetrile . The original draft of the Sloan-Kettering report argued that it was particularly significant that laetrile was ineffective against a particular type of mouse tumor . This type of mouse tumor , it said , had been successfully treated by eight conventional chemotherapy agents known to be effective in treating human breast cancer . Second Opinion correctly pointed out that these eight agents had been found effective against the mouse tumor only when it was transplanted but not when carried by its original host . Laetrile was assigned the more difficult task of treating the tumors in the original host.16 This part of the original report was deleted from the article that was eventually published . ) " In answering the charge of bias against laetrile , Dr. Chester Stock , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says that his organization is always looking for effective anti-cancer remedies and does n't care where they come from . He says that " when Kan Sugiura showed me his first three experiments , I thought maybe there might be something in it and we never tried to prove that it had no effect . We just wanted the facts . " 18 Despite any manipulations ? real or fancied ? the Sloan-Kettering experiments can not be taken as support for laetrile . The findings are in agreement with those of the California Cancer Com-  | mission and with the reports of four other groups of researchers who worked independently of each other and tested the drug using a variety of tumor systems in laboratory animals.19 Positive results from animal testing are usually required before proceeding with human testing , but despite the lack of positive results from animal tests , the pro-laetrile people had been pressing the National Cancer Institute to do a human study . In 1972 and 1973 , forty-three thousand people petitioned President Nixon to authorize a clinical trial . The NCI did not give in to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case reports that it published in 1978 . To get these reports , it made an appeal through a variety of means to locate patients who had taken laetrile . It sent out 455,000 letters to doctors and other health professionals asking for their help , and it arranged for the search to be publicized in periodicals as diverse as the National Enquirer and the Journal of the American Medical Association . Despite their wide net , the NCI researchers came up with only sixty-seven cases that had sufficient documentation . Of these , two had complete disappearance of all cancer and four had shrinkage of their tumors by 50 percent or more . The NCI researchers noted that " we can not dismiss the possibility that the six patients . . . responded to laetrile , but the design of this study in no way allows us to draw this conclusion . " But why did the patients improve ? The possibility of forged documents can not be ruled out in a study of this type , but if indeed the six did improve , it is not evident what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate . Spontaneous remission could account for the improvement . The NCI researchers pointed out that they heard from 220 physicians who reported on more than 1,000 patients whom laetrile did not help.20 Despite the less than encouraging results from this case review , the NCI , under intense pressure from the pro-laetrile people , decided on a prospective trial . But the decision was strongly criticized by several researchers , including some within the organization . Drs . Mortimer Lipsett and John Fletcher of the National Institutes of Health probably spoke for many researchers when they asserted that " the physician can not ethically espouse a clinical trial of an ineffective agent . " 21 The majority of the decision-makers at the NCI apparently felt that the best way to quell the controversy was to give in to the demands for a trial . The NCI did not do a full-scale , double-blind , controlled test but  | instead decided on what is known as a Phase II trial , a procedure that is used in cancer drug testing to help decide whether full-scale testing is warranted . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were given laetrile and their experience was compared to that of historical controls . ( See pp. 33-34 . ) Standard treatment had not worked for these patients , but all were ambulatory and able to maintain good nutrition . Many had not previously been treated with chemotherapy . These patients followed a " metabolic " diet in addition to taking laetrile . They were observed for a year , by which time virtually all had died . There was no important difference in mortality between the laetrile users and the historical controls.22 For patients in the advanced stages of cancer , this trial contains no evidence that laetrile works , and indeed , after thirty years of research , the laetrile proponents can not point to any substantial evidence to support their theory . On the other hand , there is considerable evidence that the drug is harmful . A seventeen-year-old girl , unable to administer laetrile intravenously , swallowed three and a half 10-cc ampules ? slightly less than her daily dose ? and died twenty-four hours later.23 A forty-eight-year-old woman had near-fatal cyanide poisoning while taking the drug @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eleven-month-old girl from Buffalo , N.Y. , died after swallowing one to five tablets , each containing one-half gram of laetrile.2s ( Three grams is the normal adult dose . ) In general , toxic reactions have occurred with the oral form , but the intravenous form also may cause acute adverse effects.26 According to Dr. Victor Herbert , the cyanide in laetrile is released by the enzyme beta-glucosidase , which is present in plant foods . Thus , cancer patients who take laetrile may suffer chronic cyanide poisoning particularly if , as recommended by laetrile therapists , they follow the vegetarian " metabolic " diet . Low doses of cyanide produce a variety of unpleasant effects including headache , fever , gastrointestinal distress , fatigue , and neuromuscular weakness of the arms and legs . Herbert also criticizes the diet recommended by laetrile therapists for being high in bulk and low in calories , or just the opposite of the needs of cancer patients . He notes that the diet is inadequate in iron , calcium , Vitamin B12i and protein and that these deficiencies can weaken rather than help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that laetrile may  | actually induce cancer . Cyanide , the active ingredient in laetrile , is known to cause goiters , and there is the suspicion that goiters may be precancerous . Mice injected with cyanate , an oxidation product of cyanide , have a reduced ability to reject tumors.28 Some formulations of pangamic acid , often used with laetrile , contain dichloroacetate , a compound that is mutagenic and hence possibly carcinogenic.29 That a drug is poisonous under certain conditions and that it may actually cause cancer would not necessarily dictate its abandonment . Orthodox chemotherapy sometimes has traumatic side effects , while ionizing radiation , also used as therapy , may itself cause a few cases of cancer . But the adverse effects of laetrile , combined with the lack of evidence that it has any beneficial effect , make it unlikely that there will be much additional work of scientific importance on this drug . In particular , it is unlikely that there will ever be a randomized double-blind trial , because the researchers who know how to conduct such trials would object to participating on ethical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will forever be unable to convince the scientific community . LAETRILE FOR THE TERMINALLY ILL The leaders of the laetrile movement have been accused of practicing " snake oil medicine " and of being interested primarily in profit . Several of their leaders have gone to jail* and Victor Herbert , who is perhaps the foremost authority on their activities , says , with some justification , that " the laetrile cult is perhaps the most bizarre , ruthless , deceptive , misleading , and dangerous health cult to come along in this century . " 31 Despite formidable opposition from scientists , the laetrile proponents have enjoyed many legislative successes because , unlike their opponents , they have found an appealing slogan ? " freedom of choice . " In the opinion of most in the medical profession , the slogan is specious and is simply a means of promoting uninformed Footnote  | choices by cancer patients . The most potent variation of the freedom of choice theme is the argument that it is inhumane to deny laetrile to terminal cancer patients . This argument was so powerful that even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late editor of the New England Journal of Medicine , decided that he would like the option of giving laetrile to any patient with hopelessly advanced cancer.32 Others , such as George J. Annas , director of the Center for Law and Health Sciences at Boston University , suggested that the Food , Drug , and Cosmetic Act be amended so that terminally ill patients could have any drug that the physician agrees to administer , including laetrile.33 But opposition to the argument that terminally ill patients should be allowed to use laetrile has been intense . For example , Dr. Daniel S. Martin of Columbia University says that giving laetrile to a dying person who requests it may seem " innocent and virtuous , " but that " such compassion is ill-conceived . . . . To legalize laetrile for the terminally ill patient , the government must deceive the public by implying that the drug has worth as an anti-cancer agent . " 34 Dr. Victor Dirnfeld of the British Columbia Medical Association believes that " if we allow it to be used for the terminally ill , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is good for the terminally ill , it may be good for the minimally ill and then finally that it should be released for cancer prevention . " 35 Dr. Robert Taylor , formerly executive director of the National Cancer Institute , says : " If we allowed laetrile to terminal patients , we would then have to allow any old snake juice . " 36 Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall may have given the definitive judgment on laetrile for the terminally ill . In a 1979 opinion that reinforced the right of the Food and Drug Administration to ban the drug from interstate commerce , Justice Marshall , speaking for a unanimous Court , denied the right of patients with advanced cancer to use laetrile obtained in interstate commerce . He noted " that with diseases such as cancer it is often impossible to identify a patient as terminally ill except in retrospect . " Legalizing laetrile for the terminally ill would , he suggested , subvert the intent of Congress to protect not only the terminally ill but the general public against a vast range of " self-styled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late nineteenth century , one of the most powerful challenges to its dominance has come from laetrile . The advocates of laetrile would , in effect ,  | severely undermine the most important consumer-protection laws on the books , those that protect citizens against poisonous and ineffective drugs . If the Supreme Court had legalized laetrile for the terminally ill , it would surely have had to legalize other unproven drugs for terminal illness . Given the fuzziness of the terminal-illness concept , unscrupulous physicians and drug companies could manipulate the system for profit . We would have taken a giant step backward to those wild days in the nineteenth century when anyone could sell anything for the cure of everything .  | Valium Why Is This Popular Prescription Drug Under Attack ? A successful career woman in her forties had been taking Valium* for some time . She had started on four milligrams a day for treatment of a backache , but eventually was taking thirty milligrams a day for acute anxiety . As time went on , she became aware of her dependence on the drug and consulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addictive . That very day , she abruptly stopped taking the tranquilizer . Within an hour , she experienced a loss of energy . In a few hours , her anxiety returned , and with it sensations of electricity passing through her body , followed by twitches and tremors that soon turned into convulsions . She did not sleep that night , and by noon the next day was in a state of mingled terror and excitement . Unable to sleep again the second night , she paced back and forth in the living room . She felt as if there were a fire burning inside her head and tried unsuccessfully to extinguish it with cold towels . Ordinarily a fastidious person , she spent the next day moping around her apartment in a soiled nightgown , not bothering even to wash her face or comb her hair . Later , she began to cry uncontrollably and had frequent tantrums . After spending fifty-seven days without leaving her apartment , friends persuaded her to enter a rest home . Her breakdown was reportedly induced by Valium . This is not simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from I 'm Dancing as Fast as I Can , the best-selling autobiography of Footnote  | Barbara Gordon , a well-known television producer.l Her message ? that Valium is a strongly addictive drug even at commonly prescribed doses ? reached an audience of millions through an excerpt published in the Ladies ' Home Journal in 1979.2 The story of her addiction and withdrawal has been made into a movie starring Jill Clayburgh . In recent years , there have been other warnings about Valium addiction in the press . One of the strongest of these came from Dr. Sidney Wolfe , director of Public Citizen , a Ralph Nader-affiliated consumer advocate group . In 1982 , Wolfe was quoted in an interview in People magazine as saying that " the average case of coldturkey Valium withdrawal is much more serious than the average case of cold-turkey heroin withdrawal . Convulsions can occur or a person can become temporarily insane . " Wolfe also stated that Valium and other tranquilizers of the same type send eight thousand people a year to hospital emergency rooms.3 The factual support for Wolfe 's allegations is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written by Wolfe and two co-workers , Dr. Eve Bargmann and Joan Levin . Among the charges made by this group is that 1,500,000 users of Valium and chemically related drugs are in " serious danger of addiction " and that , in 1980 , these drugs contributed to 1,200 deaths.4 Valium belongs to a class of drugs known as benzodiazepines , which were first marketed in the 1960 's as a safer substitute for the barbiturates and the meprobamates , a class of drug that includes Equanil and Miltown . The benzodiazepines are used not only for the relief of stress and anxiety , but also as sleeping potions , and for use by those suffering from a variety of disorders , including coronary heart disease , symptoms of acute alcohol withdrawal , and skeletal muscle spasm . The benzodiazepines soon became the most highly prescribed drugs in America , and Valium , which accounted for more than half the sales volume in its class , became the most widely used of all prescription drugs . In 1980 , Americans spent more than six hundred million dollars on Valium and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's , sales rose steadily , reaching a peak in 1973 , but since then there has been a steady decline . Valium , although still highly popular , lost its first-place ranking . The decline may have been due in part to a growing feeling that these tranquilizers , though generally benign , were abused by some  | patients and overprescribed by some physicians . Although pharmacologists were aware that some people experienced withdrawal symptoms when the drugs were stopped " cold turkey , " few believed that this was a major public threat . Public Citizen 's charges are worth examining in detail because , if true , then the benzodiazepines are a major public-health problem . The charge that 1,500,000 are " in serious danger of addiction " is attributed to the Food and Drug Administration.5 However , the FDA document cited as the source of this allegation actually says that " 15 percent of all patients prescribed a benzodiazepine in 1978 had an uninterrupted course of therapy of over four months . This represents approximately 1.5 million people nationwide who were at risk of becoming dependent on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " serious danger " to the 1,500,000 users but refers to the drugs as being " potentially dangerous . " It does not define the probability of experiencing withdrawal symptoms or the severity of such symptoms. ? Among the other evidence that Public Citizen cites to support the importance of benzodiazepine dependence are three blind con-  | trolled tests in which patients who had been taking the recommended doses for some time were switched to a placebo . In two of the tests ? the subjects had been taking mainly diazepam ( Valium ) and lorazepam ? many experienced withdrawal symptoms including , in a few instances , loss of sense of reality , paranoid reaction , and epileptic seizure.8 In a third test in which patients had been taking another benzodiazepine , chlordiazepoxide , the authors described the withdrawal symptoms as " a minor abstinence syndrome . " 9 There were four additional tests not cited by Public Citizen , some of which may not have been available at the time that it went to press . Three of these found no important evidence of withdrawal symptoms among diazepam userslo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among a small minority of users . l ' These results apply to the particular drugs tested ? diazepam , lorazepam , and chlordiazepoxide ? and do not necessarily indicate the reaction to withdrawal of other benzodiazepines . The results of some of these studies are in agreement with Public Citizen 's contention that there is a widespread danger from benzodiazepine addiction but the remaining studies suggest that the problem is relatively minor and not widespread . Because the findings are contradictory , they do not give strong support to the Public Citizen position but they do suggest that the problem merits further investigation . One factor that may mitigate withdrawal symptoms under normal usage conditions is intermittent use of the drugs , a practice that may be widespread . Some of the withdrawal symptoms evident in the controlled tests occurred when the drugs were withdrawn abruptly . Gradual withdrawal , like intermittent use , mitigates adverse symptoms . ' 2 Another of Public Citizen 's exhibits against Valium and its sister drugs is based upon data from the Drug Abuse Warning Network , or DAWN , as it is usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration and the National Institute on Drug Abuse , show data on hospital emergency visits for drug-related problems . The participating hospitals serve about one third of the U.S. population . Using the DAWN data , Public Citizen estimated that over eight thousand emergency-room visits a year result from Valium addiction.14 This figure seems to be based on a misinterpretation of the data . In the DAWN system , information is obtained on  | several drugs used by each patient , but only one motivation for taking the substances is listed . For example , if a Valium user is brought to the emergency room drunk , the examining physician might list the motivation as " dependence . " Although in cases like this it is likely that the physician had alcohol in mind , no one analyzing the DAWN data can be certain that " dependence " applies to alcohol , Valium or to both . Apparently , the Public Citizen researchers mistakenly assumed that , in such cases , the label applied to Valium . It is likely that the figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addiction greatly overstates the size of the problem . Using the DAWN data , Public Citizen estimated that over twelve hundred deaths are caused annually by benzodiazepines , mostly in combination with alcohol and other drugs.1 s Alcohol and other drugs interact with benzodiazepines and produce a more deadly effect than when any of these are used alone . How reliable is the estimate of twelve hundred deaths ? Apparently it is not very solid : A group of researchers who checked the DAWN system in detail found that the examining physicians ' mention of Valium use was confirmed in only 16 percent of cases in which a toxicological laboratory report was made.16 For this reason alone , any estimate of cause of death based on the DAWN system is unreliable . In order to make a reliable estimate of the number of deaths to which benzodiazepines contributed , a more carefully contrived study would have to be conducted . The difficulty of such a study is illustrated by an experiment in which three clinical pharmacologists attempted to determine whether drugs of various types contributed to death . They were able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' 7 Among the problems encountered by clinical pharmacologists are difficulty in determining how much of the drug was taken and when it was taken . Other factors such as pre-existing illness should be ruled out before a drug is convicted as the cause of death . And then , of course , there is usually the further complication that more than one drug is taken . These difficulties , which were not adequately taken into account in the DAWN surveys , were partially addressed in a retrospective study specifically designed to investigate Valium . The files in twenty-four medical examiners ' and coroners ' offices in the United States and three forensic toxicology laboratories in Canada were examined to obtain information on deaths associated with Valium.  | There were nearly fifteen hundred such deaths that occurred over the previous four- or five-year period . In only two of these was Valium the sole drug taken . As there was no evidence that either of the deceased had had a life-threatening disease , the deaths might , with some degree of confidence , be attributed to the drug.18 Because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the population in the two countries , this projects to approximately six deaths attributable to Valium over a four-and-ahalf-year period in the entire United States-Canadian population , or fewer than two deaths annually . The study did not provide data on other benzodiazepines . Another study of the same type but confined to Dallas County , Texas , found 1,115 deaths due to poisoning over a ten-year period . In none of these was Valium given as the primary cause of death but there were six deaths for which other benzodiazepines were given as the primary cause . Had the experience of the entire United States been the same as that of Dallas County , about eighty-five deaths per year would have been due to these other benzodiazepines . The report showed that other commonly used drugs were far more lethal . Antidepressant drugs were listed as the primary cause of death more than six times as often while barbiturates were listed twelve times as often as the benzodiazepines.19 According to Dr. Karl Rickels , professor of psychiatry and pharmacology at the University of Pennsylvania , many professionals believe benzodiazepines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they " were not available , the same individuals overusing them now would be taking barbiturates or other CNS central nervous system drugs which would have much more serious consequences . " 20 However , as Rickels notes , the combination of fairly moderate doses of Valium or other benzodiazepines with alcohol can have serious consequences , including death . Dr. Wolfe 's charge that the average case of cold-turkey Valium withdrawal is much more serious than the average case of heroin withdrawal is unsupported by the facts . Certainly there is no evidence from the seven withdrawal tests that the average Valium user is at such great risk , nor does Wolfe cite any other credible evidence that supports this contention . There are cases in which Valium withdrawal has produced more intense and prolonged symptoms than withdrawal from opiates , the class of drugs to which heroin belongs . However , such cases are  | apparently rare . Dr. Frank J. Ayd , Jr. , of Baltimore , on the basis of an intensive review of the literature , believes that such severe cases occur primarily among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for more than a year , take thirty to forty milligrams daily ? forty milligrams is the upper limit of the usual recommended dose range ? may experience moderate withdrawal symptoms . The incidence of these symptoms , he says , is very low because the users tend to wean themselves off the drug gradually or to take it intermittently . In the latter situation there would be less build-up of Valium and its metabolites in the blood and thus the problem that could be caused by abrupt withdrawal would tend to be eased . Ayd believes that for those taking sixty to one hundred milligrams daily for more than a year , there is a risk of severe withdrawal symptoms , but that even among this group , the incidence of symptoms is relatively low because the users withdraw gradually on their own initiative or under medical supervision . Ayd says that , unless properly treated , the risk of severe and protracted withdrawal symptoms is high in those exceeding one hundred to two hundred milligrams a day for months or years.21 This last group is undoubtedly very small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the drugs in the recommended dosage range . The combination of Valium with alcohol and other drugs , Ayd warns , carries a high risk of severe withdrawal symptoms . The Public Citizen group made other charges against ben111 zodiazepines ? that they may cause birth defects if taken by pregnant women , that they may increase the risk of motor accidents , and that they cause mental impairment . Some of these charges have merit , and indeed this is addressed by the manufacturer , Roche , which , like all drug companies , is obliged by the Food and Drug Administration to include a description of adverse reactions and contraindications in the literature that i ' it gives to physicians . Roche 's literature warns pregnant women , or those who intend to become pregnant , of the danger of birth defects . There is also a warning against driving or engaging in occupations requiring mental alertness , such as operating machines . Unfortunately , as Public Citizen notes , patients themselves do not get a printed description of the adverse effects when they buy the tranquilizers. i @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the  | Roche literature . Public Citizen 's principal basis for this charge is an analysis made by Dr. J. R. Wittenborn of Rutgers University . Dr. Wittenborn analyzed several dozen short-term experiments conducted with nonusers of benzodiazepines . His conclusion was that the speed with which simple repetitive acts are performed may be impaired by the drugs , and that learning and immediate memory are also impaired . However , he noted that there is relatively little indication that higher mental faculties are affected.22 It is important that people should be aware of the dangers of Valium and its sister products , particularly the danger of mixing them with alcohol , using them in the early months of pregnancy , and using them while driving . They should also be aware of withdrawal reactions that may occur after a few months ' use . But they should also be aware that there is no substantial evidence that cases like that of Barbara Gordon are typical . The Public Citizen group , in an attempt to warn people of the danger , has produced a flawed report that may unduly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AND CANCER In 1978 , Dr. David Horrobin and several colleagues at the Clinical Research Institute in Montreal did an experiment that showed that rats given Valium developed tumors three times as big as those in control animals which were denied the drugs.23 Horrobin asked the National Cancer Institute of Canada and the Medical Research Council for funds to do additional research but was turned down . Later , in a letter to Lancet published in 1979 , he and his colleagues asked for " urgent investigation " of the Valium-cancer link.24 Soon the matter was in the newspapers and there was the beginning of a public debate . Dr. Peter Scholefield , assistant executive director of the National Cancer Institute of Canada , was quoted as saying that Horrobin 's proposed study was " not worth doing . " Many substances , he said , promoted the growth of tumors in animals . Horrobin , in turn , attacked Scholefield for insisting that it was not worthwhile to investigate a possible connection between the most commonly prescribed drug and one of the most common causes of death.2s The newspaper publicity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clinical Research Institute demanded that Hor-  | robin conform to the recently introduced institute rule that no employee talk to the media except with the director 's prior approval . Horrobin objected , and shortly afterward he was asked for his resignation . Since then , there have been several other studies . Two animal experiments , both done by Horrobin associates , support the Valium-cancer link , 26 while three other experiments , done by other researchers , do not.27 Horrobin believes that an in vitro experiment gives theoretical support to his thesis28 but another such experiment does not.29 Three case-control studies have failed to yield evidence that Valium is used to a greater extent by breast-cancer patients than by those without the disease.30 Another case-control study done with malignant melanoma ( skin cancer ) patients also failed to support the theory.31 A cohort study found no association between Valium and breast cancer , 32 while a second cohort study found no association between the drug and any type of cancer.33 Horrobin believes that no association between Valium and cancer has shown up in human studies because it usually takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinical signs of disease . Valium was introduced in the early 1960 's and so Horrobin believes it likely that its effects on humans can not be adequately measured until ten to thirty years from now.34 Horrobin 's case rests primarily on three reports of animal experiments conducted by his former colleagues . However , three groups of independent experimenters have failed to support these results and so , unless new supporting evidence comes to light , it is unlikely that his theory will get acceptance . Probably most scientists who have examined his evidence would endorse the view of his former colleague , Dr. Rashida Karmali . Dr. Karmali , who was the lead author of the three experiments that support his thesis , said that " these studies need to be done in greater depth before they can be used in the sweeping statements that Dr. Horrobin has made . " 3 " Although the doubts about Horrobin 's theory are very strong , there is concern because Valium use is so widespread . It is likely , therefore , that researchers will be testing his theory for years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Standards Too Liberal ? Two scientists looking at the same set of facts can arrive at totally incompatible conclusions . Nowhere is this more vividly illustrated than in the controversy over lowlevel radiation , which has generated at least four widely differing viewpoints . In part , the disagreements stem from the extreme difficulty of measuring the effect of small doses of radiation and from the inability to distinguish radiation-caused cancer from cancer with other causes . Because of these limitations , researchers have been forced to estimate the number of radiation-induced cancer cases by indirect means , using data that are not wholly reliable and assumptions that are largely untested . Using one set of assumptions , the typical amount of medical radiation received by Americans would result in fewer than one hundred fifty cancer deaths in a year . Using a more pessimistic set of assumptions , the same amount of radiation would cause about seventy-five hundred deaths , ' and there are some who believe that even this high estimate understates the true magnitude of the problem . If the standards are tightened , lives will presumably be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say , one thousand or more ? it would be difficult indeed to oppose tighter standards . But if the number saved is minuscule , the benefits would be far outweighed  | by the disruption of present medical and industrial practices . A tightening of the standards , by calling attention to the risk , could conceivably inhibit patients from taking necessary diagnostic X rays , and thus , delay identification of life-threatening disease . ( However , there is no evidence to suggest that patients would necessarily react in this way . ) Tighter standards might unfairly penalize industries that use radiation-emitting machinery . The already hard-pressed nuclear-power industry would find it even more difficult to operate , although few of its critics are likely to shed a tear over this possibility . The principal controversy has been over the effects of ionizing radiation ; that is , radiation capable of removing electrons . Nonionizing types of radiation ? for example , microwaves ? are also a cause for concern , but the contention over these other types , although growing , is at a far lower level . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beta , and gamma rays and fast neutrons , Alpha rays consist of helium nuclei ( two protons and two neutrons ) and beta rays consist of fast electrons . Gamma rays , which have no mass , are electromagnetic waves . X rays are thought to be similar to gamma rays . Ionizing radiation most certainly affects DNA and thus can cause mutations . Any agent that causes mutations can also cause cancer. * There is evidence that the effect of radiation is cumulative . Exposure to radiation is generally measured in rads ( radiation absorbed dose ) and rems ( roentgen equivalent man ) . A rad is a measure of the amount of radiation deposited on tissue . A rem takes into account differences in damage-causing potential by different types of radiation . Alpha rays , for example , produce more damage than gamma rays . For X rays , rad and rem have the same value . In industries where workers may be exposed not only to gamma rays but also to more damaging types of radiation such as alpha rays , rem is the preferred measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been progressively tightened as more and more knowledge about its Footnote  | effects have accumulated . In 1902 , one expert proposed that occupational exposure be set at the equivalent of 3,650 rem a year . In 1925 , another expert suggested 50 rem a year . Official commissions successively lowered it to 25 rem ( 1936 ) , 15 rem ( 1950 ) , and to the current 5 rem ( 1957 ) . The issue now is whether the maximum permissible occupational dose should be reduced even further . There is particular concern about those involved in nuclear industries . The standard for the general public is currently .5 rem a year . Critics believe that the public is exposed to unnecessary radiation chiefly through diagnostic X rays or other medical procedures involving radiation . Such procedures , they say , are often prescribed for marginal medical reasons , such as routine health checkups , and are too often given merely to protect a doctor against charges of negligence . They allege that some physicians even recommend unnecessary diagnostic radiation because it is profitable . COMPETING HYPOTHESES The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several competing hypotheses that attempt to describe the relationship between radiation dose and incidence of cancer . In earlier days of medical radiation , radiologists assumed that there was a threshold below which exposure had no effect . Underlying this was the further assumption that , below a certain critical threshold of radiation , the damage to DNA was so slight that repair took place . Diagnostic radiation and occupational exposure were assumed to be below this threshold . Later , as more data from laboratory experiments became available , the mechanisms of malignant transformation and cell repair were seen to be far more complex than previously believed and , in the light of this knowledge , researchers began to question the assumption of a simple threshold below which repair took place . Many took up one of several alternatives and for years the most widely accepted of these was the linear hypothesis , which assumed that the risk was proportionate to the amount of radiation at all levels of exposure . In graphic terms , the linear hypothesis is represented by a straight line :  | Dose-Response Curve Showing Relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted this as a conservative working hypothesis while still leaning to the view that damage is disproportionately lower at low levels of exposure . The linear hypothesis was given official endorsement in a 1972 report , Biological Effects of Ionizing Radiation , known as BEIR I , by the National Academy of Sciences . In 1980 , another NAS report known as BEIR III , * endorsed what is known as the linear quadratic hypothesis that predicts a lower risk than the linear hypothesis.2 In graphic terms , the linear quadratic hypothesis is represented by the dashed line in the illustration in Figure 9 . The chairman of the BEIR III committee , Dr. Edward P. Radford of the University of Pittsburgh , disagreed with the other members , insisting that the linear hypothesis was in closer agreement with the epidemiological facts.3 Another member of the committee , Dr. Harald Rossi of Columbia University , was equally adamant in his belief that the linear quadratic hypothesis overstated the actual risk . Rossi advocates what is called the pure quadratic hypothesis , which predicts an even lower risk than the linear quadratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten rads and that it Footnote  | is possible that at lower doses another model may apply. , In graphic terms , the pure quadratic model is shown by the lower solid line :  | A fourth hypothesis was suggested by Dr. Irwin Bross and his colleagues at Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo , New York . Dr. Bross , who was not a member of either BEIR committee , feels that the linear hypothesis may understate the real risk of low-level ionizing radiation.6 In the Bross model , the curve representing the cancer risk would be above the line for the linear model . The exact placement of the curve has not been defined . Why is there such wide disagreement among distinguished scientists who presumably have the same facts at their disposal ? The answer lies in the relative scarcity of information on people who have been exposed to radiation of fifty rads or less , the range that most people are likely to encounter from a lifetime of diagnostic medical exposure or from even an extended period of occupational exposure . There have been dozens of studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many years . Some were of people given radiation therapy , while others were of victims of occupational exposure . In most of these studies , the subjects either received amounts of radiation far in excess of fifty rads or unknown amounts of exposure . The difficulty of calculating the low-level risk is illustrated by what is probably the best information available , which comes from a large-scale cohort study of Japanese atomic-bomb survivors . This group was exposed to a wide range of radiation and included substantial numbers of people on the fringe of the disaster areas who received fifty rads or less . Over the years , careful records have been kept of the survivors ' cancer history. * The top part of Figure 11 , which is taken from the BEIR III report , suggests that the incidence of cancer in Nagasaki follows the linear model . However , as the BEIR III committee noted , the possibility that the linear quadratic or the pure quadratic model may apply can not be ruled out because the data are subject to a wide range of statistical error.8 An updated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience was issued in 1983 by the Radiation Research Effects Foundation , located in Hiroshima . The Footnote  | authors of the report , speaking very tentatively , suggested that the updated data fitted a linear and possibly a linear quadratic model but not a pure quadratic model.9 At the time that the BEIR III report was issued in 1980 , it was thought that the data for Nagasaki were more useful in estimating cancer risk because the bomb dropped there emitted gamma ray radiation , which is similar to the X rays common in medical and occupational exposure . The Hiroshima exposure , it was thought , was mostly to neutrons , a type of radiation primarily of concern only to workers in nuclear plants . However , a new assessment made in 1981 strongly suggested that almost all of the radiation in Hiroshima was in the form of gamma rays . ' ? If this new assessment holds , the data for both cities can be combined and thus will eventually provide a better indication of the risk . Radford believes that the new assessment of the Hiroshima data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rossi feels that the new assessment does not alter his view that the hazards of radiation are exaggerated . " He believes that the dosimetry for the Japanese bomb survivors is in doubt12 and he places more emphasis on the cancer-mortality data rather than the cancer-incidence data , which , at least for Nagasaki , give more support to the pure quadratic hypothesis . * 13 Because of the limitations of the epidemiological data , some members of the BEIR III committee chose to rely more heavily on data from animal experiments . These data are generally consistent with the linear quadratic hypothesis . The committee , in a compromise gesture , noted that the linear hypothesis can be considered as the upper limit and the pure quadratic as the lower limit of risk.14 Radford has strongly criticized the committee 's dependence on animal studies for several reasons : ( 1 ) Animals have short lives ? for example , two to three years for rodents ? but human cancers generally have latency periods of up to thirty years and perhaps longer . ( 2 ) Animals are kept in artificial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can modify the course of the disease . ( 3 ) Experimental animals are inbred , while humans are genetically heterogeneous . ( 4 ) Finally , cancers in animals sometimes differ in their characteristics from human cancers Footnote  | at the same site , which suggests that the factors initiating or promoting cancer in animals could be quantitatively different from those in humans . Radford , in his defense of the linear hypothesis , relies heavily on the epidemiologic data , including those from the atomic bomb study . He also cites data from in vitro studies of human and animal cells , which suggest a linear relationship.16 Rossi bases his more optimistic extrapolation ? the pure quadratic hypothesis ? on several considerations including animal experimental data and doubts about the reliability of the atomicbomb-survivor data . He is particularly concerned that , out of a misguided sense of prudence , standard-setting organizations will adopt the least optimistic estimates in the BEIR III report.17 Bross 's more pessimistic hypothesis is based on his finding that there are certain subgroups that are particularly susceptible to radiation . For example , he finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with allergic diseases who have been X-rayed in the fetal state . The linear hypothesis , he says , may understate the risk because it disregards such susceptible subgroups . Radford points out that the existence of susceptible subgroups is widely accepted but that this does not imply that the linear hypothesis understates the risk.la Bross 's thesis relies on a controversial new method of statistical analysis of his own devising . Standard techniques , he says , are inadequate , but his critics say that his techniques are unsuitable.19 Bross counters by saying that his method is " poorly understood by most health scientists ? including most epidemiologists and statisticians . " 20 A CLOUD OF AMBIGUITY Chapter 3 touched upon controversies regarding low doses of agents that are obviously toxic in higher doses . Of these , low-level radiation has proved to be one of the most difficult to investigate . Radiation researchers can not use the most decisive tool , the clinical trial . Other types of human research , such as the cohort study , are hobbled by the difficulty of determining the radiation exposure of individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animal experiment data for estimating the human risk . Under these conditions , the controversy is likely to continue for a while . According to Radford , one of the difficulties in resolving the issue is the  | preluctance of physicists , chemists , and other nonmedical researchers involved in the controversy to give proper weight to epidemiological findings . He believes that the issue will be resolved eventually through the accumulation of more epidemiological data , including additional data on the atomic-bomb survivors , on occupational groups exposed to radiation , and on patients given therapeutic radiation.21 Until the controversy is resolved , those who are concerned about their risk from occupational and medical radiation will find some informative data in the BEIR III report . The report gives estimates showing the range of possible risk for each of three theories ? the linear , the linear quadratic , and the pure quadratic ( see Table 5 ) . ( There are no comparable risk estimates for Bross 's theory . ) Assuming that the linear hypothesis holds , if a worker were exposed to one rad a year from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dying from cancer would be increased by 4.7 to 7.3 percent . ( A range is given because of the uncertainty of estimation . ) If the linear quadratic model applies , the risk would be slightly less than half of this , and under the pure quadratic model the excess risk would be negligible . For those undergoing diagnostic radiation , the risk is smaller . For example , a person who undergoes a series of procedures totaling ten rads ? an extremely large amount in any diagnostic situation-  | would increase the risk of dying of cancer by 1.0 to 3.1 percent according to the linear hypothesis . Most diagnostic procedures involve less than one rad . The figures in Table 5 do not , of course , apply to any subgroups whose members might be , as Dr. Bross suggests , particularly susceptible to low-level radiation . THE CONTROVERSIAL ROLE OF FEDERAL AGENCIES The controversy over theories of low-level radiation has led to a second controversy , this one over the alleged role of federal agencies in suppressing information that would support pessimistic views of the danger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like himself , report a hazard from low-level radiation , have their funds cut off , have difficulty getting published , and are attacked with " scurrilous gossip . " 23 His opponents , he says , use libel and hearsay in attacking his work . He claims that scientists who report favorable conclusions are rewarded with committee appointments , increased funding , and publication in the medical journals . " Federal agencies such as the AEC the Atomic Energy Commission , their industrial constituencies , and their allies in the scientific and medical communities have been , in my view , lying to the public about the hazard of low-level ionizing radiation for twenty-five years . " 24 He claims that the permissible occupational exposure should be 0.5 rads a year and that this is a feasible standard , since most installations actually operate at or below this level . Bross has accused the Nuclear Regulatory Commission of clinging to the five-rad standard in order to protect a few exceptionally " dirty " installations such as the West Valley , New York , nuclear-reprocessing plant.25 Bross says that his funding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his work until he began to report a risk from low-level ionizing radiation . He is no longer funded by any federal agency.26 Dr. Thomas Mancuso of the University of Pittsburgh had a somewhat similar experience . He held a contract as the principal investigator in a cohort study of workers at the Hanford nuclearprocessing facility in Richland , Washington . His funding agency , ERDA ( Energy Research and Development Administration , now a part of the Department of Energy ) , was , he says , disturbed by a  | report from the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services that suggested a hazard to the Hanford workers . Prompted by this report , ERDA asked Mancuso to publish his report as soon as possible . He refused , saying that because of the long latency period of cancer , a premature report would show false negative findings . Soon afterward , ERDA officials discussed transferring the study to another researcher in view of Mancuso 's " imminent retirement . " Mancuso , who was sixty-two at the time ( 1974 ) , had no plans to retire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was eligible to work on the project until he was seventy . ERDA subsequently issued a series of news releases that mentioned adverse peer reviews of his work.27 In 1977 , Mancuso 's study was transferred to Battelle-Pacific Northwest Laboratories , an organization holding many millions of dollars in contracts with the nuclear industry . * When Mancuso charged the Department of Energy with impropriety , the General Accounting Office , an arm of Congress noted for its impartiality , did an investigation . It was unable to find sufficient evidence to reach a conclusion regarding Mancuso 's allegations , but it did accuse the department of poor management in handling the Hanford study contract . More important , it criticized the officials for reassigning the study to an organization with substantial Department of Energy contracts . This , it said , created a conflict of interest and a credibility problem for the agency.30 Other researchers have also charged that there is government pressure to cover up adverse findings about radiation . Dr. Arthur Tamplin says that he and Dr. John Gofman , who were working for the AEC in 1969 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tamplin had his staff reduced from thirteen to two people , and Gofman resigned.3 i Footnote  | Whatever the motivation of the government may be , its actions have begot suspicions that will poison the discussion for years to come . But poison has its uses . The very vehemence of the controversy , one suspects , has made radiologists and others more aware of the need to tighten their procedures . For example , in routine screening for breast cancer , the average exposure has been cut from 5-6 to 1-2 rads with no apparent loss in ability to diagnose the disease . As we will see in the next chapter , there is poison also in the controversy over fluoridation , and here , too , it may have had an unexpected benefit .  | Fluoridation of Water Do the Opponents Have a Case ? Beginning in the early 1950 's , fluoride had been added to the water supply in many American communities for the purpose of preventing dental cavities . Publichealth authorities consider this measure to be one of the great health advances of the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , immunization against disease , and the provision of safe drinking water . But opponents claim that it does not prevent cavities and , more importantly , that it actually causes a wide range of diseases . One opponent labels it " the greatest medical fraud " in history . ' Because of the opposition , universal fluoridation of water , which seemed inevitable a generation ago , has now been stalled . Why should fluoride , which is considered an essential nutrient by the National Academy of Sciences and the World Health Organization , be so controversial ? What is the evidence that it causes disease , and does it truly prevent dental cavities ? To answer the last question , let us go back to 1901 , when Dr. Frederick McKay , a young dentist , settled in Colorado Springs . He was so mystified by the unusual brown-stained and pitted appearance of his patients ' teeth that he spent decades seeking an explanation . In his search , he enlisted the help of Dr. G. V. Black , a pioneer in dental research and dean of the Northwestern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became convinced that the  | mottling was due to some unidentified substance in the water supply . By that time , they were also aware that people with mottled teeth had few dental cavities . Other dental researchers became interested in the problem , and by the early 1930 's they suspected that fluoride was the mystery substance responsible for both mottling and caries protection . In the late 1930 's , this theory was given strong support by the work of H. Trendley Dean , another pioneer in dental research . In a cross-sectional study of thousands of children in twenty-one American communities , Dean and his colleagues found that the prevalence of dental caries was inversely related to the fluoride content of the drinking water . There was another significant finding : A fluoride concentration of 1 ppm ( part per million ) conferred substantial caries protection but beyond this concentration , the increased benefit was marginal.2 Concentrations beyond 3 to 4 ppm caused noticeable mottling of teeth . At 6 ppm or above , as in certain parts of the Southwest , teeth were almost completely brown or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis for clinical trials in which fluoride was added to the water to a level of 1 ppm . In Grand Rapids , Michigan , where the first of these trials was conducted beginning in 1944 , the cavity rate in permanent teeth was reduced markedly as compared with that in the control city of Muskegon , Michigan . Among six-year-olds , it went down by two thirds , and among sixteen-year-olds , who had been about ten when fluoridation started , the number of cavities fell by almost 20 percent.4 This happy news was soon confirmed by similar controlled tests in Newburgh and Kingston , New York , ' and in other areas.6 These controlled tests convinced most dental and public-health experts that fluoridation was effective , safe , and feasible . And so , beginning in the 1950 's , many localities in the United States and other countries added fluoride to the water supply . By 1960 , 23 percent of the U.S. population was served by fluoridated-water supplies including 5 percent who lived in areas with naturally high fluoride concentrations . By 1970 , 39 percent were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the growth in population served came before 1975.7 In the United States , the supply is adjusted to a level between 0.7 and 1.2 ppm , the lower levels being used for hotter climates where people ordinarily drink more water .  | Fluoridation mainly benefits children through the age of permanent-teeth formation ( fourteen years ) . It apparently works by increasing the formation in the enamel of fluorapatite , a mineral that is more resistant to dissolution by acids than hydroxyapatite , the principal inorganic material in the enamel.8 Attempts to discredit fluoridation by claiming that it does not reduce dental caries have not been backed by credible evidence . The effectiveness of fluoridation is supported by hundreds of clinical trials conducted in at least twenty countries . In most of these trials , the reduction in caries was 40 to 50 percent for baby teeth and 50 to 60 percent for permanent teeth.9 Further evidence comes from the experience of the people in Antigo , Wisconsin , who voted to discontinue fluoridation . The result : Cavities among Antigo children rose dramatically . " ) The principal attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its safety . Opponents claim there is important evidence that fluoride causes heart disease , birth defects , kidney disease , bone disease , and , scariest of all , cancer . FLUORIDATION AND CANCER In 1975 , Dr. Dean Burk , formerly of the National Cancer Institute , and Dr. John Yiamouyiannis , who was then with the privately funded National Health Federation , presented a very disturbing analysis to Representative James J. Delaney , chairman of the House Rules Committee . They compared the ten largest cities that were fluoridated in the early and mid-1950 's with ten large nonfluoridated cities that they believed to have approximately the same prefluoridation cancer mortality . The frightening conclusion that they drew from the data was that cancer mortality in the fluoridated cities rose much more sharply than in the control cities . Based on their data , Burk and Yiamouyiannis estimated that there were twenty to thirty-five excess cancer deaths per year per one hundred thousand people in the fluoridated cities . Their conclusion ? that for the entire United States there were thirty thousand or more excess cancer deaths annually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported by their dramatic graphic comparison of cancer trends in the fluoridated versus nonfluoridated cities . ( See Figure 12. )  | Footnote Their original analysis was based on crude death rates ? that is , rates unadjusted for age , sex , and other variables related to cancer mortality . In a reanalysis published in 1977 , they took some of these variables into account and concluded that the excess cancer deaths in the fluoridated cities was eight per one hundred thousand . ' 3 This rate is roughly equivalent to ten thousand excess deaths per year for all fluoridated areas in the United States . Their new analysis was vigorously attacked by cancer epidemiologists.  | One researcher , for example , labeled as " rudimentary " their efforts to adjust for age , sex , and race.14 Soon after the Delaney hearings , scientists from the National Cancer Institute ( NCI ) reanalyzed the Burk-Yiamouyiannis data , adjusting them for differences in the age , sex , and ethnic composition and other demographic characteristics of the two groups of cities . Their results , expressed in terms of standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other variables ? show no indication of a change in cancer mortality with the introduction of fluoridation.15 The ten cities that were fluoridated had a higher standard mortality ratio before fluoridation than the nonfluoridated cities and the relative difference in the ratios stayed roughly the same from 1950 to 1970 . ( See Figure 13 . ) British and New Zealand researchers , in independent analyses of the same data , confirmed the conclusion of the NCI investigators .  | Other investigators who have looked at a larger number of areas in the United States have come to the same conclusion , ' $ as have still other investigators who examined cancer mortality in Australia , New Zealand , and Great Britain . ' 9 Dr. Donald Taves , of the School of Medicine and Dentistry at the University of Rochester , has pointed out that the current nationwide epidemiological analyses include only fifteen years ' experience with wide-scale fluoridation and since most cancers have a long latency period , it is desirable to repeat the analyses as information for additional years becomes available.20 However , the possibility that fluoridation-induced cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a serious concern to public-health officials because of the consistently negative findings from so many analyses . One of the most reassuring of these shows that , in areas of Texas where the water has been naturally fluoridated at a high level , there has been no excess of cancer deaths after several generations of exposure.21 In addition , well-conducted experiments have failed to show that fluoride produces cancer in animals.22 Judged by the criteria of Chapter 3 , the fluoridation-cancer link does poorly . There is little evidence of strength of association , consistency of association , dose-response relationship , and furthermore , the theory is not consistent with existing knowledge : Fluoride is an essential nutrient , and no nutrient has ever been found to cause cancer in the amounts necessary for health . Opponents of fluoridation might argue that the burden of proof is not on them but on the proponents who , in their opinion , must prove that the practice is safe . This argument would have carried more weight a generation ago before wide-scale fluoridation was started and when much less was known about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been over three decades of intensive research in which no credible evidence has surfaced that fluoridation causes cancer . The proponents would therefore seem to be justified on insisting that it is now up to the antifluoridationists to produce evidence of adverse effects before the benefits of this proven public health measure are denied to children . FLUORIDATION AND SKELETAL FLUOROSIS Excessive consumption of fluoride causes skeletal fluorosis , a condition in which the bones harden and become brittle . Consump-  | tion of twenty to eighty milligrams a day taken over many years may produce a painful and crippling form of this disease , 23 but this is twenty to eighty times the average consumption from fluoridated water . Except in the tropics , where water consumption is high , no advanced cases have been reported in areas where fluoride concentration of the water is under 4 ppm.24 It is reassuring that in certain areas of Texas where the water contains 8 ppm of natural fluoride , people have radiological evidence of skeletal fluorosis but no pain or crippling.25 These people probably have fewer bone fractures for there is fairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect against osteoporosis , a condition in which bones become porous and fragile.26 FLUORIDATION AND BIRTH DEFECTS In the 1950 's , Dr. Ionel Rappaport , a French researcher working in America , reported that the incidence of Down 's syndrome ( mongolism ) was greater in cities with high levels of fluoridated water than in cities with low levels . Because Dr. Rappaport apparently failed to include more than half the cases in his area of study , his findings are suspect.27 Better-designed studies show no relationship between Down 's syndrome and fluoridation ; 28 and in Birmingham , England , one of the few places where a regular effort has been made to get complete registration of all congenital abnormalities , the incidence of mongolism has not risen since fluoridation started in 1964.24 One group of researchers examined the records for almost 1.4 million American children . They concluded that there was no association between the level of fluoride in the water and the incidence of any type of birth defect , including clubfoot , heart abnormalities , cleft palate , and cleft lip.30 FLUORIDATION AND KIDNEY DISEASE Fluoride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentrations of fluoride have been found in certain cases of kidney failure.31 Deaths from nephritis ( inflammation of the kidney ) are no greater in high-fluoride areas than in low-fluoride areas.32 An autopsy study showed no correlation between the prevalence or  | severity of kidney disease and the duration of exposure to water with a fluoride concentration of 2.5 ppm.33 FLUORIDATION AND ALLERGIES The late Dr. George L. Waldbott , an allergist , claimed that fluoridation at 1 ppm causes allergic reactions , including gastrointestinal , neurological , urinary , and dermatological disorders.34 Waldbott 's studies have been faulted for several inadequacies , including failure to provide control groups.35 The American Academy of Allergy takes issue with Waldbott and others who have made similar claims . According to the academy , " There is no evidence of allergy or intolerance to fluorides as used in the fluoridation of community water supplies . " 36 FLUORIDATION AND CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE In the 1950 's , there was a report from Japan suggesting a possible link between high fluoride consumption and abnormal electrocardiograms ; 37 and a study done in Antigo , Wisconsin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart disease rose considerably after fluoridation started in 1949.38 Several betterdesigned ecological studies covering hundreds of areas in the United States39 and over thirty areas in Britain , 40 however , failed to detect any link between cardiovascular mortality and fluoride content of the water supply . Fluoride may actually protect against heart disease . A study done in two North Dakota areas ? one with high- and the other with low-fluoride concentration ? showed that people in the former area had less calcification of the aorta.41 A comparison of four rural areas of Finland revealed a strong correlation between the concentration of fluoride in the water and the prevalence of cardiovascular disease.42 An ecological analysis of data from a number of American cities showed that deaths from all types of heart disease have declined slightly more in fluoridated than in nonfluoridated areas . Dr. Taves , who analyzed the multi-city data , considers the hypothesis that fluoride protects against heart disease to be an " intriguing possibility " but one that needs further testing.43  | FLUORIDATION AND OTHER DISORDERS Water fluoridation has been linked to a variety of other disorders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optic nerves , bronchitis , pneumonia , stillbirths , anemia , perforation of peptic ulcers , and otosclerosis ( new bone formation in the inner ear that causes progressive deafness ) . There is no evidence that any of these conditions is caused by fluoridation of drinking water and , indeed , very high doses are used to treat otosclerotic deafness . ALTERNATIVES TO WATER FLUORIDATION Opponents of water fluoridation have suggested that fluoride could be delivered by means other than the community water supply , for example , by putting it in tablets to be used by children . None of these alternatives is as cost-effective as water fluoridation44 although they can benefit those who live in areas with no central water supply ? over 20 percent of the U.S. population . The alternatives to water fluoridation also have certain practical limitations . Not all children will take fluoride tablets regularly . Fluoridation of milk , which has also been proposed , would not benefit those who drink little or no milk . In some countries , fluoride is added to salt , but this is inconsistent with the advice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method ? this one is still under investigation ? is for pregnant women to take fluoride-tablet supplements to prevent dental caries in their children . Several clinical trials of this measure have been conducted but the results are controversial.45 Unlike water fluoridation , the measure depends upon the active participation of mothers-to-be , which is likely to be much less than 100 percent . THE SUCCESS OF THE ANTIFLUORIDATIONISTS The antifluoridation cause has always drawn strength from the addlepated , such as the man who contended that the " Rockefeller mob " was using fluoride to poison the drinking water , or the one who claimed that fluoridation causes " nymphomania . " But the  | most memorable antifluoridationist is a fictional character , Jack D. Ripper , the psychotic air force general in Dr. Strangelove , who described fluoridation as " a Red conspiracy . . . to pollute our precious body fluids . " But opposition to fluoridation is not confined to cranks . In many areas where it has become a ballot issue ? Los Angeles , Portland , Oregon , and the state of Utah , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have mandatory fluoridation laws but the opposition has kept the proportion of fluoridated population from rising above 50 percent or , roughly , 60 percent of those living in areas with central water supplies . In Great Britain , it has kept the proportion to a mere 10 percent . In 1976 , the Dutch parliament failed to approve fluoridation for all drinking water in Holland , and shortly thereafter a royal decree stopped fluoridation in Rotterdam and other Dutch cities . Consumers Union attributes the success of the anti fluoridationists to the use of scare tactics and distortion . It quotes Dr. Dean Burk , a leader in the fight against fluoridation , as having said : " Fluoridation is a form of public mass murder . " 46 Consumers Union claims that " millions of Americans are being grossly misled about an issue important to their health and the cost of their dental bills . " In particular , it singles out the National Health Federation , " whose roots run deep into the soil of medical quackery , " for its work against fluoridation . It attacks the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their work " amateurish " and " misleading . " *47 The use of misleading information may explain the success of the antifluoridationists in voter referenda . According to one theory , voters in a referendum begin with favorable attitudes toward fluoridation , but because they are only superficially informed , the arguments of the antifluoridationists raise doubts in their minds and the doubts create anxiety and confusion . They reject fluoridation because they are confused . Other students of the problem have theo- Footnote  | rized that people vote against fluoridation because they are " alienated " or because the practice does n't fit their conception of " natural living . " 49 In part , the success of the opponents is based on their charge that fluoridation violates the civil rights of those who object to its use . There are , of course , weighty arguments on the other side . If indeed fluoridation is efficacious and safe , it would be unethical to deny its benefits to children , the class of people who would mainly benefit from its use . Since the time of the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about its efficacy . Paradoxically , the evidence for the safety of fluoridation has mounted in response to the criticism of those who believe that their civil rights are infringed by its use . A NEW CONTROVERSY In July 1982 , Dr. Dennis Leverett of the Eastman Medical Center in Rochester , N.Y. , published a paper in Science that may be the seed of a vigorous new controversy . He notes that the prevalence of caries is declining not only in fluoridated areas but in areas where the water is not fluoridated . The decline in the nonfluoridated areas , he believes , may be due in part to an increase in the fluoride content of food processed with fluoridated water and shipped into nonfluoridated areas . Leverett says that the use of fluoride in tablets or topical application as well as unintentional ingestion of fluoride from dentifrices also makes a contribution.50 If indeed there is an increasing amount of fluoride in the food chain , then one would expect to find an increased prevalence of fluorosis . Leverett cites studies suggesting that this may be the case . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas have developed a mild fluorosis , which is not readily apparent to the untrained eye . Because of this , Leverett suggests that " we are now approaching a critical mass of fluoride in the environment , which is eliminating dental caries as a public health problem in the United States . " 51 He calls for better studies designed to determine the prevalence of dental caries , dental fluorosis , and the availability of fluorides in food in the United States . On the basis of such studies , he recommends that the standards for concentration of fluoride in the water be reassessed.52 Two other experts on fluoridation , Alice Horowitz and Dr.  | Herschel Horowitz ? he is with the U.S. Public Health Service ? strongly disagree with Leverett . They are skeptical of the claims that there have been increases in the prevalence of fluorosis and in the amount of fluoride in the food chain . In their opinion , lowering the fluoride concentration in water could result in a reduced benefit for those in fluoridated communities . Instead , they suggest that if it is shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be better not to tamper with the water standards . Instead , they recommend reducing the amount of fluoride by other means , such as persuading the processors to reduce the concentrations in food and educating health professionals and the public about proper use of fluoride-containing products.53 In rebuttal , Leverett says that it makes more sense , from a public-health viewpoint , to adjust the total amount of fluoride in the environment through the water supply than by attempting to alter the behavior of industry , the professions , and consumers.54 This promises to be a far tamer controversy than that between the pro- and antifluoridationists . It also stands a far better chance of being more productive than the older controversy , which , in its long history , has yet to contribute to the health of a single human  | When the Wars Are Over like to think that there is a place where all of the unusable ideas of civilization are stored ? a Museum of Infelicitous Notions ? where one could ponder the intellectual deadends of the past and present . It would have sections devoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Noble Savage , and the modern notion of " scientific creationism . " There would be niches for phrenology and palmistry . The theory advanced by Urbain Le Verrier , a nineteenth-century astronomer , that there is another planet inside the orbit of Mercury would be located near Immanuel Velikovsky 's theory that the earth suffered a profound cataclysm about 1500 B.C. because of the creation of the planet Venus . There would be displays memorializing the alleged metal-bending powers of Uri Geller , the notion of the White Man 's Burden , and the theory of psychologist Cyril Burt that heredity is virtually the only determinant of intelligence . In the medical wing , you would find displays on bleeding , leeching , and blistering . Nearby would be an exhibit on the notion that masturbation causes insanity and that pellagra is an infectious disease . Also in this wing would be a section on the early-twentiethcentury practice of using X rays to shrink tonsils , adenoids , and the thymus gland , therapies that eventually caused many thousands of cases of thyroid cancer . I have several candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that fluoridation causes disease , that laetrile cures cancer , that large doses of Vitamin C is an effective remedy for the common cold , and that orthomolecular psychiatry is an effective method for treating schizophrenia . The first has not satisfied any of the criteria used in judging medical theories while the others have                     