@@774255

txt  | field between the plates changes . These changes greatly interested Maxwell , for , if not properly interpreted , they seem to introduce an impermissible discontinuity in the behavior of the condenser 's electromagnetic field . To understand these changes , we note that when the electric current flows through the conductor connecting the two plates , it is surrounded by circular magnetic lines of force that grow in intensity from zero to a maximum when all the negative charges from the plate have passed through the conductor onto the other plate and have canceled the charges on the other plate . At this point , no current is flowing through the conductor , the condenser plates are chargeless , and no electric field exists between the plates , but the magnetic field surrounding the conductor , produced by the current , is still present . To Maxwell , this situation lacked the symmetry of Oersted 's and Faraday 's discoveries . Moreover , the difference between the conditions in the space surrounding the conductor ( a magnetic field ) and those in the condenser space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminate this objectionable feature and to achieve the unification he desired , he suggested that the decreasing electric field between the condenser plates accompanying the current that was building up in the conductor was itself a current , not in a conductor but in the vacuum . He called this current the " displacement current " and ar gued , correctly , that its flow generates a magnetic field with its lines of force circling the lines of force of the electric field . The situation in the condenser and in the conductor , at the moment that the plates were chargeless and the current was zero , was , then , a very strange one that had never been conceived of before : a magnetic field in empty space with its lines of force circling a wire in which no current was flowing and circling the empty space between the condenser plates with no charges on them . What happened after that ? The magnetic lines of force , with no current to support them , began to collapse , contracting like rubber bands , back to the conductor again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such collapsing magnetic fields produce electric fields that cause electric charges in conductors to move . Thus , a current is generated in the conductor again , but in the opposite direction from that of the initial current , so that the condenser plates become charged again , but with opposite polarity . The whole phenomenon repeats itself , and this goes on periodically over and over again , so that we have an electromagnetic oscillator somewhat like a mechanical oscillator ( a pendulum or a spring ) . To see how close this analogy of the mechanical and the electromag  | netic oscillator is , we consider it from a slightly different point of view , taking the electromagnetic energy of the oscillating condenser into account . When the condenser is not discharging ( no current in the conductor ) , all the energy is in the electric field between the plates , and this is the potential energy of the charges on the plates . The energy is thus all potential , as it is in the pendulum when the bob is lifted above its equilibrium position ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the potential energy of the pendulum is transformed into kinetic energy , so , too , is the potential energy of the condenser transformed into the kinetic energy of the current . The kinetic energy is stored in the magnetic field created by the current , which again becomes the potential energy of the condenser plates with reversed polarity . We extend the analogy a bit further by noting that the bob of the pendulum does not stop when it swings to its lowest point , but , owing to its inertia , passes right through the lowest point to reach the other side of the swing . This is also true of the current in the condenser 's circuit . The inertia of the moving charges that create the current causes these charges to continue moving until the condenser is charged again with the charges on the two plates reversed , so that one cycle of the oscillation is completed and another is ready to begin . An important question concerning these oscillations is how quickly they occur ( that is , the number of oscillations per second ? their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their period , which is the reciprocal of the frequency ) . Again , we use the analogy with the pendulum , the period of which is determined by the length of the pendulum and the acceleration of gravity ? the longer the pendulum , the more slowly it oscillates , and the larger its acceleration ( gravity ) , the more rapidly it oscillates . In a general way , this rule also holds for the condenser ; the smaller it is , the more rapidly it oscillates , and the larger the magnetic field its current has to build up , the more slowly it oscillates . The selfmagnetic field the current builds up acts like a retardant and slows the oscillations . An exact analysis of the discharge of the condenser leads to a simple formula for this oscillation period that has great practical applications . Before we return to Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory , we note a very important feature of the electric oscillations of the condenser that reveals the essence of Maxwell 's theory ? namely , his discovery of the wave character of electromagnetism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but cease after a certain time , which means that the condenser has lost all its energy , just as the pendulum does . A very important difference marks these two energy losers , however ; the  | pendulum loses all its energy through friction ( heat ) , but this is not so for the condenser . Even if the friction in the discharging circuit of the condenser is reduced to zero , the condenser loses all its electrical energy very quickly ? it radiates the energy away . To see the physics of this phenomenon , we again consider the displacement current produced by the changing electric field between the condenser plates and note that this current is encircled by a changing magnetic field , which in turn is linked to a changing electric field ( owing to induction ) , and so on , so that a chain of alternating electric and magnetic fields is built up , and at each new cycle the old chain is pushed out into space by a new chain . Thus , an oscillating chain of electric and magnetic fields is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THEORY OF LIGHT This crude physical description of the radiation from an oscillating condenser conveys the context of Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory only superficially , but it is sufficient to show that the theory predicts the existence of electromagnetic waves , which can be derived rigorously from Maxwell 's six equations of the electromagnetic field . Three of these equations describe how the variations in time of the three components ( one component for each dimension of space ) of the electric field determine the variations of the magnetic field from point to point , and the other three describe how the variations in time of the three spatial components of the magnetic field determine how the electric field varies from point to point . From these field equations , which intermix the components of the magnetic and electric fields , Maxwell derived , mathematically , a simple equation for the components of the electric field and a similar equation for the components of the magnetic field . These two equations are called " wave equations " because they show that the electric field and the magnetic field are propagated together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both at right angles to the direction of propagation of the waves . Moreover , the electric and magnetic field oscillations are not in step with each other , but are 90 ? ( one quarter of a cycle ) out of phase ; that is , when the electric field is a maximum , the magnetic field is zero and vice versa . This type of phenomenon is called a " transverse wave " in analogy with the propagation of a periodic disturbance across the surface of water when a pebble is dropped in the water . The surface oscillations of the water are perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the water wave . The importance of Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory was not fully  | understood until the velocity of his electromagnetic wave was found to be that of light . A wave equation relates the spatial variations of the amplitude of a field ( its intensity ) to the time variations . Now , the spatial variations are essentially the wave amplitude divided by the square of a small distance , and the time variations are the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a kind of acceleration ) . But these two variations can not stand as two terms in a single equation without some additional factor attached to one or the other to make the space ? time dimensions of both the same ; the two terms are dimensionally different because the first has in its denominator the square of a length and the second the square of a time , which means the second denominator has the square of a speed as a factor . This is just the speed of the wave , the numerical value of which is , as Maxwell showed , the speed of light . This clearly established the correctness of the electromagnetic theory of light and , in fact , of all radiation . Maxwell had thus unified not only electricity and magnetism but also light into a single theory . Ultimately , this work became the electromagnetic theory of radiation , which includes the entire electromagnetic spectrum from the longest radio waves to the shortest gamma rays emitted by atomic nuclei . The presence of the speed of light in Maxwell 's equations is remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frame of reference of the observer , since it is given as the ratio of the two different sets of units ( the electrostatic and the electromagnetic ) in which electric charge can be expressed . This independence is startling , since in Newtonian mechanics , the observed speed of an object depends on the motion of the observer . The full implications of this property of the speed of light ( its nondependence on the motion of the observer ) were first delineated by Einstein in his special theory of relativity . Another noteworthy feature of the speed of Maxwell 's electromagnetic waves is that it is the same for all wavelengths in a vacuum , but varies from wavelength to wavelength in a material medium . In such a medium , the speed , as Maxwell 's theory shows , equals the speed in the vacuum ( the maximum speed ) divided by the index of refraction of the medium ( a number larger than 1 ) , if the medium is nonmagnetic . Since the index of refraction in a dense medium like glass is greater for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) than for the longer wavelengths ( red and orange ) , red light travels faster in a dense medium than violet light , so that the paths of red rays are bent less than those of violet rays when light passes obliquely from the vacuum into a dense medium . This relationship had already been observed by experimental physicists before Maxwell promulgated his electromagnetic theory  | of light , so that physicists , in general , were predisposed to accept it , but with some skepticism . But all reservations as to its correctness were swept away by Heinrich Rudolf Hertz 's famous experiments on the production of electromagnetic waves by electric oscillators and their reception by oscillators of the same kind placed at various distances from the source of the waves . Hertz produced his waves by discharging a condenser that incorporated , instead of plates , two small spheres separated by a small distance . At a high enough potential difference between the two spheres , the discharge occurred in the form of a spark in which very rapid electromagnetic oscillations were generated . The waves thus produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a similar conductor placed at a distance of some yards from the first set of spheres . Hertz thus demonstrated that Maxweliian electromagnetic waves can be produced and are propagated exactly as Maxwell 's equations predicted . This discovery was the beginning of radio technology . Hertz went beyond merely proving that electromagnetic waves are produced by an electromagnetic oscillator ( discharging condenser ) ; he demonstrated that they are reflected , refracted , and diffracted ( bent around corners ) just the way light is , so that all doubts about Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory of light were dispelled . In proving Maxwell 's theory experimentally , Hertz greatly strengthened the belief that matter consists of electrically charged particles , for light is emitted by hot solids , liquids , and gases . This can only mean that electrical charges are oscillating in the matter when it emits light , which also supports Faraday 's surmises about the electrical nature of matter . The relationship between light and electromagnetism was further clarified by the experiments of the Dutch physicist Pieter Zeeman , who showed that the various wavelengths of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gas is placed in a strong magnetic field . Hertz discovered another important effect that indicates the electrical structure of matter : When either of the two small spheres in his electrical oscillator was irradiated by a beam of light , the discharge occurred more quickly than otherwise . The reason for this is that the light knocks electric charges ( electrons ) out of the irradiated sphere , and these charges act as conductors for the discharge spark between the two spheres . This phenomenon became known as the photoelectric effect . It could not be explained by the wave theory of light and remained as one of the mysteries in physics until Einstein explained it with his photon concept of light , which stemmed directly from Planck 's quantum theory . As we see in the next chapter , Maxwell contributed to the molecular  | theory of matter and played an important role in the development of statistical physics ( statistical mechanics ) , but his very premature death cut short his incredible scientific creativity . Despite his short life , however , the last 40 years of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | The Broadest Laws of Physics Thermodynamics , Kinetic Theory , and Statistical Mechanics The most important discoveries of the laws , methods and progress of Nature have nearly always sprung from the examination of the smallest objects which she contains . - JEAN BAPTISTE DE LAMARCK There are in the history of physics many examples of developments that initially proceeded independently of each other and yet were later found to be intimately related . It can easily be seen that this is particularly true of the mathematical formulations of various theories . Thus , the wave equation ( the partial differential equation that describes the propagation of a wave ) , which was first developed for acoustical waves , was carried over bodily , so to speak , to describe electromagnetic waves ? that is , to describe the propagation of radiation . The potential theory , which was introduced to simplify gravitational problems , was applied , without change , to electrostatics and magnetostatics . Much later , Erwin Schrodinger applied the same classical wave equation to describe the wave characteristics of the motion of the electron . Another very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ describes the interference and diffraction patterns of a light wave passing through a series of slits in a screen to the distribution of the diffraction pattern of an electron passing through such slits . That similar mathematical schemes can be used to describe physical phenomena that appear to be unrelated does not , in general , mean that the phenomena are just different manifestations of the same basic reality . There is always a strong feeling , however , that such a one-to-one relationship of the mathematics must point to an underlying unity of the physics of such phenomena .  | Just as it does not follow that similar mathematical formulations imply physical unity , neither does it follow that different mathematical representations mean different physical phenomena . Indeed , the mathematical treatment may at times obscure the underlying unity of the physics , as is very well illustrated by the three remarkable branches of physics called thermodynamics , kinetic theory , and statistical mechanics , which appear in different mathematical guises but describe essentially the same physical phenomena . Physicists have always been attracted to these three disciplines and held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum of assumptions , they are governed by the most general principles known in physics , and all problems within their framework can be solved . In this chapter , we discuss the development of these three branches of physics from the classical ( Newtonian ) point of view , but later we shall see how and to what extent the quantum theory and the theory of relativity altered them . In particular , we shall see that the simple classical statistical mechanics had to be replaced by two different kinds of statistical mechanics owing to the quantum mechanics , and that a new branch of thermodynamics , the thermodynamics of black holes , was forced on physicists by the general theory of relativity . But the general principles of thermodynamics , kinetic theory , and statistical mechanics have remained unaltered from their inception to the present . THERMODYNAMICS Thermodynamics as we now know it began with Julius Robert von Mayer 's discovery in 1842 of the equivalence of heat and mechanical energy ( that is , work , or kinetic energy and potential energy ) and his statement of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle of the conservation of energy , with heat included as a form of energy ) . Mayer ( 1814-1878 ) , the son of a pharmacist in Heilbronn , Germany , decided not to follow his two older brothers into the family business , but instead enrolled as a medical student in 1832 at the University of Tubingen . Although Mayer was arrested and expelled in 1837 for his activities in a secret student society , he returned the following year to finish his studies and take the state medical examination . Mayer spent a year as a physician aboard a Dutch merchant ship voyaging to the East Indies . He formulated his theory that motion and heat are interconvertible manifestations of the same entity in nature and that this entity ( energy ) is conserved in any such conversion . I Mayer 's speculation was prompted by  | caption the surprising redness of the blood of newly arrived sailors he examined . He reasoned that this redness was due to the heat of the tropical climate because a lower metabolic rate could maintain the same body temperature in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be extracted from the red arterial blood . ' Mayer saw the oxidation of food as the only possible source of animal heat and concluded that the chemical energy latent in food can be expressed quantitatively as the heat obtained from the oxidation of food . ' He believed that muscle force and body heat were derived from the chemical energy latent in food and that if the animal 's intake and expenditure of energy are in balance , there must be a conservation of this energy . ' An 1845 paper by Mayer extended this conservation principle to magnetic , electrical , and chemical energy and described the  | basic energy conversions in the animate world beginning with the conversion by plants of sun energy into latent chemical energy , the consumption by animals of the source ( in the form of food ) of this energy , and the subsequent conversion by animals of this energy to body heat and the mechanical muscle energy in their life processes.2 Despite the originality of his thought , Mayer 's ideas were not readily accepted by the society of physicists . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estrangement from his brother Fritz , owing to their differing political stands in the 1848 revolution , and by the deaths of five of his seven children in infancy . Mayer attempted suicide in 1850 . He suffered fits of insanity over the next few years and was committed to a succession of asylums . The German physicist Hermann Helmholtz publicized the importance of Mayer 's work after he had read some of Mayer 's earlier papers . Helmholtz argued for Mayer 's priority in the discovery of the conservation principle ; his cause was also taken up by Rudolf Clausius and , later , the English physicist John Tyndall . This long-delayed scientific recognition seems to have had a dramatic therapeutic effect on the health of the long-forgotten Mayer . He began extensive correspondences with his supporters and saw many of his earlier papers translated into English . In 1870 , Mayer was voted a corresponding member of the Paris Academy of Sciences ; the following year , Mayer was awarded the Copley Medal by the Royal Society . Despite his newfound status , however , it was Mayer 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science , since by the time they had become widely known in scientific circles , their principles had already been independently formulated and entrenched in physics . Moreover , Mayer did not use mathematics extensively , which limited the usefulness of his papers to other physicists . In fact , it had been the precise experimental work of the British amateur scientist James P. Joule on the mechanical equivalent of heat ? that is , his accurate measurements showing that the amount of heat produced by a given amount of work ( for example , in the form of friction ) is always the same ? that had made possible the recognition of Mayer 's genius . Although Mayer 's formulation of the first law of thermodynamics was the first step in the development of the science of thermodynamics , the work of the French engineer Nicolas Leonard Sadi Carnot on the efficiencies of heat engines and his discovery of what is now called the Carnot cycle laid the basis for the second law of thermodynamics . Carnot ( 1796 ? 1832 ) was the eldest son of Lazare Carnot , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .  | caption Lazare , young Sadi 's first teacher , instilled in his son a wide-ranging interest in mathematics and the sciences . Sadi left home to study chemistry , geometry , and mechanics at the Ecole Polytechnique . His studies were interrupted by several months of duty in Napoleon 's army , during which time he saw action against the invading allies at Vincennes before returning to the Polytechnique to graduate in 1814 . He then spent two years studying engineering at the Ecole du Genie before being commissioned as a second lieutenant in an engineering regiment . Most of his time was taken up by bureaucratic paperwork , so he eventually transferred to an army staff position , where he was freer to pursue his scientific interests . He took various engineering courses at Paris institutions including the Sorbonne and began to examine critically the principles of the steam engine . In 1823 , Carnot began work on his classic book Reflexions sur la puissance du feu et sur les machines propres a developper cette puissance , which outlined his thoughts about possible improvements that could be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carnot 's work was published in 1824 and received favorable reviews , most scientists paid little attention to Carrot 's own contributions to the study of heat . In his book , Carrot outlined three premises that set universal standards for judging the operating efficiencies of steam engines on the basis of accepted scientific principles . First , Carnot asserted that perpetual motion was impossible , even though it had figured in the study of mechanics , including some of the work done by his father.3 Second , Carnot used the caloric theory of heat to assert that the quantity of heat absorbed or emitted by a physical system can be measured by examining the initial and final states of the system.3 Third , Carnot assumed that useful work can be produced whenever a temperature difference exists.3 His famous waterwheel analogy suggested that the so-called " motive power " of heat depended on both the quantity of caloric heat and the size of the temperature difference through which it fell ; it also implied that " the expenditure of motive power can return caloric from the cold body to the warm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ideal heat engine that bears his name and introduced the concepts of completeness and reversibility . Disheartened by the lack of attention paid by scientists to his work despite a favorable review by the Academie des Sciences , Carnot continued to work on the theory of heat and concentrated on making further improvements in steam engine design . He also investigated the relationship between temperature and pressure in gases for a brief time until his death from cholera . Although scattered references were made to Carnot 's work over the next several decades , it was only after the British physicist William Thomson ( later Lord Kelvin ) published a series of papers that relied heavily on Carnot 's Reflexions that Carnot 's pioneering work in the study of heat was widely recognized . Coupled with Rudolf Clausius 's modifications , which assumed , contrary to Carnot 's formulation , that some heat was lost in the engine and some heat was transferred to the colder body , Carnot 's theorem was formally unveiled as the second law of thermodynamics . Thus , a good deal of experimental work prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roles in the thermodynamics drama . As we have already indicated , thermodynamics rests on two basic laws , the first and second laws of thermodynamics ( the law of energy and the law of entropy ) , which apply under all conditions to all forms of matter and energy and to their interactions ( absorption , emission , and scattering of energy by matter ) . Although the laws of thermodynamics are universally true and apply to all forms of matter ( solid , liquid , and gas-  | eous ) , they are most easily formulated and understood when applied to gases . All matter ( with the possible exception of helium ) , under the appropriate thermal conditions , can exist in a solid , liquid , or gaseous state . Of these states , the gaseous state is the simplest and most thoroughly understood because the constituent particles ( molecules , atoms , nuclei , or electrons ) , in general , move about independently of each other . In its simplest state , when the molecules or atoms of a gas are completely independent of each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on each other as they move about randomly ? the gas is said to be a perfect or ideal gas . Such an ideal gas does not exist in nature , but it is a useful theoretical concept from which many correct deductions can be drawn . The behavior of such an ensemble of particles ( a perfect gas ) is described by the famous gas laws of Boyle and of Charles and GayLussac . We recall that Boyle 's law states that if the temperature of a gas is kept constant , then the volume and the pressure of the gas can not change independently of each other ; they must change together in such a way that the pressure multiplied by the volume is always the same ( see Chapter 6 for a discussion of pressure and volume ) . This very special case of the gas law ( Boyle 's law ) does not give us an insight into the thermal properties of a gas deep enough to lead us to the two laws of thermodynamics , so we must go to the general gas law , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume , and temperature all change together . In this case , any two of these three quantities may be changed independently of each other , but then the way the third one changes is set , as already discussed . Charles and Gay-Lussac independently discovered that no matter what one does to a gas ( compress it , raise or lower its temperature , or alter its volume in any way ) , the pressure , volume , and temperature of a perfect gas must change together in such a way that the product of its pressure and volume , divided by its temperature , must remain constant . With this thought in mind , we are prepared to state the first law of thermodynamics and see what it means . To that end , we go back to the concept of energy that we discussed in detail in Chapter 7 . We saw there that the energy concept can best be understood by considering the work done on an object , which is defined as the product of the force applied to the object and the displacement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the total distance it moves ) while the force is acting . Thus , we do work on an object whenever we push or pull it over a given distance . The body on which the work is done is not the same , of course , as it was before we did work on it ; it has acquired something ? we call it " energy " ? that it did not have before we did work on it . This  | energy exactly equals the work we do on the body if it is completely free to move . If the work done on the body merely sets it in motion without altering its height above the ground , the energy is entirely kinetic energy ( energy of motion ) ; if , however , the work merely raises the body to a greater height , where it remains at rest , the energy is entirely potential ( energy of position ) . A change in the speed of the body indicates a change in its kinetic energy , and a change in its height means a change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pendulum is a very good example of a body with both kinetic and potential energies and with a continuous interchange occurring between these two kinds of energies . With the concept of energy introduced into physics as a direct outgrowth of Newton 's laws of motion and his law of gravity , the question as to the permanence or conservation of energy arose . The nature of this problem is again nicely illustrated by the bob of the pendulum as it oscillates : At the highest point of its swing , the bob has only potential energy ; at the lowest point , it has only kinetic energy . This conclusion prompted the question of whether the pendulum 's total energy , that is , the sum of its kinetic and potential energies , is always the same . The answer , as we know from experience , is no ! The pendulum ultimately stops , so that its mechanical energy ( kinetic plus potential ) disappears . The great classical physicists immediately following Newton knew this and understood that if no friction were present between the bob of the pendulum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its support ( a nail or a screw ) , the pendulum would swing forever ? its mechanical energy would be conserved . The motion of the earth ( or of any other planet ) around the sun illustrates the conservation of mechanical energy very well . As the earth revolves around the sun , its distance from the sun and hence its potential energy change continuously ; the same is true of the earth 's speed and hence of its kinetic energy . But these two energies change in such a way that their sum remains constant . Mechanical energy is thus conserved , fortunately for life on the earth . If the earth lost its mechanical energy continuously ( like the pendulum or like an artificial satellite in the earth 's atmosphere ) , it would ultimately fall into the sun . Although the late-18th- and early-19th-century physicists knew that friction robs a mechanical system , such as a pendulum , of its energy , they did not know what happens to the energy and simply assumed that it disappears . That energy is never diminished or increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although if they had noted that the temperature of the air surrounding the pendulum increases slightly as the  | pendulum slows down , they might have suspected that something that heats the air flows into it from the pendulum . Mayer recognized this " something " ( heat ) as another form of energy , and so insisted that in any system of bodies interacting in any way whatsoever , kinetic energy plus potential energy plus heat always remains constant . This conclusion is essentially the content of the first law of thermodynamics . To express the first law in its most obvious form , we consider a gas in a vertical cylinder capped by a freely movable , weightless piston on top and with a thermometer inserted in the side of the cylinder so that the temperature of the gas can be measured . The piston ? cylinder concept is familiar to all of us from our experiences with automobile engines , the power capacities of which are rated by the number of cylinders they contain . Here , we assume that the gas in our cylinder is just the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure inside the cylinder is atmospheric pressure . We now put some weights on the piston and note that the piston sinks a certain amount ( the heavier the weights , the more it sinks ) , finally coming to rest again when the pressure of the air in the cylinder has increased sufficiently above atmospheric pressure to support the weights on the piston . If we now heat the cylinder with a flame , allowing a definite amount of heat to flow into the gas ( air ) , we immediately note two things : The piston rises and the temperature of the gas increases . These events show that the heat entering the cylinder does work ( it raised the weights on the piston ) and it increases something in the gas that has to do with its temperature . This " something " is the internal energy of the gas , which we can not observe directly : The higher the temperature , the greater the internal energy . The first law now states that the heat supplied to the gas exactly equals the work done on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gas . One must marvel at the great simplicity of this statement and yet its profound significance for mankind , for it represents the difference between freedom and slavery . For the centuries before the first law of thermodynamics was known , man , water , wind , and beast were the only sources of work , and so man and beast became commodities to be bought and sold by those who controlled the economy and politics of society . Slavery of one form or another was the typical result . The first law of thermodynamics undermined the slave economy ( although not all slavery was words , one can construct an engine ( essentially a piston and a cylinder containing a gas ) that can change heat into work .  | Here , indeed , was a law of nature that promised mankind a paradise on earth , for the backbreaking physical drudgery that had enslaved people , whether they were legally free or not , could now be eliminated forever with the proper use of heat . Of course , the remarkable fruits that were to be borne by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) were not immediately discerned , for the step between the pure science that reveals a law and the technology that gives birth to its fruits is often a very long one . In the development of the technology that was generated by the first law , the first and most important step was the development of a fairly efficient heat engine , the first example of which is the steam engine ; the construction of such an engine , as we know , led to the Industrial Revolution , which sounded the death knell for slavery . The second step was , of course , finding cheap and abundant sources of heat ? namely , fuel ? and so vast enterprises were organized to mine coal and drill for oil . With the development of heat ( thermal ) engines of all kinds , it soon became clear that whereas nature places no restrictions on changing work into heat , it imposes certain severe restrictions on the transformation of heat into work . Nature favors one direction over the other in the work ? heat exchange ; the work-*heat process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friction , which leads to a spontaneous transformation of work into heat , imposes a severe restriction on the fraction of a given amount of heat that an engine can transform into work . The moving parts of an engine rub against other parts , and the friction between such parts thus changes some of the mechanical energy of the moving parts ( for example , pistons ) , which would otherwise become work , into heat again . In principle , one can reduce friction to any desired degree ; in practice , there is a limit to how far this can be done . Friction in itself limits the efficiency of a heat engine . But even if mechanical friction were completely eliminated , the efficiency of a heat engine would always remain less than 1 ( 1 being complete or perfect efficiency ) because of the second law of thermodynamics , which we may dub the law of pessimism , since it places certain restraints on the amount of work that can be obtained from heat under the best circumstances . The first law is , in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account book must always balance , whether we change heat into work or work into heat ; it says nothing about whether nature prefers one of these processes to the other . The second law does , however , and it is the essence of the whole matter . To understand the second law fully , we must return to the swinging pendulum , but this time we place it inside our gas-filled cylinder , attached to the movable piston ; the bob of the pendulum now takes the place of the  | weights on the piston to keep the pressure in the gas constant . We now set the pendulum swinging ( that is , we do work on it and thus supply it with mechanical energy ) and observe the thermometer in the cylinder and the height of the piston . Both the temperature of the gas and the piston rise as the pendulum slows down , losing its energy , and finally stops . Clearly , all the pendulum 's mechanical energy now reappears in two forms , as work done on the piston ( shown as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal energy of the gas , as indicated by the higher temperature of the gas . It is not necessary for us , at this point , to know the nature of the internal energy of a gas , which the kinetic theory of gases will reveal later in this chapter , but simply to note that the initial potential energy of the bob of the pendulum exactly equals the sum of the increase in the potential energy of the piston and the increase in the internal energy of the gas . This simple pendulum experiment neatly illustrates the essential feature of the second law of thermodynamics : Energy flows spontaneously in only one direction ? from mechanical energy to heat and not from heat to work . To see this point more clearly , we note that energy flows spontaneously from the bob of the pendulum in the form of heat and raises the temperature of the gas , which then , as it expands , lifts the piston . But the work it does in lifting the pendulum is less than the energy it received in the form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the pendulum was changed into heat , only part of this heat was available to do work ( to lift the piston ) . Natural ( or spontaneous ) processes in nature are thus irreversible . We shall see why this is so when we discuss the kinetic theory . If we now slowly push the raised piston down to its original height , the temperature of the gas rises , showing that the work we are doing is changing to heat , but none of this heat makes the bob of the pendulum oscillate ; heat does not change itself into mechanical energy again . The second law arose in the last quarter of the 19th century from the recognition by scientists of irreversible processes in nature . Since this law is one of the most profound statements about nature and its behavior , we consider the nature of reversible and irreversible processes in some detail . Physicists define a reversible process in a system as a very minute change that occurs very slowly so that the system is always in equilibrium and , depending on external conditions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if the conditions that are changing the system slowly are removed , the system returns to its initial state . If the piston in our cylinder is pushed down very slowly by a small amount , the temperature and pressure of the  | gas thus increase by a very small amount . But if the push on the piston is slowly reduced to zero , the piston slowly returns to its initial height and the temperature and pressure return to their initial values . This is an example of a reversible process that is never realized in nature because natural processes do not proceed at infinitesimal rates . The following are examples of reversible processes : In a mixture of ice and water at 0 ? C and at 1 atmosphere of pressure , a slight increase in the pressure causes some of the ice to melt , which refreezes when the pressure drops to 1 atmosphere again . In a saturated salt solution at a given temperature , some of the salt precipitates when the temperature is reduced slightly , but it is then redissolved when the temperature returns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basically to irreversible processes , we now consider various examples of such processes in search of some common characteristic or property among them that may direct us to the second law . The simplest example is again found in the behavior of a perfect gas in a cylinder , but now with the gas confined to half the cylinder by a partition that separates it from the empty half . If we now remove the partition , the gas ' expands spontaneously to fill the entire cylinder . This is an irreversible process , since the gas will never recontract by itself to fill one half the cylinder and leave the other half empty . We can use a piston to recompress the gas into its initial half volume of the cylinder , but to do so we must expend energy ( do work ) . The diffusion of one gas into another is another irreversible process that we can actually observe if the two gases are colored . Thus , if a blue and a red gas are separated by a partition that is then removed , the two different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another important example is the spontaneous flow of heat from a hot body to a cold body when they are in contact ; the hot body grows cooler and the cold body warmer until they are both at the same temperature . The reverse process , a net flow of heat from a cold to a hot body , never occurs spontaneously , although we can reverse the process by applying energy , as is done in a refrigerator or an air conditioner . Other phenomena are associated with irreversible processes that are the earmarks of such processes . We thus discover that irreversible processes are associated with disorder . In other words , the total amount of disorder in the universe increases as irreversible processes proceed ; this tendency occurs at the expense of order , so that the total amount of order decreases . Further , the total amount of energy available for doing work decreases with each irreversible process ? or , to put it differently , irre-  | versible processes change available to unavailable energy , so that such processes result in a net increase in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of information about a system in which such processes occur . If irreversible processes are the rule and not the exception in the universe , the second law , as we shall see , tells us that the universe and all systems in it strive toward complete disorder , which , when it is achieved , will mean that the universe will be in a state of complete equilibrium so that all processes will cease . Complete equilibrium means death . Associated with all processes in the universe is the flow of time , which is always in the direction from the past to the future . We immediately recognize the relationship of the irreversibility of daily events or phenomena with the irreversibility of the flow of time . We can progress only from the past to the future because such a flow of time is defined by irreversible processes all around us , such as the progress of living beings from infancy to old age . A question that naturally arose and is still unanswered in this context is whether or not the unidirectional flow of time stems from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time and the second law are related at all . That disorder occurs spontaneously even under highly ordered conditions while orderly phenomena are occurring at the same time is obvious . The desk of even the most orderly person becomes disordered quickly during the course of a work day , and the highly ordered living being builds up its own order ( from the food , water , and oxygen it takes in ) while creating disorder ( for example , heat , waste products ) . The flow of heat also leads to disorder because as it flows it spreads out ( disperses ) and becomes a more disorganized form of energy . That information is lost during an irreversible process is best illustrated by a gas confined by a partition to half the volume of a container . We then know in which half of the container every molecule in the gas is located . After the partition has been removed and the gas has expanded to fill the entire container , we no longer know which half of the container any particular molecule is in at any given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much about the locations of the molecules as we did before . We thus see that the second law of thermodynamics , irreversibility , the flow of heat , disorder , loss of information , and the direction of the flow of time are related . But merely stating that such a relationship exists is not enough for the physicist ; he must have a precise formulation of the second law , in terms of measurable quantities , which enables him to evaluate the degree of irreversibility of disorder associated with any pro-  | caption cess . Such a law was formulated independently by Rudolf Clausius in Germany and Lord Kelvin in Great Britain . Rudolf Julius Emanuel Clausius ( 1822 ? 1888 ) was the son of a preacher who received his early education at a parochial school taught by his father . Rudolf studied at Stettin Gymnasium before entering the University of Berlin in 1840 , where , despite an initial attraction to history , he studied physics and mathematics . Clausius received his doctorate at Halle in 1847 . His appointment as professor at Zurich in 1855 was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory of heat and established the basis for the modern study of thermodynamics . This paper contained Clausius 's discovery that the ratio of the heat  | content of a system to its temperature always increases in any process in a closed system . In an ideal system operating at perfect efficiency , this ratio does not change . Clausius referred to this ratio as a measure of a system 's " entropy , " which he derived from the Greek . He defined entropy as a measure of the extent to which the energy in a system could be converted into work . The higher the entropy , the less energy available for doing work . Clausius argued that the entropy of a system irreversibly increases , which led to the speculation that since the universe is defined as the only completely closed system , its entropy continues to rise and the amount of energy available for conversion into work continues to fall until the entropy reaches a maximum state and thermal equilibrium ( equal temperature ) is reached everywhere . Physical changes of any sort are then impossible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clausius 's work was characterized by a strong grasp of fundamental facts , a detailed knowledge of relevant phenomena and real-world analogies , and sustained efforts to correlate the two with mathematics.4 He ventured into kinetic theory and revamped the prevailing billard-ball model to include rotary and vibratory as well as translational motion . In short , Clausius showed that collisions between molecules could transform one type of motion to another , thereby disproving the idea that all molecules move at constant equal velocities.5 Clausius 's kinetic model also provided the first mechanical argument for Avagadro 's theory that equal volumes of gases at equal temperatures and pressures have the same number of molecules because all gases are governed by the same relationship among temperature , pressure , and volume and all gas molecules have the same average translational energy at the same temperature.6 Despite his talents , Clausius was notoriously prone to ignore advances made by others , even in the area of thermodynamics . He seems never to have noticed Boltzmann 's work , nor did he search for a mechanical explanation for the tendency of entropy to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gibbs 's work on chemical equilibria . Yet he did devote a great effort to developing an electromagnetic theory based on the conservation of energy. ? Clausius joined the faculty at Wiirzburg in 1867 and then took his final professorial position at the University of Bonn , where he remained for the rest of his life . He organized a volunteer ambulance corps of students during the 1870 ? 1871 Franco-Prussian War and was himself wounded . He spent much of his remaining years engaged in bitter disputes with British scientists such as Peter Guthrie Tait over whether the German Mayer or the Briton Joule discovered the equivalence of work and heat .  | caption Perhaps the most distinguished representative of the British scientific community at that time was William Thomson ( 1824 ? 1907 ) , who was later knighted Lord Kelvin . Thomson was the son of an engineering professor who taught mathematics at the University of Glasgow . Thomson was so much the prodigious son at eight years of age that he attended and enjoyed his father 's lectures . Young Thomson matriculated at Glasgow in 1834 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He wrote his first paper in mathematics at the age of 15 ; it was read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh by an elderly professor , since it was thought a young schoolboy would detract from the dignity of the society 's proceedings . Thomson enrolled at Cambridge in 1841 and excelled in mathematics and the sciences and won several medals for single-shell sculling as well . Much of his time at Cambridge was spent preparing for the grueling House ? Senate examinations ; he was ultimately rewarded by a first-place finish , but Thomson found to his regret that his education was somewhat specialized and that his study of natural philosophy was totally derived from Newton 's Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy .  | After graduating in 1845 , Thomson journeyed to Paris to do postgraduate work in Regnault 's laboratory . While in France , Thomson became interested in Carnot 's theory of the motive power of heat and formulated a methodology that later was of invaluable assistance to Maxwell 's efforts to describe the electromagnetic field mathematically . Thomson also met prominent French mathematicians and scientists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laboratory techniques . When Thomson returned to Scotland in 1846 , he assumed the vacant post of professor of natural philosophy at Glasgow , where he remained for over 50 years . Soon after taking the post , he announced that his calculations of the age of the earth showed it to be about 100 million years based on his assumption that the earth was originally cast off from the sun and had been steadily cooling off since that time . Thomson 's conclusion provoked controversy with many geologists who thought that Thomson 's estimate was far too modest . With the discovery of radioactive disintegration , Thomson 's theory was shown to be erroneous because the earth was found to have an independent radioactive source that did not appear to be cooling off . However , Thomson 's theory did cause biologists to consider ways in which the time estimated to be necessary for the development of life might be reduced , and it ultimately led to De Vries 's theory of mutation and gave impetus to Darwin 's own theory of evolution . Thomson also performed an invaluable service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room from the university and set up the first teaching laboratory in Britain . Thomson 's interest in thermodynamics led him to use Carrot 's principles to formulate an absolute temperature scale based on natural law . Thomson 's absolute scale stemmed from the discovery by the French physicist Jacques Charles that gases lose 1/273rd of their volume at 0 ? C with each 1 ? C drop in temperature . Thomson proposed that it was not the volume but the energy of the molecules that reached zero at - 273 ? C. Indeed , Thomson found this to be so for all matter , prompting him to conclude that - 273 ? C should be considered absolute zero , the lowest possible temperature that can exist in the universe . Thomson then proposed a new temperature scale ( eventually to be named after him ) having a zero mark equal to - 273 ? C ; it was quickly adopted by physicists owing to its usefulness for studying thermodynamics and its precise designation of the amount of work obtainable from an engine operating between two different temperatures . Thomson also played a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's theory of the interconvertibility of heat and kinetic energy . Joule 's theory was revolutionary because it discarded the caloric theory of heat , proclaiming heat to be a form of motion and not a substance . Although Thomson had been reluctant to accept Joule 's theory when he first heard about it in 1874 , he saw how Joule 's argument meshed with his own views of the nature of energy . He eventually embraced Joule 's view in his " On the Dynamical Theory of Heat , " which outlined Thomson 's own version of the degradation of energy associated with the second law of thermodynamics . Thomson 's mathematical skills enabled him to explain , using a few basic equations , diverse phenomena ranging from thermodynamics and mechanics to magnetism and electricity . He tried to express all manifestations of energy in mathematical equations and was unsuccessful in the attempt , but his wide-ranging interests enabled him to play the major role in the synthesis of 19th-century theories about energy . Thomson believed that all energy forms are somehow interrelated ; this belief motivated him to search @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomson was also a kind of mentor for James Clerk Maxwell , whose unification of electricity and magnetism owed a great deal to Thomson 's own researches on the subject . Thomson 's work has practical as well as theoretical utility . An 1842 paper that had described the flow of heat through a solid wire was invaluable for solving the problems of transmitting current through a 3000-mile trans-Atlantic submarine cable . Thomson was eventually hired as chief consultant by the Atlantic Telegraph Company and at great risk to himself oversaw early attempts to lay such a cable . He invented several devices , including a telegraph receiver , that improved the efficiency of the cable so much that great amounts of time and money were saved . Thomson also joined two engineering firms that laid submarine cables . These activities made him rich enough to buy an oceangoing yacht and an estate at Largs , North Ayrshire , Scotland . Although he could afford to rest on his laurels , having been the recipient of hundreds of honorary degrees and awards , Thomson continued to patent a number of devices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sounding depths . Yet Thomson 's energetic mind , until the very end , did not accept or even seriously consider the possibility that his scientific worldview might be flawed ; he was thus unprepared for the developments toward the end of his life that led to the theories of relativity and quanta . However , like Newton before him  | and Einstein after him , Thomson unified much of contemporary physics ; unknowingly , he sowed some of the seeds that eventually undermined his own orderly conception of the universe . To understand how Clausius and Kelvin formulated the second law , we must study various examples of irreversible processes in detail to find some common property that expresses the essence of the law . Clausius based his formulation of the second law on the spontaneous irreversibility of the flow of heat from a hot body to a cold body and stated the second law as follows : A spontaneous process that has as its only final result the net transfer of heat from a body at a given temperature to one at a higher temperature is impossible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the transformation of heat into work : A spontaneous process that has as its only final result the transformation into work of a given amount of heat taken from a source ( an environment ) that is at the same temperature throughout is impossible . In short , no work can be done unless heat flows , which can occur only if temperature differences exist . It is easy to show that Clausius 's and Kelvin 's statement of the second law are equivalent , but neither of them points immediately to some physical quantity that can be measured and that changes in only one direction ( for example , a quantity that always increases ) when irreversible processes occur . Clausius finally discovered such a quantity , which he called the entropy of a system and which is now universally accepted as the physical entity in terms of which the second law is best and most easily expressed . Clausius also showed how the entropy of ( or rather its change during a process in ) a system is to be measured . The second law is now most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system can never decrease ; at most , it remains constant , which occurs when the system reaches thermodynamic equilibrium ( when its temperature is the same throughout ) . The second law thus indicates that change can ( and will ) go on in an isolated system ( a system that can not gain energy from or lose energy to the outside ) . Two conditions are thus imposed on a changing system by the two laws of thermodynamics : Its total energy can not change and its total entropy must increase . These two conditions are extremely important in chemical dynamics in determining whether a particular chemical reaction will occur or not under given conditions ( pressure and temperature ) . Two kinds of chemical reactions occur in nature naturally : exothermic reactions , which liberate heat , and endothermic reactions , which absorb heat . It is difficult to see in general why endothermic reactions occur at all , but the law of increasing entropy explains why . One other feature of the second law , that of increasing disorder , may ,  | at first sight , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because we know that spontaneous organization goes on continuously in the universe : Gaseous matter and dust organize spontaneously into stars and planets , stars organize themselves into galaxies , light nuclei in the very hot interiors of stars are organized into very complex heavy nuclei , atoms in cold interstellar space and on the warm planets organize themselves into complex molecules , and finally , here on the earth , complex molecules combine to form the most highly organized structures in the universe ? living cells . Creationists , misunderstanding the second law , argue that such highly organized structures are the result of an act of creation , incorrectly believing that the disorder property of the second law forbids the spontaneous formation ( evolution ) of higher forms of matter from simpler forms . That this belief is wrong and indicates a misunderstanding of the second law is clear from the following simple example : Consider a closed container with two kinds of atoms , A and B , moving about freely at a given temperature . Initially , before these atoms have a chance to interact with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in time other structures , the molecules AB , are formed . Hence , some of the atoms have organized themselves into molecules that are a higher form of order than the free atoms . Indeed , the entropy of the matter has decreased . Does this mean that the second law is violated ? No , because in determining or calculating the increase in the entropy of a changing system , all constituents of the system must be taken into account , and this was not done above . When molecules AB are formed from atoms A and B , energy must be released , and the entropy of the energy must be added to that of the matter . One then finds that the total entropy of the system after molecules are formed is always greater than that of the system when only atoms are present ; the entropy of the released energy more than compensates for the reduced entropy of the molecules . The total order is thus decreased ? disorganization increases . We have seen that processes that go on naturally ( spontaneously ) are irreversible and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can continue as long as the entropy for them can still increase ( has not reached a maximum ) , but we have not described how the change in the entropy of a system can be measured . Note that only the change in the system 's entropy is significant and not its magnitude . Here , we can give only a brief and elementary discussion of this point , and we follow Clausius 's analysis because he probably based his definition of the change of entropy on Carnot 's study of the efficiency of heat engines . Carnot had  | observed that no matter how much friction is reduced in a thermal engine , the efficiency is always less than 100% , and therefore reasoned that something in the very nature of the engine ( that is , in the way heat is changed into work ) limits its efficiency . With this observation , he had almost stumbled on the second law of thermodynamics and probably would have done so if the first law had been known at the time of his work . Nevertheless , Carnot is considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thermodynamics . To see how Carnot 's analysis of the heat engine led to the entropy concept , we return to our piston and cylinder of gas , which we again treat as a very simple heat engine and let it operate through a complete cycle from some initial state through a series of steps back to the initial state . In doing this , we point out that when a changing system returns to its initial state , all its characteristics ( pressure , volume , temperature , internal energy , and , of course , its entropy ) must return to their initial values . To get our engine to do work , we place weights on the pistons to keep the pressure in the gas constant and place the cylinder in contact with a hot plate ( for example , the top of a stove ) at a definite high temperature . As the heat from the plate flows into the gas in the cylinder , the gas expands , the piston rises , and the engine ( that is , the gas ) does work , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the hot plate , the temperature of which does not change ; the temperature of the gas is equal to that of the hot plate at all times . At this stage of our cycle , all the heat has been changed into work , and so it appears , without further analysis , that our simple engine is 100% efficient ? all the heat has been transformed into work , showing up as an increase of the potential energy of the weights , which can thus be lifted to any desired height . But such an engine is useless if we stop at this point in the cycle , since we can use it only once ; if we want to lift other weights ( use the engine again ) , we must bring the piston back to its initial position . Let us then go on with our cycle and remove the cylinder from the hot plate ; the gas , of course , being hot , will continue to expand , still doing work , but it will cool during this phase of its cycle . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down very slowly to bring it back to its original position , so that we can get it to transform some heat into work again . We are doing work while compressing the gas , of course , so that we are giving back some of the work obtained from the heat , but not all of it . The work we do shows up as heat , which we allow to escape from the cylinder so that the temperature of the gas remains constant while we do this work . Since we can not get the gas back to its original temperature and  | the piston back to its original position by doing this work , we continue compressing the gas , but now allowing no heat to escape until the piston is back in its original position and the temperature is at its original value ; the engine has now completed one cycle and is ready to do work again . In analyzing this cycle , Carnot saw that no matter how carefully he operated the engine and how much he reduced the friction between the piston and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engine ( piston and cylinder ) at 100% efficiency because it always had to give up some of the heat it had taken from the hot source . Thus , the work done by an engine can never equal the heat it absorbs in the first step of its cycle ; the work equals the difference between that and the heat it releases to the cold environment in the reverse stages of the cycle ( the second half of the cycle in the return of the engine ) . Clausius , starting from this point , carried the analysis further ; he saw that if no engine were present and the heat from the hot source flowed directly into the cold environment , the result would be quite different , since none of the heat would then be changed into work . In both cases , a certain amount of heat ( more in the second case than in the first ) flows from the heat source ( heat reservoir ) into the cold environment ( heat sink ) , but heat does useful work in the first case and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( and hence entropy increase ) produced by the heat transfer from reservoir to environment is smaller in the first case than in the second . Now , the only difference between the heat flow in the first and second cases is that in the former the heat entered the engine at a high temperature and a different amount of heat left the engine at a low temperature . Clearly , then , the heat flow and the temperature at which it occurs must determine the change in entropy , and Clausius defined the change in entropy of a system as the amount of heat it gains or loses divided by its absolute temperature while gaining or losing the heat ; a loss of heat leads to a decrease in entropy and a gain of heat to an increase in entropy . The reason that a gain or loss of heat is associated with entropy change is that heat , as we shall see in our discussion of kinetic theory , leads to random motion or disorder . THE KINETIC THEORY The kinetic theory ( often called the kinetic theory of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of thermodynamics , for it is obvious that if energy starting as heat is conserved and appears as internal energy when a gas is heated , this internal energy must be the energy of the  | constituents ( molecules ) of the gas . It was , however , extremely difficult for the kinetic theory advocates in those early years to get a fair hearing from their scientific communities , let alone an acceptance of their ideas ; even as late as the first decade of the 20th century , the chemist Ostwald and the physicist Mach rejected the atomic and molecular theory of matter . But kinetic theory concepts were in the minds of some of the greatest scientists and mathematicians of the late 17th and early 18th centuries . Thus , in his Opticks , Newton states : It seems probable to me , that God in the Beginning form 'd Matter in solid , massy , hard , impenetrable , moveable Particles , of such Sizes and Figures , and with such other Properties , and in such Proportion to Space , as most conduced to the End @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primitive Particles being Solids , are incomparably harder than any porous Bodies compounded of them ; even so very hard , as never to wear or break in pieces , no ordinary Power being able to divide what God himself made one in the first Creation . While the Particles continue entire , they may compose Bodies of one and the same Nature and Texture in all Ages : But should they wear away , or break into pieces , the Nature of Things depending on them , would be changed . Water and Earth , composed of old worn Particles and Fragments of Particles , would not be of the same Nature and Texture now , with Water and Earth composed of entire Particles in the Beginning.8 In this passage , Newton emphasizes the permanence and indestructibility of molecules ( the " particles " of matter ) . Later , in 1738 , the great Swiss mathematician and physicist Daniel Bournoulli published a paper on hydrodynamics in which the essential features of kinetic theory are clearly presented , as indicated in the following brief excerpt from that paper : 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them such a constitution as will be consistent with all their known properties , so we may approach the study of their other properties , which have not yet been sufficiently investigated . The particular properties of elastic fluids are as follows : 1 . They are heavy ; 2. they expand in all directions unless they are restrained ; and 3. they are continually more and more compressed when the force of compression increases . Air is a body of this sort , to which especially the present investigation pertains . 2 . Consider a cylindrical vessel set vertically , and a movable piston in it , on which is placed a weight P : let the cavity contain very minute corpuscles , which are driven hither and thither with a very rapid motion ; so that these corpuscles , when they strike against the piston and sustain it by their repeated impacts , form  | an elastic fluid which will expand of itself if the weight P is removed or diminished , which will be condensed if the weight is increased , and which gravitates towards the horizontal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers : for whether the corpuscles are at rest or are agitated they do not lose their weight , so that the bottom sustains not only the weight but the elasticity of the fluid . Such therefore is the fluid which we shall substitute for air . Its properties agree with those we already assumed for elastic fluids , and by them we shall explain other properties which have been found for air and shall point out others which have not yet been sufficiently considered . 3 . We consider the corpuscles which are contained in the cylindrical cavity as practically infinite in number , and when they occupy the space we assume that they constitute ordinary air , to which as a standard all our measurements are to be referred : and so the weight P holding the piston in the position does not differ from the pressure weight of the superincumbent atmosphere , which therefore we shall designate by P in what follows . ... 9 It is remarkable that Bernoulli 's ideas are so close to ours , but still more remarkable is the work of the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society in 1845 , a paper in which he deduced many of the well-known properties of gases and the basic relationships between the temperature and pressure of a gas and the motions of its molecules . He was the first to show that the temperature of a gas is determined by the square of the average speed of its molecules and that the gas pressure is proportional to the product of the number of its molecules in a cubic centimeter ( molecular density ) and this squared average molecular speed . Unfortunately , Waterston 's paper was not published , but was hidden away in the society 's archives , owing to the negative report of the two referees to whom the paper was referred . to One of them stated that " the paper is nonsense , unfit even for reading before the society " and the other , more open-minded , noted that the paper " exhibits much skill and many remarkable accordances with the general facts . . . . but the original principle is . . . by no means a satisfactory basis for a mathematical theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ molecular concept ( the kinetic theory ) was generally held at that time . Waterston 's paper was finally published in 1892 at the urging of the great British physicist Lord Rayleigh , who wrote an introduction to it . The big breakthrough in kinetic theory came in 1860 with the publication in Philosophical Magazine of James Clerk Maxwell 's paper , " Illustration of the Dynamical Theory of Gases , " with the subtitle , " On the Motion and Collisions of Perfectly Elastic Spheres . " Maxwell states the essence of the kinetic theory of gases in the first paragraph as follows :  | So many of the properties of matter , especially when in gaseous form , can be deduced from the hypothesis that their minute parts are in rapid motion , the velocity increasing with the temperature , that the precise nature of this motion becomes a subject of rational curiosity . Daniel Bernoulli , Herapath , Joule , KrOni , Clausius , &c.; have shown that the relations between pressure , temperature , and density in a perfect gas can be explained by supposing the particles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the sides of the containing vessel and thus producing pressure . It is not necessary to suppose each part to travel to any great distance in the same straight line ; for the effect in producing pressure will be the same if the particles strike against each other ; so that the straight line described may be very short . M. Clausius has determined the mean length of path in terms of the average distance between the centres of two particles when collision takes place . We have at present no means of ascertaining either of these distances ; but certain phenomena , such as the internal friction of gases , the conduction of heat through a gas , and the diffusion of one gas through another , seem to indicate the possibility of determining accurately the mean length of path which a particle describes between two successive collisions . In order to lay the foundation of such investigations on strict mathematical principles , I shall demonstrate the laws of motion of an indefinite number of small , hard , and perfectly elastic spheres acting on one another only during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies are found to correspond to those of gases , an important physical analogy will be established , which may lead to more accurate knowledge of the properties of matter . If experiments on gases are inconsistent with the hypothesis of these propositions , then our theory , though consistent with itself , is proved to be incapable of explaining the phenomena of gases . In either case it is necessary to follow out the consequences of the hypothesis . Instead of saying that the particles are hard , spherical , and elastic , we may if we please say that the particles are centres of force , of which the action is insensible except at a certain small distance , when it suddenly appears as a repulsive force of very great intensity . It is evident that either assumption will lead to the same results . For the sake of avoiding the repetition of a long phrase about these repulsive forces , I shall proceed upon the assumption of perfectly elastic spherical bodies . If we suppose those aggregate molecules which move together to have a bounding surface which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will store up a certain proportion of the whole vis viva , as has been shown by Clausius , and in this way we may account for the value of the specific heat being greater than on the more simple hypothesis ... . The whole idea behind the kinetic theory is to show that the gross ( macroscopic ) properties of a gas such as its internal energy , its pressure , and its temperature can be traced back to its microscopic properties , that is , to the random motions of its constituent particles ( molecules ) , which  | Maxwell assumed to be tiny , hard , elastic spheres moving randomly about and colliding with each other . By " elastic " is meant the property that if two such spheres collide , they bounce off each other without any loss of energy ; that is , no heat is generated during the collisions , so that there is no decrease in the total kinetic energy of the two molecules . It is clear that , in general , this must be so ( at least if the temperature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of their kinetic energy during each collision , all the molecules in the gas would quickly come to rest and drop to the ground , which , of course , is ridiculous . The kinetic theory easily accounts for the pressure of a gas in terms of the rate at which the gas molecules strike the walls of the gas container . Two things enter into this analysis : the number of molecular collisions against a unit area of a wall that occur per second and the effectiveness or average strength of a collision ; the greater the number of collisions on a given area of wall per second and the stronger each collision , the greater the pressure . The frequency of molecular collisions clearly depends on the density of molecules and the average molecular velocity , for the greater the number of molecules and the faster on the average a molecule is moving , the more numerous will be the collisions with the walls of the container . The strength of violence of a single collision depends on the product of the speed and the mass ( called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kinetic theory tells us that the pressure of a gas against the walls of its container depends on the product of the molecular density ( number of molecules per cubic centimeter ) , the molecular mass , and the square of the average speed of a molecule . This result , which stems from the microscopic description of matter ( in this case gases ) , ties in to the macroscopic ( thermodynamic ) picture in two ways . First , we note that thermodynamics leads to a relationship between the pressure and temperature of a gas ? the pressure is proportional to the temperature ? and kinetic theory gives us a relationship between pressure and the average kinetic energy of a molecule of the gas ( kinetic energy equals one half the product of the mass of a molecule and the square of its velocity ) . We thus deduce a relationship between the temperature of a gas and the average kinetic energy of a molecule of gas : The temperature is proportional to the average molecular kinetic energy . The kinetic theory leads to another important conclusion : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is transmitted to a gas , it is distributed equally ( on the average ) among all the molecules . This is called the " theorem , or law , of the equipartition of energy . " This does not mean that every molecule in the gas has the same kinetic energy ; the kinetic  | energy varies from molecule to molecule , but only by small amounts , and the kinetic energies on the whole lie close to an average value that was first calculated by Maxwell in the paper quoted above . This paper , which gives a formula for the distribution of molecular velocities in a gas , greatly strengthened the belief in molecules and the kinetic theory of gases , while demonstrating the power of the kinetic theory as an analytical tool in theoretical physics . In reducing the pressure , the temperature , the internal energy , the entropy , and other macroscopic properties of a gas to the dynamics of molecular motions , Maxwell and other proponents of kinetic theory showed that the gas laws are essentially consequences of Newton 's laws of motion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between certain observed properties of gases , such as their specific heats , and those calculated from the gas laws , the validity of Newton 's laws of motion must be questioned . As we shall see in Chapter 12 , Maxwell pointed to such a discrepancy , which was explained only with the advent of the quantum theory . STATISTICAL MECHANICS Four great names are associated with the development of statistical mechanics as an important branch of physics : James Clerk Maxwell , Josiah Willard Gibbs , Ludwig Boltzmann , and Albert Einstein . As the name implies , statistical mechanics is the application of statistical methods to the analysis of the properties , structure , and behavior of physical systems . It is based on the same concepts as kinetic theory and is thus closely related to kinetic theory ; indeed , one may consider Maxwell 's paper on the calculation of the average speed of the molecules in a gas and the distribution of molecular velocities as an important contribution to i kinetic theory or as the first step in the development of statistical mechanics . Maxwell 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the number of molecules with velocities in a given range , is in fact called the " Maxwell ? Boltzmann distribution " ? the basic formula in classical statistical mechanics as derived by Boltzmann from the purely statistical point of view some 30 years after Maxwell 's work . Ludwig Boltzmann ( 1844 ? 1906 ) was an Austrian physicist who utilized statistical mechanics to show how the second law of thermodynamics can be explained by applying the laws of mechanics and the theory of probability to the motions of atoms . This statistical interpretation of the  | second law shows that a condition of thermodynamic equilibrium is the most probable state of a system and led Boltzmann to derive the theorem of equipartition of energy , which shows that on average the energy of an atom moving in any direction is the same . Boltzmann was the son of a Vienna civil servant . He studied at Linz and Vienna before receiving his doctorate from the University of Vienna in 1866 . As a student , he had worked for the physicist Josef Stefan , who showed that the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 4th power of its absolute temperature ( so that if the absolute temperature is doubled , the radiation rate increases 16 times ) . Boltzmann derived the same principle from thermodynamics to complete what is now known as the Stefan ? Boltzmann law . 11 Although this law figured prominently in the development of the quantum theory , it was also used by the British astonomer Sir Arthur Eddington in the 1920s to calculate the equilibrium of stellar atmospheres . Boltzmann received successive appointments as professor of physics and mathematics at Vienna , Graz , and Munich . He was also one of the earliest continental scientists to recognize the importance of Maxwell 's theory of the electromagnetic field . He also developed Maxwell 's distribution function and eliminated the need to assume that all atoms move around at about the same velocity and are equally spaced . Instead of trying to give the coordinates of any one atom , the distribution function gives the probability of finding an atom in a given range of velocity and position . His analysis of Maxwell 's function shows that a fixed total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the molecules that constitute the system.12 Boltzmann 's researches in probability and statistical mechanics led him to formulate his H-theorem , which highlighted the apparent contradiction between the reversibility of collisions by individual atoms and the irreversibility predicted by the theorem for a system of many molecules . 13 Boltzmann argued that while there might be random increases in the order ( or a reversal in the entropy ) of a few collisions , the majority of possible collisions would tend toward greater disorder . The recurrence of a system 's initial state was statistically guaranteed only if one waited for an unimaginably long period of time.14 For example , if the molecules in a perfume bottle were allowed to fill a room , an estimated 1060 years would pass before enough collisions occurred to return all the molecules back to the bottle . On the cosmic scale , Boltzmann suggested that there could be local decreases in entropy even while the universe itself moved inexorably toward an entropic maximum.14  | Despite Boltzmann 's invaluable contribution to atomic theory , his work was attacked by " energeticists " such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fictions but not as physically extant objects , and Georg Helm , who denied both their existence and their utility . The energeticists assumed that all matter is actually made of energy and viewed the law of the conservation of energy as the supreme tenet of nature . The dispute was intensified by the rise in Vienna of the logical positivism school , which sought to eliminate from science all phenomena that can not be directly detected by the senses . Unfortunately , Boltzmann 's brilliant career was cut short when he committed suicide during a period of severe mental depression just before his ideas received general acceptance by physicists . Like all statistical methods , statistical mechanics derives its validity from the large number of individual components in any system it deals with ? the larger the number , the smaller the percentage error inherent in such methods . In fact , this percentage error diminishes as the square root of the number of individuals in a system . Thus , in a system consisting of one million individuals ( for example , the population in a medium-size city ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order of one tenth of one percent . Since the number of molecules even in a very good vacuum is many thousands of trillions per cubic centimeter , the results obtained from statistical mechanics are very reliable . The philosophy and motivation behind statistical mechanics is that the gross or macroscopic properties of a system consisting of many individual microscopic members should be deducible from the distribution of the individual members among the various possible energy states of the system . The great contribution of Gibbs ( who applied it to the chemical dynamics and equilibrium of interacting atoms and molecules ) to this discipline and type of analysis was to define the state of a system precisely in terms of the distribution of the system ( molecules and atoms ) among the various possible states of energy . Josiah Willard Gibbs ( 1839 ? 1903 ) was perhaps the greatest American scientist of the 19th century . He was born in New Haven , Connecticut , the only son of a professor of literature at Yale . He received his early education at a local grammar school , then entered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college years , he pursued postgraduate research in engineering . His dissertation was eminently practical , dealing with the design of gearing . Gibbs received his doctorate in engineering in 1863 , the first in that discipline to be awarded in the United States . He began his academic career as a tutor and then used a modest  | caption inheritance to finance three years of study of mathematics and physics in Europe . While overseas , he became interested in the principles governing the Watt steam engine , which led him to thermodynamics and the search for a method to calculate the thermal equilibria of chemical processes . He was appointed professor of mathematical physics at Yale in 1871 , but received no salary for nine years until a lucrative offer by Johns Hopkins prompted Yale to begin paying Gibbs a stipend . Aside from his summer holidays in New England and occasional scientific conferences , Gibbs rarely left New Haven . He spent his entire life in the house he was born in , sharing it and the household chores with two of his sisters . Gibbs 's scientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his style made it difficult for many of his colleagues to understand his papers . Yet his writing style was both methodical and self-  | assured . In his very first published paper , he assumed that entropy is as necessary a concept as temperature , pressure , volume , or energy for dealing with thermodynamic systems , even though there was still great confusion among many European physicists as to its physical significance and the meaning of the word entropy.15 Gibbs 's great contribution was to apply the thermodynamic principles developed by Carrot , Joule , Clausius , and Kelvin in a rigorously mathematical manner to chemical reactions . His major work , " On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances , " extended the principles of thermodynamics to chemical , elastic , electromagnetic , and electrochemical systems . Although his brilliance was recognized by both Maxwell and Boltzmann , his work went largely unnoticed , in part because it was all published in an obscure Connecticut science journal . Only after Wilhelm Ostwald had translated some of Gibbs 's papers into German did Gibbs become widely known in Europe and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work in its simplest form , we consider a gas consisting of individual noninteracting atoms ( a so-called " monatomic molecular gas " ? that is , each molecule of the gas contains only one atom as against polyatomic molecules like CO2 ) and introduce the concept of the degree of freedom of a single molecule . We also assume here that the molecules ( atoms ) have no internal structure or , more accurately , that the internal structure plays no role in the dynamics or gross properties of the gas . This is equivalent to the assumption that a molecule is a rigid , perfectly elastic sphere . With this understood , we now define the concept of the degrees of freedom of a single molecule , which is associated with the number of independent motions to which energy can be assigned . In this simple case , we see that each molecule has just three degrees of freedom because it can move along any one of the three independent ( mutually perpendicular ) dimensions of space with a certain amount of kinetic energy in each case . Notice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two or more atoms , for such molecules can have , in addition to kinetic energy of translation , rotational and vibrational energies and hence more than three degrees of freedom . Briefly , then , the number of degrees of freedom of a molecule is the number of its energy modes . Consider a system such as a gas consisting of a large number , N , of such molecules . We may say that such an ensemble , as the system is called , has 3N degrees of freedom . If the system is in equilibrium , its temperature and its total internal  | energy remain constant regardless of what happens . Statistical mechanics tries to answer the following question : What is the probability for any particular state of the system to occur , which , of course , depends on the number of ways that a particular state can be realized by interchanging the molecules in every possible way . To be precise , suppose that we divide all the molecules into different energy groups , placing all the molecules that have very nearly the same energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representing each energy group by a box that is numbered according to the energy group it represents . Thus , we may number the boxes by the integers 1 , 2 , 3 ... etc. , to indicate that box 1 has all the molecules with very nearly 1 unit of energy ( whatever the unit may be ) , box 2 all those with very nearly 2 units of energy , and so on . Here , we must be careful to note that the boxes are not to be pictured as physical containers with definite walls , each occupying its own physical space ( volume ) ; this can not be , because different molecules with the same energy , and therefore assigned to the same energy box , will in general be in different spatial parts of the actual volume occupied by the gas . Thus , each energy box must be divided into the same number of tiny subboxes , each of which is at a different distance from some reference point such as the center of the cylinder containing the gas . The total number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the number of energy boxes and the number of spatial subboxes in each energy box . Notice that the spatial volume encompassed by each energy box exactly equals the total volume occupied by the gas . This procedure of dividing an ensemble of particles into subgroups consisting of particles that lie in a given small region of actual space and have very nearly the same energy is the basis of all statistical mechanics ; it has been applied with incredible success , for example , to molecular and atomic ensembles ( for example , gases , crystals , liquids ) , photon ensembles ( radiation ) , electron ensembles ( atoms , white dwarf stars ) , and stellar systems ( globular clusters , galaxies ) . Mathematical physicists have refined the preceding description of assigning the individual members of an ensemble to particular subboxes of momentum and space by combining the space concept with the momentum concept and thus going from three to six dimensions . This is based on the following idea : Since space is three-dimensional , three numbers are required to locate ( specify the position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment . But such a molecule can be moving at a given speed along any one of the three independent directions of space , and so three other numbers are needed to specify its  | motion ( or its momentum ) . Thus , six numbers are needed to specify the state of a molecule completely , and that is why this extended space , called by Gibbs the " phase space " of the gas , is said to be six-dimensional . Introducing all the tiny subboxes described above is thus equivalent to dividing the six-dimensional phase space into tiny cells , each of which represents a certain amount of momentum and a small region of space . Statistical mechanics is based on the idea ( now fully confirmed experimentally ) that every macroscopic state of a system ( for example , our gas ) is the result of one or more microscopic states , that is , of some particular distribution of the particles ( molecules ) in the system among the available cells ( subboxes ) of the phase space . The macroscopic state that then actually exists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume , temperature ) is the one that corresponds to the largest number of possible microscopic states ( distributions of particles among the cells ) . The actual procedure for determining the maximum number of microscopic states that define a particular macroscopic state is quite simple ( consider our subboxes again and picture distributing all the molecules of our gas among them in any arbitrary way we may wish , keeping in mind one very important restriction : The total energy ( the sum of the energies of all the molecules of any distribution must be the same as that of any other ) . Now the only thing that counts in the correlation of microscopic states ( partitions of all the molecules among the phase space cells ) and macroscopic states is the number of molecules in each cell , and not which particular molecule lies in any particular cell . It is clear , then , that we can get many different microscopic states to correspond to the same macroscopic state by rearranging the molecules among the various cells without altering the number in any cell . The problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partitions of the molecules among the various cells ( subboxes ) , which one can be achieved most often by shuffling the molecules among the cells without altering the numbers of molecules in the cells ? The calculus can be used to find this maximum or optimum distribution , with the built-in constraints that the sum of all the individual molecule numbers in the separate cells must always equal the total number of molecules in the gas and the sum of all the energies of these molecules must always equal the total energy of the gas . The formula that gives this distribution ( also called the " partition function " in the language of statistical mechanics ) is one of the most important theoretical discoveries ever made in physics . It was first deduced in the manner outlined above by Boltzmann and is equivalent in a limited sense to Maxwell 's formula for the distribution of molecular ve-  | locities in a gas . Gibbs introduced this distribution function in his treatment of chemical dynamics before Boltzmann 's work . The importance of the distribution ( or partition ) function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ macroscopic observable properties such as the internal energy , the pressure , the entropy , and others , of a system consisting of many particles .  | Origin of the Quantum Theory Earthly minds , like mud walls , resist the strongest batteries ; and though , perhaps , sometimes the force of a clear argument may make some impression , yet they nevertheless stand firm , keep out the enemy , truth , that would captivate or disturb them . - JOHN LOCKE The story of the quantum theory begins with Max Planck , whose pioneering studies of the nature of radiation marked the end of what James Jeans called the " mechanical age of science " and ushered in a new era of discoveries that shook the very foundations of classical physics . According to the Danish physicist Niels Bohr , Planck 's quantum theory " brought about a radical revolution in the scientific interpretation of natural phenomena because the picture of the universe formed on the lines of quantum physics must be looked upon as a generalization that is independent of classical physics , with which it compares favorably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its logic . " ' Werner Heisenberg , the discoverer of the uncertainty principle , was equally lavish in his praise of Planck 's work : " At the time he Planck could scarcely have foreseen that within a span of less then thirty years this theory , which flatly contradicted the principles of physics hitherto known , would have developed into a doctrine of atomic structure which , for its scientific comprehensiveness and mathematical simplicity , is not a whit inferior to the classical scheme of theoretical physics . " 2 Finally , Albert Einstein wrote that Planck 's work " has given one of the most powerful of all impulses to the progress of science , " an impulse that Einstein believed would be effective " as long as physical science lasts . " 3 Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck was born in Kiel , Germany , in 1858 . His father was a professor of constitutional law at the university there who  | caption was best known for his co-authorship of the Prussian Civil Code . Young Planck was said to have inherited some of his father 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounts of evidence and distinguish relevant and irrelevant facts.4 Doubtless Max Planck 's belief that physical science was an integral part of human knowledge that would ultimately shape the destiny of mankind was prompted by his family associations . Planck attended the Maximilan Gymnasium in Munich , where his interest in science was first kindled by his mathematics teacher , Hermann Muller , who was , according to Planck , a " master at the art of making his pupils visualize and understand the meaning of the laws of physics . " 5 Muller used the image of a bricklayer lifting with great effort a heavy block of stone to show that the energy used to lift the stone is not lost but stored up until the stone is dislodged and falls back to earth . This principle of conservation of energy astounded Planck because it was the first phys-  | ical law he learned that possessed " absolute , universal validity . " 5 From that day , Planck considered the search for absolute or fundamental laws of nature to be the noblest task any scientist could undertake . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Munich and Berlin , where he studied experimental physics and mathematics . Only after Planck went to Berlin was he able to attend the classes of world-renowned physicists such as Hermann von Helmholtz and Gustav Kirchhoff , who , Planck said , was responsible for his initial interest in thermodynamics . If Planck was awed by the reputations of his renowned professors , he soon overcame his wonderment . Planck later confessed in his Scientific Autobiography that " the lectures of these men netted me no perceptible gain . " 6 Helmholtz , in Planck 's opinion , never prepared his lectures properly and gave the impression that " the class bored him as much as he did the class . " 6 Kirchhoff , by contrast , was remembered by Planck as one who delivered carefully prepared lectures that " sounded like a memorized text , dry and monotonous . " 7 Owing to the less than ideal academic environment at Berlin , Planck studied the subjects he was interested in on his own . His scientific career was to be forever charted the day he stumbled across the thermodynamic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlightening clarity of reasoning made an important impression " 7 on Planck and helped to regenerate what had been his flagging enthusiasm for science . The study of the second law of thermodynamics was the subject of Planck 's doctoral dissertation at Munich , which he presented in 1879 . Although Planck 's work had little effect on his professors ( he suspected Helmholtz did not even bother to read it ) , he continued his studies of entropy , driven by the belief that it was exceeded in importance only by energy as a property of physical systems . Planck became a university lecturer at Munich , where he formulated several useful theorems in studies on gas mixtures . Unfortunately for Planck , he found that these very same theorems had previously been announced by the American physicist Josiah Gibbs , so that he received no recognition for his efforts.8 Planck accepted an appointment as associate professor in theoretical physics at the University of Kiel in 1885 . Despite the scarcity of academic positions in theoretical physics at that time , Planck felt especially fortunate because the appointment enabled him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Kiel , Planck finished a paper entitled " The Nature of Energy " that was ultimately awarded second prize in 1887 by the Philosophical Faculty at Gottingen . Planck then wrote a series of  | monographs dealing with principles of entropy , especially as they relate to the laws of chemical reactions . He went to the University of Berlin in 1889 to take the place of his old professor Kirchhoff , who had recently passed away . Planck not only developed enduring friendships with the physicists there , including Helmholtz , but also began extensive correspondences with physicists such as Wilhelm Ostwald about Ostwald 's controversial ( and , in Planck 's opinion , untenable ) division of energy into three types corresponding to the three spatial dimensions . He also became embroiled in the controversy over the accuracy of the analogy most physicists at that time drew between the passage of heat from higher to lower temperatures and the falling of a stone from a higher to a lower height . Planck criticized the so-called " energetics " who supported this view : This theory does not take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as fall , and that a pendulum has reached its greatest velocity at the moment when it has attained its lowest position and therefore , by virtue of its inertia , passes the position of equilibrium and moves to the other side . A transference of heat from a warmer body to a colder body , on the contrary , diminishes with the diminution of the difference in temperature , while , of course , there is no such thing as any passing beyond the state of temperature equilibrium by reason of some kind of inertia . ' 0 Planck was greatly frustrated by the unfavorable response of his colleagues to his criticisms of the analogy , but he admitted that " it was simply impossible to be heard against the authority of men like Ostwald , Helm and Mach . " I I Although his suspicion of the incompatability of the analogy would eventually be proved to be right , he did not have the satisfaction of seeing himself vindicated , because his view was ultimately accepted only because it was incorporated into the atomic theory later proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ongoing battle with Ostwald , but Boltzmann evidently did not appreciate Planck 's support , " for Boltzmann knew very well that my viewpoint was basically different from his . " 12 Planck did not think much of the atomic theory that had formed the basis for Boltzmann 's research , because at the time Planck regarded " the principle of the increase in entropy as no less immutably valid than the principle of conservation of energy itself , whereas Boltzmann treated the former merely as a law of probabilities ? in other words , as a principle that could admit of exceptions . " 12 Boltzmann 's eventual triumph and the general acceptance of the differences between the conduction of heat and a purely mechanical process caused Planck to note wryly that " a new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing its  | opponents and making them see the light , but rather because its opponents eventually die , and a new generation grows up that is familiar with it . " 13 Planck 's interest in radiation was prompted by the realization that classical physics was increasingly unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Planck 's work was to be carried on not in optics , but in thermodynamics , and arose from measurements of radiation in the emission spectrum of black bodies . Despite the many honors that followed Planck 's introduction of his quantum theory , including the 1919 Nobel Prize for Physics , his secure position in the scientific world did not protect him from the tragedies of his personal life and the ravages of two world wars . Both of his daughters died soon after getting married . His eldest son , Karl , perished in the battle of Verdun in 1916 , while his second son , Erwin , was murdered in January 1945 during the rule of terror . His house was destroyed in an air raid , and Planck himself was once buried in the rubble of an air raid shelter for several hours . In May 1945 , the advancing American forces took him from his estate on Rogatz on the Elbe , which was then a war zone , to Gottingen.14 His own death came at the age of 89 in 1947 . Planck maintained a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children . The painful memories seemed " to invoke a certain wistful quality which is profound in his nature and gives it the warmer glow that one is inclined to call mystic . " 15 But Planck dealt with his pain by his wholehearted devotion to his work , though he remained " a perfectly practical man of the world and an up-to-date gentleman in manner and dress and also a sportsman , who climbed the Jungfrau to celebrate his seventy-second birthday . " 16 Like Einstein , he was an accomplished musician who preferred Beethoven . Certainly his scientific efforts reflected the imagination of an artist , for Planck 's search for the hidden harmonies in nature enabled him singlehandedly to bridge the chasm between the classical world of Newtonian mechanics and the modern world of quantum physics and relativity theory . We now turn to the story of Planck 's great discovery . On October 19 , 1900 , Max Planck , then a 42-year-old German theoretical physicist , submitted to the Berliner Physikalische Gesellschaft a new radiation formula that was to revolutionize science . Planck 's proposal was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classical physics and the beginning of a new epoch in man 's thinking and view of the laws of nature . Though some years were to elapse before scientists accepted Planck 's quantum concept as anything more than a " working hypothesis " that would ultimately be eliminated in a proper theory , Planck was well  | aware of the importance of his discovery : On a walk with his son Erwin , that same day , he stated : " Today I have made a discovery as important as that of Newton . " Two months later , at a meeting of the German Physical Society , Planck expanded on this discovery by stating that it means the " quantization of action " and that , therefore , all action is an integral multiple of the " elementary quantum of action , " which , denoted ash by Planck ( the famous Planck constant ) , takes its place with the gravitational constant G , the speed of light c , the Boltzmann constant k , and the unit electric charge q in nature 's great hall of constants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature , Planck 's constant , like the speed of light c , must enter all the laws of nature ; any " law " that does not take account of h is therefore incomplete . As a result , Newton 's second law of motion , which relates the rate of change in the state of motion of a body to the forces acting on the body , is not correct because it does not contain h . As we shall see , the completion of Newton 's laws of motion to conform to the quantization of action led to what is now called the quantum mechanics . Since the quantum theory represents an enormous conceptual departure from classical theory , one must wonder how such a revolutionary concept as quantization , which leads to a basically discontinuous description of phenomena , emerged from continuous classical theories . The wonderment must be all the greater if one contemplates the state of physics when Planck was driven , much against his will and better judgment , to propose the existence of the quantum of action as an explanation of the strange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be in an impregnable position at the peak of its achievements . On one hand , the Newtonian laws of motion and law of gravity gave a wonderfully precise , and what appeared to be complete , description of planetary motion and of moving bodies on the surface of the earth ; even the rise and fall of the tides were explained . On the other hand , Maxwell 's brilliant electromagnetic theory of light , as delineated in his famous equations of the electromagnetic field , did for radiation , in general , what Newton had done for the motions of material bodies . This dualism was extended to a remarkable trinity with the discovery of the laws of thermodynamics : the conservation of energy and the law of entropy . It seemed in the last decade of the 19th century , when Planck was being led , step by step , to the quantum theory , that physics was a complete discipline that had no gap to be filled by a new theory ? particularly a theory of discontinuity . But a close examination of the facts by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beautiful  | theoretical edifice that Newton , Maxwell , and their followers had constructed : Two sets of phenomena could not be explained . The first set consisted of the negative results of the Michelson ? Morley experiment ( that is , their inability to detect the motion of the earth by observing light beams moving in different directions ) and the non-Newtonian advance of the perihelion of Mercury . Both puzzles were ultimately to be explained by the special and general theories of relativity , which we discuss in Chapter 15 . The second set consisted of the discrepancy between the observed and calculated values of the specific heats of gases , the properties of the radiation emitted from a small aperture in the wall of a furnace ( black-body or thermal radiation ) , and the discrete bright lines in the spectra of atoms . These were to be explained by the quantum theory . In 1858 , Maxwell had already shown that his kinetic theory of gases leads to a serious discrepancy between the calculated values of the specific heats of gases and the observed ( measured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maxwell , treats a gas as an ensemble of randomly moving , submicroscopic particles ( molecules ) , which are governed by Newton 's laws of motion . Using this kinetic model , Maxwell showed that the absolute temperature of a gas is determined by ( actually is proportional to ) the average kinetic energy of a molecule in the gas . The total energy content of the gas is then given by this average kinetic energy multiplied by the number of molecules in the gas . If , then , certain of the observed properties of a gas do not agree with those calculated from the kinetic theory , Newton 's laws of motion are suspect . This is precisely the situation for the specific heats of gases . The specific heat of a substance is defined as the amount of heat required to increase the temperature of 1 gram of the substance by 1 ? C ( exactly 1 calorie for water ) . From the kinetic theory , we see that to increase the temperature , the average kinetic energy of a molecule must be increased . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given amount should be the same for all temperatures according to the kinetic theory . But this conclusion is contrary to the observations , which show that the specific heat of a gas decreases as the gas gets colder . Maxwell pointed to this result as a serious flaw in the theory , stating , " I consider this to be the greatest difficulty yet encountered by the molecular theory . " The validity of Newton 's law of motion was thus questioned more than a century ago , since the kinetic theory , from which this contradiction stems , is a direct consequence of the laws of motion . Another difficulty confronting classical physics near the end of the 19th century was revealed in the investigation of the properties of radia-  | tion emitted by hot bodies . The spectroscope , which separates radiation into its constituent wavelengths ( frequencies or colors ) , had already been used extensively to study the radiation flowing from hot solid bodies and from stars . It was known that the spectrum ( the spread of colors or wavelengths produced by the spectroscope ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) consists of a discrete set of sharp , bright-colored lines ( a different set for each kind of gas ) . The spectrum of the light from an incandescent solid ( for example , the hot filament of an electric bulb ) is a continuum of colors from the red to the violet . A number of questions arose concerning these two types of spectra . Physicists tried to deduce the answers to these questions from the basic physical laws known at that time . Since the nature of the radiation from hot solid bodies or glowing gases seemed to depend not only on the nature of the body ( gas or solid ) but also on the temperature of the body , and since radiation , according to Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory , is an electromagnetic phenomenon , physicists were convinced that a proper application of the laws of electricity and magnetism and the laws of thermodynamics to hot bodies and glowing gases would yield the answers to the questions presented by the observations . Two kinds of questions arose : ( 1 ) Since gross matter is electrically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absorb electromagnetic radiation ? ( 2 ) Why is the radiation emitted by a glowing gas so vastly different from that emitted by a hot body , and what is the relationship between the properties of hot-body radiation and the temperature of the body ? During this historical period , there was little hope of answering questions of the first kind , since very little , beyond what Faraday had discovered in his studies of electrochemistry and electromagnetism , was known about the electrical constitutents of matter . The great Dutch theoretical physicist Hendrik Antoon Lorentz had begun to develop an " electron theory of matter , " but the structure of the atom was still a deep mystery , so that painting a detailed picture of the emission and absorption of radiation by atoms was out of the question . But finding general relationships between the thermal properties of a body and the radiation it emits or absorbs seemed an achievable goal , and Planck took that direction . Before Planck began his pioneering research that led to the quantum theory , Gustav Robert Kirchhoff , his teacher , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rate at which 1 square centimeter of the surface of a body at a given temperature emits radiation to the rate at which it absorbs it . In his investigations , Kirchhoff  | drew a sharp distinction between surfaces that reflect radiation readily and those surfaces that absorb radiation . It is clear that these two properties are mutually exclusive ; if a surface absorbs a large fraction of the radiation striking it , it can reflect only the small fraction it does not absorb , and vice versa . The two extreme cases are a perfect reflector that reflects all wavelengths that strike it and therefore absorbs none and a perfect absorber that absorbs all wavelengths . The perfect reflector is called a " white body " and the perfect absorber a " black body , " the latter of which played a very important role in the history of the quantum theory . Of course , there are no perfect reflectors or perfect absorbers , since all surfaces both absorb and reflect radiation to some extent . To explain fully the nature of Kirchhoff 's law , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( the emissivity of a surface ) . Just as all bodies reflect and absorb radiation , they also emit radiation at a certain rate . In short , they radiate . Here , we must be careful not to confuse emission with reflection , which is a process in which the radiation bounces off the surface without being changed in any way ( red light remains red and blue light remains blue ) . Thus , a perfect reflector can not emit any radiation . An absorbing surface , however , is also an emitter of radiation , but the radiation it emits is quite different from the radiation it absorbs . To make the distinction between reflection and emission quite clear , we consider a particular wavelength of light ( for example , a red beam ) striking a perfectly reflecting surface and the same kind of ray striking a perfect absorber . In the first case , the light is reflected and is exactly the same after leaving the surface as it was before incidence , so that none of the energy is transferred to the surface ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rate at which it emits energy is not affected by the incident radiation . Note that the rate at which the perfect reflector reflects radiation exactly equals the rate at which it receives the radiation . The history of the same radiation striking a perfectly absorbing surface ( that is , a " black body " ) is quite different , however , as is that of the surface itself . First , the radiation itself completely disappears , becoming , in a sense , part of the surface , the temperature of which then increases ( conservation of energy or the first law of thermodynamics ) . This temperature increase then causes the surface to emit , or radiate , energy faster than it did before the same beam of red light struck it . In fact , it must emit , in a unit time , exactly the same amount of energy ( radiation ) that it absorbed in that time . But this emitted radiation is quite different from the incident radiation : It is a mixture of a continuum of wavelengths with a total energy equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wave-  | length of only a small fraction of the total emitted radiation equals that of the incident red light . In other words , an absorbing surface spreads incident radiation into a continuous spectrum . The following question immediately arose in connection with the emission and absorption of radiation by any surface : What is the relationship between the quantity ( intensity or brightness ) of radiation at a given wavelength ( of a given color ) that 1 square centimeter of a surface at a given temperature emits per second and , the quantity of radiation of the same wavelength the square centimeter of surface absorbs per second ? In 1860 , the German physicist Kirchhoff deduced the answer from the laws of thermodynamics : The rate of emission of radiation of a given wavelength from a unit area of any surface at a definite temperature divided by the rate of absorption of the same wavelength by the same unit area at the same temperature is a universal quantity ( the same for all surfaces ) that depends only on the wavelength of the radiation and the temperature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not depend on the nature of the surface at all . Since the absorption rate of all wavelengths for a black body is unity , this universal quantity is just the emission rate of radiation of the given wavelength for a black body ! The whole question as to the rate of emission and absorption of radiation of a given wavelength by 1 square centimeter of any kind of surface was thus reduced to the question as to the nature of the radiation emitted by a black body at a given temperature . The task that Planck undertook was to deduce from the basic laws of physics known at the time ( the laws of thermodynamics and electromagnetism ) the mathematical formula that correctly gives the intensity of each color ( wavelength ) in the total radiation emitted each second by 1 square centimeter of a black body at a given temperature . Although careful experiments had made it possible to obtain experimental data , something analogous to a perfect black body was necessary . Since no perfectly black object was known , an artifact had to be found that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The solution to this problem was simple : A tiny hole in an opaque wall surrounding a cavity behaves exactly like a black body . Any radiation that enters the hole has little chance of getting out ; it is reflected back and forth within the cavity until it is completely absorbed . This phenomenon is illustrated by the appearance of the human eye . The pupil of the eye is essentially a tiny opening in the head that appears pitch black . If a tiny hole of the sort described above then absorbs all the radiation that strikes it ( that is , it absorbs like a black body ) , it must radiate like a black body . Imagine a container with opaque walls ( such as a furnace ) that are at a  | definite temperature so that they radiate energy into the container . If the temperature of the walls is kept constant , the total radiant energy in the container remains constant and in equlibrium with the walls ; that is , the rate at which the walls reabsorb the radiation in the container exactly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the container . We may then say that the temperature of the radiation in the container equals the temperature of the walls . It is customary to speak of this cavity radiation as " thermal radiation . " If we now punch a tiny hole in a wall of the container , the radiation streaming out of it is " black-body " radiation , the temperature of which is that of the inner surfaces of the walls of the container . A number of questions concerning this radiation immediately confronted both experimentalists and theoreticians : ( 1 ) How much radiation of all kinds ( of all wavelengths combined ) is emitted per second from a 1-cm2 hole in the wall of a furnace at a given temperature ? ( 2 ) How is the wavelength of the most intense color ( the wavelength in which more of the radiation is concentrated than in any other wavelength ) related to the temperature of the furnace ? ( 3 ) How does the intensity of the radiation of any wavelength depend on the wavelength and on the temperature of the furnace ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a given wavelength , the given wavelength , and the temperature tied together by a simple algebraic formula ) ? The experimentalists answered these questions easily , for they simply collected on a radiometer all the radiation ( all the wavelengths combined ) emitted per second from the 1-cm2 hole to answer the first question empirically . They used a spectroscope to spread the radiation into its individual wavelengths ( a continuous spectrum ) and measured the individual intensities to answer the other two questions . These experimental results were a guide to the theoreticians , giving them three distinct tests against which their theoretical models or deductions were to be measured . At that time , of course , the theoretical physicists had only the classical laws of motion ( Newtonian mechanics ) , the two laws of thermodynamics , and Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory of radiation to guide them in their search for an overall law of black-body radiation that contains the answer to all these questions . This search , however , was fruitless , although the correct formula that gives the total energy ( radiation ) emitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was obtained from thermodynamics . But this is as much as the classical physics could yield . A whole new concept and a new basic principle were needed . Planck supplied them with his quantum theory . We shall see in the following chapter just how  | he did that , but we first consider some important and essential preliminary ideas . We noted previously that Planck introduced the concept of the quantum of action , which is basic to all the developments in quantum theory that followed . It is important to understand what action means in physics and how it was brought into physics as well as its origin . To answer this question , we must go back to the 18th-century French astronomer and mathematician Pierre Louis Moreau de Maupertuis , who first introduced the principle of least action as a " rule of economy " to which all actions of nature must conform . To understand this principle , we must define the Maupertuis concept of action . We have already treated this concept in some detail in Chapter 8 in relation to Hamilton 's contributions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Planck 's work . Consider a particle of a given mass moving along a tiny stretch of its path at a given speed ; the product of the particle 's mass and speed and the length of the tiny piece of its path is called the " Maupertuis action " of the particle in that stretch . The Maupertuis principle of least action states that if all these little pieces of action along the entire path of the particle are added , the sum must be smaller along the particle 's true path than along any other conceivable curve ( path ) connecting the starting point and the end point of the particle 's motion . Having defined the concept of action , we must now show how and why it played such an important role in Planck 's pioneering work and why he quantized it to obtain the correct black-body radiation formula . Since we discuss these points in detail in the following chapter , we limit our discussion here to a brief survey to show Planck 's motivation . He applied the laws of thermodynamics to the analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 ) Like most German physicists , he was much more comfortable with thermodynamics than with Maxwell 's electrodynamics , which up to that time had acquired few supporters outside Great Britain . ( 2 ) The laws of thermodynamics , as we saw in the previous chapter , are extremely general and require , for their application , no special assumptions about the internal atomic structure or the electrical properties of matter , about which very little was known at the time . In any case , Planck was an expert thermodynamicist and felt that if he derived the correct black-body radiation law from such general principles as the first and second laws of thermodynamics , nobody could object to his derivation . Planck proceeded very cautiously , making only the most general assumptions that introduced very little about the structure of matter . In  | line with the allowed procedures in thermodynamics , he assumed that the radiation in a closed furnace at any given temperature T is in equilibrium with the walls of the furnace , which means that the temperature and the total intensity of the radiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of different intensities , remain constant . Moreover , the intensity of each color or wavelength also remains constant . This equilibrium is not static , but is dynamic , in the sense that the walls of the furnace absorb and radiate energy ( radiation ) at the same time , and the rate at which each square centimeter of the furnace emits energy of a given wavelength exactly equals its rate of absorption of such energy . This is all very good thermodynamics , as we saw in the previous chapter , but Planck soon discovered , in his analysis , that he had to make some assumptions about the way the radiation in the furnace interacts with the material on the walls of the furnace . He knew , of course , that the radiation in a furnace consists of standing waves ( that is , waves like those along a plucked violin string ) . Since the end points of such a string are fixed , the standing wave along the string consists of a row of equally spaced stationary points ( nodes ) with transverse oscillations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such periodic oscillations are identical to the oscillations or vibrations of a particle attached to the end of a perfect spring that is allowed to vibrate freely with the spring . This kind of oscillation is called " simple harmonic motion " and is thoroughly described by Newtonian mechanics . Planck therefore made the very safe assumption that the walls of the furnace consist of little springs ( harmonic oscillators ) that are coupled to the radiation in the furnace , and here is where Planck had to consider the action concept , for the energy ( amplitude ) of a harmonic oscillator is related in a simple way to its action . Following Maupertuis 's prescription for calculating the action of an oscillating harmonic oscillator , one finds that this action , for a single oscillation ( a single back-and-forth movement ) , is just the energy of the oscillator ( the sum of its kinetic and potential energies ) divided by its frequency ( the number of oscillations it performs per second ) . The energy of a given frequency ( or wavelength ) emitted by a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Planck knew from thermodynamics that if an ensemble ( aggregate ) of objects ( for example , oscillators ) that could both absorb and emit energy of different frequencies were immersed in a bath of radiation of all frequencies at a given temperature ( like a collection of corks of different sizes floating in turbulent water ) , each object ( oscillator ) would have , on the average , the same energy that would be determined entirely by the temperature of the radiation bath . He reversed this idea or thermodynamic  | argument and reasoned that if one can deduce the average energy of an oscillator in a radiation bath , one should be able to deduce the type of radiation emitted by oscillators ( of all frequencies ) raised to a given temperature . To Planck , this seemed a fairly simple and straightforward problem : Given an oscillator capable of oscillating at only one frequency , the energy it emits at a given temperature is its action multiplied by its frequency , and only radiation of this frequency can be emitted by this oscillator . If the temperature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more energy is by increasing its own action , which is measured by its amplitude ( the size of its oscillations ) and which must vary continuously with temperature variation if an oscillator can have any amount of action , as is assumed classically . Using this idea and noting that each oscillator regardless of its frequency must on the average have the same amount of energy , Planck tried to deduce the correct radiation formula for an aggregate of oscillators at a given temperature . He failed in this attempt and noted that no matter what mathematical trick he tried or classical principle he applied , he would always fail . After much travail , anguish , and doubt , Planck had to give up the classical concept that the action of an oscillator ( essentially its amplitude ) can have any value and replace it with the concept of quantized action . In the next chapter , we see how this concept led Planck to the correct radiation formula and led Einstein to the very fruitful concept of the photon.  | Planck 's Black-Body Radiation Formula and Einstein 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you have eliminated the impossible , whatever remains , however improbable , must be the truth . - SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE In the previous chapter , we saw that the quantum theory of radiation arose because classical physics , as contained in Newton 's laws of motion , in thermodynamics , and in Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory of radiation , can not correctly describe " black-body " radition , that is , the continuous spectrum of the energy emitted per second from a 1-cm2 hole in the wall of a furnace at a given absolute temperature . This spectrum had been studied experimentally for some years before Planck obtained its correct algebraic formula , so that the theoretical physicists , like Planck , who were trying to deduce the formula from first principles knew their goal : to find a formula from which the correct intensity of the emitted radiation at a given frequency for a given furnace temperature can be calculated . This formula for the intensity of the radiation must contain algebraically only the absolute temperature of the furnace and the frequency of the emitted radiation in such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated from the formula , agrees with the observed intensity for that frequency . To understand the problem , we briefly discuss the state of experimental and theoretical " black-body " research when Planck began the theoretical investigation that led to his revolutionary discovery of the quantum of action . The experimental work was quite straightforward and involved nothing more than sending the " black-body " radiation through a prism to spread it out into its various wavelengths ranging from the infrared ( long wavelengths ) to the ultraviolet ( very short wavelengths ) and  | then using a very sensitive photometer to measure the intensity ( amount of energy ) in each wavelength ( actually in each wavelength band ) . These data are best represented by plotting the intensities along a vertical axis against the various wavelengths along a horizontal axis . Connecting all such plotted points on this graph by a continuous line gives a curve ( the famous Planck radiation curve ) that shows at a glance the basic observable features of black-body radiation , which fit into our superficial knowledge of the kind of radiation one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emit . At the very-long-wavelength end ( the infrared and red colors ) , the curve lies close to the wavelength axis ( low intensity ) and rises slowly , reaching a maximum value ( a hill ) for a given color ; it then turns around and drops very sharply to zero in the ultraviolet region . Three features of this graph are important , since they give us some insight into the properties of the radiation that should be deducible from basic theory . First , the total energy emitted per second , in all colors , is given by the area under the plotted curve ; as the temperature of the furnace rises , the plotted curve is shifted upward , so that the area under it increases , indicating that the rate at which the furnace radiates increases with absolute temperature . By comparing areas under curves for different temperatures , one finds that the rate at which the furnace radiates energy increases as the 4th power of the temperature . This feature of black-body radiation was first discovered empirically from measurements of the areas by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theorist Ludwig Boltzmann deduced the Stefan formula from classical thermodynamics , so that it is known as the Stefan ? Boltzmann law . Second , the hill on the curve , that is , the wavelength ( or the color band ) for which the intensity of black-body radiation is a maximum , is shifted to the left ( to shorter wavelengths ) as the temperature increases , and one can see from the curves for different temperatures that the product of the wavelength of maximum intensity for a given curve multiplied by the temperature for that curve is always the same number . The German physicist Wilhelm Wien deduced this relationship ( now known as the Wien displacement law ) from Maxwell 's radiation laws , but that is as far as theoretical physicists could push the classical theories in their attempt to obtain an algebraic formula that fits the entire black-body radiation curve . This brings us to the third feature of the graph , its exact shape . The first two features of black-body radiation agree with our superficial observations , which tell us that the hotter a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colors and the more its radiation changes from infrared ( which we can feel but can not see ) to cherry red , and finally to  | blue white , as the temperature rises from a few hundred degrees absolute to thousands of degrees . The question that is naturally prompted by these observations is why the furnace temperature controls the color ( frequency ) of the emitted radiation and why , in particular , high temperatures are required for blue colors . Two attempts , one by the late-19th-century physicist Lord Rayleigh and the other by the German physicist Wien , were made to answer these questions using the framework of classical physics , and these attempts were only partially successful . Lord Rayleigh ( 1842 ? 1919 ) was the last of the great classical physicists in Britain . He was born John William Strutt in Witham , Essex , England . His father , who had the same name , was a member of the aristocracy ; his mother was the daughter of a decorated soldier . Although Strutt demonstrated his intellectual abilities at an early age , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by illness . He attended Eton briefly , but spent most of his time there in the infirmary.l Strutt managed to complete three years at a private school at Wimbledon before entering Harrow , but was again forced to withdraw owing to poor health . He completed his preparatory education in four years with the aid of a private tutor . In 1861 , he enrolled at Trinity College , Cambridge . Although not as gifted in mathematics as some of his fellow students , Strutt was diligent in his studies and became so proficient in his subjects that he graduated as senior wrangler , in the mathematics tripos , in 1865 . Strutt was awarded a fellowship to continue his studies at Cambridge , which he completed in 1871 . During that time , he studied mathematics and physics and conducted a number of experiments in electricity and magnetism . Strutt 's scientific work was interrupted by an attack of rheumatic fever that occurred shortly after his marriage in 1871 . For a time , it seemed that Strutt would not survive through the year , but he gradually regained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt , which included a houseboat journey up the Nile.2 The change of scenery evidently encouraged him to begin working on his most important book , The Theory of Sound , which appeared in two volumes in 1877 and 1878.2 Strutt 's book examined the phenomena of vibration , resonance , and acoustics and " has remained the foremost monument of acoustical literature . " 2 Soon after Strutt returned to England , his father passed away , so Strutt became the new Baron Rayleigh . With the title came the responsibility of managing the 7000-acre family estate , so Rayleigh took up residence there . He built a laboratory near the house so he could continue his scientific work in electromagnetism and acoustics : " Perhaps his most  | caption significant early work was his theory explaining the blue color of the sky as the result of scattering of sunlight by small particles in the atmosphere . " 2 Rayleigh also combined his scientific knowledge with the most advanced agricultural techniques known at that time to increase the efficiency of the estate . Although he was quite successful as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estate to his younger brother in 1876 to devote himself fully to science.3 In 1879 , Rayleigh succeeded Maxwell at Cambridge and took over the administration of the Cavendish laboratory . Rayleigh published a number of important papers while at Cambridge and oversaw an ongoing research program to standardize electrical measurements . He also implemented programs to improve the quality of instruction given to students at Cambridge . However , he found the administrative burdens of his office to be more onerous than rewarding and resigned his position in 1884 to return to his country estate . Soon after his departure , he was elected secretary of the Royal Society . In 1887 , he succeeded Tyndall as pro-  | fessor of natural philosophy at the Royal Institution of Great Britain and retained that position until 1905.3 Rayleigh 's scientific interests were varied . Unlike many of his contemporaries , Rayleigh was free to investigate the subjects that interested him most , since he spent much of his scientific career outside the university environment : " His later work ranged over almost the whole field of physics , covering sound , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light scattering , flow of liquids , hydrodynamics , density of gases , viscosity , capillarity , elasticity , and photography . " 4 Rayleigh preferred to work in several areas of physics at the same time , finding it more invigorating to shift from subject to subject as he chose . Fortunately , his eclectic tastes did not dilute the quality of his research or impair the brilliant clarity of his papers . Rayleigh is probably most famous for his discovery of argon , which he finally succeeded in isolating in 1895 after years of laborious experiments . Rayleigh shared the credit for the discovery of argon with the chemist William Ramsay , who had discovered it independently , though Ramsay had begun his work only after Rayleigh had published his earlier experimental results . In any event , Rayleigh 's discovery resulted in his being awarded the 1904 Nobel Prize in Physics ; his counterpart Ramsay received the same award in Chemistry for his role in the discovery . Rayleigh served as an advisor to the British government in several capacities and also sat in the House of Lords @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served as Chancellor of Cambridge University and was the recipient of numerous honorary degrees . He also received the Order of Merit and every important honor that the Royal Society could bestow . He published nearly 500 papers during his career and retained his mental faculties to the very end of his life . Rayleigh , who , with Lord Kelvin , dominated British physics for the last quarter of the 19th century , used a very clever method to deduce the black-body radiation formula by comparing the vibrations of the waves of the radiation in a cavity , at a given temperature , to the vibrations of harmonic oscillators and then assigning to each such vibration the energy of an appropriate harmonic oscillator . To follow Rayleigh 's reasoning , we must consider black-body radiation in equilibrium with the walls of a furnace at a fixed temperature , so that the amount ( intensity ) of such radiation of a given frequency ( or wavelength ) in each unit volume of the furnace is constant even though the walls are constantly absorbing and emitting radiation of all frequencies . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transverse waves , but not advancing waves , which  | are not bounded in any way , but in the form of standing waves owing to the confining walls of the cavity . A standing wave is produced between two confining surfaces if a wave advancing from one to the other is reflected back and forth between the surfaces so that interference between an advancing and a reflected wave occurs . Such a wave is produced by plucking a tautly stretched string along which the standing wave appears as a series of transverse vibrations ( all in phase ) separated by equally spaced stationary points ; the vibrations are called " antinodes " and the stationary points " nodes . " Since the two end points of the string are fixed , the number of equally spaced antinodes for any given frequency is just the length of the string divided by half the wavelength of the wave . Rayleigh applied this standing-wave construction to the black-body radiation in the cavity by picturing the radiation of a given frequency as consisting of standing waves along a line between any two points on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cavity as a cube . The number of vibrations associated with any standing wave of the radiation is then the length of the side of a cube divided by half the wavelength of the wave . In this way , Rayleigh calculated the number of distinct radiation vibrations a cube of a given volume contains . This favors the high-frequency ( short-wavelength ) vibrations more than the low-frequency vibrations , because more small half-wavelengths can be arranged along a line of given length than long ones . Arguing that each such standing vibration is a harmonic oscillator , he assigned to each of these oscillators an amount of energy dictated by the theorem of the equipartition of energy , namely , Boltzmann 's constant multiplied by the absolute temperature in the cavity . This classical formula for black-body radiation is called the " Rayleigh ? Jeans formula , " although James Jeans , who proposed a slight correction , had little to do with the original concept . Following Rayleigh 's reasoning and his clever derivation of this black-body radiation formula , we see that the intensity of black-body radiation emitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formula , increase with the frequency of the emitted radiation , since the intensity , as given by the formula , is proportional to the square of the frequency . This is clearly false , since it states that all furnaces should blow up with a vast outflow of ultraviolet radiation . Although the Rayleigh ? Jeans formula gives nonsensical results for the high-frequency end of the black-body radiation spectrum , it agrees very well with the low-frequency end , which means that the classical physics of Newton and Maxwell can be used to describe long wavelengths of radiation fairly accurately , but is hopelessly inadequate for high-fre-  | quency radiation . The question that immediately arises concerning this breakdown of classical physics is where the flaw is and how it is to be corrected . We saw in our discussion of the gas law that the Newtonian laws of motion also break down ; they lead to certain discrepancies between the theoretical and measured specific heats of gases . One may surmise that the same flaw in classical physics causes both discrepancies ; we shall see later that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the flaw and how is it to be corrected ? We see that it does not lie in the way Rayleigh counted the number of vibratory degrees of freedom associated with the standing waves he assigned to the black-body radiation ; the only conclusion left is that it stems from the classical equipartition theorem , which states that in an ensemble of dynamical systems ( particles in a gas or standing waves in black-body radiation ) at a given absolute temperature , each degree of freedom must have on the average an amount of energy equal to Boltzmann 's universal constant multiplied by the temperature . Wien , who proposed his own classical formula for the intensity of black-body radiation , probably understood that something was wrong with the classical equipartition theorem , but he did not produce his formula from that standpoint , since he did not know how to do so . Knowing that the correct formula must suppress high-frequency radiation in the black-body radiation spectrum , he used Boltzmann 's statistical physics as a guide to his own formula . Statistical physics ( statistical mechanics ) was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the determination of the average speed of molecules in a gas at a given temperature and to the number of molecules in the gas with a given energy . The analysis shows that this number falls off exponentially as the energy increases , but the rate of this falloff decreases with increasing temperature . This makes sense because it tells us that the higher the temperature of an ensemble , the greater the number of high-energy particles in the ensemble . However , the sum of the energies of all the particles can not exceed the total energy of the ensemble as dictated by the first law of thermodynamics . Wien took this idea and applied it to the various frequencies rather than to energies in the black-body radiation ; he applied an exponential frequency barrier to the number of vibrational nodes with high frequencies with the temperature . This suppresses the high frequencies , so that his formula correctly represents the black-body radiation at the high-frequency end of the spectrum , but it gives wrong results for the low-frequency end . But physicists were puzzled by the formula , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behave in the same way in  | nature and why a statistical formula , which was developed for material particles , is applicable to waves . This was the state of the theory of black-body radiation when Max Planck began his historic investigations of the subject with the purpose of deducing the correct algebraic formula for the entire spectral range from classical thermodynamics . To accomplish this task , he concentrated on the relationship between the entropy of the radiation and its energy instead of the temperature of the radiation , because he pictured the radiation as being in equilibrium with real harmonic oscillators of varying frequencies in the walls of the furnace . His idea was that these oscillators absorb radiation of any given frequency and then re-emit it over a complete range of frequencies , so that the black-body character of the radiation is maintained . To do this , he had to have some idea of the average energy of an oscillator , and so he assumed that he could calculate this average value by the usual procedure of obtaining averages : The procedure involved adding the energies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight ( the probability of the oscillator 's having that energy ) , and dividing by the total number of oscillators . The entropy enters into this procedure because , as Boltzmann had shown , the probability of an oscillator 's having a given energy depends on the entropy in an exponential way . Since entropy and energy are related through the temperature , Planck was convinced that he could obtain the correct radiation formula through thermodynamics . But to do this , he had to have a formula for the energy of a harmonic oscillator of a given frequency , which is obtained in a straightforward way from Newtonian dynamics ; it is the frequency of the oscillator multiplied by its action associated with a single oscillation . Planck called the action h and wrote for the energy hv , where v is the frequency of the oscillator . With this equation and the Boltzmann probability formula , he then calculated the average energy of an oscillator , which is not the classical expression obtained from the equipartition theorem . The classical equipartition theorem states that the average energy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depend on the frequency of the oscillator , but varies directly as the temperature ; this leads to the incorrect Rayleigh ? Jeans law . Planck 's average value for the energy of a harmonic oscillator depends in a complicated way on the frequency and the temperature as long as h , the action , is a finite nonzero value . Planck was unhappy with this condition because he felt it to be a flaw in his basic concepts , even though the black-body radiation formula he obtained with his expression for the average energy of an oscillator is correct . Allowing h to go to zero always led him to the Rayleigh ? Jeans  | law , so he left h finite , which means that the black-body radiation spectrum can be explained only if no action less than h can occur in nature . This means that action is quantized and h , which has a numerical value in basic units of 6.625 divided by one thousand trillion trillion ( 6.625 x 10 ? 27 ) erg seconds , is the unit or quantum of action . Planck 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quantization of action conflicts with Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory of radiation , since it means that radiation is corpuscular and not wavelike . To overcome this repugnant idea , Planck did not reject his black-body radiation formula , which agrees in every aspect with his observations , but suggested that black-body radiation is emitted in discrete lumps ( quanta ) that immediately change into waves . Planck was certain about the correctness of his formula because he had obtained exactly the same formula , some months previously , by simply combining the Rayleigh ? Jeans formula and Wien 's formula into a single algebraic expression . Planck perceived this to be only a mathematical trick with no physical basis , so when he obtained the same formula using thermodynamics with the additional quantization of action condition , he was convinced of its correctness , even though he did not grasp the full significance of his discovery . EINSTEIN 'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE QUANTUM THEORY Albert Einstein published a series of remarkable papers on radiation , the first of which appeared in 1905 as one of three revolutionary articles in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this paper , " Concerning a Heuristic Point of View About the Creation and Transformation of Light , " gives no indication of the great impact it has had on physics and , in particular , on our understanding of the quantum theory and the nature of radiation . Einstein began this paper by pointing out the profound differences between the laws that govern material bodies ( Newton 's laws of motion ) and those that govern radiation ( Maxwell 's electromagnetic wave theory ) ; he noted that this difference is clearly delineated by the possibility of localizing particles ( position and momentum ) and the impossibility of localizing waves ( radiation ) . He then indicated that this difference may not be as definitive and sharp as it appears and that certain radiation phenomena can be explained only if the wave theory gives a partial picture of the nature of radiation and that one must consider  | the possibility that " radiation is distributed discontinuously in space , " rather than as an unbroken continuous wave . Starting from this basic idea , Einstein considered radiation enclosed in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectral distribution is governed by Planck 's radiation formula ( that is , if the intensity as a function of the frequency is given by Planck 's formula ) , then the radiation behaves , in every respect ( for example , pressure , entropy ) , like a gas consisting of pellets ( quanta ) , each having an energy by ( Planck 's constant times the frequency ) . This clearly established the existence of light quanta , later called " photons , " a concept that Planck rejected . Einstein went further , in his analysis of radiation , to show that the fluctuation of the energy of radiation in a small volume of the container ( the energy in a small volume changes erratically from moment to moment ) is a sum of two terms , one of which can be deduced from Maxwell 's wave theory of light ( it is the standard classical derivation ) , but the second of which is pure quantum theory ( nonclassical ) and stems from the presence of quanta in the radiation . This shows that neither the wave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be neglected without introducing errors in one 's analysis . This is the first example of the wave ? particle duality that now permeates all of physics . We say more about this duality in our discussion of quantum mechanics and the wave theory of the electron . Einstein completed his 1905 paper by showing , in a very simple way , that the quantum theory of light explains the famous photoelectric effect completely . As we mentioned in our discussion of Hertz 's experiments that proved the correctness of Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory of light , Hertz discovered that when a charged metal sphere is irradiated with ultraviolet radiation , it quickly loses its charge , which does not happen when red light strikes the sphere . With J. J. Thomson 's discovery of the electron , it was clear that the ultraviolet radiation tears the electrons from the surface of the sphere and thus discharges it , but it was not clear why red light can not do the same thing in accordance with the classical electromagnetic wave theory . Since the electrons are swept off the surface of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radiation to break the bonds that keep them attached to the sphere , they should , according to the classical wave theory , be removed by red light as well as by ultraviolet radiation ; classical theory states that the energy transported to the sphere per second depends only on the intensity of the wave ( its amplitude and not on its wavelength ( or frequency ) . But the observations deny this theory ; no matter how intense the red light is , it removes no  | electrons , but even a very weak beam of ultraviolet light removes electrons . Einstein explained this result using the concept of the light quantum ( photon ) : Each electron is removed by absorbing a single photon ; hence , this photon must have enough energy to do the work required to remove the electron and to give it its observed kinetic energy . But the frequency of a red photon is too low for it to have enough energy , according to Planck 's formula , to do the required work . Hence , no matter how many red photons strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , the ultraviolet frequency is large enough for each ultraviolet photon to tear an electron out of its metal base . Einstein pointed out one other feature of the photoelectric process : The electrons emerge from discrete points of the metal surface , indicating that each such point receives a pellet ( quantum ) of radiation . A wave would spread over the entire surface , so that all points on the surface could emit electrons . Einstein set down a simple equation that gives the frequency that a photon must have to release an electron from the metal surface and give it its observed kinetic energy . He received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921 for this equation ( completely verified by Robert Millikan 's experiments ) , which he presented in about one page of his 1905 paper . Most physicists at the time considered Planck 's quantum theory as an artificial mathematical technique for explaining the continuous black-body radiation spectrum , without any real physical content ; the concept of the photon was particularly repugnant in view of the great successes achieved by Maxwell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quantum theory as a profound scientific truth , to be applied to all phases of physics . Acting on this belief , he investigated the specific heats of solids and applied the quantum theory to them . He thus explained why the measured specific heats , at very low temperatures , disagree drastically with the values calculated from classical theory . According to the classical theory , one treats a solid as a collection of harmonic oscillators ( the molecules are pictured as vibrating elastically owing to the forces of attraction among them which keep them attached to each other ) and assigns to each mode of vibration the classical equipartition average energy ( Boltzmann 's constant multiplied by the absolute temperature ) . This gives the incorrect value for the specific heat at low temperatures . Einstein obtained the correct value by assigning the average energy value to an oscillator as calculated from the quantum theory . In his last great paper on radiation in 1917 , Einstein pointed out two  | remarkable features of the photon that have had a profound influence on physics and on optical technology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formula without referring to black-body radiation , but simply by considering the emission and absorption of radiation by an electron in an atom . He accepted Bohr 's theory of the atom , with its electrons emitting and absorbing radiation by jumping from one to another of a series of discrete , permissible orbits , and assumed that in each such jump , a photon of a definite frequency is either emitted or absorbed by the jumping electron . To complete his derivation of the Planck formula by this method , he had to assume not only that an electron jumps spontaneously from a higher to a lower orbit with the emission of a single well-defined photon , but also that if such a photon passes the electron before it has a chance to jump down , this photon stimulates the electron ( it gives the electron a push , so to speak ) to jump , forcing it to emit an identical photon moving in exactly the same direction as the passing photon so that the two photons move off together , intimately bound to each other . Einstein called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of the laser , an acronym for " light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation . " In discussing the concept of the stimulated emission of radiation , Einstein pointed out that one must assign momentum as well as energy to a photon to give it all the properties of a particle . However , the momentum of the photon can not be its mass times its velocity , since it has no mass in the usual sense of the term . This presented no difficulty to Einstein , who defined the momentum of the photon as its energy ( Planck 's constant times its frequency ) divided by its speed ( the speed of light ) , or Planck 's constant divided by the wavelength of the photon . This formula was later completely verified by Compton 's famous experiment on the scattering of light by electrons , which we discuss later . All of quantum theory and the quantum mechanics stems from the formula for the energy of a photon ? Planck 's constant times the photon 's frequency ? which was presented to physicists as a sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles . But one of the authors ( Motz ) has shown , in a previously published paper , that if one assumes the existence of photons , one can derive the Planck formula from classical thermodynamics and the Doppler effect . Picture compressing radiation in a container with perfectly reflecting walls by slowly pushing in a piston and thus doing work . This work appears as internal energy of the radiation that is equally distributed among all the photons , so that each photon 's energy is increased by the same percentage ( the same small fraction ) of its  | initial energy if the piston is pushed in a very small distance . At the same time , the frequency of each photon increases by the Doppler effect as the photon is reflected from the moving piston , and the percentage increase of the frequency exactly equals its percentage energy increase . Hence , the ratio of the energy of any photon to its frequency must be a universal constant known as Planck 's constant .  | Experimental Physics at the Close of the Nineteenth Century The true worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he seeks in his experiment , but also what he did not seek . - CLAUDE BERNARD A curious dichotomy divided physicists at the end of the 19th century into those who believed that physics had reached a kind of ultimate state , with very little left to be done from a fundamental point of view , and those who were troubled by certain unexplained discrepancies between classical theory and experiment . The experimentalists were generally in the first group , because they saw in Newtonian physics and Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory of light the completion of theoretical physics ; as far as they were concerned , physics was essentially only a matter of collecting increasingly accurate data about phenomena that could be fully explained by the known laws . The troubled physicists , those in the second group , were primarily theoreticians like Planck and Einstein , who saw flaws in classical physics that could be explained only by revolutionary ideas . The contented physicists in the first group appeared to have the best of the controversy before the year 1900 , for the successes achieved by experimental physics were intoxicating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maxwellian theory . Such difficulties as the failure of the Michelson ? Morley experiment to detect the earth 's motion around the sun using beams of light , the discrepancy between the measured and calculated specific heats of gases , the failure of classical physics to account for the black-body radiation spectrum , and the failure of Newtonian gravity to give a correct orbit for Mercury were considered minor matters that presented no threat or challenge to classical physics . A few years later , with Max Planck 's discovery of the quantum of action , the magnifi-  | cent intellectual edifice of classical physics began to crumble ; its destruction was completed some five years later with Albert Einstein 's promulgation of his special theory of relativity , which , together with the quantum theory , revolutionized the way in which physicists probe the universe . Before we discuss the theory of relativity and how it has changed physics and our concept of the universe , we consider the important experimental discoveries in the last quarter of the 19th century and the first decade of the 20th century that ushered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physicists and chemists in the 19th century developed atomic models to account for the structure and properties of matter , before conclusive experimental evidence for the atom , such as the existence of the electron and proton , was available . In 1802-1803 , the British chemist John Dalton published a series of papers propounding his atomic hypothesis , which introduced the concept of interatomic forces : All matter consists of different kinds of atoms ( elementary particles with different masses ) that attract each other to combine in appropriate numbers and kinds and thus form all the known compounds . Since Dalton did not indicate the nature of the interatomic forces , his theory did not lead to any new developments , and so it remained fallow . Nevertheless , chemists used it to explain simple chemical reactions and to strengthen the molecular concept , which was extremely useful in the study of gases . In fact , Joseph-Louis Gay-Lussac , who , with Jacques Alexandre Cesar Charles , had discovered the law of gases , showed that Dalton 's atomic theory explains the quantitative aspects of the chemical reactions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gases , the ratio of the quantities of the two gases that combine to form a definite quantity of a third gas is always the same , no matter how much of the third gas is formed . To GayLussac , this meant that each molecule of any one of the three gases consists of a fixed number of Dalton 's atoms . A big step in the development of the idea of the existence of a primordial substance , of which all matter is constituted , was taken by William Prout , who suggested in two papers in 1815 and 1816 that all atoms consist of combinations of different numbers of hydrogen atoms ( Prout 's hypothesis ) . This concept , which gives hydrogen the primordial role , was based on the observations , made by many chemists skillful in the technique of measuring the atomic weights ( masses ) of the known chemical elements , that these weights are all very nearly integer multiples of the atomic weight of hydrogen . To Prout , this underlying regularity in the atomic weights meant that all atoms have a common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hydrogen atoms they contain . Although  | this idea was very attractive , it was not readily accepted and , in fact , remained on the outskirts of physics until the work of Ernest Rutherford and Niels Bohr placed atomic theory on a sound basis . The first big break in the barrier to atomic theory came with Michael Faraday 's important electrochemical experiments , which were discussed in Chapter 10 . These experiments showed clearly that matter consists of heavy positive particles ( the nuclei ) of atoms and negative particles ( the light electrons ) , but it was not clear just how these two kinds of particles combine to form an atom ; indeed , the very idea of the electron as a particle was not known and did not come until Sir Joseph John Thomson isolated a negative elementary charge that was later dubbed the " electron . " On the chemical side of the atomic theory , the most important accomplishment was Dimitri Mendeleev 's discovery of the periodic table of the chemical elements , which exhibits the periodicity of the chemical properties of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the atomic number and the atomic weight ( mass ) , which increase as we go from the light to the heavy elements . The atomic number is the position assigned to an element in the table , starting with hydrogen ( in the first position with atomic number 1 ) and proceeding one step at a time to the heavier elements . Thus , helium , in the second position , has atomic number 2 ; lithium , in the third position , has atomic number 3 ; and so on . The atomic mass ( or weight ) is the number of times the mass of an atom of any element is greater than that of an atom of hydrogen , which is assigned the atomic mass 1 . Roughly speaking , the atomic mass ( at least for the light elements ) is about twice the atomic number . Mendeleev discovered that the chemical properties of elements with atomic numbers differing by 8 , 18 , 32 , and so on have very similar chemical properties and can therefore be grouped in chemical families ( as shown in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a way that elements differing in atomic number by 8 , 18 , 32 , and so on are arranged in vertical columns , such as lithium , sodium , potassium , and so on ( the alkali metals ) ; fluorine , chlorine , bromine , and so on ( the halogens ) ; and helium , neon , argon , and so on ( the noble gases ) . This numerical regularity was very useful to the late-18th-century and early-19th-century chemists and very provocative to the physicists , who saw in it an indication of some kind of atomic structure , but had no way of deciphering the riddle of the periodicity contained in Mendeleev 's table without some knowledge of the basic constituents of the atom , which began with Thomson 's discovery of the electron in 1897 . In his early experiments , as far back as the 1830s , Faraday had  | studied cathode rays ( particles emitted from the cathode ? the negative electrode ) in a vacuum tube across which ( via two electrodes in the tube ? the anode and the cathode ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the emanations from the cathode were called ( although it was not known then whether these emanations are electromagnetic waves or particles ) , were studied with ever-increasing care and technical sophistication as it became possible to obtain ever-better vacuums in the discharge tubes . Using the best vacuums that were then possible and the most advanced tools , Thomson showed that cathode rays are indeed material particles carrying a negative charge . He accomplished this task by placing the cathode-ray tube between two condenser plates and noting that the cathode rays are deflected from the negative to the positive plate . He then measured the magnitude of the deflection of a beam that traveled the length of the tube , which depends on how fast the particles in the beam travel and on the ratio of the charge e on a particle to its mass m ? that is , on the quantity elm . By placing a magnetic field across the tube perpendicular to the velocity of the deflected cathode-ray particle , he brought the deflected beam back to its original straight-line path by making the magnetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Since the electrostatic force exerted on the particles by the condenser plates must then equal the force produced by the magnetic field , he equated the two forces and thus eliminated the particles ' velocity . This left in his equation only the quantity e/m ( unknown ) and the length of the tube , the strength of the electric field , and that of the magnetic field ( known ) . He thus obtained a value for elm that is larger than Faraday 's elm for the hydrogen ion by a factor of about 1836 . Thomson called these particles " electrons , " and in 1905 , Robert Millikan , using his famous oil drop experiment , found their charge to be 4.77 divided by ten billion ( 4.77 x 10- 10 ) electrostatic units . The work of Thomson and Millikan was the first step in constructing a correct model of an atom . From the measured value of the charge e on the electron and Thomson 's measured value of its elm , its mass can be calculated as the first of these measured quantities divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided by ten thousand trillion trillion ( 9 x 10-28 ) . Simply expressed , this means that a clump of about one thousand trillion trillion electrons has a mass of 1 gram . These numbers tell us that the electrons contribute very little to the total mass of an atom or a collection of atoms . Nevertheless , electrons are absolutely essential for the structure of neutral ( uncharged ) atoms , for they contribute the negative electric charge to compensate the positive charge in an atom and thus to make the atom electrically neutral .  | As we shall see , the electrons in an atom account for the atom 's chemical properties ; all chemical reactions are generated and controlled by the electrons . Shortly after electrons were discovered as the negatively charged constituents of cathode rays , Thomson and others discovered " anode rays , " which are positively charged particles moving at much lower speeds than the electrons from the anode to the cathode in the cathode ray tube . The elm 's for these particles were thousands of times smaller than that of the electrons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largest e/m was found for the positively charged particles coming from an anode coated with a hydrogen compound ; these were the protons , with a mass about 1840 times that of the electron and a positive charge equal in magnitude to the electron 's charge . The protons and the later-discovered neutrons account for the atoms ' masses . With the discovery of the electron , theoretical physicists began to construct atomic models to account for the observed properties of matter , but severe and what appeared to be insurmountable difficulties plagued all such attempts until Niels Bohr constructed the famous " Bohr model " of the atom . The great Dutch theoretical physicist Lorentz did the most notable , and partially successful , theoretical work in incorporating the electron , as a basic constituent of matter , into the Newtonian ? Maxwellian physics of the time . He began by changing ( extending ) Maxwell 's equations of the electromagnetic field to include the interaction of Maxwellian electromagnetic waves ( as well as changing electric and magnetic fields ) with fundamental , charged particles , which he called electrons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electron , so that Lorentz 's theoretical " electron " was not identified with Thomson 's experimental electron until about 1899 . But that did not matter as far as Lorentz 's theoretical work was concerned ; its validity did not depend on Thomson 's discovery . Hendrik Antoon Lorentz ( 1853 ? 1928 ) was born in Arnhem , Holland , into a family that had shown no particular talent for the sciences . His father was a nursery owner who tried to provide a stable household when Hendrik 's mother died in 1857 . By the time his father remarried five years later , Hendrik had already begun to demonstrate his aptitude for the sciences in grade school . He was a gifted student in the Arnhem high school , where he concentrated on the classics and mathematics . Hendrik entered the University of Leyden in 1870 and obtained his baccalaureate degree in mathematics and physics the following year . He taught classes at night to support himself until he obtained his doctorate in physics at the  | caption age of 22 ; his thesis dealt with the nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optics and electricity , which led him to the concept of the electron . In 1878 , Lorentz accepted the chair of theoretical physics at Leyden , where he remained throughout his career . That same year , he published " an essay on the relation between the velocity of light in a medium and the density and composition " of the medium which is now known as the Lorenz ? Lorentz formula . ' He studied Maxwell 's equations of the electromagnetic field and searched for ways that this magnificent mathematical edifice could be extended to other areas of physics . At that time , he was not alone in his belief that the twin tools of Newtonian mechanics and Maxwell 's equations for the electromagnetic field were the only tools needed to probe the universe , since the only two known factors in nature at that time were gravity and electromagnetism . Lorentz made substantial contributions to the electrodynamics of moving bodies , but did not discard the hypothesis that there is an all-  | pervasive ether acting as a medium for all electromagnetic waves in space : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view that this minute , electrically charged particle plays a role during electromagnetic phenomena in ponderable matter made it possible to apply the molecular theory to the theory of electricity , and to explain the behavior of light waves passing through moving , transparent bodies . " ' Lorentz also found that the electromagnetic forces between charges become altered when the charges are moving , causing electrons to become slightly compressed ; this so-called " Lorentz transformation " proved to be a consequence of Einstein 's special theory of relativity . ' Apart from his theoretical work , Lorentz also presided over a committee formed to study the movements of the seawater along the shores of newly reclaimed areas of the country.2 In the course of his administrative career , Lorentz made a number of calculations that have continued to be of substantial value to the field of hydraulic engineering . He chaired the Solvay Conferences , which served as forums for the great physicists of the world to discuss and debate the newest ideas in physics , and in 1923 he was one of seven world-renowned scholars elected to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lorentz also used his considerable influence to bring about the creation of an organization to direct applied scientific research in Holland so as to coordinate existing research programs . Lorentz extended Maxwell 's equations by including a term that describes the current arising in a conductor owing to magnetic induction as the flow of electrons produced by the force of the changing magnetic field on the free electrons in the conductor : This term , now called the " Lorentz force , " takes into account not only the force of the electric field on the electron ( which is just the Coulomb force ) but also the interaction of the magnetic field with the electron as mentioned above . Lorentz assumed the magnitude of this magnetic interaction to be the product of three terms : the electric charge on the electron , its speed divided by the speed of light , and the strength ( intensity ) of the magnetic field at the electron 's position . The direction of this force is at right angles to the velocity of the electron and the direction of the magnetic field at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood the test of time very well and is universally accepted as correctly describing the interaction of any electric charge with an electromagnetic field . Lorentz extended his theory of the electron to explain a series of phenomena that can not be understood if the concept of a basic electric charge as a constituent of all matter is not accepted . Lorentz 's first success  | was the explanation of the so-called " normal Zeeman pattern " of the spectral lines of atoms placed in a magnetic field ; this pattern consists of the usual spectral pattern ( no magnetic field ) accompanied by additional spectral lines close to the original lines . Lorentz explained these additional lines by showing that the motions of the electrons that produce the original pattern are altered by the magnetic field so that new lines are produced . This dramatic success of Lorentz 's theory gave the concept of the electron enormous appeal and respectability . Lorentz also explained such phenomena as electrical conductivity ( electrons move about freely in a conductor , but not in an insulator ) , heat conductivity , refraction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a medium with his electron theory , but despite all these successes , a correct model of the atom , incorporating protons and electrons , eluded theoreticians . But other exciting experimental discoveries came rapidly as the 19th century was ending . One set of experiments dealt with the penetrating electromagnetic rays discovered accidentally in 1895 by Wilhelm Roentgen ( x rays , also called Roentgen rays ) , and the other set dealt with Antoine-Henri Becquerel 's discovery in 1896 of very energetic rays ( electromagnetic and particle ) emitted spontaneously by heavy atoms ( radioactivity ) . Roentgen , along with many other experimental physicists , was working with various types of discharge tubes ( essentially cathode-ray tubes or Crookes tubes , such as Thomson had used in his discovery of the electron ) and noticed that a piece of black cardboard with which he had covered the tube and which was opaque to ordinary light was transparent to some other kind of radiation coming from the tube . He detected this penetrating radiation when he observed that a piece of paper , coated with barium platinocyanide , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emanation from the tube when either the coated or the uncoated surface of the paper faced the tube . Moreover , the coating was affected by the radiation even if the paper was placed at a distance of up to 6 meters from the tube . In a darkened room , Roentgen observed that the barium platino-cyanide fluoresced every time the discharge tube ( Crookes tube ) was activated . Later , Roentgen showed that these rays can penetrate many different substances and that their penetrating power diminishes rapidly with increasing density of the material they strike . He discovered also that they ionize the air through which they pass , ripping electrons out of the atoms they encounter . Becquerel 's discovery of the phenomenon of radioactivity was in some sense the culmination of three generations of family research on  | phosphorescence and fluorescence . His grandfather was the physicist Antoine-Cesar , who had made several important discoveries in electrochemistry and been awarded the Copley Medal by the Royal Society . His father , Alexander-Edmond , was a renowned and prolific physicist who published useful papers on his field of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the French Academy of Sciences ; each held the chair of professor of physics at the Musee d'Histoire Naturelle during his academic career , a tradition that was continued by AntoineHenri and , later , his son , Jean Becquerel . Because of the positions held by both his father and grandfather , it was inevitable that Henri would become familiar at an early age with the laboratory in which his father worked and the daily routine of the teaching scientist . Henri was born in 1852 in Paris and received his early formal education at the Lycee Louis le Grand . He entered the Ecole Polytechnique in 1872 before his 20th birthday and , two years later , began his studies at the Ecole des Ponts et Chaussees , where he spent four years receiving a thorough grounding in mathematics and civil engineering . Henri joined the staff of the Administration of Bridges and Highways as an engineer in 1877 , one year after becoming demonstrateur at the Ecole Polytechnique and one year before he became aide-naturaliste at the Musee d'Histoire Naturelle . Because both positions involved working closely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a motivated young man who was highly conscious of his distinguished lineage and determined to perform whatever arduous tasks were deemed necessary by his father . Indeed , Henri appears to have considered his own discovery of radioactivity to be the logical conclusion of the work of his father and , like Newton before him , believed that his own achievements were due in large part to his having stood on the shoulders of others ? namely , his father and grandfather . Becquerel 's early research dealt with the effects of magnetic fields on polarized light as well as the absorption of light by crystals.3 His optical researches enabled him to obtain his doctorate in 1888 from the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Paris , and he was elected to the Academy of Sciences the following year . After the death of his father in 1891 , Henri succeeded to his father 's chair at the Musee and began giving lectures in physics at the Ecole Polytechnique . At the same time , he continued to work as an engineer at the Ponts et Chaussees and was named @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovery of radioactivity did not occur in a vacuum , but was given its initial impetus by Roentgen 's discovery of x rays , which was  | caption announced at the beginning of 1896 . That x rays are not charged particles was deduced from their passage through magnetic and electric fields in straight lines without deviation ; the paths of charged particles deviate from straight lines in such fields . By carefully observing the source of the x rays in the discharge tube , Roentgen discovered that they are emitted from a small bright spot on the metal surface struck by the cathode rays ( by the electrons coming from the cathode ) , and this explained the mystery , in full accord with Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory and Lorentz 's electron theory , according to which a charged particle radiates elec-  | tromagnetic waves when it is decelerated . This deceleration occurs when the electron strikes the metal surface ; it radiates away its energy in the form of electromagnetic radiation . Taking the quantum theory into account , one can easily calculate the energy ( or the frequency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on striking the metal surface in its path , transforms all its kinetic energy into a single quantum of energy ( an x-ray photon ) , one obtains this photon 's frequency by dividing the electron 's kinetic energy by Planck 's constant h ( in a sense , this is just the reverse of the photoelectric effect ? electrons produce photons on striking a metal surface instead of photons producing electrons ) . This simple quantum relationship between the frequency ( energy , which is just frequency times Planck 's constant ) of the x-ray photon and the kinetic energy of the electron producing it permits one to alter the energy of x rays produced by altering the kinetic energy of the cathode rays producing them , and this can be done by altering the voltage across the discharge tube . Roentgen 's discovery of x rays prompted Becquerel to perform a series of experiments with fluorescent molecules , which either fluoresce spontaneously or are stimulated to fluoresce by absorbing sunlight . Such phenomena were well known , but the fluorescent mechanism was a complete mystery . Becquerel thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In describing his x-ray observations , Roentgen had spoken of the " fluorescence " of the barium plantino-cyanide coating , and so Becquerel assumed that x rays are somehow related to fluorescence . This assumption was wrong , but the idea initiated the series of observations that led to his discovery of radioactivity . Becquerel had worked with phosphorescence and fluorescence ( the terms are used interchangeably ) for some years previously and was convinced that phosphorescent substances , if properly treated , electrically or by exposure to sunlight , produce x rays . But testing several such substances over a period of weeks showed no x rays . Becquerel did not give up , however , and was rewarded for his persistence when he worked with the complex uranium crystal potassium uranyl disulfate , which he placed on a photographic plate , protected from sunlight by two sheets of very thick black paper . He then placed the whole thing in bright sunlight to " stimulate the phosphorescence " of the crystal and discovered that the part of the photographic plate on which the crystal lay had become blackened by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper in which the photographic plate was wrapped . Becquerel accepted this result  | as strong support for his incorrect assumption that fluorescence or phosphorescence generated penetrating rays similar to Roentgen rays . A few days later , however , on examining a photographic plate near some of his potassium uranyl disulfate that had not been irradiated by sunlight but had been placed in a drawer waiting for a sunny day , he discovered that the photographic plate had been darkened by some radiation from the crystal , just as in his previous experiment . Becquerel understood immediately that phosphorescence or fluorescence had nothing to do with the rays that came from his crystals , and he later traced the radiation to the uranium atoms in the crystal . Becquerel 's detective work culminated with his discovery of the radioactivity of heavy atoms . Since very little was known about the structure of the atom , nothing could be said about how the atom produces these Becquerel rays , which remained for Lord Ernest Rutherford to discover . Since his discovery did not raise much of a stir in scientific circles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important research , not understanding the revolutionary nature of his discovery . Because Becquerel 's talent lay primarily in experimental physics and was perhaps best exemplified by his talent for carrying out tedious experiments , he resisted the temptation to construct a theoretical explanation for the phenomenon of radioactivity , preferring to leave that task to others . While it is undeniable that there is a mutual interdependency between theory and experiment , Becquerel seems to have had no delusions about his ability to formulate an intellectual edifice that would explain the radioactivity of particles . In any event , his discovery did eventually get the scientific recognition it deserved , even though it occurred only after Marie and Pierre Curie had shown the importance of radioactivity in nuclear physics . Becquerel was awarded the Rumford Medal of the Royal Society and was made a foreign member of the Royal Society in 1900 . He received honorary doctorates from Oxford and Cambridge and shared the 1903 Nobel Prize in Physics with the Curies : " It was an appropriate division because Becquerel 's pioneer investigations had opened the way to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown the importance of his . " 4 Becquerel received what may have been his most personally rewarding honor when he became the president of the Academy of Sciences in 1908 . Unfortunately , Becquerel enjoyed his office for only a few months ; he died of a heart attack on August 25 , 1908 , while on holiday at Le Croisic , Brittany , France . Although Becquerel 's work on radioactivity made no great impression on established physicists initially , it stimulated two of the most brilliant members of the younger generation of physicists , Marie Curie //  | caption and Ernest Rutherford , to continue Becquerel 's work . Marie Sklodowska Curie ( 1867 ? 1934 ) was born in Warsaw , Poland . Her father taught mathematics and physics in a government secondary school , and her mother managed a girls ' boarding school . Despite the long hours worked by both parents , there was barely enough money in the household to pay for necessities , because Marie 's father was denied the opportunity to apply for the more lucrative teaching positions because of his political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family did not have access to good medical care . Marie 's eldest sister Sophia died of typhus in 1876 and her mother died two years later after a long bout with tuberculosis.2  | Marie 's father was forced to take in boarders to earn some extra money , so Marie often slept in the living room . Despite the less than ideal study conditions , Marie was a diligent student who won a gold medal in Russian while at high school , even though the Czarist government was responsible for the political repression in Poland at that time . She supplemented her formal education by reading many literary and political works by authors ranging from Dostoevsky to Marx.3 In 1886 , Marie became a governess for the children of a wealthy Polish administrator who lived near Pzasnysz to pay for her sister Bronia to study in France . Three years later , she returned to Warsaw to be closer to her family . By this time , she had developed an interest in chemistry , and her sister Bronia had become a medical doctor in France . Bronia insisted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belongings and traveled by train to France in 1891 . She received a scholarship and began studying mathematics and physics at the Sorbonne . Although she originally lived with her sister and her sister 's husband , she found that the distance she needed to travel to the Sorbonne and the frequent interruptions of her studies at home necessitated that she rent a small room near the university . Because Marie had to live on a tight budget of 100 francs a month , she often had to go without food or coal for her stove even during the coldest months of winter . She fainted from hunger on more than one occasion , and she suffered various illnesses because of her malnourishment . Despite her personal hardships , however , Marie pursued her studies with a single-minded dedication and passed the grueling license examinations in physics and mathematics with honors in 1893 and 1894 , respectively . During this time , she met Pierre Curie , who had made a name for himself investigating magnetic phenomena and discovering " piezoelectricity " and worked as the chief of the laboratory at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year , they were married , and Marie joined Pierre in his laboratory . She heard of Becquerel 's work and decided to devote her life to the study of radioactivity . In this effort , she was supported by her husband Pierre , and they began a systematic investigation of the radioactivity of the heavy elements . They not only confirmed Becquerel 's discoveries but also made some important new discoveries , namely , that thorium oxide is even more radioactive , gram for gram , than metallic uranium , and that the intensity of the rays emitted increases with but is not proportional to the concentration of the uranium or thorium in a compound . This nonproportionality puzzled physicists for some time until they found the correct answer ? that some of the rays emitted by a radioactive atom are reabsorbed by other atoms in the  | materials that have already emitted rays . The Curies also showed conclusively that radioactivity is a process of individual atoms and not a collective process ; each atom emits a single ray and no more , so that radioactivity is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success came , however , with their discovery of the radioactivity of radium and their isolation of that element from pitchblende . Marie Curie had noted that the mineral pitchblende , a uranium oxide mineral , is far more radioactive than an equal amount of pure uranium . She therefore concluded that pitchblende contains a far more radioactive element than uranium . With Pierre 's help , she verified this assumption by isolating radium from pitchblende in 1898 , a momentous event that gave birth to the science of radiochemistry . The Curies carried out their work under difficult conditions that can not be appreciated by a chemist working in a modern laboratory . Their researches on polonium and radium had necessitated that each of the elements be isolated and their atomic weights determined , a task that was accomplished only by processing tons of pitchblende ore . After the ore was processed , the Curies had to carry out a number of chemical investigations , but the absence of any space in the laboratory meant that they had to set up a makeshift laboratory in an abandoned wooden shed across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It was in these quarters , stifling hot in summer and freezing cold in winter , that the fanatically dedicated couple endured forty-five months of almost unremitting labor to prepare a sample of pure radium chloride and to determine its atomic weight . " 7 The herculean effort left them both exhausted , especially since they had taken on additional teaching duties during that time to supplement their meager income. ? Marie did not realize it then , but her persistent anemia and physical exhaustion were due to her exposure to the debilitating effects of the radiation . Although Marie had begun her work in radioactivity to complete her doctoral requirements at the Sorbonne , she had neglected to go through the formalities of applying for a degree . The obvious merit of her work convinced the administrators to relax the formal requirements ; they gave her the doctoral examination in June 1903 and soon thereafter conferred the degree . What is especially remarkable is that within six months of receiving her degree , Marie , along with her husband Pierre , shared in the 1903 Nobel Prize in Physics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were too ill to go to Stockholm to the formal ceremony . Even if they had been healthy , it is not certain that the Curies would have made  | the trip to Stockholm , because they abhorred receptions and social functions , believing them to be an unjustifiable distraction from their work in the laboratory . The next few years saw the Curies continue their investigations of the properties of radium . In 1905 , a chair in physics was created for Pierre at the Sorbonne . Soon afterward , he was elected to the Academy of Sciences . Unfortunately , he was unable to enjoy his new status for very long , as he was killed on April 19 , 1906 , by a horse-drawn van while trying to cross a street in inclement weather . His death at the age of 46 brought even greater pressures on Marie , who had to raise the couple 's two young daughters by herself . Despite the conservative attitudes of several of the faculty members of the Sorbonne who questioned whether any woman was fit to be a physics professor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council to succeed to Pierre 's chair at the Sorbonne , where she continued her work in the laboratory.5 Her appointment was something of a milestone , for it was the first time a woman had been elected to teach at the Sorbonne . Even though she did not enjoy her classroom lectures very much , believing herself better suited for conducting experiments in the laboratory , her use of demonstration experiments coupled with her worldwide fame helped to ensure the popularity of her lectures . Marie continued her selfless dedication to science , declining the Legion of Honor in 1910 , as she had an earlier pension offer by the Ministry of Education.6 She was persuaded to stand as a candidate for the Academy of Sciences , but a scandalous newspaper article alleging that she had had an affair with an assistant caused the academy to reject her application for admission in favor of another , relatively undistinguished scientist.6 Undaunted , Marie turned her attention to helping to create a radium institute and to establishing official standards for radium . The 1910 Radiology Congress in Belgium charged her with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to be deposited with the International Bureau of Weights and Measures in Paris.6 That same congress also honored the memory of her husband by defining the curie as a unit measure of radioactive emanation from radium.6 In 1911 , Marie received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry , becoming the first person to receive two Nobel Prizes . Most of the money was used to fund research projects . In 1914 , the Conseil de 1'Institut du Radium was formed , and its building was completed later that year.6 Marie served as a member of the Conseil , but she found the administrators to be unsympathetic to many of the research projects she proposed . Although she was  | soft-spoken and almost shy around nonscientists , the outbreak of World War I and the heavy medical casualties suffered by the French armies bearing the brunt of the German invasion in northern France convinced Marie to make public pleas for funds to equip ambulances in the field with radiology equipment . The funding effort was successful , and Marie was elected by the Red Cross to be the official head of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marie devised advanced courses in radiology and taught doctors new techniques for locating foreign objects in the human body.6 Following the Armistice in 1918 , the Radium Institute began to operate , and Marie joined its staff . In 1921 , a private fund-raising campaign in the United States solicited enough contributions to purchase 1 gram of radium , which was officially presented to Marie by President Warren G. Harding during her visit to the United States that same year. ? Although Marie never cared for the publicity that had followed her since the receipt of her first Nobel Prize , she was deeply touched by the presentation , as it had been instigated by a journalist who was impressed with Marie 's sense of dedication and national service. ? Marie spent the remaining years of her scientific career supervising the expanding staff at the Radium Institute , which by 1933 included 17 different nationalities. ? However , she was forced to cut back on her official duties owing to poor health . She underwent four cataract operations and often suffered from lesions on the fingers . Owing to her inability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home in Paris.7 Her health continued to decline , and she died peacefully on July 4 , 1939 . Although she was given many honors and tributes after her death , perhaps the most moving was one offered by Albert Einstein , who wrote : " Her strength , her purity of will , her austerity toward herself , her objectivity , her incorruptible judgment ? all these were of a kind seldom found joined in a single individual . . . . The greatest scientific deed of her life ? proving the existence of radioactive elements and isolating them ? owes its accomplishment not merely to bold intuition but to a devotion and tenacity in execution under the most extreme hardships imaginable , such as the history of science has not often witnessed . " 8 Ernest Rutherford ( 1871-1937 ) , who brought order out of the chaos of the apparently unrelated radioactive phenomena that the research of the Curies had discovered , became one of the greatest experimental physicists of all time . He was born at Brightwater , near Nelson , on the north coast of South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 children ; both his parents were first-generation New Zealanders , having been brought to that  | caption country as children from Scotland by their parents . When Ernest was four , the family moved about a dozen miles to the town of Foxhill , where Ernest received his early primary education . The family stayed in Foxhill until 1882 , when they moved to the town of Havelock , where Ernest won an academic scholarship that made it possible for him to enroll at Nelson College.9 Although Rutherford was particularly interested in science and mathematics , he excelled in all subjects . His fine academic performance at Nelson earned him a scholarship to Canterbury College at Christchurch , New Zealand , where he earned both his baccalaureate and master 's degrees , the latter with honors in mathematics and physical science.10 During this time , he constructed a homemade apparatus in his basement and investigated the propagation of electromagnetic waves . Rutherford also won a two-year scholarship to study at Cambridge as a research assistant ; he was digging potatoes in a field when his mother told him that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he reportedly tossed the shovel aside and said , " That is the last potato I will dig . " lo Rutherford began his work on x rays in 1896 as a research assistant to  | J. J. Thomson at the Cavendish Laboratory . He was particularly interested in the ionization of atoms by x rays and the recombination of such atoms with free electrons . It was therefore quite natural for him to go on to study the ionizing properties of Becquerel rays ; his most important radioactivity discoveries stemmed from this work . He showed , first , that the Becquerel rays ( the radiation from radioactive atoms ) are not homogeneous but consist of at least two different components , which he called " alpha rays " and " beta rays , " the alpha particles being the components in the radiation from uranium . He found the alpha rays to be far less penetrating than the beta rays and both rays to consist of charged particles . Later , he showed that the beta rays are electrons and the alpha rays are positively charged ( doubly ionized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference in the speed with which the alpha and beta rays are emitted stems from their mass difference ; the alpha particle mass is about 8000 times that of the beta particle mass . From his analysis of the behavior of alpha and beta particles in electric and magnetic fields , Rutherford deduced their electric charges , which are very close to today 's accepted values . Rutherford spent several years working with Thomson at Cambridge . In 1898 , he was offered a professorship at McGill University in Montreal , Canada , and , despite some misgivings at leaving what was then perhaps the finest laboratory in the world and his mentor Thomson , who was then among the foremost investigators of atomic phenomena , he accepted the job . Soon after he began working at McGill , Rutherford discovered that the radioactivity of thorium decreases exponentially over time.11 At this point , he met Frederick Soddy , a talented chemist who had recently joined the chemistry department as a demonstrator . With the help of Soddy , Rutherford soon determined that atoms are not stable , as had long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a series of transformations , as indicated by radioactive emanations.12 By a series of experiments with thorium nitrate , Rutherford and Soddy " reached the general conclusion that radioactivity is a manifestation of subatomic change ? a conclusion that seems prophetic in view of the nuclear atom , which Rutherford was to propose nine years later . " 13 The experimental , work of Rutherford and Soddy revolutionized chemistry because it altered the basic view of matter as immutable by showing that all radioactive elements undergo spontaneous transformation into new elements . Despite the importance of Rutherford 's work at McGill University , he felt that he was somewhat isolated from the important work then being done in atomic physics . When Arthur Schuster , the head of the physics department of Manchester University , retired in 1907 , Rutherford was  | offered the opportunity to take his place.14 He accepted the invitation immediately and , after arriving in England later that year , began his researches in atomic physics , which culminated in his discovery of the nuclear atom . One of his most remarkable achievements at Manchester was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hypothesis that had been raised some years earlier but that had evaded the efforts of many scientists to provide direct experimental proof of until Rutherford 's own work at Manchester.14 His fame as an experimental physicist had grown , so that he was now in great demand as a lecturer for both scientific and lay audiences . Although Rutherford found the demands on his schedule to be onerous at times , he welcomed the opportunities to inform both his colleagues and the wider audience about the revolutionary discoveries then being made about the atom . One of his most famous lectures occurred in 1904 , when he visited the Royal Society in London and demonstrated , using measures of radioactive decay , that the earth 's age is not the few million years suggested by Lord Kelvin , but instead is at least several hundred times that figure.15 Kelvin 's estimate had assumed that the source of the sun 's power is the heat generated by its gravitational contraction , but Rutherford showed that this could not be , because such a form of power generation would not be sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Rutherford 's estimate of the earth 's age based on the rate of decay of certain radioactive elements . Rutherford 's arrival in Manchester began the most productive stage of his scientific career . He had already published some 50 important papers and was recognized as an eminent physicist , but he was not content to rest on past achievements.16 Invigorated by the almost daily discussions he had with other noteworthy physicists and chemists , Rutherford plunged into his research and teaching duties with renewed enthusiasm . Within a year of his arrival at Manchester , he was awarded the Bressa Prize by the Turin Academy of Sciences for his demonstration of the mutability of matter and an honorary degree from Trinity College , Dublin.17 His greatest honor and irony came later in 1908 , when he was rewarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry ? an award that Rutherford found both annoying and amusing , since he considered himself to be a physicist . Rutherford 's investigations of the thorium family of radioactive elements convinced him that the the alpha particles emitted during radioactive decay can be used as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiments had shown that the atom consists almost entirely of empty space , and he found Hans Geiger 's work on the scattering of alpha particles to be crucial to his formulation of an atomic model consisting of  | a positively charged nucleus.18 Rutherford 's own experiments with scattering alpha particles hinted at the vast energies bound up inside individual atoms , and his measurements showed him that the atomic nucleus is very compact , 3 x 10 ? 10 centimeters in diameter ; these results represented the beginning of what is now known as the nuclear atom.18 In 1914 , Rutherford 's scientific achievements were officially recognized by the Crown , and he was knighted . He was still a relatively young man who was somewhat ill at ease with being addressed as " Sir Ernest Rutherford . " However , he took the award in stride , as he had done with the Nobel Prize six years earlier . Rutherford continued his own research while carrying out extensive correspondence with other scientists , such as Otto Hahn and Lise Meitner , who were studying the nature of gamma rays.19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out by his research assistants , although the outbreak of World War I in 1914 ended the collegial atmosphere that had existed up to that time as Rutherford 's assistants were assigned to different research projects to help assist the British government 's war against Germany . Rutherford himself did his part for the war effort by trying to find ways to detect submarines as well as spending a year as a member of the British mission to the United States.I9 After the war , Rutherford completed his famous experiments on the artificial disintegration of nitrogen by alpha-particle bombardment and , shortly thereafter , left Manchester to become the Director of the Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge and a fellow of Trinity College.20 In 1920 , Rutherford gave another lecture to the Royal Society and presented his theory of radioactivity , " suggesting the existence of a neutral particle of unit mass " ? which was later called the " neutron " by its discoverer , James Chadwick.20 Later that year , Rutherford proposed that the nucleus of the hydrogen atom ? owing to its positive charge ? be referred to as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use to this day.20 Rutherford 's administrative duties were interspersed with frequent lectures and awards ceremonies . He was given many honorary degrees and the Order of Merit . He became president of the Royal Society in 1925 and was made a baron by the Crown in 1931 , so that he was now formally known as Baron Rutherford of Nelson . Although he enjoyed his many honors and the attention lavished on him by the popular press , Rutherford continued to devote himself to supervising the work being done at Cavendish as well as keeping up with the newest discoveries of nuclear physics , including Chadwick 's discovery of the neutron , Cockroft and Wilson 's use of proton bombardment to induce artificial radioactive decay , and  | Anderson 's discovery of the positron.21 His death at the age of 66 from a strangulated hernia occurred before the first successful nuclear chain reaction was completed , but it is likely that his own experimental work provided him with some suggestion of the destructive power that could be unleashed by the atom.21 A third component of the radioactivity rays ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Villard , who showed that these rays are very penetrating and are not deflected by magnetic fields . Villard correctly concluded that these rays are electromagnetic waves and that , qualitatively , they are the same as x rays , differing only in wavelength . Using the angstrom ( one hundred millionth of a centimeter : 10 ? 8 cm ) as the unit of length , the wavelength of x rays is of the order of a few angstroms and that of gamma rays is 100 ? 1000 times smaller . Rutherford introduced a number of important concepts in the study of radioactivity , the most important of which is probably the half-life of a radioactive element . He defined the half-life as the time required for half a given quantity of a radioactive element to decay , that is , to change into another element by emitting a beta or an alpha particle . He measured the half-life of thorium ( the first half-life to be measured ) by carefully monitoring the rate at which the intensity of the emitted radiation diminished with time and deduced from his measurement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The half-lives of radioactive elements are important in geological dating . Thus , knowledge of the half-life of uranium together with the fraction of uranium in a gram of uranium mixed with lead gives us the age of the earth , if the lead in the gram is the end product of a series of radioactive decays that began with uranium . This leads us to another important discovery contained in Rutherford 's and Frederick Soddy 's famous transformation theory of radioactive elements . In those early days , when no one knew the source of the alpha , beta , and gamma rays , radioactivity was the most mysterious and puzzling of all phenomena confronting physicists , for it clearly appeared to violate the principle of conservation of energy . A radioactive element like uranium seems to emit energy continuously , without any apparent chemical change and uninfluenced by external agencies ; no wonder the physicists of the early 1900s considered it a kind of miracle that defies basic physical laws . Marie Curie described it as " a contradiction , or so it seems , with the principle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lord Kelvin stated that for the first time in the history of the principle of the conservation of energy , Becquerel 's discovery had placed the first question mark against it .  | The difficulty presented by radioactivity arose becuse these early physicists thought of radioactivity as arising from a continuum of matter rather than from individual atoms in the matter . Indeed , the atomic concept was only vaguely understood and was vigorously rejected by some outstanding chemists and physicists , but even if it had been universally accepted at that time , radioactivity would still have presented serious problems , because the atomic concept means indivisibility , contrary to radioactivity , which implies that the radioactive atom is not indivisible because it emits a particle , which implies transformation of elements and a subatomic world . All these difficulties were swept away by the Rutherford and Soddy transformation theory , which starts from the idea ( revolutionary at that time ) that some atoms are unstable and undergo spontaneous transmutations , emitting rays and changing into other kinds of atoms . This did not eliminate the energy difficulty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the form of alpha , beta , and gamma rays in radioactivity far exceeds that produced in any chemical reaction . Pierre Curie and a colleague found in 1903 that 1 gram of radium can raise the temperature of 1.3 grams of water from the melting point to the boiling point in an hour and can go on doing this almost endlessly . These measurements raised the important question as to the source of this energy . This question became critical with the discovery that one of the daughter products of uranium , the radioactive element radon , emits , per unit time , a million times as much energy as is released in the explosive chemical combination of the same volume of hydrogen and oxygen to form water . Most physicists at the time tried to explain this vast radioactive energy as energy from an external source that the atom stored up within itself until it became radioactive and re-emitted it . This external-source hypothesis persisted for some time and was discarded entirely only when nuclear structure was understood . The Rutherford ? Soddy transformation theory is quite straightforward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclei to light ones as a step-by-step process produced by individual atoms in the various dements involved . The end product of a radioactive process depends on whether an alpha , a beta , or a gamma ray is emitted in the process . If an alpha ray ( a helium nucleus ) is emitted , as in the decay of a uranium atom , the atomic weight of the daughter atom is 4 units less than that of the original atom , and its atomic number is reduced by 2 . Thus if A ' is the new atomic weight and N ' is the new atomic number , then A ' = A ? 4 and N ' = N ? 2 , where A and N are the atomic weight and number of the  | original atom . If a beta particle is emitted , the atomic weight is unchanged , and the atomic number is increased by 1 ; that is A ' = A and N ' = N + 1 . If a gamma ray ( a very high-frequency photon ) is emitted , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the emission of gamma rays , the nature of the atom does not change ; the atom changes from a given energy state to a lower energy state , the difference in energy being the energy of the emitted photon . It should be clearly understood that the alpha- , beta- , and gamma-ray processes are in no way related to each other and that a given kind of radioactive atom emits only one kind of particle ; that is , a radioactive atom is either an alpha-particle emitter , a beta-particle emitter , or a gamma-ray emitter and never changes its character . In an aggregate of radioactive atoms of a given kind , one can never predict which atom will decay in any time interval ; one can only predict the total number of atoms that will do so , and the rate at which this happens determines the element 's half-life . The longer the half-life of a radioactive element , the weaker , in general , is its radioactivity . Although the work of Rutherford and Soddy brought enormous order to the physics of radioactivity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and what determines radioactive lifetimes could not be answered until the nucleus was discovered and nuclear theory was developed . The theory of the emission of alpha particles required , in addition , the development of the quantum mechanics . Before we come to that discussion , however , we must consider Albert Einstein 's contributions to the development of modern physics , which influenced every phase of it profoundly .  | Albert Einstein and the Theory of Relativity If a man will begin with certainties , he shall end with doubts ; but if he will be content to begin with doubts , he shall end in certainties . - FRANCIS BACON Albert Einstein ( 1879 ? 1955 ) was born in Ulm , Germany , the son of flermann Einstein and the former Pauline Koch . Like many German Jews who were descendants of peasants , the Einsteins were not overly religious and seldom attended the local synagogue . Both parents had pleasant dispositions ; Alfred 's father , who ran an electrical workshop in Ulm that had been financed by some of Pauline 's relatives , was a jovial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country for a picnic rather than to attend to the more mundane activities of running a business . The failure of I lermann 's business before Albert turned one year old caused Hermann to pack up the family and move to Munich , where he formed a more successful partnership with his brother Jakob running a small electrochemical factory . A year later , Albert 's sister Maja was born ; she became his closest confidant , and her death , when Einstein was 70 years old , distressed him more visibly than the deaths of either of his parents or his two wives . 1 Although Munich was an overwhelmingly Catholic city , the Einsteins encountered few instances of the anti-Semitism that became so notorious in Bavaria with the rise of Nazis 40 years later . The family 's life-style can be summed up as a gentle defiance of convention ; they rarely observed the Sabbath and did not follow the dietary guidelines of their faith . Hermann Einstein considered most of the customs of his faith to be mere superstitions . His attitude toward religious authority was passed down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the  | caption conventions of society in his dress and his views about religion , politics , and , indeed , physics . Like Isaac Newton , Albert was not a precocious child . He was slow to learn to speak and did not become fluent in German until the age of ten . His parents feared that he was retarded , but it seems more likely that he was a daydreamer who was withdrawn from the world.2 Because Albert showed little interest in his lessons at the Catholic school he attended from the age of five to ten , his teachers did not think very highly of his abilities or his prospects ; one instructor reportedly told Hermann that it did not matter what field Albert chose because he would never succeed in it.2 Albert transferred in 1889 to the Luitpold Gymnasium , a typical German school where the teachers were concerned as much with maintaining the  | obedience of the students as they were with teaching them their subjects . This rigid and coercive environment drove home to Albert the virtue of distrusting authority , especially educational authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worse than the other secondary schools in Germany , the willingness of its teachers ? many of whom , Albert later asserted , were unqualified for their jobs ? to use force or coercion to bring unruly or talkative students into line showed Albert that one should always be skeptical of convention . Doubtless , this questioning of authority was to figure greatly in the way he looked at the intellectual edifice of classical physics at the end of the 19th century , when many physicists were urging their students to go into other fields because little work remained to be done . However , one incident did occur while he was at the Gymnasium that made a profound impression on Albert and pointed him toward the subject that he would one day dominate : At the age of 12 , he picked up a mathematics textbook and taught himself geometry before it was presented to his class : " For Einstein , the orderliness and the logic of the theorems made an impression that was never lost . " 3 The failure of Hermann 's business in 1894 preceded a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy . As Albert had not yet completed the requirements for his diploma ( which was necessary for admission to a university ) , he was left behind in the care of his relatives . Unhappy at school and at home , Albert paid less and less attention to his studies ; his indifference to his work became so great that one of the teachers eventually asked him to leave the Gymnasium , advice that Albert happily accepted . He journeyed to Milan to rejoin his family and , owing to the precarious nature of the family finances , began to consider seriously what sort of career he should pursue . His lack of a diploma prevented him from matriculating at any of the universities in Italy , but he soon learned of the Swiss Polytechnique Institute in Zurich , where a diploma was not required for admission ; a prospective candidate had only to pass the entrance examinations . Einstein traveled to Switzerland and took the examination , but did not pass . His failure was due more to inadequate preparation than to lack of knowledge about the sciences and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aarau and boned up on his weaker subjects , such as biology and the languages . Einstein found his year at Aarau to be a pleasant contrast to the Luitpold Gymnasium ; most of the teachers seemed more interested in teaching the students to think for themselves than in bullying them . In any event , he retook the entrance examination in 1896 and was duly admitted to a four-year program of study that , if completed ,  | would qualify him as a teacher . Einstein 's admission to the Swiss Polytechnique Institute in the fall of 1896 occurred six months after he had officially given up his German citizenship , a decision he made owing to his association of military authority with Prussian authority and his unfavorable opinion of Germans in general . Because Einstein had not yet applied for Swiss citizenship , he became a stateless person . His years as a student at the institute were not extraordinary . He carried on lengthy discussions with his friends about subjects ranging from politics and religion to science and mathematics . He dressed casually and played the violin frequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countryside and learned to sail ; after the gloominess of his academic career in Germany , he found life at the institute to be uplifting and gentle . However , his lackadaisical attitude toward classes did not change ; he rarely attended the lectures . He read his books in his room and borrowed notes from his classmates to pass the examinations . Even so , Einstein found the academic requirements demanding , because his desire to become a mathematical physicist required that he receive a thorough grounding in mathematics and the sciences . The demands of the curriculum did convince Einstein of the virtue of self-discipline in learning ; he forced himself to concentrate on mastering the basic principles of each subject even though he continued to believe that class attendance was an impediment to his education . When Einstein graduated in 1900 , he failed to secure a position as an assistant at the institute . Not surprisingly , his lack of interest in his classes did not flatter any of the professors , who felt that Einstein would probably show a similar lack of interest in his job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alfred Wolfer , the director of the Swiss Federal Observatory ; his employment there made it possible for Einstein to meet the requirements for obtaining Swiss citizenship . In December 1900 , Einstein 's first published paper appeared in Annalen der Physik , a work that had been inspired by the pioneering work of the chemist Wilhelm Ostwald on the principles of catalysis.4 Although the paper did not gain him a research job , Einstein eked out a living from substitute teaching and tutoring . During this time of uncertain employment , he completed his thesis on the kinetic theory of gases and sent it to the University of Zurich to satisfy his doctoral requirements . In 1902 , Einstein finally found steady employment as a junior patent examiner in the Swiss Patent Office . Although he had to work six days a week , he found the solitude of his post to be ideal for thinking about space and time and the nature of the physical world .  | For the next three years , Einstein developed his revolutionary ideas about the relationship of space and time in the back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1903 to a former classmate of his , Mileva Maric , enabled him to avoid the time-consuming daily chores of cooking and cleaning , though it is doubtful that Einstein cared whether his trousers were pressed or his dinner served warm . In any event , he spent most of his free time thinking about Newtonian physics and gradually developed a theoretical framework that convinced him that Newton 's concept of absolute space and absolute time was erroneous . What is especially remarkable about this three-year period is that Einstein did not discuss his ideas with any professional physicists , but developed them entirely on his own . Because Einstein had not yet received his doctorate when he submitted the three papers he had written to Annalen der Physik , he faced the additional hurdle of having his papers considered seriously , since he did not possess outstanding academic qualifications . Fortunately , the revolutionary character of his papers was recognized , and Wilhelm Wien , the editor of Annalen der Physik , saw that they were the work of a young man ? then 26 years old ? who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The papers were " comparatively short , and all contained the foundations for new theories even though they did not elaborate on them ? blazing rockets which in the dark of the night suddenly cast a brief but powerful illumination over an immense unknown region , ' as they have been described by Louis de Broglie. " 5 Even so , Einstein 's ideas were not universally accepted from the start , because it is clear that a number of conservative scholars resisted his more sweeping conclusions until definitive proof of his theories was gathered by experimental physicists : " The first of his papers revived the corpuscular theory of light by introducing the revolutionary idea of the free photon ? the atom of light ? as an explanation for radiation phenomena ( other than black body radiation ) and especially as an explanation for the photoelectric effect . His ideas in this latter field were verified by Robert Millikan 's experiments between 1912 and 1915 . The second paper was a mathematical theory of Brownian motion that provided further proof of the reality of gas molecules on the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gas molecules . This prediction was verified by the beautiful experiments of Jean Perrin in 1909 . Finally , the third paper , his first publication on the theory of relativity , dealt with that branch of the subject now called the special theory which has been most useful in atomic physics . " 6 Although Einstein 's work was favorably received by some of the  | most distinguished European scientists , such as Max Planck , the one man whom Einstein idolized , it did not catapult him to overnight fame . One reason it did not is that even though his papers were clearly written and lacked the ponderous footnotes that usually pervade most papers appearing in scientific journals , they required scientists who had built their careers propping up aspects of Newtonian mechanics and Maxwell 's theory of electromagnetism , hitherto considered distinct and essentially unrelated branches of physics , to consider that they might somehow be related by the speed of light ? the so-called " cosmic speed limit . " Since Newtonian mechanics assumes that an object can travel at any speed so long as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's conclusion that nothing can travel faster than the speed of light upset a cornerstone of classical physics . In direct opposition to Newton , Einstein showed that an infinite amount of energy must be transferred to an object for it to travel at the speed of light ? an impossible task , since the amount of available energy in the universe is finite . As news of Einstein 's work slowly spread through the universities of the world , Einstein continued to work at the Swiss Patent Office until 1909 . He was now one of its most technically proficient examiners , and his value was recognized by his employers in the form of successive wage increases . As he had always regarded his job in the patent office as a temporary one even though it provided him with the time he needed to formulate his basic theories , he had no second thoughts about leaving his post when he accepted the position of associate professor of physics at the University of Zurich in 1909 . Einstein 's formal entry into the academic world did not greatly alter his life-style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that at the Swiss Patent Office . Although he earned some extra money by giving lectures , the higher costs of living in Zurich absorbed most of this gain , so that far from being content with his situation , Einstein was receptive to the informal offers that were made to him by representatives of several other institutions , most notably the German University in Prague . The promise of a full professorship , more money , and fewer expenses was an important factor in his decision to move to Prague in 1910 for two years , but he was especially impressed with the facilities , especially the library at Prague . When Einstein arrived in Prague , he began to formulate his ideas on the curvature of time and space by mass and energy , which became the basis of the general theory of relativity . He soon found that his official university duties , especially the routine experimental work and student lectures , took up much more of his time than he was willing to give .  | Within a few months , his initial enthusiasm about moving to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German University and returned to Zurich , but he was in Switzerland for only one year before he accepted the post of director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in Berlin . Although Einstein had never cared for Germany or its people , as shown by his forfeiture of his German citizenship as a teenager , he had been swayed by the personal pleas of Planck and Walter Nernst , two of the most distinguished physicists at that time , to join them in Berlin . Not only was Einstein promised the directorate of the institute , but also he was offered a nominal professorship at the University of Berlin that would free him from the mundane duties of lectures and laboratory sessions and permit him to devote himself fully to his research . As the move to Berlin also meant a doubling of the salary Einstein had been receiving at Zurich , the offer was irresistible . The Einsteins moved to Berlin in April 1914 , amid the threatening clouds of war , but Mileva could not stand living in Berlin , so she left Einstein to return to Switzerland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's marriage had been in trouble for some time , and , since he had always put his work before his family , the end of his marriage did not cause him a great deal of personal grief , particularly since he was immersed in a massive effort to correct the mathematical errors in his general theory of relativity . The outbreak of the Great War substantially altered the university atmosphere as many of Einstein 's colleagues began devoting themselves to government research that promoted the war effort . Einstein avoided being drawn into such work and saw the German invasions of Russia and France as a folly that would only bring great suffering to all the European states , with little to show for the bloodshed . The German sweep through neutral Belgium also intensified Einstein 's dislike for what he saw as the particularly militaristic character of Germany , even though much of his salary was paid from endowments originally set up by German industrialists . Einstein believed that a European government was the only alternative to the conflagration that was destroying an entire generation of young men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pacifist , and his views about wars and self-defense were somewhat naive ; his belief that no war could be justified did not change until he reluctantly concluded in the 1930s that a war was necessary to rid the world of Adolf Hitler . In any event , Einstein 's Swiss nationality protected him from much of an official backlash for his " unpatriotic " behavior and enabled him to travel to Switzerland on several occasions during the war .  | In 1916 , Einstein 's paper outlining his general theory of relativity appeared in Annalen der Physik . In less than 60 pages , Einstein showed that space is not merely a backdrop against which the events of the universe unfold , but that space itself has a fundamental structure that is affected by the energy and masses of the bodies it contains . Of Einstein 's work , Max Born remarked that the " theory appears to me to be the greatest feat of human thinking about nature , the most amazing combination of philosophical penetration , physical intuition , and mathematical skill . But its connections with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great work of art , to be enjoyed and admired from a distance . " 7 Einstein 's paper incorporated the positively curved geometry of Georg Riemann , casting aside the flat planes and straight lines of Euclid , so that the curvature of space by energy and matter and the bending of light rays by gravity could be mathematically described . Einstein 's general theory required an intensity of concentration involving months of agonizingly complex calculations as well as a total neglect of his own physical health . He suffered a nervous breakdown in 1917 after publishing two other significant papers dealing with the stimulated emission of light and the structure of the universe , the former of which provided the theoretical basis for the laser and the latter of which would found the subject of modern cosmology . Einstein slowly regained his health with the help of his second cousin Elsa , whom he married in 1919 . Even though Einstein was now recognized as one of the greatest physicists of the 20th century , if not the greatest , his fame did not extend far beyond scientific circles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British expedition led by Sir Arthur Eddington journeyed to Principe Island in the Gulf of Guinea , where they photographed a solar eclipse ; their analysis of the plates , six months later , showed that the path of the light of a distant star passing near the rim of the sun during the eclipse was in fact bent by the gravitational field of the sun , thus confirming Einstein 's theory . The restructuring of space and time that was completed with the confirmation of Einstein 's general theory led to a torrent of articles and books about relativity and its creator . The predictions of his theory of relativity , which often seemed at odds with common sense , intrigued the public , and his charismatic personality and " common man " appearance were attractive subjects . With this worldwide attention came thousands of invitations to lecture and write , most of which Einstein turned down , since they would take too much time from his work . However , he did become  | actively involved in the Zionist movement to establish a Jewish nation in Palestine and lent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for " his contributions to mathematical physics and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect . " No mention was made of relativity because of Alfred Nobel 's stipulation in his will that the awards be given for discoveries that benefited mankind ; it was difficult for the Nobel committee to agree how the theory of relativity had improved the condition of mankind . Einstein met Niels Bohr for the first time in 1920 , and while the two men admired each other greatly from the start , they were inflexible opponents who debated the implications of the quantum theory for the next three decades , each convinced that the other was wrong : " For it was Einstein who , fifteen years earlier , had first brought an air of unexpected respectability to the idea that light might conceivably consist both of wave and of particle and to the notion that Planck 's quantum theory might be applied not only to radiation but to matter itself . It was Bohr who was to bring scientific plausibility to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance for the second with his explanation of Rutherford 's nuclear atom . Yet these very ideas were to create not a unity between the two men but a chasm. " s Although Bohr was eventually acknowledged the victor by most physicists and his argument that causality is not necessary in quantum physics accepted , Einstein 's belief in a deterministic universe , as evidenced by his oft-quoted remark that " God does not play dice , " led him to continue arguing against the probabilistic statistics favored by Bohr until the end of his life . Einstein 's philosophical views about the quantum physics that he had done so much to create and nurture caused him to be left behind by the physics community in the later years of his life and hastened his withdrawal from the mainstream of modern physics . Until Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933 , Einstein remained at Berlin . Although greatly admired by portions of the population , who saw him as a symbol of the " new German " and German scientific prowess , he was vilified by other groups such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heritage . He was the subject of death threats and numerous staged meetings in which " distinguished scientists " met to discuss the fundamental flaws of the theory of relativity . Einstein found the anti-Semitic displays to be more pathetic than threatening , but he complained that the tumult only increased the fears felt by the Jewish community in Germany . On more than one occasion , however , he seriously considered leaving Germany for good , only to be persuaded by  | Planck to stay because his departure would be a tremendous loss to the University of Berlin and the German nation itself , which was still trying to dig itself out of the disaster of the Great War . Despite his dislike of Germany , Einstein repeatedly passed up tempting offers from other European universities because he felt that it was his duty to stay behind while the shaky Weimar government established itself . More important , he knew that he was already at the most distinguished scientific center in the world and that his departure would complicate the efforts he had begun in 1920 to formulate a mathematical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so-called " unified field theory . " The collapse of the world economy in 1929 and the subsequent rise to power of the Nazis spelled the end of Einstein 's career at Berlin . It also marked an evolution of his political views from that of absolute pacifism to qualified support for defensive wars . Einstein saw Hitler as the threat to peace in Europe and realized that if his anti-Semitic speeches were any indication of his true intentions , Einstein 's head would be among the first to be served on a platter . The venom of the Fascists intensified his support for the Zionist movement ? even though he distrusted some of its more radical leaders ? and encouraged him to begin thinking about where he would go if and when Hitler came to power . Einstein did not have long to wait for an answer . In the early 1930s , he was a visiting professor at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena for two winters . His third visit to Pasadena in 1933 preceded Adolf Hitler 's appointment as chancellor of Germany and brought forth the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After a well-publicized tour of America that was not without controversy owing to Einstein 's left-wing political sympathies , he traveled to Belgium , where he gave his German passport to a German embassy representative in Brussels and settled at Oersted while he considered offers made by several universities , including California , Oxford , and the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton , the latter of which he joined at the end of 1933 . Aside from occasional trips around the United States , Einstein remained at Princeton until his death in 1955 . Although the final years of Einstein 's career were spent in a fruitless search for the unified-field equations , he did not regret the time he spent on this work , since he felt that he had established his own scientific reputation and had nothing to lose even if the entire effort came to naught . Given the skepticism of his colleagues that a single set of equations could be found that would explain all physical processes in the universe , Einstein believed that he was the only one who could perform such a towering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single-minded determination for nearly 30 years despite the death of his second wife Elsa in 1936 and his growing suspicion that his intuitive mastery of physics was eroding . Perhaps Einstein 's most significant act while at Princeton was to send his famous letter to President Franklin Roosevelt in the spring of 1940 warning that a fission bomb might be constructed by the Nazis and urging a coordinated research effort by the United States government . Although fission research was proceeding at a number of American universities before Einstein became involved , his letter helped to spur government interest in nuclear research . Einstein also worked for the United States Navy 's Bureau of Ordnance as a consultant from 1943 to 1946 . After the war , Einstein divided his time between his work and his efforts to speak out against the threat of nuclear war . He correctly saw that America 's participation in an international effort to control the development and proliferation of nuclear weapons during the postwar era was a prerequisite for maintaining some sort of global peace . Einstein also continued to speak out in favor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of Israel , a largely ceremonial post , in 1952 following the death of Chaim Weizmann . Although Einstein was deeply honored , he declined the offer , saying that he was too old to move to Israel . His health , which had steadily worsened , limited his activity , and while he retained his confidence in himself to the very end , he found his stomach cramps and nausea to be a persistent warning of his own mortality . His last important act , a few days before his death , was to sign a declaration , originally sponsored by Bertrand Russell , outlining the dangers of nuclear war and urging all nations to resolve their disputes peacefully . THE REVOLUTIONARY NATURE OF THE THEORY OF RELATIVITY No single event in the history of science has had so profound an effect on man 's thinking as the promulgation of the theory of relativity , which occurred in two vast intellectual steps , as the special theory in 1905 and the general theory in 1915 . To many people , this statement may appear presumptuous and somewhat drastic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to Planck 's quantum theory as having influenced our thinking more than the theory of relativity . That evolution and the quantum theory have played very important roles in our understanding  | of the universe is true , but on balance , the theory of relativity is the most important product of science , for it influences every phase of philosophical and scientific thinking . The merging of three-dimensional space and one-dimensional time into a four-dimensional space ? time manifold as demanded by relativity theory has altered philosophy enormously , so that owing to relativity theory , modern philosophy is as different from Kantian philosophy as modern physics is from classical physics . Insofar as physics itself is concerned , the theory of relativity stands above all other theories , in that it is a kind of master theory against which all other theories must be measured . An acceptable physical theory must be " relativistically invariant , " in that it must conform to certain constraints imposed by the theory . This requirement applies to the quantum theory as it does to all other theories , so that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the theory of relativity . But the relationship of the quantum theory to the relativity theory goes deeper than that , for the theoretical basis of the quantum theory indicates that it may be derivable from relativity theory . Putting these considerations aside for the time , we note that to most people , the essence of modern physics is contained in the theory of relativity , and at the same time , the theory is also the great scientific mystique that they must accept without question . The very word " relativity " conveys something of that mystery , for nothing in it gives the slightest indication of its subject matter or any clue as to its relationship to a theory of nature . Indeed , most people think of relativity from the general point of view that the appearances and apparent sizes of objects vary as the observer 's position with respect to these objects changes . This variation is evident , but if this were all there is to relativity , classical physics would not have been affected by it and there would have been no need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a theory of the relativity of motion , and therein lies its great impact on physics and on our thinking in general . Although Einstein 's first paper on relativity , together with two other revolutionary papers ( one of which we have already discussed in Chapter 12 ) , appeared in Annalen der Physik in 1905 , it is clear from Einstein 's later writings that the ideas for the special theory of relativity began to germinate in about 1900 when certain features of the behavior of light puzzled him . Physics , as described in the previous chapter , was growing rapidly and revealing many new features of matter and energy , but one experiment brought consternation and confusion ? the famous Michelson ? Morley experiment . Since this experiment had a direct bear-  | ing on the acceptance of the theory of relativity , although historical evidence indicates that Einstein did not know about it when he wrote his relativity paper , it is useful to examine this experiment . In 1886 , when Alfred Michelson was in the physics department of the University of Chicago , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Michelson 's great interest in the propagation of light and measurements of its speed in a vacuum indicated to him that he could , from such measurements , determine the speed of the earth ( in its solar orbit ) with respect to the " all-pervasive ether , " which at that time was one of the accepted features of the universe . Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory of light had shown that light is propagated as a wave through the vacuum , and since wave propagation was thought to require a medium , the " luminiferous ether " was proposed as such a medium , even though no experimental evidence for it had ever been obtained . Michelson proposed to detect the ether by comparing the speed of light moving in the direction of the earth 's motion with the speed of a beam moving at right angles ( perpendicular ) to the earth 's motion . The difference between these two speeds should then not only demonstrate the earth 's motion but also actually give the speed of the earth in its orbit . The theoretical basis of the experiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion creates a stream of ether , opposite to the earth 's velocity , just as a moving vehicle creates a stream of air that flows past the vehicle . The speed of light as measured on the earth should either be or not be affected by the ether stream , depending on whether the light is moving parallel to the stream ( with it or against it ) or perpendicular to the stream . The analysis here is exactly the same as that applied to two equally fast swimmers in a river ; one swims a given distance downstream and back , and the other , starting from the same point at the same time , swims the same distance across the river and back . The two swimmers can not return to their starting point at the same time ; the cross-stream swimmer always returns first , as one can show from the simple law of the arithmetic addition of speeds . If light is propagated through an all-pervasive fixed ether in space , the ether stream created by the earth 's motion should delay a beam of light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion , strikes a mirror at a definite distance from the light source and returns , compared to an identical beam moving to an equidistant mirror and back at right angles to the earth 's motion . The Michelson and Morley apparatus was extremely sensitive and had been designed to detect a time-of-return difference between the two beams even if the earth 's speed around the sun had been 1 mile per second instead of its true speed of 181 miles per  | second ; they detected no difference whatsoever , to Michelson 's bitter disappointment , for he considered the experiment a failure . He concluded that the experiment , as designed , could not detect the earth 's motion . Although Michelson rejected his experiment and dismissed it as of no significance , other physicists at that time saw in its null-result a very important statement about nature , although they were not aware of its importance . The physicist Hendrik Antoon Lorentz made the boldest attempt within the framework of classical physics to explain the Michelson ? Morley null-result , using his electron theory of matter . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but his result was startling : His analysis showed that a moving spherical electron is flattened somewhat in the direction of its motion owing to its electrical properties , and the faster it moves , the more it is flattened . Lorentz therefore reasoned that matter , consisting of electrons , is flattened somewhat along the line of its motion if it is moving . He used this analysis to explain the negative result of the Michelson ? Morley experiment and stated that the path to the mirror and back of the light moving parallel to the earth 's motion shrinks and thus allows this beam to go and return at exactly the same time as the perpendicular beam . The remarkable part of this analysis is that it states that the shrinkage along the line of motion is exactly the right amount to cancel the delay produced by the ether stream in the time of flight of the beam of light moving parallel to the ether stream . This effect is known as the Fitzgerald ? Lorentz contraction hypothesis , since the British theoretical physicist Fitzgerald had proposed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The contraction hypothesis was not taken seriously , since it seemed like too much of a conspiracy for the electrostatic interactions among the charged particles constituting matter to reduce the length of one of the arms ( the one parallel to the earth 's motion ) of the Michelson ? Morley apparatus by just the right amount to give the null-result that the experimenters found . This null-result remained a thorn in the side of theoretical physicists until it was brilliantly explained in Einstein 's first paper , which spelled out the special theory of relativity . This paper brought about a revolution of the first magnitude in our concepts of space and time and the laws of nature . Its impact on science was immeasurable . Einstein did not develop the special theory of relativity to explain the Michelson ? Morley null-result , for he did not know of that experiment when he produced his theory ; indeed , he was out of touch with the mainstream of physics at the time and knew no physicists at all . But he did  | know Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light ? particularly its motion . He was also prompted in his work by a sense of the unity of the laws of nature and his comprehension that this unity means that the laws of moving bodies ( Newtonian mechanics ) and the laws of optics ( propagation of light ) must be on the same footing in nature ; that is , the two sets of laws must be governed by the same set of overall principles . In particular , he was convinced that if the laws of mechanics appear the same for all observers regardless of their motions with respect to each other , so should the laws of optics . This is the essence of Einstein 's famous principle of the invariance of the laws of nature , which we explain more fully later . To see the significance of this concept , we consider mechanical experiments ( watching objects in flight , projecting objects , or even moving about ourselves ) and try , by observing the behavior of these objects , to determine our motion through space . No matter how carefully we observe such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us whether or not we are on a moving planet . This is also true if we are on a train or in an airplane moving with constant speed in the same straight line ? we can not detect our uniform motion ( motion at constant speed in a straight line ) by any observation within our vehicle . The reason is that Newton 's laws of motion are independent of the uniform motion of the observer , so that these laws can not change when the observer goes from one uniformly moving frame of reference to another ( transformation of coordinates ) . This is often taken for granted owing to constant exposure to such phenomena in our experience , particularly in a smoothly moving airplane ; as far as anything we observe in the plane goes , we might as well be at rest . Einstein carried over these ideas to optical phenomena and convinced himself that the laws of optics can no more reveal our uniform motion than can the laws of mechanics . This means , as outlined by Einstein , that Maxwell 's equations that describe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depend on the motion of the observer . But these equations contain the speed of the electromagnetic wave , that is , the speed of light , and this speed can not depend on the motion of the observer , for if it did , optical phenomena via Maxwell 's equations could be used to determine one 's absolute motion through space in the manner of the Michelson ? Morley experiment or some other optical experiment . Einstein saw that the speed of light in a vacuum must be independent of the motion of the source of the light and of the motion of the observer . This means that the speed of light , as measured by any observer , can not depend on the                     