@@773751

txt // architecture . Therefore , our four 1919-20 projects , replete with the aggressive iconoclasm expressed in the painting credo , must be considered primarily on the basis of internal visual evidence . On first glance , Rodchenko 's " Down With Imperialism " Kiosk ( Fig. 8 ) , the " The Future-Our Only Goal " Kiosk ( Fig. 9 ) , the architectural project for the Soviet Deputies ( Fig. 10 ) , and the " All Power to the Soviets " Kiosk ( Fig. 11 ) , seem to challenge all verbal description . The bits and pieces of constructional flotsam are suspended in space as if caught by a fast lens recording a building 's detonation . The projects recall Tatlin 's Corner Counter-Relief as well as Rodchenko 's own Abstract Composition created circa 1918 . Spatially , they resemble Malevich 's disassociated Suprematist elements nonchalantly floating in space . But Rodchenko 's apparent visual chaos is illusory . On closer inspection , his four designs surrender similarities and they may be described generically . All four projects are designed around a pivotal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground and provides a central fixative principle to which the other components are subordinate . The mast does not dominate overtly , but it is definitely the stable element which the planes , the box trusses , the balconies , the posters , and the buttresses all address from their own improbable directions . As all these items refer to a central axis , the axis becomes an invisible line for the spectator 's spatial reference and a reassuring vertical for his gravitational orientation . The legibility of the overall design is further enhanced by Rodchenko 's appropriation and display of recognizable bits of reality . These include quotations from ideological texts summarized into slogans as well as the omnipresent paternalistic clocks which urge members of the new order to keep tune with the clockwork . Recognizable constructional quotations cite balconies , trusses , diagonal braces , arches , and walls with windows . These elements constitute an expressionistic architectural collage , angular , ambiguous , and illdefined . Geometric relations among the elements are absent , but the elements may all be positioned in space by reference to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are an obvious point of comparison to Ladovsky 's Communal House , but it is Rodchenko 's selection of elements for his architectural collage that really sharpens the political point . The slogans , the public timepieces , and the constructional references will become the identifying emblems of constructivist architecture . His quotations from the building trades are especially noteworthy since they probably are the items that Krinskii referred to as " Paintsculptarch 's " interest in " new construction techniques . " If so , Rodchenko 's architectural projects introduce important constructivist themes but do not anticipate the constructivist aesthetic in its entirety . // One Project by Naum Gabo Naum Gabo 's 1919-1920 Project for a Radio Station ( Fig. 12 ) is of considerable interest because of its similarities to the " Paintsculptarch " designs and because it is uncharacteristic of Gabo 's oeuvre , which displays remarkable consistency . Throughout five decades of accomplishment he was persistently interested in curved surfaces , planar intersections , transparency , and the resilience of edges against visual and tensile forces . The project in question is uncharacteristic . Unlike Gabo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a melange of borrowed and invented elements . Inside and at the project 's ground level he placed a trabeated but windowless rectangular volume . The implied scale suggests a building . It is straddled by five immense pylons which , despite the distortions , are recognizable siblings of the Eiffel Tower 's corner pylons . As in the Eiffel Tower , Gabor 's pylons are joined at their tops by arches . Below this juncture , the elements are recognizable and have been so described . Above the level where the pylons join , Gabo resumes his usual play with curved lines and surfaces , cones , and intersecting planes . This upper zone , notwithstanding the project 's early date , is vintage Gabo . The upper zone recalls favorite cubo-futurist forms while the lower zone resembles Rodchenko 's quotations taken from the familiar man-made environment . It is a collage made from recognizable bits of architectural realities . The upper zone , by contrast , is unadulterated abstract fantasy . Gabo persistently explored pure geometric relationships and the Radio Station , by virtue of its two distinct and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usual preoccupations . Gabo 's project indicates that in 1919-20 the involvement with literal architectural collage was not confined to " Paintsculptarch . " It seems to have also caught the imagination of Soviet artists usually otherwise enthralled . Rodchenko , for instance , had been fascinated with " Light Paintings " in 1918-19 while Gabo had been concurrently experimenting with transparency and the interpenetration of opaque and translucent planes . The Project for a Radio Station differs from Gabo 's customary play with the ambiguities of interpenetrating , transparent planes . Its drawing suggests an additive construction of solid , independent objects that preserve their identity by avoiding the ambiguities of interpenetration . For this reason , the project offers a higher degree of legibility than is customery in Gabo 's sculptures . Ambiguity is further reduced by the trussed pylons . The overt use of unmistakable engineering images endows the project with a structural plausibility that it would otherwise lack . This structural token is in no way a // technocratic fetish ; it simply provides the design with a convenient and familiar structural referent . Finally , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was introduced , Gabo 's Radio Station is politically noncommittal . This may seem to be a minor and an incidental matter but it does become pertinent in the light of Gabo 's emigration from the USSR in 1922 . The nonengage aspect is also worth noting because it contends that a given design procedure transcends the political commitments of its practitioners . Therefore , imagery should not invariably be equated with a particular ideology . Conclusions to Chapter 2 Despite its memorable title , " Paintsculptarch " did less with the synthesis of the arts theme than could reasonably be expected . The group was apparently unconcerned about the implications of its title and was content to let conceptual matters rest . Had its members engaged in theoretical dispute , evidence of such an interest would have doubtlessly survived . However , the few extant statements indicate that the operative notions were far from clear to the participants . For instance , Krinskii 's woolly remark about the group 's interest in " new construction techniques " misses the point about Rodchenko 's structural imagery , and the remark is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ images that this short-lived group created more than compensate for its scanty published testaments . Their architectural projects severed all connections with historical reference , with architectural styles of the past , and with the methods of arriving at architectural form as taught in the Ecole des Beaux Arts . Although Paintsculptarch 's designs were novel formal inventions , in totality as well as in detail , they could be built . They were conceived as architectural projects , a genesis significantly different from the cubo-futurist fantasies discussed in the previous chapter . Although " Paintsculptarch 's " designs disavowed familiar architectural vocabularies , the group 's efforts served to enrich the variety of received architectural form . Admittedly ill-mannered and strident , chaotic and astringent , the projects affirm the arrival of a new architectural attitude just beginning the process of self-definition . Consequently , the inventive and affirmative qualities of the new formal repertoire must be appreciated . The expressionist aspects of their designs must first address our attention . In particular , we must distinguish the visual ploy of " arrested movement , " a visual ploy later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploit the mannerism of arrested movement , and for this reason , the initial manifestation of this predilection requires closer scrutiny . // The cantilevered roof to Ladovsky 's Communal House and the histrionic spikiness of Rodchenko 's four projects may be described as expressionist for their inherent formal dynamism and aggressiveness . Seen in section , a unilateral directionality characterizes Ladovsky 's project , while an omnidirectional dynamism characterizes Rodchenko 's projects . In all cases an active principle emanates from within and advances into the spectator 's space . His spatial territory is threatened by the apparent encroachment of the activated forms . Of course , this is illusion . Whatever inherent visual dynamism the forms may possess , it is arrested by the evident structural stability of those very same forms . Nonetheless , the illusion of movement persists . The intention to suggest movement permeates expressionist architecture and the perception of movement is abetted by the plasticity of expressionist forms . Constructivist forms are usually considered polar opposites to expressionist forms . However , when Ladovsky assumed a rectilinear discipline for his post-1920 projects , he infused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through 1920 . The constructivists were quick to notice these visual dynamics and they appropriated the mannerism of arrested movement for their designs as well . This process will be discussed in more detail later ; at this point we must consider how the spatial ambiguity of " Paintsculptarch 's " expressionist forms was ameliorated . When an observer is confronted by a design playing with the advancement and recession of volumes and surfaces , be they expressionist or otherwise , arrested movement creates stereometric ambiguity . Judgments about distances and the relationships among the forms become problematic . The architect may choose to aid the spectator , or he may decline to do so . In the Communal House project Ladovsky omitted the clues aiding the spectator 's spatial orientation . As a result , the design is spatially unsettling . Rodchenko , on the other hand , distributed the components of his projects about their respective pivotal masts and his projects provide at least that one element of indisputable stability . Considering the free float of all the other components , it is indispensable for clarity . The central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rodchenko 's design repertoire . By introducing balconies , trusses , large clocks , and posters with slogans , Rodchenko distracts attention from stereometric ambiguity . The recognizable elements divert attention from the undefined spatial relationships among the suspended parts and reassure the observer that the overall design is not , after all , complete chaos . The recognizable scraps of urban and architectural entities , even though removed from their familiar contexts , function as reassuring palliatives and visual anodynes . Rodchenko 's maneuver , derived from synthetic cubism , is actually an architectural collage . He transformed Braque and Picasso 's 1912 innovations // in painting into their architectural equivalents . The sawdust and metal filings mixed into pigments by Braque and the oilcloth pasted to canvas by Picasso now found an architectural interpretation . Rodchenko understood the twodimensional collages rather literally , but then , considering " Paintsculptarch 's " own literal title and the group 's hesitant conceptualizations , more than an obvious application of the collage idea should not be expected in the initial breakthrough . Refinements could come later . Rodchenko 's procedure was analogous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawn from several sources . Walls broken by windows and arched entrances derive from vernacular architecture . Balconies derive from nautical mastheads , or more commonly , from buildings so nondescript and widespread that the image is common visual property . The trusses were drawn from engineering structures . And finally , free-standing clocks and signboards are everyday pieces of urban street furniture . Rodchenko did not confine himself solely to architectural sources , and whatever he may have considered as the true influences on his designs , the elements were reassembled and presented in a synthetic cubist manner . Unlike contemporary Dada collages which were meant to shock and which were created as anti-art , Rodchenko 's eye-catching architectural confections purveyed high-minded affirmative action . His three-dimensional collages agitated for a cause ; they supported a particular ideology ; they encouraged political action ; they simplified the issues of the day ; they dictated governmental policies to the crowd ; they promoted punctuality and work schedules ; they instructed the masses . In short , Rodchenko 's kiosks advertised the new society 's programmatic wares . Unlike the contemporary Dada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the juxtapositions in Rodchenko 's projects served purposeful ends . They avoided the enigmatic , the paradoxical , and even the satirical . Instead , they affirmed the individuality of each component by using it as a recognizable , independent unit in the service of direct political propaganda . The context subsumes each element and heightens its impact by relating the element 's contribution to a useful end . By contrast , cubist collages and Dada juxtapositions used contradictory combinations in pursuit of the inscrutable . In view of Rodchenko 's particular use of collage , and in the light of his and Ladovsky 's preference for arrested movement , labelling their projects as " expressionist " might seem a redundant and a self-indulgent exercise . After all , the designation is imprecise , and it vaguely refers to the fully-rounded literary and artistic movement in Germany . Notwithstanding these shortcomings , the label is applicable to Rodchenko 's and Ladovsky 's formal vocabulary circa 1919-1920 . Likewise , Rodchenko 's designs deserve to be called " collages . " " Paintsculptarch 's " cubist and expressionist design modes were apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should not // harden our retrospective categorical boundaries . The group 's unusual design habits and difficult images can best be accommodated by interweaving the critical categories which are rarely rigorous in any case . Accepted nomenclature tends to ossify and this same process tends to encapsulate originally fluid activities into categorical nutshells . " Paintsculptarch 's " expressionst architectural collages resulted from a synthetic design procedure destined to outline its parent association . The group may have failed to define and achieve its apparent goal of synthesizing the arts ; however , the design approach that it initiated was to bear fruit . We shall encounter it again , this time in a constructivist guise . " Paintsculptarch 's " dynamic forms found little subsequent favor . But its eclectic design manner was soon placed in the service of a more rigorous aesthetic which repackaged the expressionist forms into clearer and more disciplined architectural envelopes . Euclidean geometry and technological images provided the framework for accommodating " Paintsculptarch 's " innovations . Both disciplines antedate " Paintsculptarch , " yet geometry and the aesthetic qualities of engineering structures prsented an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paintsculptarch " itself had just disbanded . 3 " The Constructivists " and Laboratory Work In the autumn of 1920 the term " constructivism " had not yet been coined . " Paintsculptarch " was then disbanding and Ladovsky 's and Rodchenko 's curious , expressionist designs were already objects of the recent past . As many Soviet artists had turned their attention to a more rigorous aesthetic by the winter of 1920 , the Soviet expressionist episode came to a quick end . True , Naum Gabo continued experimenting with warped surfaces and bent planes , but he was one of the very few belaboring the cubo-futurist hangover . His innovations still lie dormant ; the efforts of the other artists , by contrast , proved to have immense repercussions . We are referring to the KPS series by the Stenberg brothers and to certain other abstract works created by K.K. Medunetskii , A. Rodchenko , and K. Ioganson . The constructions by Medunetskii and the Stenbergs were first shown in January 1921 at " The Constructivists " exhibition . Soon thereafter , at the noteworthy 3rd OBMOKHU exhibition opening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown together with abstractions by Rodchenko , Ioganson , and others ( Fig. 14 ) . The Stenberg 's KPS pieces , Figs. 18-19 , are particularly important to our study for initiating the so-called " constructivist " formal vocabulary . In addition , these prime objects welded such a bond between word and image that , despite all the vicissitudes endured by the term " constructivist , " this label still adheres even to the KPS ' distant progeny . Clearly , the KPS pieces deserve special attention for their exceptional influence as much as for their own compelling imagery . The KPS series established the validity of an aestheticized erector set sensibility . Although the KPS constructions themselves derive from structural engineering sources , the artists fascinated by the KPS works were unconcerned about the machine aesthetic as such . Instead , they admired the KPS ' manner of assembly as well as the irreducibility of the components ? a fascination typifying INKHUK 's " laboratory " phase . In brief , INKHUK 's " laboratory " artists searched for the fundamentals of art , for its basic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // such basic element , the very element the Stenbergs used with such devastating effect . Rodchenko , Ioganson , Medunetskii , among others , also created objects deriving from similar " laboratory art " premises , but , when INKHUK entered into its " productivist " phase , the KPS pieces proved to be the more potent images . The efficacy is , perhaps , to be found in the KPS ' ambivalence : the pieces may be described as geometricized expressionist objects , or as dynamic constructions . Both designations are equally valid . Considering that many Soviet artists were rejecting the expressionist sensibility and were groping for a new imagery during the very months when the KPS pieces were being made public , the KPS series ' peculiar ambivalence conceivably served as an asset . Much of the KPS ' effect relies on arrested movement ? a characteristic of the expressionist designs discussed previously . However , unlike these expressionist projects , which dispersed energy in all directions , the KPS constructions channel their internal energy along a single axis . This charges the constructions with a dynamism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggests balancing a major axis by intersecting it with minor axes ? a procedure the Stenbergs rejected . Instead , they provided a tangible , geometrical matrix to counterpoint the KPS ' invisible , unilinear stream of energy . This matrix has considerable architectural interest since it does more than just channel the rush of energy . For instance , the skeletal matrix enables an analysis of the KPS constructions in straightforward geometric terms . The matrix also functions as a structural cage articulating the KPS ' internal zones of space . Furthermore , the individual components of the matrix are differentiated regarding their compressive or tensile contribution to the total structure . As all this carries architectural implications , the KPS constructions may legitimately be regarded as abstract architectural studies . But our retrospective appreciation is one thing ; the admiration of contemporaries , another . Fortunately for the Stenbergs , the KPS series was seen by an impressionable audience and was discussed in receptive circles . To the specific context surrounding the production and the reception of the KPS constructions we now address our attention . " The Constructivists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1917 czarist institutions either disbanded or were dissolved by the new government . Art schools were no exception to the general rule . In Petrograd , for instance , the venerable Academy of Art , founded by Peter the Great , was decreed out of existence and then reorganized as SVOMAS ( Svobodnye masterskie ) , or translated : Free Studios . In Moscow , the Stroganov School of Applied Art and the Moscow College of // Painting , Sculpture , and Architecture were likewise dissolved before their amalgamation into respective SVOMASes . Similar transformations took place in Tver , Ryazan , Saratov , and other provincial towns . Students at the SVOMAS were free to choose their studio critics and to plan their own course of studies , hence the designation ? Free Studios . ' Admission was open throughout the year to everyone 16 or older who desired specialized art training ; previous education was not a prerequisite to admission . All students whose art studies had been interrupted were considered SVOMAS members automatically . Understandably , this enrollment policy assembled a student body unrelated in age , education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or between the students and faculty , on any substantive issue was virtually impossible ; consequently , the SVOMAS educational experiment was terminated in 1921 . The Moscow SVOMAS , created in September 1918 , was the seedbed for OBMOKHU ( Obshchestvo molodykh khudozhnikov ) , the Society of Young Artists . ' The founding members were an independent lot , even during their student days . ' The SVOMAS atelier where this dozen worked was distinguished as " the studio without an instructor , " although in actual fact , the designation was misleading : the group had instructors , but changed them frequently . To illustrate , Vladimir Tatlin , Kasimir Malevich , Aleksandr Vesnin , and Aristarkh Lentulov , among others , had all taught the future OBMOKHU members when they were students at the Moscow SVOMAS . OBMOKHU celebrated its formation by holding an exhibition in May 1919 on the premises of the former Stroganov School . The exhibition 's opening was considered important enough to merit the attendance of A. V. Lunacharsky , Commissar of Education from 1917 to 1929 , and L.B. Kamenev , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and future member of the StalinZinoviev-Kamenev triumvirate formed after Lenin 's death . OBMOKHU displayed a variety of useful objects and abstract works , the utilitarian exhibits being revolutionary posters , badges , and projects for street festivals . Presumably , the new bureaucracy 's elite viewed the political propaganda items with favor . Also , these personages could only approve the exhibitors ' decision not to sign their works . As the OBMOKHU members exhibited anonymously , they implied that the exhibits had been made not by individual artists but by the group as a whole , i.e. by an art collective . OBMOKHU held its second exhibition in May 1920 . This time the group exhibited at the corner of Neglinni and Kuznetski Most , in a shop previously Faberge 's but now OBMOKHU 's headquarters after Lunacharsky 's reluctant permission . Once again utilitarian exhibits , such as posters , theatre set projects , and designs for various badges predominated . The few art objects exhibited were painted " color-constructions " and constructed " non-objective " articles created to demonstrate the interrelationships of color and form . // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deserve special attention because they mounted " The Constructivists " exhibition in Moscow in January 1921 . The event is important on several counts . By choosing that particular title , the trio became the first group to identify themselves as " constructivists . " Moreover , to underline the label 's importance , variations of the term were incorporated into the titles of the twoand three-dimensional pieces being shown . Presumably , all exhibits so designated were visually congruent with the new term . At least , about the Stenberg 's KPS constructions there is no doubt ; their titles were both apt and descriptive . The exhibited two- and three-dimensional constructions were works of abstract art , or to put it into the Soviet art jargon then becoming current , they were " laboratory work . " Although the details are not clear , Medunetskii and the two Stenbergs apparently seceded from OBMOKHU to stress their commitment to " laboratory work . " Reportedly , the value of such activity was questioned in OBMOKHU at the time and " The Constructivists " exhibition was mounted to affirm the validity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Constructivists " exhibition catalog reveals a startling ambiguity in the trio 's alleged commitment to abstraction . ' If they really were committed to " laboratory work , " it would seem that the three would be the last to advertise opposing views , i.e. the arguments of the " productivists . " Yet , that is exactly what K. Medunetskii , Vladimir and Georgii Stenberg seem to say : Every man born on this earth could , before his return to the soil , go by the shortest route into the factory where the real body of life is fashioned . This route is called CONSTRUCTIVISM , the highest spring board for the lead into universal human culture . The great seducers of the human race , the aesthetes and artists , have demolished the bridges on this rigorous route and through a haze of mawkish narcosis they have offered art and beauty in exchange . Men 's brains , the essence of the earth , are being wasted and dissipated to swell the morass of aestheticism . Weighing the facts on the scales of an honest relationship to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its priests as outlaws.6 This declaration of war on art , artists , and aesthetes seems consistent with OBMOKHU 's activities and hence , the Constructivists ' disassociation from OBMOKHU is an action difficult to reconcile . Moreover , the Constructivists ' praise of the factory 's unspecified virtues scents to gainsay their own // demonstrative affirmation of " laboratory work , " i.e. research into the fundamentals of art . These ambiguities may probably be best resolved by recalling that subsequent categorizations tend to encapsulate activities once fluid and points of view originally ill-defined . The art objects exhibited by " The Constructivists " maintain a similarly problematic relationship to OBMOKHU . Although the exhibition in question was organized to signal a split with OBMOKHU , the series of KPS constructions had not been made specifically for the January 1921 exhibition . In fact , it seems they were previously shown under OBMOKHU 's auspices . Szymon Bojko claims that KPS-4 , KPS-6 , KPS-11 , and KPS-13 were exhibited during the first OBMOKHU exhibition dated May 1919 . ' Andrei Nakov , on the other hand , maintains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1919-1920 and hence , could only have been exhibited during the second OBMOKHU exhibition of May 1920 , at the earliest . ' In any case , there is agreement that the KPS pieces in question had been shown together with the utilitarian objects at OBMOKHU before the breakaway " The Constructivists " exhibition had even been envisioned . To compound matters somewhat , Medunetskii and both Stenbergs rejoined OBMOKHU only a few months after the trio 's separate exhibition . The reconciliation took place after March 18 , 1921 when the three joined Ioganson , Rodchenko , Gan , Stepanova , and Vesnin to found the " First Work Group of Constructivists . " This group then joined OBMOKHU , at least for the occasion of the third OBMOKHU exhibition opening on May 22 , 1921 . Two surviving photographs clearly show the Medunetskii and the Stenberg constructions occupying choice spots in the middle of the exhibition room9 ( Fig. 14 ) . As utilitarian objects are nowhere to be seen , we surmise that OBMOKHU had been converted and together with the three erstwhile constructivists was now devoting itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marks a watershed : unlike the OBMOKHU exhibitions of 1919 and 1920 , " pure " art , that is , non-utilitarian art objects now dominated the show . The exhibited two- and three-dimensional abstract studies exemplify the " Laboratory Period " of Russian Constructivism . The photographs also prove that Ioganson and Rodchenko had contributed to this exhibition . Many of the May 1921 exhibits were subsequently included in the Erste Russische Kunstaustellung shown from November 1922 in Berlin 's van Diemen Gallery where the OBMOKHU abstractions created a sensation . 10 // to coincide with a congress of Comintern , the Communist International , then being held in Moscow . This time the group displayed utilitarian designs , that is , " production art . " What little is known about this exhibition suggests that OHM I JK l it l ended its days in the service of applied art . // INKHUK ? The Institute of Artistic Culture Although OBMOKHU provided the seedbed for the constructivists ' formal innovations , INKHUK provided the appreciative context . INKHUK , The Institute of Artistic Culture , was a much larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OBMOKHU 's was compact , with goals as defined as OBMOKHU 's were inarticulate . Founded in May 1920 to establish a theoretical basis for an art proper to a Communist society , INKHUK realized that a common theoretical denominator was not easily secured . The initial proposal for INKHUK 's program of activities came from Wassily Kandinsky . " He suggested that INKHUK analyze the constituent elements of painting , sculpture , architecture , music , dance , and poetry together with their effects on the human psyche . Kandinsky then outlined a plan for the study of painting which was to serve as a model for the analysis of the other arts . When studies of the separate arts were concluded , appropriate theories about them were to be devised . Thereupon , a theory of the relationships among the arts could be constructed . Finally , the theoretical work was to culminate in their entirety , that is , about " monumental art , " to use Kandinsky 's own terminology . When Kandinsky 's proposal was rejected by a majority vote , he left INKHUK. ' 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Education , enlisted his help in reorganizing Moscow 's diverse educational and artistic institutions within the framework of a proposed Academy of Artistic sciences . Kandinsky offered a plan for reforming Russia 's art schools , ' 4 but his suggestions were deferred and ultimately ignored . Kandinsky left the Soviet Union in December 1921 and in June 1922 joined the Bauhaus faculty where he developed his theories and insights in a more hospitable environment . Kandinsky 's rejected proposal for INKHUK 's activities was not replaced by any other proposal of comparable depth or scope . In fact , theorizing at INKHUK virtually ceased with Kandinsky 's departure . A. V. Babichev 's " Notes for a Program " for INKHUK 's " Work Group for Objective Analysis , " though reasoned and though accepted by INKHUK 's presidium , is no match for Kandinsky 's proposal.15 Babichev 's short outline is a poor substitute for Kandinsky 's ambitious project and may legitimately be described as a bureaucratic placebo , appeasing officials and filling a vacated spot in INKHUK 's files . Babichev 's program suggested that INKHUK direct its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theoretical side was to define and analyze the basic elements of art ( color , texture , properties of materials , manners of assembly ) while the experimental side was to address assigned problems ( for instance , the interrelationship of " Composition and Construction " ) . More information about Babichev 's effect on INKHUK is unavailable since 31 " Constructivists " and Laboratory Work our basic source is laconic to the point of poverty . ' As this contrasts markedly to the specific information given elsewhere in the same article , we conclude that Babichev 's program had little effect on INKHUK 's activities . Apparently , it did not stimulate discussions or reports at INKHUK , at least none that were recorded . The " Notes for a Program " were not published until 1974 , further indirect evidence that Babichev 's contemporaries held his proposals insuf-ficiently important to merit public notice . Throughout 1921 INKHUK underwent extensive reorganization , the period coinciding with the ascendancy of the constructivist faction and the attendant dominance of " laboratory work . " This phase of INKHUK 's activities , sandwiched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December 1920 and the turn to " productivist " art in the fall of 1921 , is characterized by administrative changes . " When INKHUK 's met-fibers returned from the summer 's intermission , INKHUK embarked on a series of lectures and reports digesting and evaluating the work of the previous year , including the Stenbergs ' KPS constructions exhibited at the third OBMOKHU exhibition of May 1921. // and 1922 will serve as an excellent mirror of the Institute 's activities at this time : 32 " Constructivists " and Laboratory Work The lectures and the reports are listed in the order and under the categories in which they appear in the source article . It does not state that the list of lectures is exhaustive . For instance , the November 24 , 1921 vote by twenty-five INKHUK members to turn to " productivist art " is discussed separately . ' s Obviously , the article 's anonymous author considered INKHUK 's turn to " productivism " of utmost consequence and wished to emphasize the vote 's importance . Unfortunately , he leaves us uninformed about INKHUK 's total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1921 . The author 's tendentiousness is also demonstrated by grouping INKHUK 's lectures as if they were a sequential series . The theoretical lectures discuss themes befitting the " laboratory work " phase ; the organizational lectures discuss INKHUK 's turn to " productivism " : the informational lectures are reports about projects completed by artists who went " productivist " : Popova , Vesnin , and Altman reporting about their stage set designs . The actual course of events within and outside INKHUK belies the neatness of the suggested sequence . In addition to the information provided about INKHUK 's internal affairs , our source article summarizes INKHUK 's contacts abroad.19 Germany , Holland , Berlin , Paris , Tokyo , Hungary , Switzerland are mentioned ? an impressive list , if casually surveyed . When scrutinized , INKHUK 's alleged international relations deflate to meager proportions . El Lissitzky , despite his allegiance to " veshchist " views then regarded passe in Moscow , turns out to be the contact for Berlin and Paris . O. Brik and A. Kemeny are the associates for Germany ; U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Petrus and Alma the contacts in Holland . The associates in Switzerland are not named . As the responsibilities of these international contacts are not specified , we surmise their actual function was little more than being receptive addresses on INKHUK 's mailing list . Even so , this helped inflate INKHUK 's stature among Moscow 's artists and bureaucrats . Although INKHUK 's tangible effects epicentered in the vicinity of Moscow , ' " the reverberations were felt in other Russian cities . In Petrograd , for instance , Tatlin and Punin reflected INKHUK 's activities ; in Vitebsk , Malevich . Both Tatlin and Malevich reported to the Moscow headquarters in December 1921 , yet one suspects that the two head-strong artists would have pursued their interests with or without the center 's distance pulsations . In any event , early in 1922 when Malevich moved to Petrograd together with some half-dozen of his best students , INKHUK acquired a solid outpost in Petro-grad ? the antithesis to INKHUK 's ephemeral contacts abroad . Having deflated INKHUK somewhat , we hasten to summarize its services . // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow 's restless avant-garde . Here they could exchange views , debate their differences , decide on collective policies , evaluate each other 's work , and consider topics of mutal concern , such as the VKHUTEMAS , an art school where many INKHUK members taught . As INKHUK regarded its relationship with the VKHUTEMAS " organic , " we may be certain that the contact was mutually beneficial . But a discussion of the VKHUTEMAS we will leave for another chapter ; the articles commissioned by INKHUK must now claim a moment 's attention . In addition to the lectures and reports mentioned above , several of which saw print , INKHUK solicited the following articles for publication : B. Arvatov 's " The Esthetics of Easel Painting " and " Social Utopia , " A. Rodchenko 's " The Line " and " Problems of Art , " L. Popova 's " New Methods in Our Art Schools , " plus the artistic credos of Vesnin , Krinskii , OBMOKHU , Bubnov , Ioganson , and Popova , among others.21 Of these , Rodchenko 's " The Line " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Rodchenko 's " The Line " Though INKHUK commissioned and accepted it for publication , A. Rodchenko 's essay " The Line " remained unpublished . Fortunately , the manuscript , written sometime in the fall of 1921 , has survived and has recently been translated into English.22 Because it is one of the few extant statements from INKHUK 's " laboratory " phase and because it documents the constructivists ' excitement about the principal element in their formal repertoire , the essay 's importance may be readily appreciated . Rodchenko begins by condensing the history of painting into a few terse paragraphs . He considers the attempt at representation to have ended in " painterliness , " that is , in a professional concern with the techniques and the means of painting . Then : after exploiting the object in every possible interpretation , from Realism and Naturalism to Futurism , painting reached Cubism and . . . dismembered it ? until painting at last freed itself completely from this defense and reached non-objectivity.23 Non-objective art , according to Rodchenko , is preoccupied with its own specific goals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precise ) were chosen for their expediency . The traditional brush was replaced by the flat-edged brush , by rollers , presses , drawing pens , and the compass . Regarding colors , non-objective art accepted it on its own terms , without adaptions or admixtures . It was used in its pure state since non-objective painting exploited color for its depth , intensity , density , and weight . Monochrome paintings ( no decrease or increase of hue or intensity ) , for instance , as in Rodchenko 's Black // on Black or Malevich 's White on White , demonstrated this conviction in its ultimate state . This accomplished , Rodchenko 's interest turned to the basic element of three-dimensional constructions : Lately I have been working exclusively on the construction of forms and the systems of their construction and I have started to introduce LINE into the plane as a new element of construction . ... At last the meaning of LINE has been elucidated in full : on the one hand its facetal and lateral relationship , and on the other as a factor of principal construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say , the skeleton or the basis , the framework or system . Both in painting and in any construction in general line is the first and last thing . Line is the path of advancement , it is movement , collision , it is facetation , conjunction , combination , section . Line has revealed a new world-view ? to construct essence , and not to depict , to obiectivize or to non-objectivize ; to build new , expedient , constructive structures in life , and not from life or outside life . A construction is a system by which an object is realized from the expedient utilization of material together with a predetermined purpose.2 " Rodchenko 's " The Line , " it must be stressed , can not be regarded as a theoretical exercise or as a penetrating analysis . Nor is it a program of intent . Instead , it is a description of an artistic discovery . It may also be taken as a statement of personal beliefs , documenting Rodchenko 's point of view at a critical moment immediately before his final conversion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linear possibilities is further developed circa 1921 by a series of well-known standing and suspended constructions . But since these are clumsy statements , we refer to the Line Construction No. 7 and illustrate the relatively unknown , though indisputably more eloquent , Line Sculpture No. 14 ( Fig. 15 ) , both included in his " Spatial Inventory . " Judging from these pieces , Rodchenko seems to have metamorphosed into a different artist from the one encountered in 1919-1920 as a " Paintsculptarch " member . Yet , similarities persist , most notably in the centrifugality common to these two pieces and to the kiosks of Rodchenko 's " Paintsculptarch " period . Despite all the external simplifications , an active center of energy still animates the later , constructivist works , thereby relating it to the earlier , expressionist work . But these pieces were not harbingers of the immediate future . Another Line Study ( Fig. 16 ) has much more architectural potential as a comparison to G. Klucis ' Architectural Study ( Fig. 17 ) will immediately demonstrate . The comparison to Klucis ' project , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rodchenko 's " The Line , " his abstract Line construction , // and the architectural Line Study . These works isolate one element exploited by and characteristic of the constructivist designs of the early twenties . As the line was soon to be elevated to the status of a primary component for constructivist furniture , theatre set designs , and architectural projects , Rodchenko 's fascination with it summarizes the concerns of INKHUK 's " laboratory " phase . It is safe to say that throughout 1921 INKHUK 's artists questioned and reexamined the basic elements of their craft . As evidence of this interest , we have noted Rodchenko 's attention to the line , to its various properties , and to its indispensability for skeletal cages . This interest in the fundamentals of art was quite pervasive . Rodchenko , for one , documents verbally and visually the prevailing attitude to the line . He recognized the ability of a few lines to define space , as well as the ability of disassociated lines to hint at invisible sources of contained energy . His studies were definitely degage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nowhere in sight . Rodchenko 's various two- and threedimensional studies were simply ? abstract studies . Although some have architectural potential , especially for the skeleton frame , such use was much too concrete and specific for Rodchenko while a " laboratory " artist . The same is also true for the Stenbergs ' three-dimensional KPS constructions to which we now turn . The Stenbergs ' KPS Constructions Although the inception of Vladimir and Georgii Stenbergs ' KPS constructions ( Figs. 18 , 19 ) remains elusive , they were assembled no later than December 1920.25 Moscow 's art public could see the works at " The Constructivists " exhibition in January 1921 , an opportunity soon repeated by the third OBMOKHU exhibition of May 1921 . At the earlier show , drawings for some two dozen KPS constructions were exhibited ( 13 by Medunetskii , 4 by Vladimir Stenberg , and 7 by Georgii Stenberg ) together with an unknown number of the finished three-dimensional constructions.26 Apparently , the OBMOKHU exhibition displayed only the built constructions . Western Europe 's first opportunity to examine the KPS pieces came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Berlin and subsequently sent to Amsterdam.27 KPS-4 , ( KPS-4 is the high four-legged construction on two tracks placed in the center of the exhibit , illustrated in Fig. 14 ) KPS-6 , KPS-11 , and KPS-13 ( Fig. 19 ) were recently reconstructed and have been exhibited in London and Cologne.28 The abbreviated designation " KPS " ( Konstruktsiia Prostranstvennogo Sooruzhenie ) translates as " Construction of a Spatial Apparatus . " Like Rodchenko 's Line Constructions , both the drawn and the assembled varieties , the Stenhergs ' KPS constructions are exemplary pieces of " laboratory art . " The genealogy , however , is dissimilar : Rodchenko 's fascination with the line // derives from analyses establishing a basic artistic element . The Stenberg KPS pieces , by contrast , derive from an aestheticization of engineering and industrial images . Andrei Nakov , however , finds the source for the KPS series in the spatial qualities of U. Boccioni 's 1912 sculpture Development of a Bottle in Space , 29 with which derivation we take issue . Unlike the KPS constructions , Boccioni 's sculpture , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintains a solid , material core . The KPS pieces , by contrast , are integral with the space surrounding them : they have no solid core . Instead of displacing or penetrating space , the KPS constructions are simply lineations standing in space . Another difference concerns the viewpoint . Boccioni 's sculpture contains a central , vertical axis implying that all circumferential views are equally valid . It does not suggest , much less require , a preferred point of view . With the KPS-II excepted , the other KPS pieces are constructed with reference to an inclined , or a curved axis tensely related to our sense of the horizontal . Consequently , the KPS-4 , KPS-6 , and KPS-13 are bilaterally symmetrical with respect to their axes , a configuration suggesting a " front , " " back , " and " sides . " As with the Boccioni sculpture , there is no preferred viewpoint ; however , unlike the Boccioni sculpture , the spectator is always aware whether he is regarding the KPS constructions frontally , in profile , or from behind . Given such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unacceptable as a prototype for the KPS series . We would do better looking elsewhere for the formal sources . Indeed , as the KPS series bristles with miniaturized engineering and structural imagery , the realm of high art is an altogether unlikely source . The more promising place to look for the Stenbergs ' spark of inspiration is in the world of industrial forms . We need not look far . The cantilevered KPS-6 ( Fig. 18 ) , for instance , resembles common wharf derricks . The KPS-13 ( Fig. 19 ) has marked affinities with bulk-carriers : rolled on widely-spaced track , enabling trucks to pass beneath the bulk-carrier . Elements appearing in early biplanes , like the first standard Wright Flyer by the Wright brothers , seem to have been similarly transformed and reincarnated in KPS-13 and KPS-4 . Even on first glance we suspect that the Stenbergs ' KPS constructions and these particular images are much too similar for the resemblances to be coincidental . Closer inspection of the KPS constructions reveals manifold debts and similarities to the suggested prototypes . The single axis has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ KPS-6 , and KPS-13 ; it is similarly essential to the derrick and to the biplane . As in these suggested sources , the KPS series was assembled and constructed from prefabricated steel sections , tension wires , compression bars , and repetitive panels . The materials , their manner of assembly , and the underlying organizational principle all point to a common ancestry : engineering imagery . // To be sure , the Stenbergs aestheticized their sources and , as a result , the KPS pieces are not direct quotes . The KPS series reinterprets the two- and three-dimensional trusses incorporated into the loading cranes and the early biplane forms . The Stenbergs abstracted the prototypes and linearized the constituent elements , sometimes stressing , sometimes ignoring the compressive or tensile functions of the originals . Indeed , the KPS constructions are so aestheticized that we tend to ignore their debts to engineering and prefer instead to admire their formal accomplishments and wit . The KPS constructions ? rigorous yet elegant , dynamic yet restrained , directional yet equipoised ? intrigue us by their exact adjustment of opposing forces . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , paradoxically , channels movement along its course . Energy is directed in one direction , implying , but not specifying , a destination . Instead , the movement is arrested by a network of forces made visible in the tensed , inclined , and curved components of the respective armatures . Simultaneously , the axis provides the backbone for the Gestalt of each KPS . Given this spine of reference , we quickly fix the total image of each construction as its front , back , and sides are established . With the orientation fixed , mathematics and geometry recede into the background ; suspicions , previously subliminal , now rush to the fore as the KPS ' biomorphic analogies are unexpectedly recognized . The remarkable potency of the KPS series , as we have seen , suggests a number of admissible descriptions and interpretations . However , given the context of " laboratory art , " we may legitimately concentrate on the features appreciated by contemporaries and , especially , those features soon appropriated and incorporated into the objects made by the " productivists . " An emphasis on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surely not out of place . Although the Stenbergs did not create the KPS as a series of architectural prototypes , the KPS constructions brim with architectural implications : their materials ? metal , wood , glass ? are the very stuff of building ; their additive manner of assembly , their skeletal frameworks , and their underlying geometries are all the ingredients of architecture . The virtuosity of the KPS series , with each construction possessing its own unmistakable Gestalt , presented a range of models inspiring to expressionist and constructivist sensibilities alike . The variety of the KPS constructions further demonstrated that a structural cage need not inevitably assume orthogonal configurations , a lesson not lost on the " productivists . " Summary The formal innovations of the KPS constructions would doubtlessly have passed into oblivion had Medunetskii and the Stenbergs not joined The First // Work Group of Constructivists when it formed in March 1921 . As members of this group , the trio came into contact with some of INKHUK 's most restless spirits : A. Vesnin , A. Rodchenko , V. Stepanova , A. Gan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breakthroughs by incorporating them into their own work . About this more will be said in the pages to follow . The trio also had the fortune to enter INKHUK at the height of the organization 's " laboratory " phase , a period when many INKHUK members were concerned with establishing , once and for all , the basic elements of the visual arts . Babichev 's program for INKHUK is one example of this quest ; Rodchenko 's essay " The Line , " another . The context spawning these hesitant theoretizations proved receptive to the Stenbergs ' KPS constructions : they were seen as persuasive demonstrations illustrating the potential of one irreducible element ? the line . Being a basic element , the line 's susceptibility to transformation , permutations , variations is endless . The Stenbergs and Medunetskii demonstrated only a few of the possibilities without pursuing or elaborating their formal discoveries . Other artists , however , were enthralled . They took to the linear element as if galvanized . Given this enthusiasm , the KPS ' formal innovations assumed a life of their own : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in variety and profusion and for unlikely uses as well . Fruition came as early as 1922 under " productivist " auspices since , by the time the Stenbergs ' linear constructions came to be generally applauded , INKHUK had turned to " productivism . " The KPS constructions even exerted an influence on architectural designs , but not immediately . The intervening time witnesses applications of the skeletal cage idea to kiosks , theatre sets , and exposition structures ? the subject of the following chapter . 4 Art into Production ( and Architecture ) " Productivist " Attitudes in INKHUK As already indicated , some artists served the Soviets from the very first days of the October Revolution . These " leftists " subsequently consolidated ranks in the " Left Front of Arts " and propagated their views from the pages of LEF and other similarly oriented magazines . Their activities , their relationships to Proletkult , and especially their ideological warren requires a study of its own , a study falling outside the scope of the present investigation . As we are tracing the architecturally significant developments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art scene , particularly on certain designs created by INKHUK 's engage " productivists . " Although the nineteenth century had its version of " productivism , " its perambulation into Soviet art theory will not concern us . Likewise , even the exhortations , much prevalent during the immediate post-Revolutionary years , urging artists to commit themselves totally to the new society need not detain us . Suffice it to say that the encouragements of engage art commentators came to a head on November 24 , 1921 when twenty-five INKHUK artists voted to accept Osip Brik 's motion that they abandon easel painting and begin concrete , useful work as " production " artists . ' Accordingfy , this date marks the beginning of INKHUK 's " productivist " phase . However , considering that some artists were " productivists " even before INKHUK had legitimized the term , considering that some INKHUK artists went about their activities unconcerned as before , vote or no vote , and considering that the engage commentators took time defining proper " productivist " activity , the importance of the vote should not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , punctuating , as it does , a shift of sensibilities within INKHUK , a shift much discussed judging from the ensuing wake of articles . ' To be sure , the shift toward " productivism " was not confined to talk : engage artists did leave their studios to try their hands at bigger and better things . We shall scrutinize some of these efforts , but before doing so , we will discuss an amply documented lecture given // when the dust raised by INKHUK 's turn to " productivism " had begun to settle . Boris Arbatov 's lecture divided the relationship of artistic creativity to the production process into two opposing camps : the proponents of handicraft art versus the proponents of industrial art . ' As the future of production was linked to industrial art , Arbatov dismissed the appeals on behalf of handicrafts as idealistic , unreal , reactionary . Consequently , meaningful discussions were possible only about the best method of integrating art into industrialized production . He explained that two distinct views had emerged concerning how this integration was to be achieved : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering . Applied artists make objects more pleasing to the eye by modifying their appearance , a cosmetic attitude toward visible form . Basically , applied art proposes that art as form is independent of the technical aspects of fashioning any given material . That is , an applied artist is concerned less about an object 's function , more about its appearance . In a word , the object 's material is violated . Artistic engineering , by contrast , posits the artist 's participation in industry . Indeed , the artist is to become an engineer : he is to organize the entire productive process , to understand its rationale , to solve its problems , to ever improve the quality of the manufactured goods . Arbatov mentioned several artists who had recently forsaken visual compositions and abstract objects , choosing instead to construct , to organize material . As examples , he cited Tatlin ? employed in a metal-working factory , Rodchenko and Lavinskii ? in the printing industry , Popova and Stepanova ? in the theatre . Afterwards , in the course of answering questions , Arbatov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social utility , that is , the productional organization of everyday life . The areas where the arts and the productive process can be fused most readily Arbatov saw as transport , architecture , and objects of daily use . Manufacturing tools ? the very means of production ? were considered a significantly more complex matter , and Arbatov declined elaborating about the artist 's possible contribution to this area . Pletnev , a member of the audience , then drew attention to the necessity of distinguishing the constructivism discussed by Arbatov from the metaphysical constructivism represented by the poet Chicherin . Arbatov concluded the session by observing that the " Left Front of Arts " differs essentially from the artists of the right ; therefore , artists-constructivists are distinct from Malevich 's Unovis group , Tatlin 's group in Petrograd is unlike Matiushin 's group , and the poets associated with LEI ' in Moscow are quite dissimilar from the Chicherin type of poet-constructivist. // Arbatov 's report , given more than a year after that noteworthy INKHUK vote , outlined " productivism 's " divergent interpretations and distinguished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was familiar with the views then prevailing in INKHUK and Proletkult , his recapitulation may be accepted as a reliable summary . We should , however , note that the two categories of " productivism " accepted for meaningful discussion ? applied art and artistic engineering ? need to be distorted substantially to emcompass the activities of the artists cited as exemplary " productivists . " With the possible exception of Tatlin , neither Rodchenko nor Lavinskii , neither Popova nor Stepanova , do in actual fact qualify as complete , full-fledged " artistic engineers . " From our retrospective point of view , their activities in typography and theatre set design respectively , are much closer to applied art , even in Arbatov 's own framework , than Arbatov himself seems willing to admit . Similarly , when the activities of the other " productivist " artists are scrutinized , they too seem ill-fitted for the categories Arbatov provides . For example : Some of the 25 artists ... entered immediately into production and like , for example , L. S. Popova designed fabrics for the Tsindel Textile Factory , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lavinskii , Rom ) , some decorated public squares ( Vesnin , Popova ) and a considerable number undertook theatre work ( the Stenbergs , Popova , Vesnin ) where they created a series of valuable designs , enriching our theatrical-decorative art.4 The divergences between the paradigms of the engage art commentators and the actual productions of the engage artists seem to have escaped contemporary notice . Seen retrospectively , however , " productivist " theory seems to have diverged from actual practice . But the critics of the day considered the works in question sufficiently " productivist " and accepted them as such . We will do the same and not press the point about the apparent differences . Since the engage critics and commentators instigated INKHUK 's turn to " productivism , " their selection and judgment about approved " productivist " work will be taken at face value in all respects save one . " Productivist " objects were specious answers to the design problems of the day . The works bear too many family resemblances for each to have been arrived at by an independent breakdown of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal preferences are the explanation . We suggest that the " productivists , " Arbatov 's so-called " artistic engineers , " utilized a circumscribed formal vocabulary ? usually , the imagery invented during INKHUK 's " laboratory " phase , occasionally , the imagery favored by the cuho-futurists , as in A. Vesnin 's 1921-22 cubo-futurist set for Phaedra . But such practical application of abstract form is not an independent derivation of // form ; instead , it is simply a transference of imagery from abstract art to applied use . We also refer , of course , to " productivist " theatre sets , magazine kiosks , furniture designs . " Productivist " typography , photomontage , and textile designs derive as well from abstract art , but not from the linear abstractions of " laboratory " art , or from the cubo-futurist warped planes to which we have alluded . But since we are tracing the architecturally significant developments , the parallel derivations of " productivist " typography , photomontage , and textile designs are omitted from our account . The stimulus for INKHUK 's turn to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Arbatov , O. Brik , and B. Kushner , among others . These men argued for the political necessity for such a turn ; afterwards , they provided the ideological justification for the works made under " productivist " auspices . Granting doctrinal approval for virtually any activity by artists save studio work , they were quick to support tangible results . Accordingly , the artists had little need to record their own thoughts about the matter . Visual evidence , by contrast , is more plentiful , sufficiently so as to establish linkages between " laboratory " art , " productivist " work , and constructivist architectural projects . Gustav Klucis ' Agit-Kiosks Of the twenty-five artists voting for INKHUK 's turn to " productivism " in November 1921 , Gustav Klucis created perhaps the clearest examples of the dependence of " productivist " work on " laboratory " art . His agit-kiosk series , exemplified , for instance , by Radio-Orators similar to the illustrated Fig. 20 , prove his thorough master of the recently devised formal repertoire . Arriving in Moscow in 1918 as a rifleman in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kremlin among Lenin 's bodyguard . A year later , Klucis entered the Moscow SVOMAS , there coming under Antoine Pevsner 's influence . When Pevsner and Naum Gabo exhibited their abstractions in a bandstand on Moscow 's Tverskoy Boulevard in August 1920 , Klucis ' work was exhibited alongside . Although he was not a signatory to the " Realistic Manifesto , " he presumably shared the views expressed in the broadside . Klucis achieved considerable fame on his own in the field of photomontage ? a preoccupation of his entire career . ' His photomontages will not detain us ; the agit-kiosks will . Altogether , some dozen agitational kiosks , the Radio-Orators among them , were designed in the summer and autumn of 1922 . Wood and paper models of these propaganda kiosks were prepared for the occasion of Comintern 's Fourth Congress , convening in Moscow during November 1922 . Although the models have not survived , some gouaches and India ink drawings of these projects are extant and were displayed recently . ' " I'he entire agit-kiosk // series comprises an exemplary demonstration of " productivist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' set of elegant KPS constructions . Klucis ' debt , sometimes verging on direct quotation , is apparent in every Radio-Orator . For instance , each of these small , agit-kiosks , like the KPS pieces , is a cage assembled from discrete linear elements , which are all clearly differentiated as to their compressive or tensile function . However , each cage encloses an apparatus of agitational purpose , an inclusion departing from the Stenbergs ' non-engage , " laboratory " art prototypes . Apart from this difference , Klucis ' " Radio-Orators " are undeniably indebted to the formal , " laboratory " explorations of the Stenbergs . Therefore , the agitational apparatus inserted within each " Radio-Orator " transformed an otherwise innocent , abstract construction into a " productivist " object par excellence . Undoubtedly , INKHUK 's discussions about productivism prompted Klucis to do the Stenberg brothers and Medunetskii one better . About this there can be no question . Yet this transformation was hardly as innovative or as radical as the " productivists " were probably inclined to suppose . Alexander Rodchenko 's " Down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Future Our Only Goal " Kiosk ( Fig. 9 ) created in 1919-20 and discussed in Chapter 2 , were also replete with engage purposefulness . Consequently , Klucis ' agit-kiosks are , functionally speaking , direct descendents of Rodchenko 's agitational kiosks . The difference is merely one of imagery . Rodchenko 's kiosks lack the constructivist cage subsequently invented by the Stenbergs and put to " productivist " use by Gustav Klucis . Klucis ' mastery of the constructivist cage merits some attention , especially as it was soon to be transferred to stage set designs and to architectural projects . Although its scale was increased , the cage maintained certain constructivist features , regardless of scale . The components are all legible , discrete elements ; indeed , they are even differentiated by their structural function . The rationale apparently extended to the connectives , leaving every screw , nut , and bolt exposed . Therefore , one could mentally disassemble the entire construction and even venture guesses about the stresses involved . Since everything is clear-cut and dry , this erector set sensibility removed all mystery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an exact assessment of required components ? no more and no less . A logic permeates the agit-kiosks ? a logic appealing to a tough , doctrinaire mind . Aleksei Gan 's Rural Kiosk The constructivist imagery created during INKHUK 's " laboratory " period was susceptible to practical application with an ease the " productivists " were quick to note . Yet their work is hardly synonymous with a constructivist aesthetic as a glance at Aleksi Gan 's Rural Kiosk ( Fig. 21 ) will quickly prove . Dated 1923 , // and therefore created during productivism 's heyday , the Rural Kiosk is in many ways a design anomaly . The design seems oblivious to the imagery favored by the constructivists ? a curious situation since its creator , Aleksei Gan , had already authored Konstruktivizm , an unillustrated booklet attempting the new art term 's strict definition . We surmise that Gan would have countered all objections by saying his kiosk was indeed constructivist , albeit in spirit rather than in form . Besides , it responded to certain special requirements . As the title Rural Kiosk suggests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Its hoisted emblazonment ? " Krestianin " ( meaning peasant ) ? summoned the countryfolk to receive their mail , to listen to public radio broadcasts , to see the latest films and newsreels . At the kiosk they could purchase stationery supplies , books , school textbooks , newspapers and , perhaps more important , find a convivial , social haven . In short , the kiosk was to provide the rural population with some amenities of urban life . As countryside lanes intersected at odd angles , Gan obviated site difficulties by a triangular kiosk plan with entrances at each open corner . The three wall surfaces , stretching between the corner entrances , were treated identically to present the same , unmistakable facade , regardless of approach to the kiosk . The roof was pitched and its surface folded so as to divert rainwater and melting snow into three separate channels ? a maneuver simultaneously enlarging the interior 's storage capacity . The kiosk was to be built from wood , illuminated through glass windows , and roofed by sheet iron . All in all , Gan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as its total image is concerned , the kiosk recalls the cubofuturist interest in surfaces and the expressionist fascination with intersecting planes . Indeed , it may even be asserted that the Rural Kiosk is nothing but a tame , practical version of A. Rodchenko 's architectural efforts created during his " Paintsculptarch " period . Comparing Gan 's kiosk to Rodchenko 's Architectural Project ( Fig. 10 ) to " The Future Our Only Goal " Kiosk ( Fig. 9 ) , and the " Down With Imperialism " Kiosk ( Fig. 8 ) , numerous surprising parallels emerge , surprising because they are so basic to all projects concerned . We note ? the avoidance of orthogonal relationships , the central , pivotal mast as the one unifying principle , the tri-partite vertical organization . Whereas Rodchenko sketched and suggested rough ideas , Gan was specific , clear , and direct . Therefore , although Gan is belaboring " Paintsculptarch 's " formal legacy , his rationalizing , practical approach places him firmly within " productivist " ranks . The Izvestiia-Krasnaia Niva Pavilion Unlike Western Europe which began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endured the ravages of a Civil War to 1921 . ConArt // sequently , its reconstruction was delayed until the early twenties . To facilitate this belated work , Lenin announced NEP ? the New Economic Policy ? a series of measures lasting from 1921 to 1928 allowing a temporary return of private enterprise . Doctrinaire socialists were appalled at the compromise of their ideals ; however , Lenin 's views prevailed , and small-scale entrepreneurs in business , light industry , and agriculture were encouraged to help the fledgling state achieve normalcy . NEP was not even averse to commercial relations with the capitalist West . Indeed , such commerce was pursued vigorously as a matter of state policy . An example of this is the 1923 First Agricultural and Home Industries Exhibition of the USSR ? a hundred-acre commercial exposition courting English , French , and especially German businessmen . Sumptous , tri-lingual guidebooks and almanacs were produced for the occasion and the fairground had no shortage of guides and interpreters for the foreign visitors . The extent of the Foreign Departments desire to please may be gauged from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the five entry points into the USSR , providing them with complimentary rail tickets , and the use of a chauffer-driver limousine . ' Obviously , the Exposition was to be a very important affair . However , for all its consequence , the fairground 's architecture left much to be desired . True , the neo-classical layout was satisfactory ; the wood and stucco building materials were excusable ; the displayed machinery and tools were doubtlessly exportable . But , unfortunately , even though designed by experienced and established architects , the actual buildings were a disappointment . ' Of the forty-odd exposition structures , only K. Melnikov 's " Makhorka " Pavilion and the Izvestiia-Krasnaia Niva Pavilion ( Fig. 22 ) were exception for their novelty as much as for their unexpected design quality . Krasnaia Niva , published in Moscow from 1923 to 1931 under Izvestiia 's auspices , was a weekly devoted to literature and art . Its editorial board was headed until 1930 by no less a figure than A.V. Lunacharsky , Soviet Russia 's Commissar of Education from 1917 to 1929 . Consistent with Lunacharsky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was entrusted to A. Exter , B. Gladkov , and V. Mukhina ? a noteworthy choice since the majority of the Exposition 's buildings were designed by conservative architects favoring traditional forms . Of the structures at the Exposition , the Izvestiia-Krasnaia Niva Pavilion was by far the most fresh and original . The 20-meter high pavilion , like A. Gan 's Rural Kiosk and like Rodchenko 's architectural projects of the " Paintsculptarch " period , featured a central , pivotal masthead anchoring the exuberant display firmly into the ground . But unlike Gan 's and Rodchenko 's designs , a plane of symmetry splits this structure ; that is , if its two elevations were compared , they would be seen to be bilaterally symmetrical . Although the built Pavilion differs somewhat from its presentation drawings , the under46 Art into Production lying organizational concept remained unchanged . The plane of symmetry together with the pivotal mast structures an otherwise loose suspension of crow 's nest platforms , stair flights , and latticed arcs climbing skyward toward an improbable wind vane . Yet these objects did not detract from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's designers were excited by the constructivist cage and took care that the finished structure be as skeletal as possible . Selected Theatre Sets Theatre sets may not be architecture , but they often are its tangible metaphor . In the early twenties this was certainly the case with the constructivist sets introduced to the public by A. Tairov and V. Meyerhold . And once introduced , constructivist sets became so popular that as early as 1923 critics were already bemoaning their widespread currency : So-called stage constructivism started with a most impressive programme for the total abolition of aesthetic methods , but once it appeared on the stage it began to show signs of being only too ready to adapt itself to its surroundings and now it has degenerated almost to a decorative device , albeit in a new style . 10 Meyerhold 's GVIRM ( The State Workshop for Advanced Directing ) and Tairov 's Kamerny Theatre were the testing grounds of stage constructivism . It was hardly a question of mutual agreement since the two directors held contrasting philosophies about stagecraft and , in actual fact , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructivist designers and constructivist sets appeared in both theatres as a consequence . Alexander Vesnin , Liubov Popova , and Varvara Stepanova are the set designers in question . All three were associated with INKHUK ; all three had voted for " productivism . " Meyerhold 's 1922 production of The Magnanimous Cuckold broke important ground by combining a new style of acting with a new kind of stage setting . In Meyerhold 's words : " . . . the success of this production signified the success of the new theatrical philosophy on which it was based ; now there is no doubt that the entire Left Theatre ' not only dates from this production but to this day bears traces of its influence . " " " Biomechanics , " a systematized set of body movements derived from the circus and commedia dell ' arte , characterized the new acting style ; constructivism , the new stage setting . Meyerhold created " Biomechanics ; " Liubov Popova , stage constructivism . Audiences found the combination enchanting . Popova 's set ( Fig. 23 ) rejected everything that until then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painting , spatial illusions , theatricality . ' ' The set was simply a naked scaffold , a skeleton facilitating action : steps , slides , lifts , // and landings . A large black disc and a windmill 's denuded arms rotated at erratic speeds to suggest the mercurial passions of the characters : when jealousy enraged the cuckold , the appropriate wheel turned furiously ( for his quieter moods , it moved very slowly ) . The versatile set could allude either to a windmill , or a bedroom , or a balcony , or the windmill 's machinery . In short , it functioned as a stage machine aiding gymnastic display , i.e. " biomechanics . " After its premeiere , on April 25 , 1922 , The Magnanimous Cuckold entered GVIRM 's standing repertoire and ran successfully throughout the following two theatrical seasons . Encouraged by the reception of The Magnanimous Cuckold , Meyerhold soon mounted two more productions featuring constructivist staging : Tarlkin 's Death and The Restive Earth , premiering on November 24 , 1922 and on March 4 , 1923 , respectively . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a tour of the provinces during the summer of 1923 . Thereafter , in recognition of their warm reception by Soviet audiences , only these three of Meyerhold 's sixteen GVIRM productions were kept in the troupe 's repertoire for the 1923/24 theatrical season . 14 Their constructivist sets , we surmise , contributed to their general appeal . Stepanova 's set for Tarelkin 's Death ( Fig. 24 ) featured rickety stage properties , each distorting or sabotaging its own apparent function . The table collapsed ; the chair gave way ; the stool fired a blank ; the out-of-scale jugs and glasses were useless . Audiences were further disconcerted by young men playing the old women 's roles . Most disquieting of all , prisoners entered their cells head-first through a man-sized meat grinder ? " biomechanics , " indeed . And if the trick props were not enough , the overly commodious costumes even made habitual body movements hazardous . But for all these efforts at slapstick comedy , Tarelkin ' s Death ended its anticipated run prematurely . Prime among the reasons cited were the capriciousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actors ' shattered nerves . 15 Popova 's set for The Restive Earth ( Fig. 25 ) was much simpler . Except for a towering , wooden gantry-crane in the background , the other props were real objects : cars , trucks , motorcycles , harvesters , and machine guns . As the drama concerned an unsuccessful mutiny during a hypothetical war , nothing but the real implements of war would apparently do . Military searchlights illuminated the cast which acted without make-up in their street clothes or in military uniforms . Realism was further stretched in delivering a Red soldier 's coffin by driving a truck through the auditorium directly up to the stage.16 Meyerhold clearly wanted to drive his points home . By way of parentheses , we should note the lack of consensus regarding The Restive Earth 's set designer . With Andrei Nakov dissenting , reliable sources attribute the background 's constructivist wooden gantry-crane to Liubov Popuva . " Andrei Nakov , by contrast , claims that when the play toured // the provinces in the summer of 1923 , Meyerhold employed the Stenberg brothers to design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kharkov . ' ' If this is the case , the influence of the Stenberg 's KPS series on " productivist " stage set design would be firmly established . In any case , there is no doubt about Meyerhold 's commitment to stage constructivism . After all , his studio arranged its debut and extended its continued , unstinting patronage . Tairov 's support , by comparison , was delayed and less enthusiastic . Apparently , Tairov had acquired the reputation of a reactionary bourgeois , so he hastened to redeem himself before Soviet audiences by adopting Meyerhold 's innovations , little as he cared for them.19 To this end , Tairov could and did draw on the talents of many able designers : G. Yakulov , K. Medunetskii , A. Vesnin , and both Stenbergs , among others.20 Of Tairov 's belated constructivist productions at the Kamerny Theatre , The Man Who Was Thursday is undoubtedly his finest . The public first saw Alexander Vesnin 's set for The Man Who Was Thursday ( Fig. 26 ) on December 6 , 1923 , considerably later than the premieres of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well for Vesnin 's mastery of stage constructivism . True to the idiom , he created a multi-level , naked scaffold supporting ramps , platforms , ladders , elevators , and a drawbridge . Posters , awnings , and film scenes added the finishing touches to the structural armature . So much could be expected . But Vesnin was innovative . To facilitate Tairov 's alteration of G. K. Chesterton 's novel into a rapid sequence of episodes , Vesnin made the set 's components demountable , rearrangeable , and multi-functional , literally ? a life-sized , flexible erector set . Considering his late entry into stage constructivism , Vesnin 's control over the idiom is especially remarkable . The cubo-futurist Phaedra , his previous venture into set design , though applauded in Moscow and lionized in Western Europe , ' was a far cry from the gaunt , movable frameworks of The Man Who Was Thursday . With its tilted planes and its static , angular volumes , Phaedra 's set resembles the abortive design for the " Struggle and Victory " Mass Festival that he and Popova had created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 8 , 1922 , and appearing only two months before stage constructivism 's premiere in The Magnanimous Cuckold , its cubo-futurist imagery was soon seen as retarded . However , when Vesnin finally showed his constructivist colors in December 1923 with the set for The Man Who Was Thursday , he did so with accomplishment . Of the theatre sets discussed , the staging for The Man Who Was Thursday is architecturally the most potent . Vesnin 's constructivist backdrop sometimes outlined individual buildings ; at other times , it miniaturized an entire metropolis . Such manipulations indicated the possibilities of the constructivist cage , possibilities that he and his architect brothers were to explore in their projects // for the Palace of Labor ( Fig. 27 ) and for the Leningrad Pravda ( Fig. 28 ) . Both buildings derive from stage constructivism ; we will encounter them again in the pages below . Conclusions Though delivered more than a year after INKHUK 's turn to " productivism , " Arbatov 's recapitulation about the new trend suggests the ill-defined state of " productivist " theory at the time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fails through its own conceptual and descriptive inadequacy to account convincingly even for the works cited as exemplifying " productivism . " Nonetheless , " productivism " was a definite , ideologically abetted shift of emphasis supporting the " left " artists ' belief that , above all , art should serve utilitarian ends . Given INKHUK 's newly declared support , several engage artists , some of whom had already demonstrated their commitment to utilitarian art before the term " productivism " had even been coined , affirmed their convictions by undertaking ambitious architectural and theatrical projects . In engage spirit , these projects were hardly novel ; their use of constructivist imagery , however , was something new . Previously , constructivist imagery had been confined to small-scale , abstract constructions ; to the Stenbergs ' KPS series and to Rodchenko 's spatial assemblies , for instance . The " productivists " took this and applied it to their large-scale projects . The transference was simple and direct . Consequently , except for the utilitarian functions , " productivist " architectural and theatrical projects are mutations with solid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ component fixation " characterized " productivist " work . The braces , struts , webs , tension and compression members were all equally important to the constructivist cage , whatever its overall configuration . That is , these component elements were not suppressed in the interest of clarifying the total image . Moreover , as every component was accorded equal visual importance , and as the total image was not allowed to predominate , unresolved visual tensions enliven the otherwise dry constructivist cage . Nikolai Ladovsky , the subject of the following chapter , indicated how the visual surface tensions of the constructivist cage could be resolved . But before addressing his perceptual theories , we must make one final note about " productivism . " For all their interest in structural imagery , the " productivists " did not delve further into architecture . Their interest dissipated after only a few architectural and theatrical designs , most of which we discussed . Yet , despite the " productivists ' " brief interest in large-scale designs , they brought the // metaphors of constructivist architecture to public notice . It should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bona fide constructivist architectural projects ? the Vesnin brothers ' designs for the Palace of Labor ( Fig. 27 ) and Leningrad Pravda ( Fig. 28 ) ? appeared during stage constructivism 's heyday. // VKHUTEMAS ' Goals and Internal Organization As modern German art of the twenties is inseparable from the Bauhaus , so contemporary Soviet avant-garde is inseparable from the VKHUTEMAS . Like its counterpart , the Soviet art school spearheaded innovation through its teaching staff , sought to reshape the daily environment in a radical mold , and was finally closed by a reactionary , authoritarian regime . Though the VKHUTEMAS thrived from 1920 to 1930 , its theoretical foundations were laid in the early twenties during its firm liaison with INKHUK . Whereas INKHUK formulated an ideological approach to the arts based on visual research , analysis , and theoretical dispute , the VKHUTEMAS applied new ideas , created teaching methods derived from fresh insights , and fashioned the actual accoutrements of the envisioned egalitarian society that never came . VKHUTEMAS unified the two SVOMAS serving Moscow 's art students immediately after the October Revolution . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had replaced the pre-Revolutionary Stroganov School of Applied Art , while SVOMAS No. 2 replaced the former Moscow College of Painting , Sculpture , and Architecture . With the free-for-all SVOMAS proving educationally unsatisfactory and administratively unmanageable , negotiations began in mid-1920 to reorganize both institutions . On Oct. 12 , 1920 the Commissariat of Education approved the formation of VKHUTEMAS , Vysshie gosudarstvennye **29;344;TOOLONG masterskie ( Higher State Art and Technical Studios ) , and Lenin decreed the school 's formation on Nov. 29. 1920 . The first point in Lenin 's announcement stated VKHUTEMAS ' goals explicitly : The Moscow VKHUTEMAS is a specialized educational institution of advanced art-technical training created to prepare highly qualified master artists for industry as well as instructors and directors of professional-technical education.2 The task of preparing artists for industry was considered of utmost // political consequence and the decree 's other points referred to the matter repeatedly . An excerpt from Point 11 underlines this well : On reaching the age limit , students are considered to be in the military reserve but are deferred until completion of their educational obligations . Persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the educational institution , are considered deserters and are liable to prosecution under the provisions of martial law.3 Initially , the VKHUTEMAS course of instruction lasted four years ? an introductory course in the Basic Division and the remaining courses in the specialized departments . In 1925 the course of studies was lengthened to five years , of which the final half year was devoted to the terminal diploma project . Instruction was focused on , but not confined to , professional subject matter since throughout their stay at the VKHUTEMAS , the students were also taught the rudiments of political science and the basis of the communist world outlook . At first , the VKHUTEMAS were open to all , especially workers , irrespective of their previous knowledge or training in art . As this liberal admission policy soon proved unsatisfactory , from 1925 prospective students were tested in their general education as well as in their abilities to draw , model , paint , and draft . ' To facilitate the admission of unprepared candidates into the VKHUTEMAS , a Rabfak , Rabochii fakultet ( Worker 's Department ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' This preparatory course confined itself initially to instructing the candidate in the fundamentals of the visual arts . Reorganized in 1923 as a comprehensive Rabfak to include theatrical and musical subsections , it acquired its final shape in 1924 with the addition of a literary subsection . On completing the Rabfak , students could be admitted into the VKHUTEMAS ' introductory course . Instruction at the VKHUTEMAS started at the Basic Division , an introductory course obligatory to all students regardless of their professional goals.6 Although the faculty held divergent views about the best way of introducing the essentials of the visual arts , nonetheless , from 1923 N. Ladovsky 's " psychoanalytic " method was accepted as the Basic Division 's theoretical umbrella . ' Under this cover , the subject matter was divided into three " concentric " subject areas : graphics , color/surface , and space/volume . On completing the Basic Division , the students were directed into the specialized departments according to the aptitude they had demonstrated while in the introductory courses . For instance , students talented in color and surface manipulation were directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abilities , into the polygraphy department ; those with an aptitude for manipulating volume , into sculpture and ceramics ; those with an inclination towards conLadovsky and the VKHUTEMAS 53 struction , into the metalworking , the woodworking , or the architecture departments . Except for minor changes , as when a pedagogical department was introduced in 1925 and when the metalworking and woodworking departments were combined in 1928 , the VKHUTEMAS maintained the structure outlined above . ' Despite the frequent change of rectors ( Ia . Ravdel : 1920-1923 ; V. Favorskii : 1923-1926 ; P. Novitskii : 1926-1930 ) and despite the change of name in 1928 from VKHUTEMAS to VKHUTEIN , Vysshii gosudarstvennyi **29;375;TOOLONG institut ( Higher State Art and Technical Institute ) , this structure was maintained until the school 's closure in 1930 . Furthermore , despite the conflicts between " traditionalists " and " modernists , " between " purists " and " productivists , " in the teaching faculty , a precarious balance was maintained between the demands of art and those of technics . To paraphrase P. Novitskii , the VKHUTEMAS ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was to art . Even the so-called " productivist " departments ? wood and metalworking , ceramics , polygraphy , textiles ? rejected pure technics . They embodied an artistic-technical union seeking to rationalize the objects of daily life and to rationalize general aesthetic standards . Their purpose was to provide designs suitable for mass production and to train " artist-engineers " for the diverse needs of Soviet industry and production . ' Yet it would be a mistake to ascribe VKHUTEMAS-VKHUTEIN 's achievements to its educational structure or to its steadfast pursuit of productivist goals . To be sure , these were important , but the teachers made all the difference , especially those among the faculty who were bent on experimentation and innovation . We must stress that the VKHUTEMAS-VKHUTEIN 's commitment to modern design was uneven ? some departments gave it wholehearted support ; others , none . The sculpture department , for instance , committed itself to " monumental realism . " The painting department 's three subsections ? easel , monumental , and decorative paintings ? were respectively concerned with preparing future instructors , monumental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cinema . Of the ceramics , polygraphy , and textile departments little is known and little may be said . Judging from the scanty evidence available , it seems these three departments were more innovative than the painting and the sculpture departments , but not as progressive as the metal and woodworking departments . The architecture department is a case in itself . As VKHUTEMAS-VKHUTEIN 's departments were quite independent , the capacity of each for innovation depended on its particular faculty . As it was , some departments were staffed by radicals ; others , by reactionaries . The woodworking department must be cited for employing several of the most innovative personalities of the Soviet avant-garde . For instance , from // 1924 Gustav Klucis taught color theory in this department ; I. Lamtsov , spatial theory ; A. Rodchenko , the design of metal armatures . El Lissitzky taught furniture and interior design intermittently from 1925 . Vladimir Tatlin joined the department in 1927.10 Given such instructors , little wonder that the students came up with new ideas and fresh designs . " But any account of VHKUTEMAS-VKHUTEIN would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to two extraordinary teachers ? Nikolai Ladovsky and Alexander Rodchenko . Ladovsky , creator of the " psychoanalytic " method , will be treated below in the context of the architecture department . Rodchenko , the moving spirit behind the metalworking department , will now engage our attention . On its formation in 1920 , the metalworking department received the studios formerly used by the jewelry department of the Stroganov School of Applied Art . From the first , Rodchenko took charge : he created the curriculum , procured scarce supplies , instructed ill-prepared students . ( Only ten from the initial class of sixty finished the course . ) The engineer , A. Malishevskii , was the department 's technical instructor ; Rodchenko taught design.12 The furniture created under his direction has been well-published , in fact , most of the modern Soviet designs of the twenties stem from Rodchenko 's metalworking department . Perhaps its greatest public exposure came in 1925 at the Parisian Exposition des Arts Decoratifs when Rodchenko 's " Worker 's Club , " together with several other designs , received an honorable mention and four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into two parts : construction ( deriving the object 's form ) and composition ( treating the object 's surface ) . Although students from both sections were being prepared for the metalworking industries , lectures in construction stressed methods of inventing form , while the composition lectures stressed methods of finishing form , the latter emphasizing congruence with industrial processes . The students were also assigned specific design problems : ( 1 ) designing accessories for available products , ( 2 ) simplifying products already on the market , ( 3 ) creating new variants , ( 4 ) suggesting entirely new products , ( 5 ) creating related sets of products , ( 6 ) equipping these sets . Throughout the courses and lectures , Rodchenko stressed simplicity , directness , function , logic . 14 As early as 1923 , on the occasion of the department 's first public exhibition , Rodchenko 's rigor was seen in the students ' models and designs for the metalworking industry . Basically , the exhibits fell into three categories : 1 . Interchangeable component assemblies ( usable in a collapsible kiosk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; drawing table-bed ) . 3 . Objects designed for movement ( revolving bookcase ) . // Subsequently , Rodchenko assigned even more elaborate design assignments , for instance , creating the complete furnishings for auditoria , conference halls , cafeterias , workers ' clubs , resorts , cinemas , airplane cabins.15 To summarize , Rodchenko 's metalworking department was VKHUTEMAS-VKHUTEIN 's productivist showcase . Nevertheless , on March 30 , 1930 VKHUTEIN was formally dissolved . Its replacement became the Moscow Architecture Institute , the Moscow Polygraphy Institute , and the art department of Moscow 's Textile Institute.16 VKHUTEIN 's painting and sculpture departments were transferred to Leningrad and subsumed within the Academy of Art . The remaining departments were integrated into the appropriate polytechnics . So ended Soviet Russia 's version of the Bauhaus . The Architecture Department From 1917 to 1925 architecture was taught in the Academy of Art , the Polytechnical Institute , the Institute of Civil Engineering , Petrograd 's Institute of Architecture , and in the VKHUTEMAS . " Considered in terms of commitment to modern architecture , VKHUTEMAS ' commitment was by far the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from its formation in November 1920 . Throughout the department 's ten-year life span , its internal organization was altered , the following modifications being noteworthy . From 1921 , the department included these subsections : monumental architecture ( under V. Krinskii ) , planning ( under N. Dokuchaev ) , decorativespatial ( N. Ladovsky ) , communal architecture , and a " laboratory " and " model " studio obligatory for all students ( A. Efimov ) . In November 1922 , I. Golosov and K. Melnikov organized a separate , so-called " New Academy " within the department which attempted to reconcile traditional and innovative methods of architectural instruction . Reconciliation proving to be impossible , the department split in October 1923 on the issue of modernism . Both the modernist and the traditionalist factions were formally recognized and both continued to teach . " Clearly , VKHUTEMAS-VKHUTEIN was hardly a monolithic bastion of modernity . Even so , the government 's purge of all modernists from public prominence extended to this school and it was closed in 1930 . The Architecture and Building Institute ( ASI ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , was created in May 1930 to replace the architecture departments previously in VKHUTEIN , in Moscow 's Higher Technical College ( MVTU ) , and in Moscow 's Higher Art and Technical Institute ( MVKHTI ) . VASI trained architects specializing in planning , housing , and the design of industrial and agricultural complexes . In certain respects , // VASI may have been a worthy heir to its forerunners , but it abandoned the innovative methods of architectural instruction developed at the VKHUTEMAS . The basic book about the VKHUTEMAS ' architecture department describes its course of studies in so straightforward a manner that , unfortunately , we are left uninformed about the pedagogic effects of the department 's numerous internal changes mentioned above . 19 Internal factions had not disappeared by 1927 , the date of our guidebook to the department ; yet , they were glossed over for the sake of presenting a united front to the public eye.20 An abridgement of the text follows . To 1925 , the VKHUTEMAS could be completed in four years ; thereafter , five years were required . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but its general outline is doubtless applicable to the earlier , four-year curriculum as well . In both cases , the introductory year in the Basic Division was compulsory . During this first year , art theory and the means and methods of art were introduced . Simultaneously , the students ' critical abilities and independence were encouraged . These were the Basic Division 's general goals . The Basic Division divided instruction into theoretical and practical knowledge . Lectures and seminars introduced the basic concepts of physics , chemistry , mathematics , mechanics , descriptive geometry and perspective , the history of art , and social-political science ( these were the theoretical disciplines ) . Studio and shop exercises taught drafting , drawing , painting , modelling , composition , and the fundamentals of three-dimensional design ( this was considered practical knowledge ) . Ladovsky 's " psycho-analytic " method , emphasizing the impact of form on the human psyche , underpinned the studio and shop exercises . The Basic Division stressed the architectural importance of space . Specific exercises showed how given three-dimensional forms could be distributed in space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other exercises explored the properties of color and the sculptural plasticity of volumes . Still other exercises investigated the formal and compositional possibilities of the spatial arts . Here , the unique characteristics of each spatial art were examined , but the aspects transferable into the other arts were also noted . A collective of several instructors evaluated completed assignments within Ladovsky 's " psycho-analytic " framework . Initiative and inventiveness as well as clarity of analysis and concrete demonstrations of the taught theory were especially prized . The Basic Division 's analyses of color , of the plausibility of volume , and other similar exercises were not isolated , abstracted studies . They were taught with explicit linkages into the VKHUTEMAS ' specialized departments . For instance , the study of color was even extended into the architecture departLadovsky and the VKHUTEMAS 57 ment 's second year course , and basic architectural concepts were further developed in the studios of the woodworking and metalworking departments . On completing the Basic Division , the students entered the appropriate department to commence professional training . The architecture department 's course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three and one-half years , plus another half-year for the terminal diploma project . The student 's second year , that is , his first in the architecture department , continued with the material of the Basic Division , only adding an architectural focus to the introductory subject matter . Copying of historical examples was prohibited , of course . Instead , students worked on new projects which could be inserted into the urban context of the foreseeable future . Compositional ability and constructive imagination were stimulated continuously . In addition to studio instruction , the second year course included lectures in physics , theoretical mechanics , the art of building , the sociology of art , social-political science , and higher mathematics . During the third , fourth , and first-half of the fifth year , architecture students attended lectures in the following subjects : the art of building , the technology and strength of materials , city planning , statics , public utilities , surveying , acoustics , heating and ventilation , budget control , social-political science , management and job control , the history of architecture , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ architectural composition became a separate course in 1927 . Since two factions disagreed about the theory of architectural composition , advanced students could now choose between two different theoretical approaches . Previously , composition had been stressed in the third year design studio . For the 1926-1927 academic year , the architecture department replaced its previous sub-sections ( monumental , communal , decorative-spatial , and planning ) with three school-wide design problem areas : 1 . housing 2. public buildings and industrial complexes 3. planning and design of public spaces ( residential zones , parks , gardens ) . All students , from second to fifth year inclusively , had to solve one or two design problems from each of these three areas per year . And as each problem area was assigned two or three professors , the student not only had his choice of instructors , but was also exposed to at least three different design critics each year . Design problems were taken from real life : from the design tasks currently faced by the construction industry and by the public authorities . If at all possi58 Ladovsky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to exploit the student 's recently acquired technical knowledge . As reports were also required about summer work on construction sites , the student 's appreciation of field conditions tempered the information he gained in the classroom and in the design studio . After completing the required theoretical lectures and the design studios , students were admitted into the terminal diploma studio . Here again , projects were not invented for the student 's benefit ; they were supplied by state institutions and public agencies . On successfully defending the diploma project before the state 's qualification board , the student received the title " architectartist " and was granted the right to pursue independent architectural and building activity in the USSR . The architecture department 's professors for the 1926-1927 academic year were : V. I. Krinskii ( second year ) , A.A. Vesnin , L.A. Vesnin , I.A. Golosov , N.V . Dokuchaev , V.D. Kokorin , N.A. Ladovsky , I.V . Rylskii , and A.V. Shchusev ( third , fourth , and fifth year ) . N. Ladovsky 's " Psycho-Analytic " Method Chapter 2 introduced Nikolai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the short-lived group of expressionist designers . Their projects , created circa 1919-1920 , were displayed at the 19th Exhibition of the All-Russian Central Exhibition Bureau of IZO Narkompros , apparently the group 's only major public appearance.21 Although " Paintsculptarch " disbanded toward the end of 1920 , some of its members , notably N. Ladovsky , N. Krinskii , and N. Dokuchaev , remained intimate associates for some years . Krinskii even published a design textbook based on Ladovsky 's " psycho-analytic " method.22 Ladovsky 's motives for abandoning " Paintsculptarch 's " expressionist imagery in favor of " psycho-analytic " geometries was sudden and still remains elusive . In the summer of 1920 ( at the 19th Exhibition ) he displayed the expressionist Communal House ( Fig. 7 ) . By October of the same year , he had formulated an exemplary " psycho-analytic " assignment which stimulated an immediate solution , now famous and widely published ( Fig. 29 ) .2 ' A mental gulf separates the two sensibilities . If connections exist , they remain unexplained . In any case , by the winter of 1920-1921 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very active in OBMAS , Obedinennykh masterskikh ( United Studios ) , in " The Group for Objective Analysis " and " The Work Group of Architects " ( both associated with INKHUK ) , and in the // As these were the very hotbeds of artistic creativity and debate , they doubtless sharpened Ladovsky 's views about art and design . However , unlike the other art theoreticians who sought ideological justification for new forms , Ladovsky sought psychological justification for new forms ? his " psychoLadovsky and the VKHUTEMAS 59 analytic " method was a perceptual theory for designers and architects . We will look at some " psycho-analytic " design exercises and several derivative projects , but first , we will summarize his presuppositions . Ladovsky was convinced that perspective vision distorted our perception of forms and our orientation in space.25 Consequently , the mind intervened in order to correct the distortions caused by perspective vision . For example , a row of identical telephone poles is seen as diminishing towards the horizon ; yet , we know that the poles do not shorten ; their size is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly estimate the true sizes of the perceived forms . Ladovsky called this continual process the " psychophysiological energy of perception . " He believed this energy could be conserved , especially if the architect 's aid was enlisted . The architect 's responsibility was to provide the correct visual stimuli . If the stimuli were excessive , the observer would be bewildered ; if the stimuli were inadequate , the observer would be overtaxed . Optimal conditions for perception could be provided in perfectly peaceful surroundings . However , as the everyday urban environment could not fulfill this condition , the architect should provide stimuli greater than necessary under optimal conditions . Therefore , forms were not to be simplified ; instead , they were to be well thought out , logically organized , and clearly expressed . Ladovsky and his associates coined " Rationalism " as the term for the presuppositions just summarized . It meant the conservation of psycho-physiological energy with respect to the perception of architectural forms and spaces . In 1923 architects supporting this idea formed ASNOVA , or Assotsiatsia novykh arkhitektorov ( Association of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to free architecture from the whims of fashion and the vagaries of individual caprice . Instead , laboratory tested observations of human perception were to provide the axioms of a new , objective architecture . Konstantin Melnikov and El Lissitzky are two better-known Soviet architects subscribing to these ideas . N. Ladovsky , N.V . Dokuchaev , and V. Krinskii , though less well-known , are more important to Rationalism because they formulated its tenets . Although ASNOVA published a meager , one-issue journal in 1926,26 and an organizational program in 1931 , the Rationalists are best understood not through their infrequent public declarations but through their activities at // they established a laboratory complete with instruments to lay the foundations of Rationalist architecture . Both efforts were largely Ladovsky 's creation . As the founding of the architectural research laboratory falls outside our chronological limits , and as it is already discussed elsewhere , 27 we will focus on the teaching program . On joining the VKHUTEMAS faculty in 1920 , N. Ladovsky , N. // Dokuchaev , and V. Krinskii began to develop a " psycho-analytic " method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the architecture department , specifically , its second section where modern trends were encouraged . By 1923 it had proved its worth and became the Basic Division 's conceptual framework . Of the Basic Division 's three " concentric " subject areas ( graphics , color/surface , space/volume ) , Ladovsky 's influence was most evident in the space/volume concentric because it was taught by instructors trained in the architecture department 's second section . At the 1925 Exposition des Arts Decoratifs , the VKHUTEMAS received honorable mentions for the " psychoanalytic " method , the Basic Division 's teaching program , and for several students ' architectural projects . Selected Student Projects As already mentioned , the Basic Division split its instruction into theoretical and practical knowledge , a division perpetuated in the VKHUTEMAS specialized departments . Generally speaking , lectures presented theoretical material while studio and shop exercises conveyed practical knowledge and specialized professional training . The latter were not simply odd bits of professional knowhow . They were rather a coherent and comprehensive set of lessons derived from the psycho-analytic method which was heavily stressed in the Basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas , namely graphics , color/surface , and space/volume , covered the Basic Division 's definition of practical knowledge . To summarize : the graphics concentric devised a remarkable system of notation which exploited the properties of line and the possibilities of linear manipulations.29 The color/surface concentric studied the optical properties of colors , surfaces , and their effects on planes and volumes . The space/volume concentric taught formal composition . Of these three , the space/volume concentric was by far the most pertinent to architectural studies . We shall examine it in detail . During the first year at the VKHUTEMAS , the year spent in the Basic Division , students were assigned four increasingly complex space/volume composition exercises.30 All were to be solved through three-dimensional models of a given scale . Maximum use was also made of rhythm , nuances and contrasts of the forms , their mass and texture , light versus shadow , and color ( Figs. 30 , 31 ) . The exercise series was repeated , with more complex problems , for the students ' second year ? their first in the architecture department . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nikolai Ladovsky exerted most influence in the Basic Division 's space/ volume concentric , virtually a showcase for his " psycho-analytic " method . // There , in order to optimize the visual stimuli of their projects , Ladovsky 's students were instructed to pay particular attention to : 1 . the form 's configuration , 2. the form 's surroundings , or context , and 3. the viewpoint(s) from which to observe the form . These three factors were repeatedly stressed in every composition problem assigned in the space/volume concentric . As the assigned problems became more complex , these three design factors were correspondingly developed , elaborated , enriched . They are inseparable from the following studio exercises which outline Ladovsky 's teaching method in the Basic Division : 1st Exercise : create an expressive planar surface as the simplest type of surface ( Fig. 31 ) . The surface is understood as a two-dimensional form of minimal thickness . The observer faces it frontally . The surroundings do not offer any other perceptual clues . Given these conditions , the student arrives at the most static and closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developing and elaborating the conditions of the 1st Exercise . Volume is understood as a threedimensional form perceived when the observer moves around it . Given these conditions , volumes are recognized only in a context of relationships , movement with reference to the observed volume being the central issue . 3rd Exercise : create the expression of a volume 's mass and weight ( Fig. 32 ) . Mass is understood as constituting the form 's basic impression . It is therefore the key to solving this composition exercise . The exercise also explores the visual tensions of weight versus support . 4th Exercise : create expressive forms defining space and insert expressive forms within that space . The basic form , being placed into the given space , becomes the composition 's central focus . It is simultaneously observed with the other forms defining the given space . Together they create the expressive , contextual envelope for the space . ( This is the final exercise given in the Basic Division 's space/volume concentric . ) The exercises of the second year , that is , the first in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the first year . They are as follows : 1st Exercise : clarify architectural volume through partial surface manipulations . // 2nd Exercise : convey weight and mass in an architectural volume ( Fig. 33 ) . 3rd Exercise : create an expressive architectural construction ( Fig. 34 ) . 4th Exercise : create an expressive architectural space . Before undertaking the third and fourth exercises , students were assigned the following two preliminary abstract problems : ( 1 ) create a complex of volumes distributed in space , and ( 2 ) express architectural construction as a system of forms and as forms resisting weight . These two preliminary exercises review the lessons of the first year and elaborate the previous lessons about manipulating mass , weight , and space . Although the " psycho-analytically " inspired exercises read like drills in dry , abstract compsotion , illustrations of the submitted solutions reveal quite a different story . Already in first year , and especially in second year , Ladovsky 's students were designing buildings ( Fig. 34 , 35 ) . This was so because Ladovsky 's composition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He insisted that the building 's overall form , its internal spatial disposition , and the site become the basis for the student 's composition . In other words , Ladovsky 's space/volume concentric stressed form , but not at the expense of function . Ladovsky insisted that architectural compositions express their functional basis . In his view , the observer 's " psycho-physiological energy " could only be conserved if the building 's underlying logic and its constituent parts were clearly apparent . Therefore , buildings were not to be reduced into simple , monolithic packages . This would only mask their internal raison d'etre . Instead , various architectonic elements were to be manipulated until the building 's complex , inner logic became legible . The architectural projects designed by the VKHUTEMAS students display Ladovsky 's pervasive influence ( Fig. 34 , 35 ) . As a general rule , the designs are shown in two- or three-point perspective , an oblique view revealing information about the building 's interior on no less than two of the external surfaces . In addition , the skeleton frame was manipulated for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Or , it was contrasted against the building 's major volumes ( Fig. 34 ) . But the structure was never a fetish . It was treated as just another visual element , comparable in importance to elevator shafts , windows , handrails , air vents , mullions . These components were often colored , a bold touch for projects already animated by supergraphics and over-sized clocks . All in all , these are lively architectural projects which speak well for Ladovsky 's methods . 6 Lissitzky 's and Malevich 's Contributions El Lissitzky 's Role Although El Lissitzky is undeniably a major figure of the Soviet avant-garde , his actual contribution to the emergence of constructivist architecture was minimal . The reason is quite simple : travelling in Western Europe from 1921 to 1925 , he was not in a position to exert a crucial influence on the developments in Petrograd or Moscow . When he left the Soviet Union , constructivist imagery had not yet coalesced ; when he returned , it was already virtually codified . Obviously , the credit for this belongs elsewhere . Nevertheless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects continue to be cited as constructivist exemplars . The Prouns , Proekt Utverzhdeniya Novogo ( Project for the Affirmation of the New ) , first appeared in 1919 in Vitebsk as Marc Chagell 's influence on Lissitzky waned and that of Kasimir Malevich increased . Thereafter , Lissitzky labelled many of his abstract paintings Prouns and insisted that " A Proun is the station for changing trains between painting and architecture . " ' It was this and more . Lissitzky explains : Proun begins on the flat plane , passes through three-dimensionally constructed models , and continues to the construction of all the objects of our common life . Thus Proun supersedes painting and its artists on the one hand , the machine and the engineer on the other and proceeds to the construction of space , organizing them through material elements in all dimensions and builds a new , manifold , yet unified image of man 's nature.2 Proun imagery , being painted representations of three-dimensional volumes , had some potential for these aims , expecially in urban design and the design of building complexes . Yet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Soviet building complexes were not apparent until the late twenties and early thirties ( Fig. 37 ) . Prouns carried fewer implications for the design of individual buildings and , in this respect , their influence was negligible . And curiously , despite Lissitzky 's ambitious intentions for the Prouns , his own use of their imagery was disconcertingly limited . // At best , Lissitzky relied on Proun imagery in three interior designs : most obviously , in the " Proun Raum " of the 1923 Grosse Berliner Ausstellung , in the " Abstract Room " of the 1926 Internationalen Kunstaustellung Dresden , and in the 1927 " Das Kabinett der Abstrakten " of the Landesmuseum Hanover . His subsequent essays in exhibition design , for instance , the 1928 " Pressa " Exhibition in Cologne and the 1930 " IPA " International Fur Exhibition in Leipzig , are so cluttered by comparison that they are unrecognizable as the work of the same designer . Whatever the reasons may be , Lissitzky seems to have abandoned the elegant austerities of his earlier interiors by the late twenties . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their influence is not discernible in the visual evidence currently available . In addition to the design of interiors and exhibition displays , Lissitzky created several architectural projects , the most famous being the Lenin Podium ( Fig. 38 ) and Sky-Hooks ( Fig. 41 ) . Both are unusual and striking images carrying undeniable visual impact to this very day . Both projects were widely acclaimed and endowed Lissitzky with credibility as an architect of note . But considered with reference to the development of constructivist architecture , neither project could have exerted considerable influence . In terms of form , both designs were indebted to European models ; in terms of chronology , both were late . The prototype for Lenin 's Podium is certainly The Project for a Suprematist Tribune ( Fig. 39 ) first published in Unovis on November 20 , 1920.3 But this hand-printed , mimeographed publication appearing in provincial Vitebsk remained unnoticed by Soviet designers in Petrograd and Moscow and , for all practical purposes , had no impact . It was resuscitated by Lissitzky only in 1924 just before he exhibited the Lenin Podium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waited four years to transform the Unovis sketch into a finished design remains uncertain ; he did regret the delay.4 We conjecture the concrete loader ( Fig. 40 ) illustrated in ABC No. 2 ( 1924 ) sparked Lissitzky to propose the Lenin Podium . ' As he collaborated on the ABC issue in question , which apparently was prepared before the first public exhibition of the Lenin Podium , we conclude the poised engineering structure was the climactic stimulus for Lissitzky 's design . Like the Lenin Podium , the Sky-Hook project did not alter the course of Soviet constructivist design . The reason may be that Lissitzky first exhibited these horizontal skyscrapers not in Russia but Berlin , at the Ausstellung Novembergruppe of June 1925.6 Although these office buildings were shown in the context of Moscow 's city plan , straddling the intersections of radial streets and the ring road encircling the old city center , Lissitzky considered the prefabricated Sky-Hooks to be prototypes for any other medieval city of the concentric type . ' For technical advice , Lissitzky had turned to Fmil Roth . " As far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , as // Erich Mendelsohn has pointed out , the resemblance to Dutch signal-stations ( Fig. 42 ) is much too striking to be mere coincidence.9 Lissitzky obviously benefited from his European sojourn . His two most famous architectural projects , at least , seem to have been precipitated by Western European images . Perhaps this derivation was unrecognized by most of his contemporaries because during the early twenties Lissitzky was accepted as the Soviet avant-garde 's representative in Europe . Accordingly , Western European designers considered his projects to be the latest word in constructivism . In retrospect , we see that the attribution was misplaced and is chronologically inexact . Lissitzky 's own contacts with Russian designers from 1921 to 1925 were tenuous ; consequently , his awareness of the developments on the home front could only be limited . To be sure , Lissitzky did occasionally use constructivist forms masterfully , the Lenin Podium 's inclined box truss , for instance . But even here , it was subsumed to a Proun composition . We may therefore conclude that Lissitzky used constructivist imagery according to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not exemplify the then prevailing norms of constructivist design or assist significantly in the creation of those design norms . Kasimir Malevich 's Contribution Since painting was Malevich 's primary concern , it is not surprising that his architectural models and drawings , notably the Planit and Arkhitekton series , were derived and are best understood with reference to his paintings . Yet all his paintings were not equally rich with architectural significance . As Malevich noted , those characterized by a tight , severely rectilinear geometry had the most potential . Accordingly , these were explored in subsequent three-dimensional studies . Before looking in detail at Malevich 's manner of transforming flat color planes into complex architectural models , a few words about Suprematism are in order . Although the term " Suprematism " is inseparable from Malevich 's art theories and abstract paintings , he labored several agonizing years to find this escape route from the impasse of Russian Cubo-Futurism.10 Between 1910 and 1915 Malevich struggled to make up his mind . Then he resolutely started off into entirely uncharted territory . His restless search for a new direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unsuccessful attempts to find a way freshly his own : " Alogism , " " Transrational Realism , " " Fevralism , " and " Supranaturalism " were all tested and discarded before Malevich finally settled on " Suprematism . " It was announced as a new , but already mature , art movement in December 1915 at " The Last Futurist Exhibition of Pictures 0-10 ( Zero-Ten ) . " // Many years later Malevich summarized his reasons for considering Suprematism a developed movement in 1915 : Suprematism arose in 1913 ( a planar phenomenon ) in its static and dynamic phases and was painted predominantly in black , red and subsequently , white ; white Suprematism appeared at an exhibition in 1918 ( the works were done in 1917 ) . Volumetric Suprematism began to develop in 1918 , although the elements of it had emerged as early as 1915.11 Of these variant Suprematisms , we are most concerned with what Malevich had termed " Volumetric Suprematism . " Malevich 's claim about Volumetric Suprematism beginning in 1915 is supported by a photograph of the 1915 Zero-Ten exhibition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is discernible.12 At the same exhibition Ivan Kliun , Malevich 's pupil , exhibited several three-dimensional Suprematist structures and these works may be considered the first Arkhitektons . Malevich 's own three-dimensional models appeared several years later . His first architectural studies were constructed in Vitebsk during the autumn of 1919.13 But these efforts were apparently confined to pedagogic example and encouragement since at this time his students at the Vitebsk , Unovis created more three-dimensional models than he did . Malevich 's own models from Vitebsk are no longer extant . The earliest to have survived , or to have been amply documented , date from 1922 and 1923 when he started his activities with the Petrograd chapter of INKHUK . Over the next decade , Malevich exhibited his architectural models frequently : in 1924 they were shown in Venice ; in 1926 , Leningrad ; in 1927 , Warsaw and Berlin . From 1928 to 1933 they were seen in at least four separate exhibitions in Moscow.14 Throughout the ten-year period Malevich produced a variety of abstract architectural studies . Some were organized symmetrically ; others , asymmetrically . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These he labelled " Alpha " and " Gota " Suprematist arkhitektons respectively.1 ' Yet , whatever their formal characteristics , Malevich 's method of derivation apparently remained unchanged . The implicit generator of his architectural models may be discovered in those suprematist drawings , or paintings , that are akin to Fig. 43 . This particular illustration , though not attributed to Malevich , was created in Unovis ' studios and is therefore a by-product of Malevich 's tutelage . Unlike Malevich 's own drawings where looser structures prevail , in Fig. 43 an obliquely oriented , right-angle grid governs the canvas . The flat squares and flat rectangular planes either overlap or are contiguous . Yet , for all the disciplined rectilinearity in this and similar Suprematist compositions , a number of ambiguities persist . As the light is evenly distributed and no shadows are cast , we are uncertain whether we are looking at flat planes , at the sides of cubes , or at the sides of rectangular columns . Whatever the elements may he , we are uncertain about // their spatial interrelations . The elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may interconnect ; or , they may support each other ; or , they may all be completely independent , i.e. simply hanging in space . In order to clarify these uncertainties , we must disregard the given picture plane and assume a different viewpoint . To do this , let us assume that Fig. 43 represents a volumentric structure 's plan view , or an architectural model 's roof plan . Then , if the composition is considered the view of a three-dimensional object from above , the previously unsettling spatial ambiguities may easily be resolved . By lowering the bottom of Fig. 43 , we arrive at a typical Planit ( Fig. 44 ) . This demonstrates how Malevich 's Suprematist drawings generated his architectural models . The latter are unilinear extensions in space of the square and the rectangular elements characterizing so many Suprematist compositions . As Troels Andersen puts it , a cube registered a square 's fall through space for Malevich. ' 6 Similarly , an oblong beam , square in section , registered a cube 's fall through space . Movement transformed a two-dimensional form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one type of movement ? that of gravity pulling rectilinear planes downward . His architectural models , be they Planits or Arkhitektons , may all be interpreted in this manner , even if they are low structures apparently pulled only in two lateral directions ( Fig. 44 ) . But obviously , gravity 's effect on floating Suprematist planes is best registered in those Arkhitektons where a vertical organization predominates ( Fig. 46 ) . Malevich 's architectural models possess the spatial and structural ambiguities of the parent Suprematist drawings . As with the drawings , the models and their constituent parts float suspended in space . Gravity may have generated the models from the drawings , but it ceased affecting the entire model and allowed it to remain suspended and unsupported in space . Inexplicably , gravity also stretched certain of the models ' components more than it stretched the others . Furthermore , we are left uninformed about the components ' mutual interconnections and/or their method of mutual support . That is , Malevich provides no clues to inform us whether the model 's components simply touch their neighbors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we confront fascinating constructions , puzzling as totalities though assembled from exceptionally clear constituent parts . But about the actual manner of assembling the constituent parts there is little doubt . The Planit and Arkhitekton series both exemplify " compaction " ? the tendency to bring together the component volumes without any articulation . On this point , Malevich is not ambiguous . Though the constituent volumes of his architectural models and drawings are all clearly discernible , yet they are neither separate nor articulated entities . As no slots of space intervene between the volumes , they are all contiguous . That is , the abutment line is // conterminous to the particular volumes concerned . Through this device Malevich 's architectural drawings and models become dense , compacted massings . The stress on a vertical or a horizontal organization , as the case may be in a specific Planit or Arkhitekton , leaves the underlying principle of compaction unaffected ( Figs. 46 , 47 ) . Malevich 's architectural drawings and models appeared during the very years when the Soviet avant-garde architects were inventing their own , unmistakable imagery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor since parallels soon appeared in the designs of practicing Soviet architects . Indeed , in some cases his forms could have even been prototypes . ( Compare Figs. 44-45 ) . But such direct parallels aside , Malevich 's contribution was actually more pervasive and , therefore , less easily traced . We refer especially to Malevich 's penchant for compaction . It pervades the Arkhitekton and Planit series as it pervades the vast majority of constructivist projects . We believe his models were the exemplars for this compositional device . They became an important stimulant helping Soviet architectural design coalesce into its own distinctive mold . The architectural use of compaction , as well as that of other compositional devices , will be discussed in the following chapter . 7 Summary and Conclusions For all the differences among the designs of Soviet avant-garde architects , the similarities are truly remarkable . Similarities encompass student projects as well as designs by mature architects . Similarities infuse engage projects as well as the politically neutral designs . Similarities even persist between projects by Rationalists and Constructivists , two architectural factions allegedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ striking family resemblances characterize the Soviet designs and distinguish them from their Western European counterparts . The features and themes most characteristic of constructivist projects , in other words , the grammatical outlines of this architectural language , will now be indicated and related to the source images already discussed . Previous chapters traced the perambulations of selected forms from first uses in abstract paintings , sculpture , and constructions to their subsequent applications in kiosks , theatre sets , exposition structures . We will now look at the actual architectural applications . Compaction The predilection for " compaction " underlies an unexpectedly wide range of post-1917 Soviet architectural projects . By " compaction " we refer to the tendency to mass together , rather than separate , or even articulate , the building 's major , constituent volumes . For example , compaction is evident in Ladovsky 's expressionist 1920 Communal House ( Fig. 7 ) . It pervades many Vesnin projects ( Fig. 27 ) , and compaction is quite obvious in works such as Melnikov 's Makhorka Pavilion and Barkhin 's first variant for the Izvestiia Building ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examples the major component volumes are discernible and recognizable as separate entities . However , and most important , the major masses are all brutally brought together without any attempts at articulation . The exceptions coming to mind , for instance Leonidov 's 1927 Lenin Institute , his Ministry of Heavy Industry ( Fig. 49 ) , Barshch and Vladimirov 's // Project jiff a Communal Dwelling arc unusual for Soviet designs . It should he noted that they were all created in the late 1920s as reactions to the predominant design mode . Leonidov , in fact , achieved instant recognition and notoriety among his peers for categorically rejecting compaction and for granting the major volumes independent identities ( Fig. 49 ) . By contrast , the Barshch and Vladimirov design interpenetrates or articulates the major volumes . The inspiration for this is to be found not in Malevich 's Suprematist drawings but in Le Corbusier 's undeniably influential Centrosoiuz complex . Separation of the building 's constituent volumes into distinct and independent elements remained unusual for Soviet designs . It was an imported characteristic while compaction remained the norm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizing device , they did not invent the manner . It was borrowed from cubofuturist designers . The tendency may be traced back to cubo-futurist paintings and to cubo-futurist theatre sets enframed by proscenium arches . But for the seminal transition into architecture we cite Popova and Vesnin 's " capitalist Fortress " ( Fig. 5 ) , a free-standing set created for the " Struggle and Victory " Mass Festival . Though the entire spectacle was cancelled , models were built and these proved to be very influential . The preliminary sketch for the Vesnin brothers ' Palace of Labor competition entry reveals how the willful " capitalist Fortress " was metamorphosed from a cubo-futurist , craggy ensemble into a disciplined design signalling the arrival of constructivist architecture . Obviously , the overt imagery changed : the craggy massings were transformed into orthogonal volumes . Yet , though the imagery was altogether different , the actual method of composition ? compaction ? remained unchanged . ' As in the Vesnins ' Palace of Labor , most examples of compaction simply placed the component volumes next to one another and avoided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an inordinate degree by packaging or even fusing the component volumes together . We are referring to projects organized about a center point or a central axis . Specifically excluded are the buildings requiring a programmatic central focus ? numerous theatres and the Moscow Planetarium , for instance . Instead , we call attention to designs such as Tatlin 's Tower ( Fig. 13 ) or Melnikov 's own house and especially his Leningrad Pravda competition entry ( Fig. 50 ) . Extreme cases of the tendency are Ladovsky 's 1927 Kostino Housing Estate , Krasilnikov 's VKHUTEIN diploma project ( Fig. 51 ) , and Petrov 's project for a forge ( Fig. 52 ) . These projects had no known or discernible programmatic need to gravitate towards or around a center . Yet , they all did so compulsively . We argue that the respective designers indulged in a formal predilection habitual to the Soviet architects in question . Finally , there are the projects featuring central masts : Exter 's IzvestiiaKrasnaia Niva Pavilion ( Fig. 22 ) , Gan 's Rural Kiosk ( Fig. 21 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unlike our other examples , which Surnmary and Conclusions 7/ concealed , diffused , or implied a cohesive source , these projects actually display the source of cohesion ? pivotal verticals . Without these masts , the component elements would become disassociated and the entire design would dissipate . But with the masts , each component relates to the vertical reference and the design holds . The similarity between these masted designs and the projects cited above lies in the common tendency for all the components to draw together . Although various strategies were used to achieve this goal , the differences among the strategies should not be overemphasized . Compaction is the one property that all the examples have in common . Yet , regardless of the degree of compaction in a Rationalist or a Constructivist design , the overall configuration was not allowed to overwhelm the subsidiary volumes . Though compacted together into a non-dominating total form , the lesser volumes were kept legible and strong . They held their own . Thus , both the parts and the whole competed simultaneously for the observer 's attention . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fig. 49 ) and the articulated volumes in the Barsch and Vladimirov 1929 project for a Communal Dwelling , the typical compacted design made it difficult to extract the part from the whole . This was the crucial difference : the parts could not easily be isolated and extracted from the overall form ( Figs. 53 , 54 ) . It is therefore difficult to consider them one at a time or apart from the total configuration . As a hierarchy was not established , we are confronted with restless massings where unresolved tensions and ambiguities prevail . Component Fixation Notwithstanding the difficulties of reading the massings of unarticulated volumes , Soviet architects further compounded matters by their uncompromising " component fixation . " We refer to the indulgent displays of architectonic elements ( columns , beams , trusses , tension rods ) and to the decorative use of secondary and tertiary elements ( door and window frames , handrails , ladders , political slogans , antennas , etc . ) ( Figs. 28 , 48 , 50 , 53 ) . Seen together with the compacted but unarticulated volumes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overload . Granted , many of the displayed accoutrements , especially clocks , antennas , searchlights , exhaust funnels , sound horns , and political slogans , were familiar sights . But , they were familiar in other contexts ? on ships , on radio stations , on billboards . On placement into a new context , they suddenly acquired unexpected prominence and unprecedented importance ( Figs. 28 , 50 , 55 ) . As a result , the information overload dealing with architectonics was often further enlivened by the visual wit of a transplanted but highly politicized collage sensibility . Like its counterpart in painting , architectural collage is a matter of incor72 Summary and Conclusions porating and exploiting elements previously considered irrelevant to the art . Analogous results follow : visual puns , unexpected juxtapositions , puzzled spectators . Although constructivist architects did seek these aims , their efforts were not confined to mere visual stimulation . Very often they agitated for the communist cause . The radio antennas , the sound horns , the illuminated screens , the projectors were all there for a definite purpose ? political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be referred to as agit-buildings , as larger and more effective versions of the earlier engage agit-kiosks by Gustav Klucis ( Fig. 20 ) . As far as the constructivist architects were concerned , collage was not only a new architectural tool , it could also be a political weapon . When a building 's program did not require any apparatus for disseminating overt political messages , the constructivists were nonetheless prone to crown their designs with a conspicuous clock . This inclination bordered on an obsession . As in Rodchenko 's kiosks , clocks of all shapes and sizes became an indispensable fixture of constructivist projects ( Figs. 28 , 50 , 54 , 55 ) . But it was hardly an interest in mechanics . Most likely , the architects had been instructed to encourage the new society to keep tune with the clockwork . In a backward country attempting a great industrial leap forward , even timepieces become politicized . Although the constructivists have often been credited with an inordinate attention to mechanical building services , the foregoing discussion suggests otherwise . Apart from an occasional interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the instruments of political agitation . At least this was the case during the early and middle 1920s . Attention did shift to industrial and mechanical images , especially in the drawings of Iakov Chernikov , but this was in the early 1930s ? the very years when the Soviet government proscribed modern design . During the period with which we are concerned , the avant-garde 's component fixation concentrated on the instruments dispensing political messages and on basic building components . Of the two Soviet groups espousing modern architecture , the constructivisits in OSA were the more engage and it is their designs that make the most of antenna , clocks , projectors and the like . With Melnikov 's Leningrad Pravda ( Fig. 50 ) excepted , the Rationalists were more concerned with manipulating the skeleton frame and its components ( Fig. 57 ) . The constructivists also handled these elements with considerable dexterity , but , unlike the Rationalists , their component fixation did not stop with the elements of building . It was of a wider scope . The OSA constructivists exploited politicized apparatuses in their designs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them from the Rationalists . Regarding the display of architectonic components , the similarities between the Constructivists and the Rationalists outweigh the differences . A // case in point is the extraordinary concern the two groups show for linear components , both as interstitial and as structural elements ( Figs. 13 , 50 , 53 , 55 , 56 , 57 ) . Initially , the linear manipulations seem willful and illogical . From the viewpoint of structural logic , this is indeed the case because neither group considered structure as a fetish . Instead , it was simply a neutral cage to be deformed , accented , or emphasized according to the building 's internal needs . As a result , the building 's surface envelope became a field for the interplay of linear elements carrying informative metaphors about the underlying structure and especially about the internal spaces . As Western European critics and historians have made much of modern architecture 's alleged respect for structure , the Soviet architects ' relatively carefree attitude is a surprise . The distorted skeletal cages and frames in the examples just cited are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the displayed facility with linear components , be they structural or secondary , interstitial elements , derives from the example of Rodchenko 's abstract studies ( Figs. 15-16 ) and from the Stenbergs ' KPS constructions ( Figs. 14 , 18 , 19 ) . These free-form armatures liberated the skeleton frame from its customary orthogonal configurations . Given such abstract constructions as examples , architects became aware of unsuspected possibilities . They took the precedents to heart and proceeded to play with linear components in a manner unknown to modern architecture in Europe . However , for all the liberating and inspiring effects , the skeletal frame 's innate liabilities were not always avoided . We note particularly the problems with scale . For instance , is the Vesnins ' Leningrad Pravda ( Fig. 28 ) miniature architecture , or is it overblown carpentry ? ( Had the project been built , it could fit on a large stage ) . Then , consider the Palace of Labor ( Fig. 27 ) , another project by the Vesnin brothers . Comparing its cross-section to the sets for The Man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale elements , architecture and theatre sets become interchangeable . Distortions of the skeleton frame will attract attention , but if the elements giving scale are suppressed , estimation of true size becomes problematic . Unless the skeleton cage 's untractable geometry is mediated , as in Figs. 56-58 , the structural system 's own compulsive logic easily preempts concern with scale and proportion . The abstract , linear constructions encouraged the Soviet architects to favor the skeleton cage and to freely manipulate its components . However , the difference between a constructivist project 's true and apparent size was often left unresolved . Furthermore , the fascination with the skeletal cage and its components took precedence over the spaces that these elements enclosed . Indeed , the attention given to the space defining elements was inordinate . As a consequence , the internal spatial arrangements became neglected , and if the // infrequent illustrations of Soviet avant-garde plans are consulted , they will he seen as rudimentary and diagrammatic . The elevations and perspectives of the same designs , by contrast , are detailed , well-executed , and very informative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with detailing the parts of the external form than with orchestrating the internal spaces . The interest in architectural space had yielded to a fixation on the external , space-enclosing elements . Even Ladovsky 's " psycho-analytic " method as taught in the VKHUTEMAS stressed the primacy of the enclosing elements over the enclosed spaces . Admittedly , the external components were to be manipulated for the sake of clarifying the building 's inner logic . However , he stressed not so much the underlying logic or the internal functions but the means for making the logic and the functions legible . In other words , the emphasis fell on the visible , external components . Ladovsky 's students took his lessons to heart and enlivened their designs by projecting metaphors about the internal functions onto the enveloping surfaces ( Figs. 35 , 56-57 ) . His influence may even be discerned in the designs by the OSA constructivists ( Figs. 53 , 55 ) . A group ostensibly opposed to his point of view . We therefore infer that his ideas about the importance of facade elements were well-received among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the nature of Ladovsky 's audience ? designers already predisposed to his ideas by their preference for components at the expense of finished , total form . Oblique Viewpoint Unlike their Western European counterparts , particularly Le Corbusier who generally preferred a flat , frontal view of his designs , the Soviet architects favored the oblique viewpoint . Consequently , two-point and three-point perspective drawings exist for virtually all the Rationalist and Constructivist designs that have been published . Considering that the presentation method was much less common among the European architects , the Soviet penchant for it requires comment . Several advantages recommend the oblique viewpoint . The building 's total volume , the width and depth of the major spaces , and the hierarchy of the external features all become evident at a glance . Not surprisingly , the building 's components may also be shown to best advantage . We see that a perspective drawing presents considerable information about the building ? marked contrast to the flat , frontal view . As Soviet architects avoided inference and suggestion , and as they wished to be as open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favored presentation method . ( For instance , call to mind the well-publicized photo of the entrance to K. Melnikov 's 1925 USSR Pavilion in Paris. ) // I.adovsky 's insistence that the architect maximize visual stimuli for the spectator 's benefit accords well with two-point and three-point perspective views . Fcr this reason , his VKHUTEMAS classes could have only abetted the oblique viewpoint obtaining widespread currency among the younger Soviet architects . It was self-evident that oblique views were very informative . This method of visualizing unrealized designs did not provoke any arguments between the Rationalists and the Constructivists . Yet for all its advantages , the oblique view has its liabilities . For instance , it portrays any given project in its most dynamic and aggressive aspect even if the design is compacted . As we have seen , this was the case with constructivist designs . They gravitated towards a core , sometimes implied or diffused , but often overt and centered . Consequently , the spectator is required to accept contradictory visual suggestions : the design itself pulls inward while the oblique view pulls outward ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . As the design coheres and compacts about itself , the distortions of perspective simultaneously direct the spectator 's eyes to seek the vanishing points . An unrelenting push-pull results . These visual stresses were further compounded by component fixation . The constructivists insisted on informing spectators about as many of the building 's constituent parts as possible . And these elements were to be made not merely visible , but highly legible . Nothing at all was to be suppressed for the sake of taste , aesthetic order , or visual sensibility . Only the facts of building were to prevail , and these were to be shown as truthfully , as clearly , and as explicitly as possible . In practice this meant delineating the components in the two-point and three-point perspective drawings . Given these attitudes and given the component fixation , the resulting perspectives became filled with detailed information ( Fig. 48 ) . In fact , so much so , that they often suffered from an information overload , if not outright visual overkill . Summary and Conclusions Histories and critical studies of modern architecture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if it were an internally consistent and coherent phenomenon . The approach is based on texts written throughout the 1920s and 1930s by the participants themselves and by sympathetic contemporary observers . The key written documents of this period continuously stress recurring themes such as the machine aesthetic , the dictates of the Zeitgeist , a new conception of space , new building techniques , new social programs for anonymous users ? all of which were to materialize imminently in technocratic and equitable urban utopias . As these and corollary themes suffuse the principal texts from the " heroic period " of modern architecture , be they written by German , French , English , Czech , or Russian authors , little wonder that the entire phenomenon has been treated as an " International Style " or as a // transnational architecture for the " First Machine Age . " The imagery , however , is an entirely different matter . The variety of forms created by the principal innovators of modern architecture as well as by hosts of secondary architects belies the generally consistent and unvarying explanations provided on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treating modern architecture as a homogeneous phenomenon may legitimately be called into question . At the very least , we should be cautious of excessive reliance on and deference to the written record if contrary evidence challenges our eyes . The visual evidence , in marked contrast to the written record , is as rich and varied as the individuals responsible for modern design in all of its manifestations . Consequently , our attention focused on designs produced from 1917 to 1925 by architects , artists , set designers , and whoever else may have been responsible for a particularly pregnant image . Most of the innovators important to our study were artists already associated with constructivism ( V. Tatlin , G. Klucis , A. Gan , the Stenberg brothers ) . Some were designers who became associated with constructivism after already making their presence felt with other imageries ( A. Vesnin , L. Popova , A. Rodchenko ) . While still others had little to do with constructivism per se , but influenced it indirectly ( N. Ladovsky , the Rationalist theoretician and VKHUTEMAS professor ) . On scrutinizing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other individuals , the genesis of constructivist architecture was found to be indebted more to the transformations and transferences of existing imagery than to outright formal invention . Constructivist architects drew their inspiration from a variety of unexpected sources ranging from cubo-futurist art to Ladovsky 's lessons about optimal visual stimuli . And once given the example of Rodchenko 's and the Stenbergs ' linear constructions , the constructivists disciplined and repackaged the diverse sources into a rigorous , orthogonalizing aesthetic unmistakably different from the varieties of modern architecture then prevailing in Western Europe . The sources of constructivist architecture account for its manifest differences from Western European developments . As the constructivist architects drew much of their inspiration from the sphere of art instead of architecture , the ensuing projects reflect the non-architectural provenance . Consequently , Le Corbusier could rightly observe that constructivist plans and building techniques were rudimentary , that the constructivists paid more attention to form than to function . We now see that this was due to constructivist architecture 's strong ties with cubo-futurist and expressionist designs rather than to the prototypes of the European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their social radicalism in a variety of formal vocabularies including cubo-futurist , expressionist and constructivist imageries . Thus , the commitment to the newly installed // Communist regime was first shown in cubo-futurist designs , as for instance in the agit-kiosks by Rodchenko . But when cubo-futurist imagery was abandoned , the enlivening engage attitude not only survived but suffused the subsequent hegemony of constructivist imagery . As a consequence , thematic continuities relate the earlier cubo-futurist and expressionst designs to the later , formally dissimilar , constructivist designs . Among the more noticeable continuities , we refer particularly to the prominence of clocks , antennas , searchlights , and supergraphics . As already noted , these elements do not indicate a " machine aesthetic " as such but rather the engage commitment of the respective designers . These instruments of political instruction and propaganda were already highly visible features in cubo-futurist agit-kiosks and designs for mass festivals . They were retained in constructivist projects and are perhaps among the most obvious elements binding constructivist imagery to its sources and distinguishing constructivist imagery from its Western European equivalents . Similarly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their way into constructivist architecture . On the one hand , the dynamics consisted of unresolving the visual tensions between the component parts and the whole building and , on the other hand , of creating the illusion of arrested movement . Ladovsky abetted the continuity of these visual ploys by analyzing and explaining them in his VKHUTEMAS classes . Once tamed and rationalized by Ladovsky , cubo-futurist visual dynamics became transformed into the oblique viewpoint so characteristic of constructivist visualizations and architectural imagery . Taking the foregoing remarks into account , we may conclude with several general observations . This study suggests that innovative architectural designs are not the inevitable result of radical social experiments or a designer 's commitment to a particular ideology . That is , given the Soviet Revolution , constructivist architecture was not ineluctable . Though the designers we discussed were engage , their commitment to communism was expressed in a variety of imageries including those of cubo-futurism , expressionism , and constructivism . Indeed , even neo-classical imagery has served to glorify this ideology . In view of this , we infer that a particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , conversely , a particular ideology may be served by several design languages . The constructivist design language , that is , its formal " vocabulary " and its manner of composition , i.e. its architectural " grammar , " comprises a distinct and separate dialect of modern architecture . In 1917 , the dialect had not yet been envisioned ; by 1925 , it was firmly established . The intervening years witnessed the consolidation of the distinctive formal innovations , among which we found compaction , component fixation , and the oblique viewpoint to he most characteristic . They were important innovations among a cluster of // interrelated inventions and attitudes about architectural form and composition . But they were never codified or rationalized into a totally integrated or an allencompassing design system . Instead , they became design habits , short-cuts , and conventions . Constructivist architectural images were simultaneously familiar yet strange to Western European modernists . The Europeans saw that their concerns were not only shared by the constructivists , but moreover , had been interpreted in an intelligent and distinctly more rigorous manner . Although the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stylistic overlays of traditional architectural imageries , they still retained a respect for the geometries , the frontal , axial approaches , the concern with proportions and regulating lines that had preoccupied the minds of neo-classical theorists since the Renaissance . The constructivists rejected this approach to creating visual order and substituted an approach of their very own . Put succinctly , it stressed parts at the expense of the whole ; but because the parts were familiar building components presented for maximum visibility , visual comprehension of the entire building was immediate and direct . Thus , despite all the visual stimuli and dynamics , the constructivists did rely on an underlying perceptual rationale . To some observers , it may not have been sufficiently developed to constitute a complete architectural language , but the designs of the later 1920s nonetheless suggest what the direction of a constructivist architectural language could be . Finally , the present study suggests that the " form follows function " argument does not account for modern architecture in all its varieties . For Soviet Russia from 1917 to 1925 , the functionalist argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structural determinism . The inadequacies of arguments based on programmatic determinism have already been indicated . We suggest that in certain cases , such as the case of constructivist architecture , the functionalist argument could very well be nothing more than a smokescreen for aesthetic play . Therefore , the genesis of constructivist architecture would be more exactly described as an instance of " form following form . "                     