@@774269

txt  | on basically fifty-three letter responses to each question . Some subtle , but easily described , differences are mentioned in the analysis . The general themes may do some injustice to the clarity , impact , and emphasis of specific state responses , but these themes represent the diversity and , yet , to a high degree , a set of consistent responses across the SAES to these questions . Directors ' Responses What is the role of non-USDA federal grant money in the program of your SAES ? How important is it ? With one exception , the directors indicated that non-USDA federal funds ( NIH , NSF , DOE , EPA , etc. ) provide a valuable and in some cases essential augmentation of federal formula funds for agricultural-related research , both basic and applied . Responses ran the gamut and included such statements as ( 1 ) **32;1129;TOOLONG a base level of state and Hatch funds , ( 2 ) extends scope and collaboration in domestic and international areas , ( 3 ) increases the depth and breadth of research activity and productivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists in the national , competitive peer review process . The essential criterion applied by the directors in explaining the role of such external federal funds is the " fit " to ongoing programs . In every case the encouragement and support of such efforts lay in underpinning , strengthening , and stimulating projects conceived of and implemented within the mission and objectives of SAES . One quote exemplifies the sentiments of nearly all the SAES directors : As a general statement , research programs that have had access to non-USDA federal funds have tended to progress more rapidly than research programs that have not . Effective research teams have been assembled more easily ; essential equipment otherwise beyond our means has been acquired ; our scientists have become integrated into a second network of productive investigators , i.e. , the scientists competing for the non-USDA federal funds ; the need to develop a competitive edge tends to sharpen research " instincts " ( Storrs Agricultural Experiment Station , University of Connecticut ) . The contrasting argument , espoused by only one station director , is that non-USDA federal grant money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ station programs . This position is justified by an array of alleged disadvantages and a philosophical position on scientific advancement , which argues that the marginal dollar determines the mission ; grants are designed for purposes of grantors ; seeking grants dissipates effort , disorganizes the program , and leads to " the chaos that evokes pleas for interdisciplinary research . " Such a position represents the opposite end of a continuum on which all directors fall ; but it is my judgment that no other directors , even those with no grant funds , are as philosophically opposed . As indicated above , given the criterion of contribution to mission , most directors are supportive and encouraging .  | How do such funds augment the **28;1163;TOOLONG " hard money " program ? The responses all reflect the flexibility of grant funds in association with project activity . Grant funds provide regular salary , summary salary , equipment , training funds , technician support , postdoctoral and graduate student support , travel , instrumentation , operating expenses , and overhead or indirect costs . This last item has both positive and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the research program by contributing to the payment of the indirect costs , real costs of conducting sponsored research ; and in others , where overhead monies return to the university general fund or the state budget offices , the loss of these funds is perceived to lessen the research support . Many directors emphasized the necessity of external grant funds for sophisticated , costly equipment for research laboratories being brought into the age of modern biology . The augmentation process is clearly a two-way action with respect to Hatch funds . In many cases , Cornell included , the Hatch funds often serve as the seed money for pilot , demonstration , or feasibility studies that provide the scientific basis for successful pursuit of external funds for a major programatic effort . In other situations , Arizona for instance , the grant funds frequently provide support for high-risk research , perhaps on nontraditional crops . When these are demonstrated to be viable alternatives for state agriculture , formula funds for longer term efforts are assigned to the projects . How do you determine which non-USDA funds your scientists seek ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for research . The consistent response was that if projects are approved within the mission orientation of SAES , encouragement and support is the norm . It is difficult to rank order the responses , but a clear emphasis on two elements does appear . First , funds and projects must be consistent with the goals and mission of the Station , college , or department ; and second , scientists make the decision and choice , keeping in mind state and station priorities , and disciplinary priorities . The relative consistency of responses concerning the choice and decisive role of the scientist is reflected in much earlier judgments by the department , administration , and advisory bodies at the time of hiring a new scientist . The specific orientation of a research program is decided when faculty appointments are made . Over time , continued discussion within the institution , department , Station , and state advisory groups plays an essential role in determining what funding will even be perceived as appropriate . The work by Lipman-Blumen and Schram ( 1984 ) contains an extended discussion on priority-setting processes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantages have already been cited as explanations of the role such grants play in program funding , but five common advantages were mentioned : ( 1 ) major source of funds for basic research efforts , ( 2 ) establishes agricultural research in national context , ( 3 ) opens up new intellectual avenues for scientists , ( 4 ) demonstrable evidence of quality of agricultural scientist and science , ( 5 ) pays for full costs of research .  | What are the disadvantages ? The most frequent answer was " None . " The caveat on that answer , however , reflects the directors ' assessment of their responsibilities : there are no real disadvantages if research administration does its job in the selection of staff and issues ; management of scientists and projects ; and administrative follow-up concerning productivity , application , and knowledge transfer to the user . This last element may be from the basic scientist to the applied scientist as well as the more typical situation to the end-user . Directors were often concerned about maintaining the appropriate balance between basic and applied research , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research , the appropriate balance must of necessity be state-specific in its management and achievement . Some disadvantages cited represent significant concerns to all scientists and research administrators : time invested in proposal preparation , excessive accountability , and restrictions ; lack of timeliness for emergency needs ; short duration , one to five years , which limits long-term employment and does not address long-term goals ; stress of " soft money " appointments ; breakdown of peer review ? " old boy " network funding decisions . They also cited lack of continuity in funding , either as a result of disruption in a pattern of awards or a shift in federal policy or priorities , because such erratic funding affects morale and the ability to maintain research teams together , to support students , and to continue productive efforts . Other substantively relevant disadvantages included the limited nature of many funding sources that exclude agriculture or even agriculturally related basic research , as well as the potential for grant funds to divert , bias , or influence the direction of research or to accentuate research at the periphery of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a different strategy . The lack of continuity in funding and the limited willingness of some agencies to fund agricultural research are national concerns that appropriate national agricultural research committees must address . Controlling the negative influence of external funds on station priorities and mission , however , is part of the responsibility of the director . Although many directors raised this issue as a " potential " disadvantage , only one felt so strongly about it that a clear signal was given to his scientists not to consider application for external funds . Another admitted that funds were declined when they were considered to be outside the mission of the Station . Clearly , most directors encouraged external funding of projects and were satisfied that the potential biassing effects could be mitigated or overcome by sound management : internal administrative and peer review and conscious decision making prior to encouraging submission or approving submission of a proposal for non-USDA federal funding . To quote one director , " The rare individual who can compete successfully for NSF or NIH grants and still make significant contributions to agriculture is a definite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of individuals combining such talent is rare , the number of stations possessing individuals complementing one another in their respective contributions , via basic NSF-  | funded projects and Hatch-funded basic and applied research , is clearly an asset of the agricultural research system . Relationship of SAES and General Science Programs An extraordinary amount of criticism has been leveled at the agricultural science effort over the past decade . It has ranged from the Pound Report in 1972 to the Rockefeller Winrock Report in 1982 . Rather than repeat again the charges of these critical assessments , it is valuable to remember the cycles of political support and political conflict associated with agricultural research since its organizational inception . Whether one reads Rosenberg 's historical discussion of " Politics and Scientific Research " ( 1976 , Chapter 10 ) or a history of SAES ( Knoblauch et al. , 1962 ) , the issues are the same : the need for better trained staff , more scientific research rather than inspection or regulatory activities , more basic understanding of fundamental mechanisms than of applied research , intellectual freedom for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanded by the farmers ' organizations and agricultural leadership . The conclusion of the early political struggles , albeit a continuing struggle , was the creation of new applied science disciplines , the strengthening of basic disciplinary efforts in genetics , biochemistry , and bacteriology , and the invigoration of general science at the land grant institutions . Legislation , in particular the Adams Act ( 1906 ) and the Purnell Act ( 1925 ) , reinforced the research programs of SAES . The project system provided a new management tool to review , monitor , and control research activities . The next section discusses the current relations of SAES and general science . What are the relationships of SAES programs with general science departments ? Directors responded to this question with varying degrees of detail , so one can not determine precisely the numbers and names of general science departments within the SAES ; but two conclusions are clear : ( 1 ) fewer than a quarter of the Stations have no general science departments in the SAES , but even these often provide joint appointments or summer employment for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research ; ( 2 ) the vast majority of SAES have from one department to over 50 percent of their faculty located in numerous general science departments . These departments cover the entire range of general science subjects from botany , biochemistry , or genetics to seventeen different disciplinary units . The funding of research in general science departments is widespread and includes direct funding , joint appointments , collaborative team project funding , and funding through intercollege institutes . Administrators and scientists relate through seminars , workshops , interdisciplinary institutes , and Ph.D . programs , and in administrative coordination of research programs . Projects are typically developed through faculty initiative within and outside the SAES . The norm and willingness of directors to fund general science  | faculty who propose appropriate projects is not universal ; in at least one Station , the tradition of not funding projects in general science departments still operates . What are federal mechanisms to improve linkages ? Obviously , the most common and likely response is more federal resources . Such new resources , however , need to be targeted to improve effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state level to fund basic science in line with the mission of the SAES , requiring federal support for basic science to address issues with agricultural potential , and requiring in federal competitive grant programs an integration of agricultural and general science . In each case , the federal agencies would have to take responsibility for the appropriate allocation of funds to targeted arenas . Within USDA , the Cooperative State Research Service ( CSRS ) should serve as a lead agency to improve interagency efforts in bringing together general science and agricultural science . As one director noted , the competitive grants program in USDA has drawn more general science expertise to agricultural issues . The above comments reflect a majority view ; but one director felt that no federal action was necessary ; a second believed that more impediments existed within the university system than at the federal level ; a third argued that just as the federal dollars would draw general scientists to agriculture , such federal support could draw agricultural scientists away and detrimentally affect the SAES mission . Again , this last concern is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to a recent CRIS analysis , 38 percent of the research funding in 1983 was addressing basic research questions . This varies from none in smaller stations to over 50 percent in larger stations . In 1982 scientists of SAES obtained over $57 million in research funding from the National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health . This is clear evidence of the capability of SAES scientists to conduct basic research within the approved missions of SAES . What are some ideas to stimulate increased participation of general science faculty in agricultural research efforts ? The responses to this question represent an array of mechanisms currently being used by individual stations . In effect , these suggestions provide a summary of multiple , local brainstorming efforts to achieve such participation . Some are general ideas such as allocation or reallocation of funding for interdisciplinary , collaborative research and new programmatic thrusts requiring cooperation , e.g. , biotechnology , acid precipitation , environmental toxicology , groundwater quality , with joint participation in state initiatives . More specific recommendations included extending regional research activity to include nonstation participants , establishing joint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summer salaries for nine-month faculty . In each case , the emphasis is on increased communication of interests and potential mutual contributions to a joint effort . Improving access to funding for mutually beneficial projects is an operational necessity . What limitations exist for such involvement across SAES and general science departments ? The principal limitation for involvement is the availability of  | funds in view of the wide range of research problems to be faced . Inadequate resources and no real increases in Hatch funds force the careful evaluation of all proposals and determination of congruence with station priorities . As noted above , even with limited resources , many directors are supporting projects in general science departments that address agricultural problems , especially when the focus is on " why " the problems exist . Three serious perceptual problems do exist that seem to inhibit involvement . First , on the part of general science faculty , many still equate agricultural research with the stereotypes of an earlier era . These perceptions , often similar to those of the critics of the last decade , do not recognize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider basic research projects , and the overall system concern with high quality science . Second , on the part of general administration , there is likewise a serious concern about the quality of agricultural science . As one director noted , his faculty were considered station scientists until the state 's biotechnology initiative was successfully underway ; at which point they became " university scientists . " Third , on the part of directors , real concerns were expressed about the effect on morale of station researchers if traditional allocation of resources were shifted to general science departments and , importantly , the likely political consequences within the state agricultural and legislative leadership . Resolution of these limitations is not achieved merely by additional resources and funding . The continual strengthening of SAES programs and communication across the university is essential to overcome the perceptual hindrances to involvement . The Cornell Response This effort at synthesis means that the detailed discussion of particular directors is submerged in the process of abstraction . To provide the flavor of one station response , the materials for the Cornell University SAES are included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative of any station except itself ; but these issues have been discussed extensively in the director 's office during the tenure of Theodore L. Hullar , director until June 1984 , and Norman R. Scott , the current director . Non-USDA federal funds are exceptionally important in the overall research program of the Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station . In FY 1983 these funds amounted to $8.1 million , which is 19 percent of the total research budget for that year . This percentage has been increasing relative to the formula funds and remains steady as a proportion of all funds ( e.g. , 19 percent in FY 1978 ) . These non-USDA federal funds play many roles and include support for basic research components of agriculturally important topics ( e.g. , environmental stress physiology , bovine reproductive physiology , disease mechanisms , acid precipitation , renewable energy resources and methods , and all manner of social and economic questions ) , as well as almost total support for many of our faculty whose emphases are so strongly  | in basic research that USDA grant programs are not applicable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists and faculty seek . They make that determination . Faculty members at Cornell are responsible for the conduct , direction , and quality of their own programs . We administrators assist that initiative . We point out sources of non-USDA funds for faculty and then provide assistance to them in applying for the funds . The non-USDA federal funds augment the traditional USDA formula funds by providing the additional support needed for basic research ( see above comments ) . The formula funds at our Station are generally used as support for start-up funds for new faculty , for pilot studies , for new directions for current faculty , for applied research that is regional or commodity oriented , for very long-term studies , and for developmental research at the research-extension interface . The major advantages of non-USDA federal funds are that they are more plentiful for us than the formula funds ( e.g. , in FY 1982 formula funds were only 10 percent of total research funds ) and provide an invaluable augmentation to formula funding . The major disadvantages of non-USDA funds are that the characteristics of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's attention away from major state or agricultural commodity research into an interest for which funds can be obtained . Also , the lead time for grants from agencies such as NSF and NIH does not permit rapid redirection of research as results become available . In our view the funds available for agricultural scientists ( either USDA or non-USDA funds ) should be dramatically increased so as to provide additional funding opportunities for faculty in all our disciplines . For example , competitive grant funds are needed , preferably within a USDA competitive grants program ( to supplement the NSF , NIH , DOE , and other programs ) , for at least the following areas : biotechnology , environmental stress , animal reproductive physiology , animal nutritional biochemistry , plant biochemistry and physiology , agro-ecosystems , major increases in the current categories for biological stresses and human nutrition , soil and root system phenomena , food science and technology , postharvest technologies , chemical communication , and social and economic phenomena . If it is not possible to get competitive funding for such programs through the current USDA competitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other federal sources , harsh as that viewpoint may be . Until such USDA sources are available , the faculty at Cornell and many other locations will use all aspects of the non-USDA federal system to seek such funds to the extent that they are available . The formula funds , of course , provide invaluable long-term support for many research efforts across the country , particularly those that ( 1 ) require very long-term studies , ( 2 ) are not easily accommodated by competitive grant categories , and ( 3 ) may be regional or commodity in nature . Such funds should continue with increases at least to meet inflation costs . At Cornell the general science departments are called sections and they comprise the Division of Biological Sciences . Faculty in the sections are on  | budget lines in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences , College of Arts and Science , and College of Veterinary Medicine . As such , the deans of these colleges are integral to the budgeting and personnel decisions for the sections and the division . ( Two of the three colleges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the USDA , of course . ) Thus , we consider the faculty in the sections to be just as integral to the colleges ( and the SAES ) as faculty in traditional agricultural departments . Indeed , the traditional view of our SAES is that any faculty member in the university who wishes to do research on topics relevant to our mission should be encouraged and assisted in doing so to the extent that funds are available . Any mechanisms for improved linkages between general science and agricultural departments must be incentive based . And incentives usually translate into money . Several mechanisms seem possible such as increased competitive grant programs inside or outside USDA that relate to the agricultural mission and grant programs ( competitive , special grants , formula ) that require multidisciplinary approaches in which both basic and applied researchers address the same problem . A number of program areas are obvious : plant biochemistry and physiology in relation to insect , disease , and environmental effects ; animal nutritional biochemistry and reproductive physiology ; social and economic factors , theories , and effects involved in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , environmental enhancement , and production of chemicals ; soil physics and chemistry in relation to fertility , porosity , and movement of nutrients and pesticides through soil ; agro-ecosystems studies that , perforce , must involve researchers from a variety of disciplines ; dry-land agriculture and unimproved pasture studies that similarly must involve plant succession and reproduction ecologists along with others ; food science and technology wherein the chemical and physical properties of food are crucially important to its commercial use ; human nutrition in relation to biochemical and physiological mechanisms and disease and health effects ; social and economic factors affecting technology transfer from laboratory to field or production use ; and many others of similar type . Nonincentive based possibilities could also be considered . For example , annual reports from each SAES director could include a brief discussion as to who , how , why , and to what effect general science faculty have on agricultural programs . Although reports are onerous and may not be taken as seriously as the requester may intend , such a topical report would draw attention to the contributions of general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a requirement for each SAES director to earmark ( allocate ) formula funds to general science faculty for work on agriculturally related programs . Such a fundamental policy change concerning allocation of funds would clearly require extensive consultation with ESCOP and directors ' associations . Are our general science faculty doing research within our agricultural departments ? Yes . The structure of our sections and divisions makes this easy . In addition , we have a number of basic-oriented scientists in all our  | agricultural departments who do such research and collaborate with others outside their departments . What means can stimulate faculty in general science departments to participate in agricultural research efforts ? Funding is the best way , both for agriculturally related topics and through programs requiring multidisciplinary approaches . The second way is more psychological and perceptual . It requires each SAES director individually and the directors as a whole to think of " we " rather than " us-them . " The contributions of collaborative , multidisciplinary research may not be as immediate as a targeted applied project , but a balanced program of funding is necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in SAES research programs ? Few , if any . Funding helps . Collegiality works even better . Being sought after and welcomed probably works best of all . General science faculty members are intrinsically interested in how the world works , and because of that can get as interested in an agriculturally related problem as in any other . But we must begin to make the linkages and encourage the conversation . Discussion The criticisms of the agricultural research establishment have not been taken lightly by the Agricultural Research Service , the Cooperative State Research Service , or the State Agricultural Experiment Stations . Even when the criticisms have been unjustified , the misperceptions of critics have created a reality of myths that needs to be challenged and debunked by solid information about programs , philosophy , and actions taken to strengthen the science of agriculture . One myth often expressed about SAES faculty and scientists is the applied nature of the research and the inability of SAES scientists to compete successfully in the national funding arena for non-USDA federal research support . The results of the Experiment Station Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal funding in 1982 of $57 million clearly demonstrate capability and success in this arena . The results of this survey of directors provide an administrative perspective on the significance and use of such nonUSDA funds for research programs . One clear conclusion is the value and major role such funds play in station research . Although the dollar volume of these non-USDA federal funds varies by station , a nearly unanimous positive assessment by directors can only be interpreted as positive reinforcement for the efforts of scientists . The advantages outweigh the disadvantages of such funds . Again , although many directors sensed the potential of such funds to divert scientists from the mission of the station , alert and conscious administrative management will protect the station from such biassing effects . One subtle , yet major , contextual difference does appear in responses concerning who determines which non-USDA grant money scientists seek .  | In stations with diverse and large programs , with heavy investments in basic science , and extensive linkages with general science departments , directors indicate that the key factor in seeking external funds is faculty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and state-oriented research program and few or no general science connections , a closer administrative oversight seems to operate between director 's office and faculty . The faculty typically still must exercise the initiative ; but the normative structure of oversight , review , and close congruence with mission may inhibit the aggressiveness of such efforts . Directors are typically supportive of basic science and fund research in general science departments given the limited resources available . Positive reinforcement of collaborative , interdisciplinary interaction and research is a commonly expressed norm . Importantly , mechanisms exist and others have been suggested to strengthen such intellectual linkages . Active efforts to increase political support for Hatch formula funds and competitive grant funds as well as support for other agency science-funding programs are implied by the affirmation of value of such funds for basic and applied research . Demonstrable and successful integration of such research is a key ingredient in achieving the mission as defined by many directors . Such successes would also contribute to overcoming the misperceptions and stereotypes of the past . The research reported here is another effort to debunk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funding of SAES research and the linkage of general science programs and SAES . Even with the extraordinary diversity in the system as a consequence of state and commodity specific orientations , a set of common themes was apparent in these responses . Are these responses congruent with the future needs of agriculture in the U.S. ? A definitive answer may not be possible ; but the awareness of these issues , the thought given to their resolution , and the actions of directors in management and research leadership , particularly rigorous control of quality and relevance of science in agriculture , are signs of the health and vigor of the system . Notes The discussion in this chapter is based on survey responses of individual directors , associate directors , and assistant directors of State Agricultural Experiment Stations throughout the United States . The conclusions and interpretation , however , are solely those of the author , who takes full responsibility for any errors of interpretation in the synthesis of the directors ' responses . References Knoblauch , H. C. ; Law , E. M. ; and Meyer , W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Policy and Procedure . Miscellaneous Publication 904 . Washington , D.C. : USDA , 1962.  | Lipman-Blumen , J. , and Schram , S. The Paradox of Success : The Impact of Priority Setting in Agricultural Research and Extension . Washington , D.C. : USDA , 1984 . Rosenberg , Charles E. No Other Gods . Baltimore : Johns Hopkins University Press , 1976 . Rossiter , Margaret W. The Emergence of Agricultural Science Justus Liebig and the Americans , 1840-1880 . New Haven , Connecticut : Yale University Press , 1975 . U. S. Congress . Public Law 352 . An Act to consolidate the Hatch Act of 1887 and laws supplementary thereto relating to the appropriation of federal funds for the support of agricultural experiment stations in the states , Hawaii , and Puerto Rico . 5 pp . ( U. S. Congress , 84th , 1st session , Ch. 790 , S. 1759 ) , 1955.  | The Emerging Role of the Computer in Managing for Excellence Don Holt Introduction Colleges of agriculture and state agricultural experiment stations are very large complex organizations . The managers of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility to deans and university-level administrators . Their ultimate goal is to produce a unique research and education program to serve a constituency or group of constituencies . They address both general and specific subjects and questions and establish a certain balance between basic and applied research and education . This involves authorizing individuals to make decisions , exerting effort to attract outside resources , and holding back a certain proportion of resources for contingencies . Much of the administrative decision making involves allocating resources to reward excellence and productivity and promoting promising lines of endeavor . Some questions about the unique research and education program of the University of Illinois College of Agriculture have come to my mind since I joined the organization as an administrator . Are the characteristics of our program the result of conscious policy making ? If so , how is that policy implemented ? To what extent are the characteristics of our organization merely the result of a great number of individual transactions among faculty , administrators , and others , each pursuing specific goals and operating under his/her own philosophy ? Have the goals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons with positions of power , had disproportionate influence on the nature of the program ? How much are the circumstances of the past and traditional philosophies and patterns of thought controlling present operations and planning ? If it becomes evident that some major operational changes or shifts in emphasis are needed , how quickly and efficiently can we change ? Can faculty and administrators , who are by nature independent thinkers , rugged individualists , articulate spokesmen , and who , by virtue of tenure , are immune to virtually any pressures to conform , actually develop a coherent , detailed , overall research and  | educational policy and implement it ? Would the capacity to develop and implement such a policy be good , or would it be better and less risky to let a more or less random process of reacting to individual situations structure the organization and shape its program ? The principal mechanism by which research policy is implemented in agricultural experiment stations and colleges of agriculture is the process of allocating resources to various research efforts . To make sure that this process is working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several things . First , it is important to identify the critical decision points . Sometimes , faculty feel frustrated , thinking that they have relatively little input to the decision-making process . They may not realize that as they seek outside support for their programs , as they serve on committees identifying new positions to be filled and on search committees , promotion committees , and research policy committees , and as they allocate resources within their own research programs , they are indeed implementing research policy . The people ( positions ) who have important input and decision-making authority at the critical decision points should be identified . When the critical decision points , their importance in the overall allocation process , and who has the principal decision-making authority in each case have been determined , the power structure is defined and can be systematically modified to achieve certain goals . It is obviously important in managing a research operation to have adequate and accurate data to support decisions . Thus , another step in designing a system to implement research policy through allocation procedures is to identify and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the critical decision points . Agricultural experiment stations within colleges of agriculture in land grant institutions generate vast amounts of internal data . The decision-making process could easily become mired in data . Thus , it is essential not only to develop the data bases but to develop appropriate computer software to analyze the data bases . The data bases should relate directly to the criteria for decision making . The decision-making process can be refined by describing as quantitatively as possible the formulae by which various items of data are integrated to arrive at a decision . It is important to determine and specify how various items are weighted in the decision-making process . Decision makers in experiment stations and colleges of agriculture are constantly frustrated by the problem of translating subjective information into quantitative decision support data . In many situations , such as decisions on salary increments , a great deal of subjective information is reviewed , but the final decision is a number . Thus , in real life , qualitative information becomes quantitative . Individual decision makers should elucidate as clearly as possible the decision-making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are quantified and weighted to arrive at the final quantitative decision . Such an exercise has great potential value because , when the model is revealed to the people affected by the decisions , it shows them how they should operate to maximize their benefits from the decision-  | making process . Thus , by creating such a model , decision makers can in fact shape a program and implement desired policy . We are trying to envision a coordinated , systematic decision-making process for the College of Agriculture at the University of Illinois . We have not as yet formally developed the models except in a few specific situations but have identified critical decision points , decision makers , criteria for decisions , and some of the necessary data bases . In the following discussion , each of the critical decision points , not necessarily in order of importance , is described . When the system has been more clearly defined , it will be possible to analyze historic data bases to find out which decision processes have been most important in implementing research policy in the past , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by various decision makers in the institution . Critical Decision Points , Decision Makers , Decision Criteria , and Data Bases Decisions on Hiring New Faculty In general , the most important budget lines in most departmental and college of agriculture budgets represent faculty positions . Faculty positions are ordinarily described in terms of subject matter . A faculty member is a soil physicist , an animal nutritionist , a gerontologist , etc . In the institutions with which I have had experience , namely , the University of Illinois and Purdue University , there has been considerable historic continuity in the general subject matter expertise in faculty lines . Decisions to be made on faculty lines are often of the form , " Do we replace this person with a person in the same subject matter area or shall we shift in another direction ? " Such decisions are made by ad hoc faculty committees , formally elected faculty advisory committees , department heads , directors , deans , and campus administrators . In most institutions the final decision rests with the Board of Trustees or a comparable governing body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and department heads have the principal decision-making power in this situation , with directors , deans , and higher administrators tending to sign off on most decisions . The criteria for faculty line decisions include the centrality of the subject matter in the university 's role , the importance of the subject matter to society or some branch of society , such as farmers , agribusiness people , etc. , the teaching and other needs of specific departments , and the perceived availability of support in various areas . Decision makers try to take a long range view on faculty line decisions , because , with the tenure system , the decision will influence the program for many years in most cases . It is readily observed that departments that are most effective in identifying and attracting highly talented , aggressive , productive individuals set the stage for a disproportionate allocation of resources into their programs . Such a person will attract more grants , generate more compelling requests for  | internal funds , receive a higher salary , attract more attention , and otherwise benefit the program of the department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The faculty line decision , therefore , becomes extremely important for colleges and departments as they compete for both internal and external resources . Realistically , the decision on subject matter in that situation is not as important as identifying the appropriate individual for the position and allocating adequate resources to attract and keep the person in the position . In some institutions , when a faculty position is vacated by retirement or other termination , the support for the position reverts to the college or the university and is reallocated to faculty lines according to some set of priorities . This , of course , shifts the relative influence of faculty , department heads , and college- and university-level administrators . This approach has some advantages in that it creates great flexibility , permitting relatively drastic changes in direction and restructuring . For example , resources freed by retirements and terminations can be redirected to totally different subject matter areas to address new needs or recently emerging themes . An institution might decide it needed more support personnel or more funds for supplies and expenses and can reallocate regularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restructuring can occur . Centralized decision making on faculty lines has some disadvantages , depending on how much input is solicited from faculty , department heads , deans , etc . The decision makers may be too far removed from the disciplines to make good decisions . Soliciting and processing input from faculty , department heads , etc. , is time consuming and often frustrating , at least in those situations where there are wide differences of opinion . Nevertheless , there are great potential advantages in deliberately interrupting the historic continuity of position lines . Ideally , each department should maintain a prioritized list of position lines and other needs . Presumably , department heads sitting with directors and a dean , as an administrative committee , could meld departmental priority lists into college-level lists . The prioritized items could be obtained as funds are freed by retirements and terminations or as new recurring funds become available . Thus , the structure and program of a college would develop according to a unified plan with a minimum of influence of past history . It probably is n't surprising that when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are sometimes influenced by whether or not the incumbent 's feelings will be hurt if his position is not filled by someone working in the same subject matter area . Under our present circumstances , most institutions can not afford to be strongly influenced by such concerns . The problem is avoided when the decisions about filling faculty lines are separated in time and space from decisions on retirement and termination . The data bases required for effective decision making relative to faculty lines and other positions include a list of existing lines with projected retirements and terminations for some period of years into the future and a prioritized list of needed faculty lines , other positions , and other needs  | for funding . It should be extremely helpful to have a subject matter analysis of each existing and proposed line , perhaps according to the categories identified in the CRIS system . Analysis of such data bases would yield a step by step description of the transition from the present program to one envisioned for the future , thus , allowing decision makers to see if the specific decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future , if the program is addressing the important themes of the future , and if the organization is going to have the desired structure . Other information in the faculty line data base and prioritized list should include division of the faculty member 's effort among research , teaching , and extension and proposed rank of a new faculty member or other employee . It is harder to describe the data bases needed to assess the centrality of various positions in the university 's , college 's , or department 's role , their importance for meeting societal needs , and the projected availability of support in various areas . Some of this information is quite subjective . One approach is to seek many opinions , perhaps , through computer-administered questionnaires . Data on the consensus or lack of consensus of views of various groups could be assembled . Their views could be quantified and weighted and included in a data base . More objective analyses might stem from assessing the economic and social importance of various activities in terms of value added , numbers of workers involved , social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid such analyses because they are obviously enormously complex and will lead predictably to considerable controversy . Nevertheless , there is little hard evidence that the way institutions are now structured relative to subject matter is the best way to serve the needs of agriculture and the rest of society . Possibly , some of the precepts of portfolio theory would be applicable to investment in agricultural research and development . Decisions on Salary Increments There are two important aspects to salary change decisions . First , decisions are made as to how much of a total allotment will be allocated to " across the board " increments ( or cuts ) and how much to merit increases . These decisions may be made at any one of several levels . Directives may come from higher administration or even from state governments as to what standard increases will be approved . In most institutions , department heads have considerable influence on salary increments and , of course , department heads differ considerably in their philosophy regarding merit increases and in their ability to deal with the inequities created by merit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salary levels relative to those in comparable jobs outside the institution and peer positions in other institutions , internal perceptions of where the institution should rank salary-wise , and most important , the level of resources provided by funding agencies , primarily state governments . Criteria for merit salary decisions include productivity as evidenced by publications , innovative nature  | of teaching and extension programs , national and international activity and recognition , cooperative attitude and activity , grant-attracting ability , etc . Most departments and colleges require individual professors to supply activity reports detailing their publications , committee activities , awards , recognitions , and other evidence of quantity and quality of scholarly production . This information lends itself particularly well to computerized data bases . It would probably be relatively efficient to maintain these data bases at a college level . Information could be keyed into the data base by secretaries as the activities occur and as the publications and assignments are generated , thus avoiding the time-consuming , inefficient , once-yearly , desperate attempt to assemble the data . Appropriate programs could be developed for analyzing these data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some institutions already have mechanisms for soliciting subjective information on the quality of publications , presentations , teaching , and other activities of faculty members , and on their general cooperative attitude , willingness to help students , etc . Of course , such subjective information has political overtones . An appropriately designed questionnaire , administered , analyzed , and secured by a carefully planned piece of interactive computer software , should maximize objectivity . Decisions on Promotions Promotions serve to allocate resources , at least in those situations where a salary increment accompanies the promotion . Even if a sa ary increment is not involved , the person being promoted is moved to another salary range in which both general and merit salary increments will probably be larger . Thus , a department that gets more faculty promoted will have more resources allocated to its program . The principal decision makers on promotions include any faculty member who is solicited for information on the productivity and quality of work of his/her colleagues , ad hoc and regular committees from which such information is solicited , formally constituted promotion and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directors , deans , and campus or university administrators . These decision makers must obtain information on productivity as evidenced by publications , innovative teaching and extension programs , national and international activities , recognitions and awards , and other information similar to that used in determining merit salary increases . The same data bases used for merit salary increases are helpful in making decisions on promotions . Decisions on the Quest for Gifts , Grants , and Contracts The quest for gifts , grants , and contracts is becoming more important in the total funding effort of most agricultural experiment stations and colleges of agriculture . The primary decision makers in this quest are individual faculty members who decide what funding agencies to approach and thus select at least the general and in some cases the specific subject  | matter to be researched . Those decisions are driven in many cases by the quantity of funds available for various efforts within the range of the individual 's expertise . Faculty teams may decide to seek support from an agency or group of agencies . Administrators likewise develop proposals . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they seek support for a wide range of activities involving many people . The criteria for decisions concerning the quest for gifts , grants , and contracts include subject matter interest and expertise of individual faculty groups and administrators , perceived availability of funds , individual goals and missions , departmental goals and missions , college and university goals and missions , and perceived societal needs . From this , it follows that data bases on funding sources , criteria of funding agencies for selection of proposals to be funded , procedures and formats for proposals , names and backgrounds of persons on selection committees , and success ratios in past experiences with agencies would be useful in the decision-making process . Each investigator and administrator should have a clear knowledge of his/her position responsibilities , so that the quest for gifts , grants , and contracts does not lead him/her too far astray from certain institutional objectives . This concern becomes somewhat academic as institutional funds become increasingly difficult to obtain . The scientific literature constitutes an extremely valuable data base in the quest for gifts , grants , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scientific literature make it possible for those developing proposals to have the latest and most comprehensive information available , to summarize it most effectively , and to generate the ideas most likely to capture the imaginations of grantors , contractors , and benefactors . Obviously , as more and more of the funding of a university comes through competition from outside the state institutional framework , greater decision-making ability relative to research subject matter passes to the givers , grantors , and contractors who supply the money . This is not a bad situation as long as the givers , grantors , and contractors have the same goals and wish to serve the same clientele as the university . In agricultural research , the trend toward greater support from national competitive grants is causing a shift in focus from our historic farmer and agribusiness clientele toward our peer scientists in other institutions , who serve on proposal review and selection committees . Other Decisions on Allocation of State and Federal Funds Deans , directors , and department heads are involved in allocating statesupplied , regularly recurring funds for nonacademic personnel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presumably , according to their perception of the importance and needs of specific programs . Deans and directors allocate to departments and departments to specific programs . Useful data bases include the numbers of professorial and professional people in each department , some data on relative costs of doing research  | of various kinds , the ratios of regularly recurring to nonrecurring funds available to individuals and departments , and other more detailed measures of current allocations and trends in allocations . Summary Comments It is evident from comparisons of these various decision points , the decision makers , the decision criteria , and the decision-supporting data bases , that the overall system is organized and driven by decisions on faculty lines . The needs of all constituencies involved in experiment stations and colleges of agriculture are best served by a system of describing and prioritizing faculty lines that is quantitative , involves input from as many perspectives as possible , clearly prescribes the weight to be given to various kinds of information , and recognizes the long-term implications of decisions .  | The Pretechnology Agricultural Sciences Robert E. Evenson Introduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many ways . It suggests that a strong division exists between basic science , which is only generally influenced by economic considerations , and applied research , which is strongly influenced by economic considerations . The agricultural sciences are often simply classed as applied research even though within the agricultural sciences , classification of research into basic and applied categories is attempted . In this chapter I argue that explicit recognition of a category of scientific activity termed " pretechnology science " is required for a more complete basis for understanding the contemporary agricultural research system in the U.S. The Organization and Structural Relationships of the Agricultural Sciences It is useful to think of the structure of scientific and technological research activities in much the same way that one thinks of the structure of economic activities . There are many parallels . First , a high degree of specialization is apparent in research activities . The counterpart of firms producing consumer goods in the economy is the applied research organization producing new technology for a clientele . In the private sector most R &D; conducted by private firms is directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied research organizations such as medical schools and agricultural experiment stations also specialize in the production of technology for a clientele . There are also counterparts in the research world to industrialized firms specializing in the production of " intermediate " goods from basic materials ( e.g. , a firm producing ball bearings from basic metals ) . These are the " pretechnology sciences . " Relatively little pretechnology science is conducted in the private sector . A number of pretechnology science research programs  | exist in the public sector , but as will be noted presently , not all are efficiently structured . The counterparts of the basic materials industries are the basic or general sciences in the scientific world . Figure 10.1 provides a schematic picture of the structure of research programs of relevance to agriculture . Four vertical levels of research activity are depicted . Level N activities ( portrayed here as the furthest downstream ) are described as technology screening and subinvention . They are the activities required to " adopt " and to a minor degree " adapt " new technology produced at Level III . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agribusiness firms dealing directly with farmers , extension services , and farmers themselves . These Level N firms and farms form the clientele for the agricultural research system . Both preharvest and postharvest industrial firms are engaged in Level IV activities . Level III activities are those research efforts directed toward the invention of new technologies . This includes mechanical , chemical , biological , managerial , and policy technology . Agribusiness firms engage in both Level III and N activities . Indeed , most mechanical and chemical invention is actually produced by private firms . Increasingly , the private sector is producing more biogenetic technology as well ( Evenson , 1983 ) . Most of these private sector inventions are entitled to intellectual and property right protection under U.S. patent and copyright law and under the terms of the U.S. Plant Variety Protection Act ( 1970 as amended in 1980 ) . The public sector USDA-SAES research system also engages in Level III invention . In many cases it does so in direct competition with the private sector ( as in soybean breeding ) . Much of its invention , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not sufficient to stimulate private invention . Much plant and animal breeding and managerial and policy technology ( produced by economists ) falls into this category . The truly special feature of the USDA-SAES research system ( at least of parts of it ) is that it engages in research designed to produce " pretechnology " science products or knowledge ( Level II ) . The distinction between pretechnology science and invention is important because the products of pretechnology research are not subject to intellectual property protection , while much invention is . Pretechnology science means research directed specifically toward producing discoveries that enable and assist technology invention . That is , pretechnology science is specifically an intermediate product supplied to invention-producing firms . This intermediate product is critical to both public and private invention producers . Level II activities are the most critical to an effective research system , particularly over a long time period . Level II research is by and large beyond the range of influence of existing intellectual property right laws , and , hence , little of it is undertaken by the private agribusiness sector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general science research ( for reasons discussed below ) . Unless this type of research is specifically institutionalized with strong links to Level III research , it tends not to be done effectively . The USDA-SAES system has achieved some success in  | pretechnology science by specifically developing agricultural science disciplines and supporting research programs to undertake pretechnology research ( Evenson , 1983 ; Bonnen , 1983 ) . Scientific Exchange This structure of research specialization is , as noted , roughly parallel to the organization of an economy with units specializing in basic materials production , intermediate goods production and final ( consumer ) goods production . Low cost and efficient exchange mechanisms are the key to specialization in a normal economy . The same is true for a research economy . The exchange mechanisms in an economy are prices and associated transactions costs . Efficient prices are those that reflect consumer demand preferences in final consumer goods markets . For intermediate and basic goods markets , efficient prices reflect demands derived from consumer preferences . Prices also reflect the supply or cost side in each market . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Intellectual property rights ( patents ) , however , do provide a basis for pricing of a certain range of inventions by allowing an inventor to exclude others from practicing his invention for a period of time . Patent law is instructive regarding the importance of credible information . The patent is awarded to an inventor only on the condition that the invention is accurately and credibly described . Indeed , a patent is not valid if it can be shown that it did not meet the requirement that it fully " disclose " the nature of the invention . The exchange of knowledge between different specialists is not efficient if it does not meet standards of credibility accepted by all parties . To facilitate this exchange , scientists have developed specialized language and measurement procedures to achieve more exactness and hence credibility . In the inexact sciences this language is the language of statistics , experimental design , and accepted measurement techniques . Researchers generally specialize in particular research problems within one of the levels depicted in Figure 10.1 . For example , plant breeders specialize in the invention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Level III ) . They exchange information horizontally , i.e. , within Level III , with other specialists working on similar problems . Similarly , a research specialist in plant physiology ( Level II ) exchanges information horizontally with other plant physiologists . Vertical intellectual exchange , however , is required for effective functioning of a research system . The Level III plant breeder must communicate and exchange knowledge with both upstream ( Level II plant physiologists ) and downstream ( Level N extension workers ) specialists in the system if the economies of specialization are to be realized . Scientific communication systems were developed primarily to facilitate horizontal exchange in the general or basic sciences . The journal paper , the specialized language , and elements of style are chiefly designed to allow  | scientists working on similar problems to disclose findings quickly to one another . This disclosure process facilitates the cumulation of verified hypotheses that constitutes scientific knowlege in the field . The scientific exchange apparatus that really originated in the Level I sciences has been modified and used in the Level II pretechnology sciences and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be communicated and exchanged to facilitate the cumulation process . The scientific paper with its specialized language , usually associated with a discipline , and with " standards " set by scientists themselves has been a useful vehicle for horizontal exchange at all levels . It has also served as the vehicle for vertical exchange , but some of the features of scientific papers that actually facilitate horizontal exchange can hinder vertical exchange . Language and style , for example , can facilitate horizontal communications within a field but seriously hamper vertical communication . Indeed , as will be noted later , vertical exchange is generally more difficult than horizontal exchange , and unless it is given institutional support and incentives , little of it takes place . The Demand Side of Agricultural Research Systems Vertical exchange from a demand perspective calls for upstream communication . We can think of this exchange in an economic sense . The real demanders of Level III inventions are Level N firms , farms , and institutions ( including governments ) . They demand technology because it is economically valuable . Intellectual property rights such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be articulated to Level III . That is , Level III researchers will endeavor to supply technology because they can actually sell it to Level IV buyers . This market is quite efficient , and the correct demand signals are sent upstream . Level III researchers or inventors have an incentive to produce inventions that are of maximum value to downstream consumers or clientele . Unfortunately , intellectual property rights do n't work well for much of the output of Level III research because rights have not been defined for most managerial and policy technology or for much biological technology . They are generally not defined at all for the output of Level II research . Normal markets do not exist for these products . Yet , the basic principles of the economic market remain valid . Level III inventions are demanded and valued by Level N firms and farms even if they do not have to pay for them . Level II products are demanded and valued by Level III researchers because they are intermediate goods in the production of Level III inventions . Hence , the demand for Level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Demand Be Articulated in the Absence of a Market ? The general science establishment holds what might be termed a supply side view ( see the following section ) . It essentially contends that Level I  | ( science ) and Level III ( technology ) research are independent of each other in terms of their production processes . The argument is that science builds on past science not on past technology . Technology in turn builds on past technology not on past science directly . It is further argued that leaders and administrators of science are well aware of the ultimate value of scientific findings but that the process by which these findings work their way into the invention processes is long and complex . This view then holds that there is little scope for pretechnology science per se and that the attempt to conduct pretechnology science will be unproductive and that the effort to consider explicitly and directly pretechnology economic value in research problem choice and conduct " contaminates " the process of science . This view is in contrast to the current critical perspective on the USDA-SAES system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foundation , 1982 ) . If one accepts this view , there would be only two main forms of research activity , general science ( Level I ) and invention ( Level III ) induced by intellectual property rights . The USDA-SAES system demonstrates that effective Level III invention can be undertaken in the public sector . The demand articulation mechanisms are partly due to the integration of USDA-SAES research with extension and partly due to the political support mechanism in the states . Extension staff play an important role in conveying technological information to farmers , but they are also important in conveying information from farmers to researchers . They , in effect , facilitate exchanges of intellectual property in both directions in the absense of a market . They also facilitate exchange between public sector researchers and private sector researchers to some extent . This form of exchange conveys information to the public sector inventor as to the value of his or her invention . The political support process , particularly at the state level , is critical because it reinforces the exchange process . Interest groups ( e.g. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research spending and conduct . They can , in a sense , buy inventions from public sector research firms . They can offer more support for particular types of research that they see as important and valuable and less for research that they see as being of little relevance . Research administrations , of course , do not act entirely on these demand side signals . They consider supply side signals as well . Nonetheless , this mechanism of demand articulation is very important to the conduct of Level III research . ' Demand articulation in the USDA-SAES system is also important to the establishment of Level II research programs within the USDA-SAES institutional structure . This type of research is generally not supported from " above . " It is developed only within an institutional structure where a strong derived demand exists . The USDA-SAES system has used two devices to institutionalize Level II research . First , it has created specialized disciplines ? agricultural science disciplines ? which maintain much of the form and process of the general science disciplines but are differentiated from them along explicit technology production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriage by adding teaching ? notably graduate teaching ? as an institutional function . These agricultural science disciplines generally attempt to span both Levels II and III research . In some institutions , departmental structure is used to integrate Levels II and III research programs . In almost all cases , Level II research programs are institutionally embedded in the USDA-SAES system ( see Ruttan , 1982 ) . The Supply Side of the Agricultural Research System The essential issue on the supply side is that intellectual property is produced in a " sequential building block " process . Most research projects or invention projects attempt to add an incremental improvement to an existing " core . " A technology core is typically incorporated or embedded in past inventions such as machines and materials . Technology can also be described as a form of intellectual property . A scientific core may also be related to materials , plants , and animals , but it is typically in a more abstract intellectual property form . The scientific paper is the medium of exchange for this knowledge . One often finds clusters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revealed as inferior at which point they tend to die out . New cores are continually being initiated by pioneering research efforts , but these are usually spin-offs from older cores . It is seldom the case that science cores spin off new technology cores . New cores do not always thrive and grow . This building block process is reinforced by the procedure of science . The scientific paper is designed to allow efficient horizontal exchange of intellectual property between researchers working around the same core or cluster of cores . It is not always necessarily well-suited to facilitate exchange between researchers working to expand a scientific core and researchers working to expand a technology core ( i.e. , vertical exchange ) . Researchers in the general sciences do not see a strong need to devise better exchange mechanisms between themselves and researchers in distant cores , particularly technology cores . They do not support the establishment of pretechnology science cores because many of these cores do not have high growth potential , i.e. , high growth potential in a purely quantitative sense . Since the general sciences are largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research problem areas on strictly supply side grounds . They work on problems that are promising regarding the rate of core expansion . They rightly recognize that pretechnology problems often do not have high growth potential . In many cases a long period of work is required simply to establish the materials and methods of a pretechnology science before it can become productive . Yet , as the agricultural sciences have demonstrated , pretechnology sciences can be highly productive in an economic sense because they form a bridge between science and technology . As they develop they respond to both  | demand and supply interests . Pretechnology science sacrifices pure knowledge growth potential in favor of economically valuable growth potential . It modifies the forms of communication to facilitate vertical exchange with downstream ( Level III and even Level IV ) researchers as opposed to simple horizontal exchange . From an economic efficiency perspective , the pretechnology sciences should give weight to both demand and supply factors . They should produce a mix of products that are of maximum economic value downstream for any given level of resources invested . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value of increments to scientific knowledge . Horizontal citations of scientific papers tend to be given more weight than downstream ( or upstream ) citations . To the economist these weights are wrong because they should reflect the economic value of the research . Downstream citations are , on average , probably more valuable than horizontal citations because they reflect the fact that inventors with economic interests valued the research in question . Upstream citations are also valuable because they indicate that the upstream researcher is interested in the economic value of the knowledge produced . Effective pretechnology science generates downstream citations and upstream ( to Level I ) citations . It also tends to cite downstream and upstream research papers and inventions . Level III invention itself has a different economic value depending on the number of economic units affected by an invention and the costreducing or value-enhancing effect of the invention . Efficient allocation of research resources requires that the expected value marginal product of each research component in a portfolio of research projects be equalized . For Level III components , this will be based on the probabilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected economic value of the invention . For Level II components , the value marginal product depends on the probabilities of achieving or discovering new scientific information and on the expected increase in the downstream inventions made possible . While these values may be difficult to measure , they are nonetheless real . Furthermore , these values are enhanced by scientific credibility because this improves the likelihood that downstream supply effects will occur and that upstream demand effects will be recognized . With higher levels of scientific credibility , more specialization can take place . It is in this sense that one can argue that scientific credibility is more important in the agricultural sciences where both vertical and horizontal exchange is critical than in a general science where only horizontal exchange is valued . Evidence for Efficient Exchange : Citation Data So far , the theme has been developed that scientific credibility and the associated standards of clear communication facilitate intellectual property exchange and allow for specialization of research effort . From a casual  | knowledge of departmental and disciplinary organization in agricultural research , it is clear that a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow from this that a great deal of exchange , particularly between pretechnology research and invention research , takes place . Three studies that have some bearing on the matter are reviewed here . The first study is based on patent citation data ( Wright and Evenson , 1980 ) . The intent with these data is to measure intellectual property exchange between a special type of USDA-conducted , pretechnology research and downstream invention by both public and private inventors . The research in question is postharvest research on foods and textiles and related materials by the USDA . Most of this research is conducted in the USDA 's regional research centers . The second study is based on scientific paper citation data related to USDA-SAES postharvest technology ( PHT ) research . The third study is a study of the relationship between research investment ( including pretechnology science ) and agricultural productivity . The USDA patent data are of special interest because much of the research on utilization of farm products is designed to produce " pilotinventions , " a special type of pretechnology research . This pretechnology work is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost of downstream private invention . One test of whether real intellectual property exchange takes place is provided by data on subsequent citations of USDApatented inventions . When applications for U.S. patents are examined by patent office examiners for determination of validity , the examiner ( not the inventor ) cites prior inventions ( usually a prior patent ) as " next best art . " In effect , the examiner is citing pretechnology inventions . In some fields of pretechnology research , the patent citation data are also of interest in this regard . Citation patterns for the sixty-four and 102 textile patents granted to the USDA in the 1967-1969 period and the thirty-one and fifty-one textile patents granted to the USDA in the 1977-1979 period were examined . A comparable sample of forty-eight food and thirty-two textile patents granted to U.S. inventors and thirty food and thirty-one textile patents granted to foreign inventors was drawn for the 1977-1979 period . Regarding the prior patents cited , in both periods the USDA patents cited a higher proportion of USDA patents than the USDA proportion in the " citable pool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than 5 percent of U.S. patents granted . Nonetheless , USDA citation predominated over prior private patents . Of more relevance is the fact that the private U.S. origin patents cited prior USDA patents to a much greater extent than the citable pool would indicate . Roughly 20 percent of the private U.S. patents ( drawn from the same patent class ) in this period cited prior USDA art . // sample of private patents to see whether they generated comparable numbers of subsequent citations . By 1980 , 78 percent of the USDA food patents and 6 percent of the USDA textile patents had generated subsequent citations . The comparable figures for the private sample were 70 percent  | for food and 81 percent for textiles . The average numbers of citations were roughly comparable , indicating that USDA pilot invention does stimulate downstream invention . The second study examines the scientific publications in 1976-1979 and the citations generated by these publications in 1979 of 456 principal investigators in two postharvest technology fields ( RPA 403 , new and improved fruit and vegetable products ; RPA 406 , new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field crops ) . The principal investigators were located in the USDA regional laboratories and in state experiment stations . Regression methods were utilized to analyze the factors determining the number of publications , the number of citations generated , and the proportion of " horizontal " citations generated . The study found : 1 . Institutional affiliation ( USDA or SAES ) did not significantly affect publications , citations generated , or the horizontal proportion of citations. 2 . Publications and citations generated were lower in RPA 403 than in the other two fields . 3 . Size of the research unit did not affect publications or citations but was inversely related to the horizontal proportion of citations . Larger research units tend to produce more vertical citations. 4 . Experience of the researcher does not have a large impact on the number of publications or citations , but it does affect the horizontal proportion . Young researchers generate predominantly horizontal citations . As researchers age , the proportion of vertical citations rises . 5 . Researchers with early ( pre-1970 ) histories of high citation generation and high horizontalness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their current citations are more horizontal . That is , researchers with records of high citation generation in the past generate higher levels of publication and citation currently , and those are less vertical . This suggests a trade-off between the quantity of citations and the verticalness of citations . The final study of relevance is a study of productivity change in U.S. agriculture ( Evenson , 1982 ) . This study proceeded in two stages . In the first stage a total or multi-factor productivity index was computed from farm income and related data for each U.S. state for the period 1949 to 1972 . This index is a measure of the change in the efficiency of farm production in the state . It is , of course , measured with error . The second stage entails a statistical analysis of the factors determining productivity . It explicitly recognizes that productivity is measured with error . The determinants of productivity growth include previous investments in extension , schooling of farm operators , business cycle effects , and past investment in both applied technology invention ( Level III ) research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state and in other states .  | A procedure was utilized to estimate the " time-shape " of the researchproductivity relationship and the spatial transfer pattern of this relationship . Pretechnology science in this study was somewhat arbitrarily defined to include the following categories of research undertaken in state agricultural experiment stations and USDA work in the states : botany , zoology , genetics , plant physiology , animal physiology , phytopathology , and soil science . ( Recent research data can be more accurately classified . ) The study concluded : 1 . The number of years between research spending and maximum impact on productivity was five to seven years for Level III research and eleven to fifteen years for pretechnology Level II research . 2 . The proportion of state research produced impacts realized in states other than the investing states was .43 for Level III research and .68 for Level II research . 3 . A $1,000 investment in year T in Level III research was associated with a maximum productivity gain valued at $12,000 in the 1948-1971 period . The comparable value for a $1,000 investment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investment in pretechnology science yielded a high rate of return to investment . The specification was that Level II research impact was realized entirely through its enhancement of Level III research . Thus , pretechnology science was shown to raise the productivity of Level III research . Concluding Comments In this essay , the case for demand-induced pretechnology science as part of applied research systems has been argued . Evidence is reported indicating that the pretechnology sciences have been a productive component of the agricultural research system in the U.S. Further study is required to understand better the institutional arrangements required for effective management of pretechnology science in agricultural research systems . The incentives for vertical intellectual exchange , for example , appear to be critical to effective system development . The growth of private sector Level III agricultural research makes an understanding of intellectual property exchange processes even more important . This is because private firms generally invest little in Level II research because they usually can not capture a high proportion of the benefits from this research . There is an important public sector role in conducting Level II @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public sector , however , requires effective intellectual exchange with downstream private sector firms . The public sector must receive demand signals from downstream , and it must communicate its research findings effectively downstream . There is also reason for concern in the USDA-SAES system with Level I to Level II exchange . The biological sciences , largely organized as Level  | I sciences have , in fact , produced a substantial body of Level II scientific knowledge of high value to Level II researchers . The USDA-SAES system has been slow to respond to these developments , and Level II research in critical microbiology areas has not expanded as rapidly as it has in the private sector . Thus , the USDA-SAES system , while pioneering in the development of effective pretechnology sciences , is currently under considerable stress from developments both upstream in the Level I sciences and downstream in private firm research . Its response to this stress will be an important determinant of its productivity in the future . Notes 1 . See Wright and Evenson for an analytic argument as to why pretechnology science will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James T. " Historical Sources of U.S. Agricultural Productivity : Implications for R &D; Policy and Social Science Research . " American Journal of Agricultural Economics 65(5):958-66 , 1983 . Evenson , Robert . " Agriculture . " Chapter 5 in R. Nelson ( ed . ) , Government and Technical Progress : A Cross-Industry Analysis . Elmsford , New York : Pergamon Press , 1982 . . " Intellectual Property Rights and Agribusiness Research and Development : Implications for the Public Agricultural Research System . " Yale University , Economic Growth Center , Discussion Paper #350 , 1983 . Rockefeller Foundation . " Science for Agriculture . " Report of a Workshop on Critical Issues in American Agricultural Research . Jointly sponsored by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Office of Science and Technology Policy , Executive Office of the President , held at the Winrock International Conference Center , Morrilton , Arkansas , 1982 . Ruttan , Vernon W. Agricultural Research Policy . Minneapolis : University of Minnesota Press , 1982 . Wright , Brian , and Evenson , Robert . " An Evaluation of Methods for Examining the Quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Food and Agricultural Research System , volume II , Office of Technology Assessment . Washington , D.C. : Government Printing Office , 1980.  | A Century of Periodic Research on Soil Conservation Louis Swanson Introduction Periodically , soil erosion is determined to be at a crisis level . In fact , a strong argument can be made that it is a persistent resource crisis in the United States ( cf. , Batie , 1982 ; Rasmussen , 1982 ; Sampson , 1981 ) . Much of the burden for both basic and applied soil conservation research has fallen upon the experiment stations of America 's land grant universities . Both technical and socio-political factors have tended to determine the scope and priorities of soil conservation research . The bulk of this conservation research has occurred during three general historical periods when the adverse effects of soil erosion have been considered to be particularly unacceptable or visible . These periods and concomitant policies are ( 1 ) the progressive era with the Country Life Commission , ( 2 ) the Great Depression and the agricultural policies of the New Deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move toward a supposed " free market " agricultural policy . Research scientists in each of these periods have approached the problem of soil erosion differently . The progressive era researchers appear to have spent much of their efforts in defining the problem in terms of soil exhaustion . New Deal researchers were primarily concerned with the introduction of agronomic conservation techniques such as contour plowing and structures ( e.g. , terraces ) in conjunction with supply-control programs . The present period emphasizes research on supposed technical solutions such as conservation tillage with the hope that such technical panaceas will be rapidly adopted by farmers . This study examines selected experiment station publications from around the country in an effort to document the generally shared research focus on soil conservation research for each of these periods . However , it is necessary to note at the outset that only general tendencies are discussed . Each period , including the present , has important exceptions that may serve either to modify or eclipse the dominant conservation research assumptions  | of their period . Unfortunately , the breadth of the general tendencies discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Market During the past century , experiment station scientists have developed a myriad of technical and agronomic options for conserving the nation 's soil . Indeed , impressive amounts of intellectual and capital resources have focused upon effective management of soil erosion . However , economic realities often have meant that the great majority of farmers have not adopted these techniques . Agricultural economists , and more recently rural sociologists , have proposed that without favorable market conditions or federal policies , the mere existence of effective conservation techniques will not assure their adoption . Instead , these experiment station social scientists believe market conditions may be the most important determinant in the use or nonuse of soil conservation practices . Historical analysis indicates that economic and social factors may be associated with the relative inability of farmers to practice soil conservation during the past century . Margolis 's ( 1977:43 ) examination of resource exploitation among frontier societies , including areas of the United States during the nineteenth century , identifies the following minimum of five economic factors that favored resource degradation among frontiers : ( 1 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the presence of free or inexpensive virgin frontier land , ( 3 ) unstable market conditions affecting the price received for the crop , ( 4 ) the accessibility of markets , and ( 5 ) the availability of credit . Margolis also notes that the quality and slope of the land and the influence of unpredictable natural conditions such as draught will also contribute to soil erosion . The central assumption of Margolis 's work is that short-term benefits will outweigh long-term benefits for future generations under conditions of economic stress . In particular , uncertain natural conditions , price fluctuations , and scarce labor and capital resources may each militate against the adoption of nonprofitable conservation technologies . It is not difficult to apply Margolis 's argument to present commercial farming conditions . Rasmussen ( 1982:14 ) offers the following assessment of how current economic uncertainty and debt have contributed to soil erosion . As the cost-price squeeze began to make itself felt in the late 1970s , farmers sought to produce more on the same land and with the same equipment . Many had to do so because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now . One way to meet the note was to cash in on previous soil conservation practices , to plow up grasslands , to stop strip cropping , to give up contour plowing .... The result ? Land more subject to rain and wind erosion , powdery soil more likely to be washed into the streams .  | Rasmussen is not alone in his assessment . Batie ( 1982 ) , Wessel ( 1983 ) , Sampson ( 1981 ) , and others point to the pressures for farmers to put scarce capital resources into production rather than conservation and to recent incentives to increase grain production in response to the expansion of farm export trade in the mid 1970s . Pre-Progressive Conservation Efforts Soil erosion was a serious social and environmental problem during the colonial period . Henretta 's ( 1974 ) review of New England social histories includes numerous references to the association among increased population pressure on the land , low levels of capital accumulation by yeoman farmers , and high rates of soil erosion . Similarly , southern historians document the socially and environmentally exploitive character of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1967 ; Hahn , 1984 ) . Even Thomas Jefferson " appealed for conservation of the soil " ( Rasmussen , 1982:4 ) . In 1841 agronomist Chitwood Allen told the Kentucky State Agricultural Society that the areas with the best soils were deteriorating rapidly ( Genovese , 1967:98 ) . Unsurprisingly , the colonial period and the early decades of the nineteenth century were characterized by the emergence and proliferation of conservation societies . Agricultural and geological societies throughout the country performed rudimentary agricultural research ( Genovese , 1967:Ch.4 ) . Among these antebellum agricultural historians is the common theme that soil erosion was less the result of careless or unwitting farmers than the consequence of economic pressures similar to those discussed by Margolis . The Civil War marked an important divergence from notable concern with soil erosion . Rasmussen ( 1982:5 ) states : Post Civil War pressures on many farmers to increase production in order to pay debts as farm prices fell encouraged soil exploitation rather than conservation . . . . The Civil War , westward expansion , and the pressures of commercial agriculture diverted attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Concern for soil erosion ebbed as recessions and depressions follow one after another during the final decades of the century . An initial federal government response aimed at helping commercial farmers increase their productivity in the face of unfavorable markets was the passing of the Hatch Act in 1887 , which provided federal support for a national system of agricultural experiment stations . " There were , of course , some agriculturalists , particularly in the new colleges of agriculture and the USDA , who also urged care of the soil " ( Rasmussen , 1982:5 ) . But their few voices seem to have been overwhelmed by unfavorable political and economic conditions . It was at this time that the political confrontation between agricultural producers and urban elites was fueling the emergence of the Populist and Progressive movements , respectively , neither of which was particularly con-  | serration oriented ( the Progressives were quite conservative in political orientation ) . The Progressive Period Perhaps the most significant political movement for rural people during the early years of the twentieth century was the urban-based Country Life Movement ( Danbom , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and physical scientists , educators , businessmen , and other urban elites . They were primarily concerned " with raising rural America to a twentieth-century standard of social and economic organization and efficiency " ( Danbom , 1979:vii ) . They were convinced that farm production and rural people were lagging behind the rest of the nation . The types of structural changes these urban-oriented professionals wished for rural people were extensive . Danbom argues that these reformers , while well meaning , believed a renovated agriculture would more adequately serve the needs of an urban-industrial society , the most important of which was the need for cheap food . Consequently , a primary interest was in increasing farm productivity , a chief obstacle to which was soil exhaustion . The Country Life Movement was associated with the Progressives ( Danborn , 1979:46-47 ) . Both movements were interested in the industrial , social , and economic advancement of the nation based upon the social and economic assumptions of capitalism tempered by a unique form of corporate liberalism . Soil conservation was defined by researchers in terms of reducing soil exhaustion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fertility and not soil erosion . This distinction underlies an important perception of soil management that demarcates the research of this period from later research . It is a perception that was tightly bound to the primary goal of the Country Life Movement , Le. , increased agricultural productivity Not inconsequentially , many of the leading institutions and corporations politically underwriting the Country Life Movement stood to benefit directly from increased farm productivity . Danbom ( 1979:40 ) documents the formation of business organizations such as the National Fertility League as well as extensive local-level publications and lectures aimed at helping farmers utilize the knowledge emerging from the agricultural experiment stations . Conservation , though , was not a visible dimension of the productivity message . Furthermore , Danbom ( 1979 ) argues this urban-based movement did not fully assess all of the consequences of their proposals including increased landlessness , tenancy , and poverty among disfranchised farm families not owning the necessary skills and capital . During this period soil scientists " held that soil damage and lack of fertility were caused largely by chemical processes involved in plant growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1982:6 ) . The first University of Kentucky Extension circular based upon experiment station research reported that the " greatest single problem confronting the farmer is soil exhaustion " and that this was primarily a threat to " soil fertility "  | ( Smith , 1981:296 ) . A 1910 Missouri publication on soil management contained a passing note that " A feature which should be given greater attention in this region the Ozarks is the prevention of washing on these rolling hills " ( Miller , 1910 ) . However , even this comment only pertained to winter cover crops , and not the prevention of soil erosion during the cropping season . By 1924 , concern for soil erosion appeared to be increasing . Another Missouri Experiment Station bulletin reported that the loss of nutrients due to soil erosion might be more serious than the loss of nutrients due to the raising of crops ( Duley , 1924 ) . However , only sod and crop rotations are mentioned as methods of controlling soil erosion . Among the bulletins examined between 1900 and 1923 , most soil management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on either soil erosion or washing . Significantly , among these same bulletins there is a clear understanding that a decline in soil fertility can be associated with economic conditions . While soil erosion was not a central issue in most of the bulletins , one 1919 Iowa State College bulletin stands out as an example of future concerns . In their article entitled " Soil Erosion in Iowa , " Eastman and Glass ( 1919 ) examine a multitude of methods for controlling gullying , sheet erosion , and hill erosion . They directly tie erosion to economic conditions , even concluding that continuous erosion may eventually significantly decrease soil fertility and the value of the land . Other scientists also were becoming concerned with soil erosion . Two USDA bulletins entitled Soil Conservation and Corn Cultivation argue that farmers must control soil erosion if their farms are to maintain production ( Rasmussen , 1982:5 ) . One such enlightened soil scientist was Hugh Hammond Bennett , who was a leader in arguing that sheet erosion , though less obvious than gullying , was just as great a threat to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper Soil Erosion : A National Menace served as a bridge between the laissez faire progressive approach to soil erosion and the federal programs of the New Deal . The research vehicle for this transition was the 1930 Agricultural Appropriations Act . New Deal The public and scientific interest in soil erosion increased with the double crises of the Great Depression and the Dust Bowl . The combination of economic and ecological crises provided the necessary political legitimacy for agricultural economists to investigate the association between socioeconomic conditions on the farm and soil erosion . The introduction of social science research into the farm problem represented an important policy innovation . For the first time , government planners were not only making a connection between economic conditions and soil loss , but they were advocating direct state intervention . The New Deal represented a particular perspective of the political economy that radically departed from the market-oriented views of the Progressives  | and later administrations . For example , Rexford Tugwell , a key agricultural adviser : argued that for soil erosion control programs to be effective they must deal not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tenancy ; unplanned urban growth , which took farmland out of production ; low farm income , which made conservation practices uneconomical for many farmers ; and more general economic problems caused in part by a weakened agricultural economy ( Roeder , 1982 ) . The conservation assumptions of the New Deal planners were relatively straightforward . It was reasoned that soil conservation could not occur until the farm economy improved . Even President Roosevelt , who campaigned for soil conservation along with his agricultural program , stated that the root problem of the Dust Bowl was a depressed farm economy . Roosevelt 's advisers argued that farm income was low due to depressed urban incomes and farm overproduction . Their diaries , reports , and policies indicate a perceived contradiction between what was rational economic behavior at the farm level and what was rational at the national level . They also imply that economic rationality at the farm level may be ecologically irrational . It was proposed that while it was apparently rational for a farmer to expand his or her scale of operation , the aggregation of such farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand , would create a situation in which supply would greatly exceed demand , thus forcing farm prices down . Since demand was more difficult to manipulate , it was argued that supply-control programs were necessary . By reducing the amount of agricultural products on the market , the price for farm commodities would rise . Furthermore , Roosevelt 's advisers assumed that by reducing production while raising prices , farmers were more likely to practice soil conservation . In terms of soil conservation , it was concluded that the primary conservation problem was understanding how physically to control erosion and then diffuse the information to the farmer . The experiment stations picked up much of the new demand for conservation research . Soil erosion was treated as both an agronomic and social problem . New Deal planners linked soil conservation with agricultural programs designed to protect small farms , augment farm income , and establish regional planning . This linkage is particularly evident in the following quotes from the 1937 Report of the President 's Committee on Farm Tenancy , which include such statements as " Erosion of our soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ... The one wastes natural resources and the other , human resources " and " Tenancy has contributed to soil erosion " ( Roeder , 1982:21-22 ) . Perhaps , the clearest indication of the New Deal 's simultaneous concern for soil conservation , its association with the farm economy , and the longterm undesirable consequences of soil erosion was Roosevelt 's warning that " the nation that destroys its soil destroys itself " ( Rasmussen , 1982:8 ) .  | The New Deal triggered the first great surge in land grant conservation research . The primary foci of the agronomic research during this period were either on the characteristics of soil structure or on farm-level techniques such as contour plowing , strip cropping , terracing , etc . What is interesting is that Thomas Jefferson and Edmund Ruffin had made similar proposals during the colonial period ( Rasmussen , 1982:4 ) . It took almost 150 years to resurrect these soil conservation practices . By the 1930s agronomists were making a clear distinction between soil exhaustion and soil erosion . The 1935/36 Annual Report for the Agronomy Department at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soil productivity depends first of all upon the cropping system is supported by steadily increasing evidence . This seems to be true whether exhaustion or erosion is the chief factor causing soil deterioration ( Salter , 1937:18 ) . The rate of soil erosion was being monitored on a national level for the first time . Agronomists were beginning to search for economic thresholds above which soil erosion was deemed intolerable . They were also carefully researching various agronomic techniques such as terraces , contour plowing , and other conservation structures for various types of soils and slopes . A 1937 bulletin entitled Soil Erosion in Ohio provides an excellent example of how the erosion crisis was perceived and the conservation strategies necessary to abate it . Selections from this bulletin include the following ( Cunrey et at. , 1937:23 ) : Accelerated erosion has been a major contributing factor in the depletion of soil resources in Ohio . Control of erosion is largely a matter of proper land use in combination with such soil conserving practices as crop rotations , contour tillage , field stripping , strip-cropping , terracing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grazing . However , agronomists were not as concerned with the economic and social dimensions for soil erosion as is evident in the absence of any mention of farm structure among the causes of soil erosion in the bulletin cited above . This concern was the domain of agricultural economists . A landmark social science study was Reed and Falconer 's The Effect of Land Use and Management on Erosion in 1937 . The purpose of their detailed examination of 100 Ohio farms " was to determine in a limited area some of the factors within the control of man which had contributed to erosion " ( Reed and Falconer , 1937:18 ) . They report a strong association between the extent of soil erosion and the type of farm . For example , they note that the " less eroded farms had more livestock and less cash crops " ( p. 18 ) . In addition , they note that soil erosion was correlated with the amount of land devoted to clean-cultivated crops , close-grown crops , and woods . On these points , their research was highly consistent with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important findings deal with the relation of the farms ' social and economic structure and soil erosion . They register the following conclusions ( Reed and Falconer , 1937:19 ) : Erosion is associated with land tenure . There were a lower percentage of tenancy , a longer period of occupancy per tenant , and a longer period of ownership per owner on the less eroded farms than on the more severely eroded farms . Erosion is associated with the owner 's financial condition . A smaller percentage of the less eroded farms were mortgaged , and the mortgage indebtedness per acre was smaller on the less eroded farms than on the more severely eroded farms . A lightening of the mortgaged indebtedness would evidently assist in the solution of the problem . It was experiment station social science research such as this that provided the scientific evidence in support of the New Deal 's assumptions about political economy . Experiment station social science research on the social and economic correlates of soil erosion provided the necessary empirical legitimacy for the New Deal conservation programs . As social science experiment station @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems models . A particularly troublesome question first posed during the New Deal was the extent to which economic and social factors were farm or national problems . A particularly good study conducted at Iowa State College in 1951 by Heady and Allen ( 1951 ) was entitled " Returns From and Capital Required for Soil Conservation Farming Systems . " The intent of the article was to determine the extent to which farms could take on conservation practices without depending upon the larger society for help . They argue that given the profit goals and shortterm planning horizons of farmers and the external costs of soil erosion to society , both farmers and society must confront two questions : ( 1 ) At what economic threshold is conservation profitable ? and ( 2 ) How should society provide help to farmers when conservation is not profitable ? They answer the first by noting that conservation practices that are profitable merely require educating farmers of their worth . However , they answer the second by proposing that public assistance is necessary for farmers when conservation practices cost more than they return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide evidence from an extensive survey from which they infer that the virtual absence of conservation practices on Iowa farms was in order of importance due to " ( 1 ) a lack of capital ( including related risks ) , ( 2 ) adjustment to varying economic conditions , ( 3 ) limited remaining period of farm operation , and ( 4 ) lack of technical knowledge . " Heady and Allen go on to state that farmers are not necessarily irrational in their decision not to adopt conservation practices . They propose that farmers with limited capital may be making a sound decision not " to borrow additional capital , lower their equity position and hence endanger the survival of their farm business ( 1951:358 ) . " They conclude that farmers with large debt to asset ratios often can not put scarce capital into conservation  | practices . The more recent assessments of Margolis ( 1977 ) , Rasmussen ( 1982 ) , and others on economic causes of soil erosion resemble old wine in new bottles . The transition to the present period of research is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period to the New Deal . Many of the New Deal supply-control policies were gradually modified or , in many cases , discarded during the Eisenhower administration . However , it was in 1956 that the Eisenhower administration experimented with the Soil Bank . This was a new USDA program that was designed to combine soil conservation with price support programs . The program ended in 1958 . Since then , public incentives for soil conservation have declined slowly . Probably , the most clear demarcation between the declining programs of the New Deal and the move toward a market-oriented agricultural economy was the rapid development of conservation tillage in the late 1960s and early 1970s , coupled with the expansion of agricultural trade abroad . The Market-Oriented Conservation Program Between the New Deal and Nixon 's New Federalism , assumptions about farm change and soil conservation underwent a transformation . A key delineator of this change was the simultaneous emergence of arguments against massive federal intervention in the farm sector and for unregulated farm commodity markets . Increased production and not conservation became the policy theme . By the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase the size of their operations as well as their productivity . Presently , the Reagan administration is calling for a sharp decline in the federal government 's role in farming ( i.e. , a departure from the New Deal legacy ) and movement toward a " market-oriented agricultural economy . " Uncoincidently , this call for reductions in the farm program occurs at a time when farm payments are at an all-time high and the fiscal crisis of the State is deepening . With the exception of some of the Carter administration proposals , the Executive branch for most of the last two decades has emphasized increased farm productivity and reduced government involvement in commodity markets . Such assumptions concerning the role of government in farming are not dissimilar from those of the progressive era . However , there are important differences . Given the legacy of the Dust Bowl and conservation research during the New Deal , the control of soil erosion has remained a part of the research agenda . Evidence of the continuing concern for conservation includes the Resource Conservation Act of 1977 and more recently the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1985 Farm Bill . The emphasis in conservation research has tended to focus on developing conservation techniques that will not significantly hurt productivity such as the various forms of conservation tillage systems . It is assumed that market forces will create incentives for long-term financial benefits from soil conservation such that farmers will practice conservation  | if the information is diffused properly and the market is allowed to work freely . This market-oriented approach represents a clear departure from the policy assumptions of the New Deal . Overproduction is no longer considered to be a problem . Instead , the problem is one of increasing farm productivity , locating new markets abroad , and changing food consumption habits at home in order to increase domestic demand . In short , this approach attempts to manipulate demand rather than supply . The years following the Russian Wheat Deal saw this principle work as farm prices rose . However , by the late 1970s , farm production had expanded beyond international demand , and the U.S. dollar had begun to increase greatly in value . Consequently , farm prices dropped , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last resort . Social science research after the New Deal was highly influenced by the adoption and diffusion model . The hegemony of this model reflected the conservative politics of this period . An important consequence was the virtual abandonment of macroeconomic and social structural explanations of soil conservation behavior similar to , the work of Heady and Allen . This social-psychological model divided farmers into the dubious categories of " innovators " and " laggards . " Laggards were either simply misinformed about the benefits of soil conservation or too traditional in their value orientation . It was concluded that erosion control was primarily a matter of educating farmers . By the early 1970s there was evidence that soil erosion was once again approaching historically high rates , thus indicating that the model was limited ( see Batie , 1982 ; Sampson , 1981 ; Wessel , 1983 ) . While educating farmers is a necessary dimension of any conservation effort , the limitations of this approach suggest that it is not a sufficient condition . There is a remarkable similarity between the assumptions of the progressive era and those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Country Life Movement was characterized by an emphasis on farm productivity and was led by agribusinesses ? who would directly benefit from overproduction through reduced farm prices and increased farm dependency on factor inputs . While there is no equivalent to the National Fertility League set up by agribusinesses in the 1900s , the Nashville symposium on conservation tillage in October 1984 represented a similar agribusiness effort to encourage farmers simultaneously to increase productivity , practice conservation , and purchase agricultural inputs , especially agricultural chemicals . It is not surprising , then , that experiment station conservation research of the past decade has increasingly emphasized the development of conservation- , reduced- , and minimum-tillage and chemical agriculture . Conservation tillage represents a major effort to develop a technological panacea for the control of erosion that will not reduce productivity , will not require federal programs to implement , and can be diffused to farmers easily . Indeed , it is very difficult to argue with these characteristics . However , experiment station research also suggests that conservation tillage may have significant  | ecological and economic limitations that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular concern is the increased use of agricultural chemicals that compensate for reduced cultivation . It may be that conservation tillage will substitute one ecological crisis for another . If the goal of conservation is to reduce resource degradation , then , it is possible that conservation tillage , which requires increased chemical application , may not be the universally viable option that it first appeared to be . Recent social science research suggests that the adoption of conservation tillage technologies is probably more a consequence of labor-saving characteristics than either farmer conservation altruism or the result of complicated long-term computations by farmers of discount rates for conserving soil ( cf. , Buttel and Swanson , 1986 ; Swanson et al. , 1986 ) . In other words , the assumption that the market will provide incentives for soil conservation continues to be unsupported . Conclusions Undoubtedly , experiment stations have made enormous contributions to understanding the causes of soil erosion and the development of conservation practices to control erosion . Indeed , the experiment station system is the primary contributor to the accumulation of knowledge on soil management during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stations also provides considerable evidence that the mere existence of effective erosion techniques does not mean that farmers will practice ecologically and economically sound farming systems . Such social science conservation research strongly suggests that investment in most conservation practices is an allocation of capital that does not contribute to short-term profitability in an industry constantly posed on short-term needs . There is little to no evidence that the marketplace provides the economic incentives necessary for the adoption of most conservation practices . The major exception is conservation tillage . During the past century , soil erosion has risen and fallen as a widely perceived crisis . A recurring criticism directed toward conservation research is that , if such research is so good , why is erosion still a nemesis ? The answer is quite simple . Research can help provide conservation practices to reduce soil erosion . But an economic environment favorable to the shortterm profitability of conservation practices appears to be necessary . If economic conditions are not favorable to the widespread use of the practices developed by experiment station research , then soil erosion will continue to occur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceptions of both farm structure and soil erosion . The New Deal researchers were quick to distinguish between declining soil fertility and soil erosion and to associate erosion with socioeconomic conditions . More recently , agronomists , agricultural engineers , and social scientists have picked up on conservation tillage . The public can expect the experiment station system  | to be a leader in developing new conservation practices . However , it can not expect experiment stations to create the economic and social conditions that promote voluntary use of soil conservation methods or to pursue research that is contrary to the dominant public policy . For example , regenerative agriculture is not politically popular at this time , yet , there is evidence that by reducing costly factor inputs , a medium-sized farm can maintain and even increase profits while practicing conservation . However , various approaches to regenerative agriculture are not a high research priority ; apparently because they do not increase total production ( i.e. , do not contribute as much to overproduction ) . A consistent finding of land grant social scientists since the New Deal is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to invest scarce capital on the possibility of long-term profitability . As Heady and Allen ( 1951 ) have noted , it may be economically rational for farmers to ignore the advice of the experiment station researchers . Experiment station agronomists and agricultural engineers have provided the farmer with a myriad of excellent techniques for controlling soil erosion , but few farmers are able to incorporate them into their farming systems . Technological panaceas are unlikely to reverse current resource degradation in American agriculture ( Office of Technology Assessment , 1986 ) . In each of these eras , a dominant theme has been the promotion of increased efficiency of farm labor and capital while maximizing production and profits . Until recently , it was almost unquestionably assumed that increased efficiency meant the top of the production curve for biological transformations . However , some agricultural scientists and economists are now proposing that the point of diminishing returns on the profitability curve may occur well before the point of diminishing returns on the production curve . It may be that farmers can maintain their total profits by cutting back on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overall production , which in turn might reduce aggregate supply and thereby increase the prices received . The farmer , then , might benefit from both decreased costs of production and increased farm prices . While this example is speculative and may offer only temporary relief , it does indicate an alternative to a key assumption influencing research priorities of experiment stations during the past century . It also provides an example of experiment station research that would unlikely be conducted by the private sector since it would not enhance agribusiness profits . In short , it is an example of public research in agriculture ? research that the private sector may either be unable or unwilling to perform . Conservation research at the experiment stations historically has been a leading and exceptional example of such public research . References Batie , Sandra S. " Policies , Institutions , and Incentives for Soil Conservation . " Pp. 25-40 in Harold G. Halcrow , Earl O. Heady , and Melvin Cutner ( eds . ) , Soil  | Conservation Policies , Institutions , and Incentives . Ankeny , Iowa : Soil Conservation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Swanson , Louis E. " Soil and Water Conservation : A Farm Structural and Public Policy Context . " Pp. 26-39 in Stephen B. Lovejoy and Ted L. Napier ( eds . ) , Conserving Soil : Insights from Socioeconomic Research . Ankeny , Iowa : Soil Conservation Society of America , 1986 . Cunrey , G. W. ; Cutler , J. S. ; and Pascall , A. H. " Soil Erosion in Ohio . " Bulletin No. 589 . Wooster : Ohio Agricultural Experiment Station , December 1937 . Danbom , David B. The Resisted Revolution . Ames : Iowa State University Press , 1979 . Duley , F. L. " Controlling Surface Erosion of Farm Lands . " Bulletin No. 211 . Columbia : University of Missouri Agricultural Experiment Station , April 1924 . Eastman , E. E. , and Glass , J. S. " Soil Erosion in Iowa . " Bulletin No. 183 . Ames : Iowa State College Agricultural Experiment Station , January 1919 . Eaton , Clement . The Growth of Southern Civilization , 1790-1860 . New York : Harper and Row , 1961 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . New York : Vintage Books , 1967 . Hahn , Steven . The Roots of Southern Populism . New York : Oxford University Press , 1984 . Heady , Earl O. , and Allen , Carl W. " Returns from Capital Required for Soil Conservation Farming Systems . " Research Bulletin No. 381 . Ames : Iowa State College Agricultural Experiment Station , May 1951 . Henretta , James H. " The Morphology of New England Society in the Colonial Period . " Pp. 191-210 in Theodore K. Rabb and Robert I. Rotberg ( eds . ) , The Family in History . New York : Octagon Books , 1974 . Margolis , Maxine . " Historical Perspectives on Frontier Agriculture as an Adaptive Strategy . " American Ethnologist 4(1):42-64 , 1977 . Miller , M. F. " Soil Management in the Ozark Region . " Bulletin No. 88 . Columbia : University of Missouri Agricultural Experiment Station , July 1910 . Office of Technology Assessment . Technology , Public Policy , and the Changing Structure of American Agriculture . Washington , D.C. : Government Printing Office , 1986 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institutions and Incentives . " Pp. 3-18 in Harold G. Halcrow , Earl O. Heady , and Melvin L. Cotner ( eds . ) , Soil Conservation Policies , Institutions , and Incentives . Ankeny , Iowa Soil Conservation Society of America , 1982 . Reed , E. H. , and Falconer , J. I. " The Effect of Land Use and Management of Soil Erosion . " Bulletin No. 585 . Wooster : Ohio Agricultural Experiment Station , July 1937 . Roeder , George H. , Jr . " A Discussion . " Pp. 19-24 in Harold G. Halcrow , Earl O. Heady , and Melvin L. Cotner ( eds . ) , Soil Conservation Policies , Institutions , and Incentives . Ankeny , Iowa Soil Conservation Society of America , 1982 . Salter , Robert F. " Crop Rotation as the Foundation of Soil Conservation . " Fiftyfifth Annual Report of the Ohio Agricultural Experiment Station . Wooster , Ohio : Experiment Station Press , 1937 . Sampson , R. Neil . Farmland or Wasteland : A Time to Choose . Emmaus , Pennsylvania : Rodale Press , 1981 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the University of Kentucky . Lexington : Kentucky Agricultural Experiment Station , 1981.  | Swanson , Louis E. ; Camboni , Silvana M. ; and Napier , Ted L. " Barriers to Adoption of Soil Conservation . " Pp. 108-20 in Stephen B. Lovejoy and Ted L. Napier ( eds . ) , Conserving Soil : Insights from Socioeconomic Research . Ankeny , Iowa Soil Conservation Society of America , 1986 . Wessel , J. , with Hantrian , M. Trading the Future . San Francisco , California : Institute for Food and Development Policy , 1983.  | Development of an Interdisciplinary , Interagency Integrated Pest Management Project in the Western United States Gary A. McIntyre The Evolution of Integrated Pest Management in Crop Protection Traditionally , control of pests on crops was based on a firm foundation of biological principles that predicted the interaction between host and pest in the agroecosystem . After World War II , however , development of organic pesticides ( e.g. , 2,4-D and DDT ) caused a marked shift in the philosophy of pest control . The broad foundation of control based on biological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a specific pest or group of pests were controlled by a pesticide with little regard to the impact on the total agroecosystem . Increased reliance on pesticides for control has produced a substantial change in the varieties of individual crops developed and how they are grown . Current crop varieties were developed to respond to greater usage of pesticides , more fertilizer , and increased irrigation ( NAS , 1975a ) . This has led to an increasingly homogenous cropping system in which the crop has a narrower gene pool and is more susceptible to attack from pests ( e.g. , corn to southern corn leaf blight ) ( NAS , 1972 , 1975b ) . This genetic vulnerability has , in turn , created higher demand for use of pesticides at higher concentrations and greater frequency . This practice has reduced the number of natural predators and parasites of pests normally found in the cropping system , thus allowing , in some instances , rather minor pests to assume a new , major importance . More recently , evidence has been gathered ( NAS , 1975b ) that shows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intensive use of certain pesticides . Both reduction in natural enemies and development of resistance of pests to pesticides have created a situation whereby either new methods of control must be developed or still more pesticides used . As the latter is neither cost effective nor environmentally safe , it is clear that new , economically sound means of controlling pests must be developed .  | This calls for the integration of control procedures into a management system based on the understanding that pest species are single components of a complex agroecosysteml and that the interactions of these components transcend the artificial barriers created by the traditional , taxonomically oriented crop protection disciplines ( Glass , 1976 ) . While such a system may require utilization of pesticides , use is incorporated into an overall system that will ensure that pesticides are applied strategically in appropriate quantities to assure control with minimal adverse effects upon the environment . Development of such systems is referred to as Integrated Pest Management ( IPM ) . IPM , as originally conceptualized , dealt with one pest or complex of similar pests ( boll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single crop . While this approach provided significant progress toward control of pests in these rather narrowly defined systems , it did not address the impact of these control measures on an entire agroecosystern . This has led to a redefinition of IPM as a procedure that integrates pest control in an economically and ecologically sound manner within the total cropping system . Clearly , integrated pest and agroecosystem management ( IPAM ) must be expanded and refined if we are to maintain economic crop production . The IPM approach utilizes multitactics in a compatible manner to maintain pest damage below economic thresholds ( Intersociety Consortium for Plant Protection , 1979 ) . To establish IPAM programs , interactions such as those between pests , pests and parasites , pests and predators , pests and antagonists , or pests and hosts and the effects of cultural practices , soil type , irrigation practices , microclimate , and surrounding fauna and flora in a specific geographical area must be considered . Development of an approach that recognizes the large number of interactions occurring within the system calls for an interdisciplinary effort incorporating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinarily involved in agricultural sciences such as systems analysis , microclimatology , and hydrology . This interdisciplinary effort must provide current information on pests to be controlled , their natural enemies , crop phenology , weather , etc. , and the interaction of each of these with the others . The ultimate measure of success of such a program will be the ability of the IPAM research component to provide to the extension component a cost-effective , environmentally safe program that will be acceptable to the farmer and rancher . In addition , this program must expose and train students in these new philosophies and technologies to assure that they are qualified to play a significant role in the future of agriculture . The Need for IPAM in the Western Region The western region of the United States can be divided into five major agroecosystems . These are : 1 . Arid and semiarid irrigated : once desert or semidesert lands , economically the largest agronomic production base  | 2 . Semiarid dryland , winter rainfall : wheat-fallow and range 3 . Semiarid dryland , summer rainfall : wheat-fallow and range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orchards 5 . Subhumid , summer rainfall : annual crops Of the five agroecosystems mentioned above , numbers one , two , and three are common to all of the western states , include most of the land in the region , and are essentially unique to the region and the most important economically . The semiarid , irrigated agroecosystem ( one ) includes over 12 million acres and produces an annual cash income of $3.7 billion to the farmers of the western region . The semiarid , dryland system includes over 19.8 million acres in small grain production and over 462 million acres classified as range ( two and three ) . The annual cash income for small grains exceeds $2.3 billion ( USDA , 1979a ; 1979b ) . While these two systems are dissimilar in many ways , both can be used for small grain , alfalfa , and livestock production . Undisturbed soils within these regions are low in organic matter and have a simple , fragile biological community when compared to the rich soil flora and fauna associated with soils of eastern forests and prairies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more stable than that found in western soils . Cultivation and irrigation of these soils containing unstable biological complexes create a dramatic shift in species found within the community and previously unavailable niches . These niches are rapidly colonized by introduced organisms that are often serious pests to introduced crops . The high initial yields associated with crops grown on lands recently brought under cultivation for the first time drop rapidly as the soil is colonized by introduced pests . For example , high yields of potatoes can only be maintained through the rigorous application of soil fumigants , a practice in which the West leads the United States . Terms such as " spudded out " and " potato decline " are used by growers to describe the ever-growing problem of dramatically lower yield associated with the spectacular increase in pests on these lands . Growers are confronted with either fumigating , a control system that is expensive , to maintain production , abandoning the land and moving to a new area where the previously described cycle is repeated , or accepting lower yields that often make farming economically unfeasible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the western states greatly limits airborne pathogens and insect pests . This has placed much of the West in a favored position regarding production of disease-free seed for other regions of the United States where summer rainfall and high humidity provide an optimum environment for development of numerous leaf spots , blights , fruit rots , insects , and weeds despite the rigorous application of pesticides . However , this advantage is rapidly being lost in the West . The advent of the modern , center pivot sprinkler irrigation system that can deliver overhead moisture to every plant in a field as frequently as every six to twelve hours has created a local environment with the high humidity associated with the  | eastern agroecosystem . Consequently , foliar pests are rapidly becoming major problems to crops grown under irrigation . Usually , soilbome pathogens are immobile and thus remain confined to fields . Unfortunately where irrigation canals are used , soilborne plant pathogens and weed seeds in particular are becoming widely distributed from field to . field and throughout the irrigation districts by one of the most efficient means of dissemination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grower 's problem is transformed in a single season to every grower 's problem . For dryland agriculture and more specifically dryland wheat , water stress and associated soilborne disease problems are more evident in the western states than in any other wheat-growing area of the United States . Unlike the Great Plains states , dryland wheat in the western states must head and mature on stored summer fallow moisture because there is no effective rainfall after April or early May . Plants often grow luxuriantly during early stages when moisture is abundant . However , the production of many tillers with the concomitant increase in leaf area may become a liability to the plant when moisture becomes marginal and it is too late to abort the tillers . Identification of Commodities Included in Project Substantial numbers of scientists in the West in experiment stations , ARS , and extension are involved in activities related to the management of the semiarid dryland and semiarid irrigated agroecosystems . The initial western regional ( W-161 ) project was developed because of an appreciation for the economic and geographic importance of these systems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two together . The project was limited in numbers of crops included and pests studied but recognized the diversity of management systems used on the range-dryland system and the diversity of crops incorporated in a rotation on irrigated , arid lands within the region . The commodities currently identified within these agrosystems as most important in the region are range in the semiarid dryland agroecosystem and tree fruits and potatoes in the semiarid irrigated agroecosystem . Alfalfa and small grains form a natural link between the systems in that these two crops are often produced on former range , are important export commodities , are grown in dryland or irrigated cropping systems , or are consumed by livestock . These crops relate to the row crops in a fundamental way . Historically , crop rotation has been a cornerstone of pest management . By rotating crops , one not only influences the edaphic factors of soil but more importantly can influence populations of weeds , soil insects , and pathogens . In the irrigated West , alfalfa and cereals are a key component of many rotational schemes . Beyond that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many beneficial parasites and predators . Deciduous tree fruits , which have been added to the project recently , are important crops in the semiarid West . Apples , peaches , pears , and  | cherries , which were selected for intensive study in the project , account for almost 50 percent of the total fruit production in the region ( USDA , 1982 ) . One or more of the states included in the West consistently ranked from first to fifth in production of these fruit crops in the United States . In total , the region produces about 80 percent of the value of the national fruit and nut crop . Beyond marketed value , there are additional features that make western deciduous tree fruit crops appropriate systems for developing IPAM methods . They are highly diversified and complex agroecosystems and have more in common with natural ecosystems than most other crops . This diversity usually includes mixed plant varieties , highly varied ground cover communities with distinct successional factures , and a highly diverse and relatively permanent litter and soil fauna . In addition , there is appreciable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants , and other wild plant communities . Although a commodity approach will often be used to address IPAM , an additional thrust is focused on development of research , extension , and teaching materials that recognize semiarid agroecosystems as a component of larger , more regional agroecosystems . In these cases , the project commodities form the subelements for individual program development . However , understanding and management at the regional level involve the larger , combined mosaic of crops and their surrounding environments . Relationships Between Commodities/Pest Complexes and Surrounding Environments " Pest complexes " include a broad range of individual pest problems or conglomerates of pest problems that lend naturally or logically to a focus within a commodity or across commodities . For example , barley yellow dwarf is a virus transmitted by insects from a number of plant hosts . The many insect pests , predators , pathogens , nematodes , and weeds are constituents of a definable agroecosystem in which a crop is grown and can be considered a pest complex . The overall relationship between selected commodity/pest complexes and the variety of surrounding environments identified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research , extension , and teaching programs are focused on the five previously mentioned major commodity areas . These commodity areas can be viewed along a continuum of management intensity from intensively managed plant communities ( e.g. , greenhouse crops , potatoes , tree fruits grown under conditions of intense management ) to the almost natural ecosystem ( e.g. , rangelands , forest communities ) . Within a subregion , the relative placement of these commodities on the continuum scale shown will vary appreciably ( Figure 12.1 ) . For example , alfalfa might be managed more intensively than potatoes within a given area , or fruit orchards in a nursery might be less like a natural ecosystem than small grains grown in an area of less intensive management . The important point is that each  | commodity system can vary greatly in relation to the level of management applied across an area as large as the western region of the U.S. This diversity must be dealt with in designing relevant programs . Beyond the level of management applied , the five commodity systems are surrounded to varying degrees by mosaics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In some cases they are surrounded wholely by other managed crops , and the principal interactions are from crop to crop . At the other extreme , in isolated valleys or in areas of continuous rangeland-forest production , certain managed commodities are almost wholely surrounded by native or more natural vegetation . The basic regional interactions of pests and associated species can be very different depending on the type and conditions of these various agroecosystems . Development of the Western Regional IPM Project The western regional IPM project was established in 1978 at the request of regional extension , experiment station , and ARS directors . The project followed a natural evolution from the regional experiment station coordinating committee ( WRCC-25 ) to a regional research project ( W-161 ) with strong representation from experiment station , ARS , extension , and resident instruction personnel . W-161 was designed to address development of IPM programs in teaching , research , and extension for the semiarid dryland and irrigated agroecosystem of the western region . These agroecosystems are of major importance to all contiguous western states . When combined , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest dollar return . Commodities included those grown without cultivation and additional water ( rangeland ) or with cultivation and additional water ( cotton , corn , sugar beets , and potatoes ) . Alfalfa and small grains are viewed as transitional commodities , as they may be grown in either irrigated or dryland agroecosystems . Three commodities incorporated in the original project have been dropped from the project because of limited or diminished importance to the region ( sugar beets and corn ) or because previous work has addressed and solved many of the IPM related problems ( cotton ) . One new project area , tree fruits , has been added in recognition of its importance within the region . In addition , project objectives have been revised significantly to reflect the integration of teaching , research , and extension into this interagency , interdisciplinary project . These changes reflect the incorporation of agroecosystem management into the program ( IPAM ) . Project Organization Commodity Coordinating ( CC ) Subcommittees The organization of the western regional IPAM project is a significant departure from the more traditional format for supervising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a substantial cooperative effort from administrative units in ARS , extension , experiment stations , resident instruction , and agribusiness . There is no one administrative structure within the region that satisfies that closely coordinated effort outlined herein . While the three semiarid dryland and irrigated agroecosystems and commodities grown in each will provide the confines for operation of the project , our emphasis is on controlled pest complexes that are impacted by the entire management system within a rotation , between cropping systems , or between native vegetation and cropping systems . To this end , we have established multidisciplinary , commodity coordinating ( CC ) subcommittees within the region to identify those pest complexes that are most important to that commodity and most suited to an IPAM approach for control . Different pest complexes may be identified as most important within different subregions of the West . These committees play a major role in fulfilling the objectives of the project . The CC subcommittees are charged with providing data on the current status of pest control for the commodity and prioritizing the importance of pests and pest complexes attacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regional coordinating committees such as WRCC-29 , Diseases of Cereal Crops , may be in place and provide such data . In other instances , the western directors may wish to consider establishment of coordinating committees charged with the responsibility of obtaining these data . As appropriate , other means of obtaining such data will be considered . In all instances , care will be taken to provide input from extension , industry , resident instruction , and ARS . An additional activity of the CC subcommittees has been to evaluate the need for first order manuals that will integrate pest management into the cropping cycle . These manuals are aimed at extension personnel , farmers , agribusiness , and pest control advisors . In addition , the manuals will be used as supplements to resident instruction programs in pest management . Manuals for cotton , potatoes , and small grains are at various stages of completion . A manual for alfalfa will be developed by modifying the current California 1PM manual to make its content regional in scope . The range subcommittee will develop a series of publications derived from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the project . Pest Complex ( PC ) Subcommittees Some members of the CC subcommittees as well as other scientists will serve as members of appropriate pest complex ( PC ) subcommittees . The PC subcommittees are charged with identifying data gaps and prioritizing research and extension needs within the individual pest complexes identified by the CC subcommittees for incorporation into the project . The PC subcommittees identify research , extension , and resident instruction needs for the individual pest complexes and recommend priority areas for grant solicitations . The PC subcommittee is visualized as an equilateral triangle with disciplines , commodities , and agroecosystems of the semiarid West representing the sides ( Figure 12.2 ) . The participating units are listed below  | the triangle . It is recognized that participation will vary depending on the commodity , discipline , geographical subregion , and point in time within the project . Master Coordinating Committee ( MCC ) The chairman of each CC subcommittee will serve as a member of the master coordinating committee ( MCC ) . The MCC will be charged with assuring overall completion of the entire project @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review recommendations of the CC subcommittees regarding review of competitive proposals , allocation of resources , and review of project funding . IPAM Coordinator The position of IPAM Coordinator is staffed on a temporary , part-time basis using combined support from ARS , experiment stations , and extension within the western region . The IPAM Coordinator is responsible to a steering committee consisting of administrative representatives from resident instruction , extension , experiment stations , and ARS in the region . The steering committee assures that all participating administrative units have maximum input into project coordination and development . Ultimately , the position of IPAM Coordinator will be a full-time position with an appropriate staff and travel budget . Not only will the coordinator be charged with maintaining communication with the CC and PC subcommittees to assure that the entire program stays on schedule , but the coordinator will also be expected to develop and maintain liaison with those federal and state agencies that are responsible for IPM programs . This effort will be accomplished , in part , through development and enhancement of appropriate state and national contacts within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is fortunate to receive a modest level of support from western regional ARS and experiment station and extension directors . This support has provided some salary and secretarial support for a part-time regional coordinator , travel funds for the coordinator and committee members , " seed money " for manual development , and a small amount of support to initiate a regional research effort on barley yellow dwarf , one of the high priority pest complexes identified within the project . Recently , additional support has been obtained through the CSRS special grants program . Problems Associated with Development of an Interagency , Interdisciplinary Project in IPM Preceding sections have identified the constraints in which the western regional IPM program operates . The committee structure with representatives from experiment stations , extension , ARS , resident instruction , and agribusiness has provided a forum that maximizes scientist input into development of overall program thrusts and a mechanism to modify or change program priorities . There appears to be little problem in assuring data exchange and program coordination . However , the fact that resources are allocated from a multitude of agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other local , regional , and national priorities . Such competition provides unusual challenges in assuring program continuity and  | compatibility . However , these problems , while challenging , are not insurmountable and are solved by involving all representatives in development , modification , and administration of the program . Notes 1 . An " agroecosystem " is used here to mean any managed agricultural cropping system that may be applied to an individual field or orchard subjected to a specific combination of management practices , a combination of contiguous fields within a specific geographic area , or a broad expanse of managed ecosystems such as range . References Glass , E. H. " Pest Management : Principles and Philosophy . " Pp. 39-50 in J. L. Apple and R. F. Smith ( eds . ) , Integrated Pest Management . New York : Plenum Press , 1976 . Intersociety Consortium for Plant Protection . Integrated Pest Management : A Program of Research for the State Agricultural Experiment Stations and Colleges of 1890 , pp. 1-190 . USDA , SEA/CR . Washington , D.C. McIntyre , G. A. " Development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Semiarid Regions of the Western United States . " Proceedings . The National Wheat Research Conference , 1982 . National Academy of Science ( NAS ) . Genetic Vulnerability of Major Crops . Washington , D.C. : Committee on Genetic Vulnerability of Major Crops , National Academy of Science , 1972 . . Agricultural Production Efficiency . Washington , D.C. : National Academy of Science , 1975a . Pest Control : An Assessment of Present and Alternative Technologies , Volume I. Contemporary Pest Control Practices and Concepts . Washington , D.C. : National Academy of Science , 1975b . United States Department of Agriculture . Crop Values ( 1976-1977-1978 ) ? Season and Average Prices Received by Farmers and Value of Production . Cr . Pr . 2-1(79) , 1979a . . Crop Production , 1978 Annual Summary ? Acreage , Yield , Production . Cr . Pr . 2-1(79) , 1979b . . Noncitrus Fruits and Mites , 1974 Ann . Surv. , Prod. , Use and Value . SPS Bulletin . FrNt 1-2(75) USDA . Washington , D.C. , 1982.  | A Comparative Study of Rice Research in California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Butler Flora and Jan L. Flora Introduction Research on rice ( Oryxa sativa L. ) production in the U.S. can not be understood without viewing the interaction between state policy and ecological factors . It is the thesis of this chapter that much of the difference between rice production in California and in the South is due to the differential roles of state governments , which are in turn related to the distinct structures of agriculture in California and the South , the organizations that are fostered in each setting , and their different degrees of mobilization . This mobilization affects commodity programs , controls on production , and also research . Because it is a self-pollinating grain that can be saved by farmers rather than a hybrid that " self-destructs " after each season and must be repurchased , the bulk of the research on rice has been carried out in the public sector . Berlan ( 1983 ) discusses the importance of hybrids for the creation of private seed research organizations . Yet , the division between public and private research is not a dichotomy but a continuum . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differential role of a variety of commodity-based research organizations including , but not exclusively , the state experiment station . Rice differs from other small grains in a number of other ways : 1 . Rice can be grown only in rather limited areas ? on soils that are quite dense or are underlain by a hard pan , which allows for flooding of the crop during a major portion of its growth cycle . The limited number of suitable areas in the U.S. has important political implications . 2 . While it is a staple food , relatively little rice is eaten in the U.S. For example , about ten pounds of rice ( both direct and processed foods and brewing ) per capita is consumed annually ( Holder and Grant ,  | 1979:25 ) compared to 118 pounds of wheat per capita ( Heid , 1980 ) . In most of the rest of the world , however , rice tends to be grown in the countries where it is eaten , and in many countries it is the staple grain of choice . While the U.S. produces less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-third of the rice that passes in world trade is grown in the U.S. , although that share has recently declined . As much as 75 percent of U.S. rice is exported . This has significant implications regarding potential growth in rice production , which peaked in 1981 , and for the stability of U.S. rice prices . Because of fluctuating climatic conditions worldwide , U.S. rice prices have become increasingly unstable as dependence on world markets has increased . Previously , U.S. rice was sold to neo-colonial markets such as Cuba . 3 . Rice is a cash crop par excellence . It significantly outyields other small grains and is generally more valuable per bushel than feed grains , which approach or surpass it in yield . It is less perishable than most other crops that equal or exceed it in dollar value per acre . Because rice has been historically profitable in the U.S. , it was the first grain to be cultivated with a highly mechanized input , including land leveling , land cultivation , planting , applying nutrients and pesticides , as well as harvest . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These facts have important implications for cultural practices and the type of research related to them . These three sets of facts suggest two broad topics that will be used to organize this discussion of why the rice industry and , therefore , rice research have evolved as they have in this country : ( 1 ) domestic geopolitics of rice production and research , and ( 2 ) constraints in cultural practices that feed back as constraints on research . Domestic Geopolitics of Rice Production and Research Rice is presently produced in two socio-political regions in the U.S. : ( 1 ) four southern states ? Arkansas , Louisiana , Mississippi , and Texas ( with a small amount produced in the Missouri bootheel on the Mississippi River delta ) ; and ( 2 ) California The two areas are quite different both ecologically and politically . The southern regions are warmer than California , with more rainfall over a greater portion of the year . In addition , the political differences between the two areas have important implications for rice production and research . Historically , the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still true today to a large extent . Thus , the healthiness of the rice ( or cotton , sugar , or tobacco ) industry tends to be equated with the wellbeing of the entire state or region . Those who disagreed with that interpretation had little political power . In California , although its agricultural production exceeds that of any other state , agricultural interests do not  | consistently dominate but must compete with other interest groups regarding the use of resources . This is increasingly the case in Texas as well . That difference has important implications for both state and federal policy and regulation with respect to the rice industry . On the national level , because of the existence of the seniority system in Congress and because the South has been and continues to be in large part a single party region , southern rice interests have had their own representatives on important agricultural committees . The California people whom we interviewed could name only two representatives out of thirtytwo who could be counted on to go to bat for the rice industry ; neither of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal senators and representatives from Arkansas , there has been strong support of the rice industry by rice state congressmen from all the rice-producing southern states . This is reflected in regular federal appropriations from the Cooperative State Research Service of USDA , which form a higher proportion of the nonspecified research budget of the land grant system in the southern states than in California . The South has historically had a low budget ideology regarding state and local government . While in general that ideology has also applied to the federal government , the New Deal farm programs have been particularly good to the South . Because of the political power of southern congressmen , the South has received preferential treatment at the hands of the Department of Agriculture . This is illustrated in the rice research program , which has located many more USDA rice scientists in the South than in California . The presence of a considerable number of USDA researchers has in the past allowed southern legislatures to spend relatively little on rice research and still maintain quite respectable rice research programs . Louisiana is an exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in rice research , spending more than double what California spends , with a relatively low federal contribution . In 1981 , Louisiana 's extension service hired an outstanding research extensionist with solid research skills from California to head its program . Because the cost of the rice subsidy program was rather small compared to that for wheat and major feed grains , support prices for rice have been maintained at a higher level than is true for any other grain . Action by southern senators delayed the removal of acreage allotments from rice three years beyond that of other grains . Further , rice farmers received an unusual concession ? allotments without quotas , providing continued price and income protection beyond that provided to other grain farmers . The farm program for rice producers in the South also benefitted those in California . In the early 1970s , a number of factors came together to reduce sharply the importance of government 's role in keeping rice prices high through production limitations and direct payments . First , the increase in the cost of imported oil and the decline of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it necessary to look to other sectors for export growth . The two areas most readily available for such  | expansion were agriculture and military sales . Both increased as sources of foreign exchange because of decreased concessionary sales or grants ( shifting them to commercial sales ) and by an absolute increase in the amount exported . Years of shortfall in world grain production , including rice , were 1973 and 1974 . This made it politically easy to suspend or dismantle the system of acreage limitations and price supports . ( In the case of rice , allotments were suspended until 1976 when they were legislated out of existence . ) In the 1970s , the congressional seniority system , although not totally dismantled , was dealt a serious blow . Decline in the number of farmers , coupled with the emphasis on exports as a way of solving farmers ' income problems , contributed to a serious decline in power of the farm bloc . By 1981 , the farm bloc was in disarray . Inflation played a big role in pitting farmers against consumers , the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By 1985 , shifts in factor costs of production and the strong dollar further pitted farmers against consumers in terms of policy . Farmers are heavier users of credit than the rest of the population , and real interest rates are at an all time high , benefitting savers , not borrowers . Farmers are exporters , while consumers find themselves benefitting from cheap imports of consumption items . Initially , the role of government for rice producers was the same as for other U.S. industries : market protection and market penetration . Tariffs early imposed on rice importation allowed a protected market for rice production in the United States . However , this market was always relatively small , limited early in our history to people of French and African origins ( Littlefield , 1981 ) . Government activity was crucial in market penetration as well . Beginning with the Spanish-American War , the rice market followed military expansion . It is instructive to see the bursts in the rice industry and rice growing at the turn of the century with the conquest of Cuba and the Philippines in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate postwar period ; with World War II when Japan , a major rice-eating country , was conquered and its rice production temporarily halted ; with the Korean War when another important market developed during the armed struggle there ; and with Vietnam , the rice bowl of Asia , which was systematically destroyed , increasing for a relatively short period of time U.S. rice exports to that area . Market penetration with rice , as with other grains , was aided not only by armed intervention of the United States overseas , which in the cases ' of both Korea and Vietnam had major impacts on important rice-producing areas , but by such programs as P.L. 480 and its Food For Peace variant that served as an initial penetrator of certain foreign markets . These gifts later shifted to subsidized sales and ultimately to cash sales . The greatest expansion of concessionary rice programs took place during the Vietnam era , when government sales represented about 40 percent of exports . There was a major decline in government concessionary rice exports from 1972  | to 1983 , with a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commodity Credit Corporation for overseas buyers from developing countries . Rice farmers have lobbied hard for more P.L. 480 sales because of an alarmingly large rice surplus and alarmingly low prices . They now have achieved that objective despite the Reagan administration 's early emphasis on increasing trade on cash terms . In international trade , the rice industry feels itself disadvantaged by government action and regulation . The Corrupt Practices Act , which makes it illegal for U.S. companies overseas to bribe local officials or potential buyers , is seen by several of the people we interviewed in the rice trade as particularly disadvantageous to U.S. rice sales . They point out that most rice sales are made to government entities in countries they view as traditionally using bribery . As they see it , U.S. rice sales abroad are hurt by the unwillingness of the United States government to accept local cultural patterns . Thus , market penetration is affected directly by U.S. interventions and U.S. subsidized sales , and market penetration is impeded by state action , which passed and enforces the corrupt practices law . By the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allocations had again increased . The contradictory goals of P.L. 480 ? as a lever for U.S. foreign policy as well as an enhancer of U.S. farm exports ? again aroused the wrath of the U.S. rice industry as P.L. 480 sales of rice to Liberia , the Philippines , and Kenya were delayed in order to pressure for economic policy reforms in those countries ( Webster Communications Corporation , 1985 ) . Another important way the state can be active in an enterprise is through subsidizing technology development . The kind of technology developed for rice seeks to decrease the risk of production , decrease labor costs , and allow for the use of a mobile labor force ? one that can be hired for specific tasks at specific times and then can be dismissed . The thrust of this technological development increases the potential for high formal rationality ? and high capital accumulation . Decreased dependence on labor has been an implicit goal directing technology development in rice as in other U.S. crops ( Ruttan and Hayami , 1984 ) . The rice industry , particularly in California , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today . The state has been very important in evolving this kind of technology by subsidizing its creation . The organization of technology generation and the division of labor between the state and the private sector mean that the public sector absorbs the risk and the private sector appropriates the profit . For this to occur best in a free enterprise environment , there must be an understanding by the providers of capital of the degree to which technology generation is necessary for the generation of profits . Technology shifts are necessary to achieve a comparative advantage through formal rationality ? by decreasing production costs and increasing profits . Agriculture in the United States has set a goal of high productivity rather than reducing cost of production . This choice has been particularly evident in breeding rice in California .  | The state is active in the rice agro-industry in providing subsidized credit , guaranteed prices , subsidized storage , subsidized inputs , quality control standards through grading , tax breaks , export subsidies , acreage limitations , and a market of last resort . These are the traditional , direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect to agriculture has thus shifted from an emphasis on improving agriculture 's lot by increasing its terms of trade with the rest of the domestic economy ( through government payments or purchases ) or by limiting supply of staple agricultural products that , because of the price inelasticity of demand , results in greater farm income . The policy has shifted to expansion of exports , encouragement of production increases , and some effort at stabilization of major price swings . The precise role that government will play in this strengthened emphasis on exports is still in a state of flux . The implication for research is to help produce more with less cost in contrast to producing more of higher quality . Rice Research Organizations The most important impact of the ecological differences between California and the South is that the same varieties can not be produced in both zones due to climate . Traditionally , each has had its own breeding program ( indica or indica-like long and medium grain in the South , japonica short to medium grain in California ) . Public and proprietary breeders in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is adapted to that climate and that retains flavor and cooking quality . Lack of pests in California has allowed for a focus of research on yield , while pest resistance , along with grain quality , has had to be part of the breeding strategy in the South . The breeding programs in the two areas have developed quite differently . At least until the late 1960s , the South had a better developed rice research program : more rice breeders on the three principal state-run rice experiment stations , interchange of information and new varieties among the stations , and a greater presence of USDA research on rice than in California . However , beginning with the rice " marketing order " first voted by California rice farmers in 1969 , California began to catch up with and surpass the South in rice varietal research . California rice growers had the advantage of a 1938 law establishing procedures for implementing marketing orders for promotion , research , and orderly marketing of commodities . They could take advantage of the experiences of other commodity groups ( mostly in perishable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtaining grower acceptance . The marketing order was developed specifically for research . It established the California Rice Research Board , which received checkoff money collected by the mills and directed it to specific research projects . The growers took over the struggling University of California rice experiment station at Biggs . In subsequent years , the research station ( run by a separate foundation , whose board is also composed of rice growers ) and the University of  | California at Davis have been the principal recipients of rice research funds . A rather simple division of labor exists : the university does basic and intermediate research and the experiment station does adaptive research only on varieties developed elsewhere . The basic genetics work of varietal development is done by a USDA geneticist , and the final crosses are carried out by the three rice breeders at the growers ' research station . The varieties are then tested by the University of California Cooperative Extension Service in field situations . Varietal development has had top priority and has paid off handsomely in the last few years . In 1976 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the four subsequent years , average yields for the state have grown by over 25 percent . In the South , while new varieties with increased yield capacity are regularly released , few short stature varieties have been introduced , and yields have shown little increase . In Arkansas , yields have actually declined slightly because of the sowing of rice on new land , neophyte farmers going into rice following the suspension , and elimination of allotments . The most important difference between California and southern rice production and research is the linkage , between researcher and grower . In California , there is a secure and bountiful source of funding ? the growers themselves ( the checkoff is obligatory and increases with increasing production ) . The farmers through their elected representatives control both boards that set research priorities . They are willing to tax themselves because they control where the funds go , and the benefits that accrue to them as rice growers are visible and tangible . In the South , the low budget ideology plays an important role in limiting state appropriations for rice research . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Because of the disproportionate power of southern congressmen , the place where things got done with respect to agricultural policy was Washington , not Little Rock , Baton Rouge , or Austin . State and local governments were conceived of as limited ? doing what must be done but can not be done by either the private sector or the federal government . The federal rice program involved spending other states ' money for the people of Arkansas , Louisiana , or Texas . Since results from the experiment stations in the South are largely transferrable to the other southern ricegrowing states , the mechanism for state-funded programs is the reverse : spending the state 's own money partially for the benefit of rice growers in another state . Establishment of the marketing order concept in one state would be even more difficult , since the rice growers of state X would be spending their own money ( not the state 's taxpayers ' money ) , part of the benefits from which would accrue to rice growers in other states . California growers did n't have to contend with that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transferability of varieties , and there are significant differences in disease problems from those of the southern states . ( However , a California long grain variety , L201 , is being produced in the South to some extent . Ironically , this is the " unacceptable " California long grain , which may be acceptable when produced in a southern climate. )  | While southern state governments are not as active in rice research as members of the rice industry might like them to be , neither are they very active in regulating the rice industry . That is due to both the " limited government " concept and to the view that what is good for agriculture is good for the state as a whole . In contrast , California , being a large cosmopolitan state , finds its state government a focus of many competing and often conflicting interests . Environmental regulation , which complicates the lives of those in the rice industry , is much more prevalent in California than in the southern rice-growing states . A point of contention has been the burning of rice straw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfortunate coincidence for the rice growers , is the seat of government where environmental legislation is written . The response of the growers ? albeit under pressure ? has been an active one because of the existence of the Rice Research Board . When a bill was introduced that would have taxed the growers on a per acre basis for the development of an independent research fund to provide data on alternative means of disposing of rice straw , the growers headed off that effort by voting to double the per hundred weight assessment under the marketing order and with that money commissioned studies on straw disposal . In the South , different cultural practices , as well as a different political climate , mean that rice straw removal has not developed as a political issue . Because of a specific weed problem , red rice , rice can not be grown more than two seasons in a row in most of the South . Weeds are more of a problem in the South because of the higher heat and humidity anyway , but most can be treated by broad leaf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very similar to the commercial rice being grown ; thus far , no herbicide has been developed that is able to differentiate between them . Therefore , fields must be rotated and different crops planted . Currently , the rotation crop is soybeans for two years . While previously soybeans were simply plowed under as a green manure , they are now harvested and sold through the same marketing channels ( the cooperatives ) that handle the rice . The levees are not permanent in southern rice fields , and the rice stubble is plowed under when cultivating for soybeans . Also , some say the straw of the taller southern varieties decomposes more easily than the straw of the semi-dwarf varieties grown in California . Perhaps a more revealing issue is the use of powerful herbicides . Weeds are the major problem in rice production , and , with growing environmental concern over the use of toxic chemicals , herbicides must be federally approved for use . In general , farmers feel that chemical restrictions are too severe and aimed disproportionately at them . A residual pre-emergent herbicide , included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was approved by the Environmental Protection Agency 's Section 18 emergency exemption permit . Southern farmers applied it with excellent results . In California , however , the farmers then had to have it approved by the California Division of Food and Agriculture Pesticide Division in a long and complex battle . Although they got permission for one year 's use of Bolero , the political  | struggle to keep it legal in California continues . In the South , the federal government was the relevant body with whom the farmers had to deal ; in California , it was both state and federal governments . The southern states are approaching a point of transition regarding the organization of rice research . A voluntary checkoff has been implemented in Arkansas . The possibility of strengthening state support for rice research exists . However , it is not likely that federal support for rice research can be augmented significantly . Whether this increasingly important industry opts for grower-supported or state-supported research ( or something in between ) will be most interesting to watch . Constraints in Cultural Practices Cultivation practices not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety , but the introduction of new technology allows the development of new varietal strains . For example , the short and semi-dwarf rice varieties sometimes show less seedling vigor than do the tall varieties . Thus , too deep water leads to a poor stand . In the South , the problem of seed implantation is dealt with by flushing the field after drilling the rice or after seeding by air . With the development of laser leveling , which allows a high degree of precision to be introduced in the degree of slope of a field between levees , a water depth of from two to four inches is achieved . This allows for ( 1 ) better seedling rooting for all rice varieties , and ( 2 ) the introduction of the more vulnerable semi-dwarf varieties . The semi-dwarfs also create an increased problem with weeds because less shading occurs and because water management suitable to semi-dwarf seedling vigor tends also to increase the vigor of grass weeds . Weed control has been defined as the number one production constraint for rice for quite some time , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem . New rice varieties require new water management and herbicide application practices . Farmers exert political pressure to increase pesticide use at the same time that environmental controls from government are increased . With the help of applied research , the California growers have derived a water-holding strategy to dissipate the pesticides before the water is released to irrigation channels . Somewhat different cultural practices have been developed in California and in the South largely because of differences in ecology . The Sacramento and San Joaquin valleys of California , with a Mediterranean climate , have very little rain during the growing season , which means it has been less important to breed for resistance to a number of diseases that are a problem in the more humid South . In addition , the more valuable land of the California valleys ( and historical settlement and cultural patterns ) has contributed to a somewhat more mechanized , and certainly more capitalized , rice farm in California than in the South . ( Eleven California rice farmers , of whom all but one were incorporated , were among the fifty-one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in deficiency payments  | and in-kind commodities for participation in the 1984 acreage reduction programs . ) The work of the California Crop Improvement Association has been particularly important in eliminating the red rice problem through annual certification of rice seed , thus allowing rice to be continuously cropped . The high value of California land means that inputs represent a smaller proportion of costs per acre than in the South . The value of annual seed renewal , which implies yearly purchase of certified seed , was recognized more readily in California . Similarly , the higher land values in California have probably contributed to the fact that nearly all rice is sown by plane , while in the South , the majority is drilled . Up to three times as much seed is needed when broadcast seeding is used , but the additional cost is relatively minor given land values and levels of production in California . Similarly , the additional nitrogen requirement of new higher yielding varieties is not of great concern , since fertilizer , even at today 's prices , is a small portion of total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the South . ) In the early 1930s in California and the 1940s in the South , when there was a shift in harvesting technology from the binder-thresher to the combinedrier method ( which greatly reduced labor requirements ) , new varieties were required with shorter , stiffer straw , more resistance to lodging , more even ripening , easier threshability , smoother hulls , and capability of being successfully dried ( The Rice Journal , 1947 ) . In the South , the existence of rice allotments was an impetus to increase production per acre planted to rice but not to increase the productivity of a particular piece of land by planting it to a high-yielding crop every year . It was only the late 1970s , when land inflation was higher than general inflation , that there was strong pressure to increase the productivity of rice land , whether it was planted to rice or another crop in a particular year . It is for that reason that many southern rice farmers are double cropping with fall-planted wheat . In California , precisely because of the more intensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except in the San Joaquin Valley . This valley is south of and warmer than the Sacramento Valley , so if rice is planted later to accommodate the wheat harvest , the likelihood of blanking because of cold is not so great as in the Sacramento Valley . In the South , where fall-planted wheat is followed by soybeans , which can be planted later than rice , double cropping is easier because of a less intensive rotation regime . The less intensive methods in the South also contribute to less conflict over disposal of rice residue . Since rice is generally followed by two years of soybeans , the straw can be worked into the soil over that period of time . There is also a residue problem if rice is followed immediately by winter wheat . Hence , wheat is usually planted between the two crops of soybeans . Once farmers deal with the red rice problem in the South ( the enhanced value of the land , particularly in Texas , suggests that there will be impetus to develop a more carefully controlled system for seed rice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there will be  | greater problems with disposal of straw . It will be more difficult to double crop , but total value of production per acre will increase significantly . The crops with which rice is rotated in the South , principally soybeans , do not provide nearly as much income as does rice , e.g. , soybean yields are much lower . The allotments were much smaller than the total land apt for planting to rice . In California , because of the high value of land and because a significant portion of land planted to rice was only suitable to rice , there was a greater push toward mechanization of rice production , including eliminating the red rice problem through a pure seed program . In the South , where capital was relatively scarce , research lagged behind California where land was the scarce factor of production . With the shift in factor costs increasing the costs of capital , a change in research strategy may occur in California . Analysis of recent CRIS/USDA reports suggests a research focus on lower input alternatives now in California . Agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clues as to future trends in other grains produced in the U.S. The role of government in rice production , research , and marketing is in transition . With the growth in farm size and the concern of the federal government for improving the balance of payments with agricultural exports , there was a shift from concern for price to an emphasis on volume produced . Because a large majority of rice is exported , there is no close linkage between volume of US. production and price ; this means traditional subsidy programs and even innovations like PIK have become quite expensive for the government . Acreage reductions have only limited effectiveness in bringing up market prices . Thus , rice farmers seek to expand production , since volume is the major source of profit . There is negative incentive for choosing quality over quantity ( Greenwalt and Greenwalt , 1984 ) . It is in the interest of the government ( for balance of payments reasons ) and of the growers that the government play a more active role in export promotion . However , the strong dollar makes U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major agricultural-exporting countries on developing countries seeking greater food self-sufficiency and improved balance of payments needs to be examined . Currently , dramatically expanded P.L. 480 famine relief exports are absorbing some of the rice that can not be marketed commercially . The long-term trend in rice research appears to be toward more grower financing . Given the structure of the industry ? large , highly capitalized farms with increasing separation of land ownership from management ? this would seem appropriate . It is probably not appropriate for taxpayers to subsidize what one Arkansas informant called the " Cadillac of grains . " Within the framework of grower financing , important questions remain to be resolved . Foremost among these is the question of who owns new varieties that are developed . The California growers jointly release new  | varieties with USDA and the University of California . They are adamant that after paying directly for development of new varieties , they do not want to have to pay individually for the right to use those varieties . The public is not entirely relieved of the costs of rice research . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before grower financing was introduced . University-based rice research is basic and intermediate , not applied , which may have indirect benefits to a number of commodities . Rice tends to be a good species for experimentation in another tissue culture and other forms of cloning . However , examinations of the CRIS reports suggest that , particularly in California , grower funds are leveraging public dollars toward more applied , problem-oriented research . Grower-financed research still involves a subsidy to growers , for their grants do not cover the entire cost of doing research ? much of the overhead or infrastructural cost is covered by the taxpayer . Perhaps , this is an appropriate exchange in return for cheap rice for the consumer , a contribution to alleviating the nation 's balance of payments problems and increasing the base of knowledge about plant science and crop production . In any case , grower financing of research would appear to be superior to the traditional model of having commodity research financed entirely by the public . Still , the question of degree of flexibility of the land grant system in choosing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater private financing and , hence , control of commodity research . The implications of such a shift for the role of the land grant experiment station system need to be examined . It will be particularly interesting to see how the southern rice-growing states handle the question of public vs. private financing of rice research . The traditional low tax ideology mitigates against complete and adequate state financing ; the overall support for agriculture as the dominant industry within those states implies that state support would gain in importance as federal support for research becomes more inadequate to the task of massively increasing yields . ' Which of these tendencies will become dominant is an open question . Conclusion It is clear that the development of improved varieties , improved cultural practices , resistance to disease , etc. , have developed differently for rice in the South compared to California . We would argue that the more highly organized California rice interests , in a place where land ownership is separated from management , have resulted in a more rational understanding of the relation of private and public sectors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evolved there . The USDA funds basic research , the University of California funds intermediate research , and the rice farmers themselves fund applied research and variety adaptation . This division of labor in plant breeding has maximized rice varietal development in California and has most closely linked varietal development to cultivation practices , increasing production at lower per unit costs .  | Differential sources of funding facilitated this division of research labor in California . This has evolved because agriculture in California relates to a much stronger and activist state than is the case in the South . In the South , the famous call for states ' rights basically meant " federal government , keep out . " It did not mean that the state would enter into the process . The states in the South have traditionally had a rural orientation dominated by a low tax ideology . In that setting , the emphasis is on doing things as cheaply as possible to keep taxes as low as possible ( Vidich and Bensman , 1958 ) . A more sophisticated state , as exemplified by California , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that higher taxes can result in more benefits to the private sector as the state serves to maintain the labor force , train it , and provide the basic technological development that the private sector can then appropriate . In the case of agriculture , the more activist state , the stronger state with higher taxes and a higher budget , has served to help the agricultural interests . It has also provided a more formidable opponent when , as in the cases of burning rice stubble , water use , land use , and pesticide regulation , agricultural interests are seen to conflict with urban or general welfare interests . Willingness to be taxed and to tax oneself differentiates the farmers of California from those of the rice sector in the South . Nevertheless , rice is the U.S. grain crop that , particularly in California , most nearly approaches conditions of an industrialized crop . This has come about by close interaction of the rice industry with both state and federal levels in a struggle to decrease regulation , increase profitability through both tax incentives and subsidized sales , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high risk research to be performed by the state sector and high profitability research by the semi-public sector . However , once the states ceased to maintain price stability in the 1970s , the profits from this research accrued increasingly to millers , not growers . The result was to disadvantage farmers with a low capital base , particularly tenant farmers ( Grant et at. , 1984 ) . Because of the organization of rice farmers in California , the results of this have not accrued to the suppliers of technology but to the rice farmers themselves . In the case of the South , there is more disarticulation in the research process . Owners of smaller farms , who are more apt to be indirectly linked to the land and to the work force , particularly through some traditional tenant arrangements , have a much less rational research production system . The accrual of advantages through increase in technology would not revert to the producers but to the suppliers of inputs and the marketers of the grain , particularly rice millers and shippers . Neither of the two should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production is in the hands of favored farmers and is moving more toward that direction over time . Research is a key to maintaining production . To this point , the emphasis has been on productivity . With increasing capital costs , growers may influence researchers to focus on input reduction . Basic research on the rice plant will change little , at  | least initially . This research is protected from public pressure and thus can carry out the long-term research necessary as a base for applied innovations . However , adaptive research , which is more directly responsible to rice growers , will change both in qualities sought in the varieties being adapted and in the cultural practices tested to grow them . In rice research , a continuum of public and private funding and control exists . On the one hand , rice is the most expensive grain to produce in the U.S. today . On the other , it is the most profitable . As the factor costs of production change , we can expect the research organizations connected with the rice industry to be particularly responsive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station . References Berlan , Jean-Pierre . " Les Semences : Economie et Politique . " Revue Francaise d ' Economie Rurale 158:18-28 , 1983 . Grant , W. R. ; Richardson , J. W. ; Brorsen , B. W. ; and Rister , M. E. " Economic Impacts of Increased Price Variability : A Case Study with Rice . " Agricultural Economics Research 36:4 , Fall 1984 . Greenwalt , B. , and Greenwalt , E. " Differences in Net Income Between Four Rice Varieties . " Paper presented at the Rice Technical Working Group . Lafayette , Louisiana , 1984 . Heid , Walter G. , Jr . US . Wheat Industry . Economics , Statistics , and Cooperatives Service , U.S. Department of Agriculture , Agricultural Economics Report No. 432 , 1980 . Holder , Shelby H. , Jr. , and Grant , Warren R. US . Rice Industry . National Economics Division , Economics , Statistics , and Cooperatives Service , U.S. Department of Agriculture , Agricultural Economics Report No. 433 , 1979 . Littlefield , Daniel C. Rice and Slaves : Ethnicity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Louisiana State University Press , 1981 . The Rice Journal 50(10):8-12 , October 1947 . Ruttan , Vernon , and Hayami , Y. " Induced Innovation Model of Agricultural Development . " Pp. 59-74 in Carl K. Eicher and John M. Staatz ( eds . ) , Agricultural Development in the Third World . Baltimore : The John Hopkins Press , 1984 . Vidich , A. J. , and Bensman , J. Small Town in Mass Society : Class , Power and Religion in a Rural Community . Princeton : Princeton University Press , 1958 . Webster Communications Corporation . Rice + Plus 1(2) , August 16 , 1985.  | Tradition and Innovation in Agriculture : A Comparison of Public and Private Development of Hybrid Corn Deborah Fitzgerald Introduction In his address before the hybrid corn division of the annual American Seed Trade Association meeting in 1955 , Henry A. Wallace reflected on the difference between public and private development of hybrid corn . Wallace argued that there was a natural division of labor between the experiment stations and USDA on the one hand and the private seed companies on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science ; while the public sector was responsible for theoretical developments in corn breeding , the private sector made advances in production-related areas . " In the minds of the majority of the Public , " Wallace claimed , " including even better than average informed farmers , all corn breeding is being done by the private sector . " Nonetheless , he pointed to the widespread use of hybrids by farmers as " one of the outstanding examples of close and practical cooperation between private individuals , the state experiment stations , and the USDA " ( Wallace , 1955 ) . But Wallace 's reliance on the pure vs. applied science dichotomy is neither very useful nor very apt in describing hybrid corn development . While there was a measure of cooperation between public and private institutions , competition played a more critical role . In this context , competition refers not to commercial or even intellectual wrangling but rather to an intangible dispute over which kind of institution could claim scientific authority in the broader agricultural arena . Both the agricultural experiment station and agribusiness derived their strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the station , authority implied two things . First , it referred to the staff 's expertise on a broad range of agricultural topics , from dairy herds to orchard pests to marketing , from abstract mathematical formulations to basic farm accounting methods . Second , authority referred to their perceived impartiality in judging the assets and liabilities of agricultural innovations , their inter-  | pretation of rumors and advertisements . For agribusiness , authority implied integrity , an equally elusive term but one that usually referred to a company 's longevity , product reliability , and the perceived honesty of its owners . By the early twentieth century , authority also implied scientific methods for both the station and agribusiness . For the station , scientific activity was the basis of both its expertise and impartiality ; for agribusiness , it became a necessary ingredient of the competitive process . In the 1920s and 1930s , three seed companies in Illinois linked their commercial authority and success with their scientific research programs in hybrid corn . DeKalb Agricultural Association in northern Illinois and Pfister Hybrid Seed and Funk Brothers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the experiment stations . They conducted hybrid research and studied corollary farm practices , invented mechanical farm equipment , compiled facts and figures attesting to their achievements , compared different strains and made recommendations , and in general bombarded farmers with scientific explanations for everything . Role Differences This chapter compares the roles played in hybrid corn research by the University of Illinois experiment station and Funk Brothers Seed Company during the 1920s and 1930s . Both groups were strategically involved in the early hybrid research and frequently cooperated on projects , shared experimental findings , drew on each other 's expertise , and publicly commended each other 's work . But they also competed in ways that reflected the different goals each played in Illinois agriculture . As impartial expert and judge , the university was an advocate for Illinois farmers , teaching them how to farm in a manner congruent with farmers ' needs and interests . In exchange for the university 's attentiveness to their concerns , farmers deferred to the university , relying on the latter 's judgment . Funk Brothers , however , had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , relying on mutual satisfaction in an agreed-upon trade . This difference in roles became more pronounced when hybrid corn development shifted from the experimental to the commercial arena . While the university taught traditional methods of corn improvement , Funk Brothers urged farmers to switch to hybrids . When the company began conducting university-type research on hybrids , its own role and authority in Illinois agriculture was enlarged . No longer just a seed house , it became a dispenser of scientific knowledge . With this expanded scientific authority , Funk Brothers destabilized the university 's balance of authority , calling into question their relationship with one another and the proper role each should play . Neither the university nor Funk Brothers faced particularly difficult technical requirements in hybrid corn research ( Hayes , 1963 ) . The corn plant is monoecious , carrying the male parent on the tassel and the female on the ear silk . In an open field , pollination was a random affair with the windbome pollen resting arbitrarily on available silks . In open-pollinated  | corn , only the female parentage could be known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parents . In the first step , inbreeding , a corn plant was carefully self-pollinated for several generations until it approached a homozygous state in which its dominant features were isolated . In the second step , an inbred with favorable characteristics , such as strong roots or drought resistance , was cross-pollinated with another inbred . In commercial production , two single crosses were combined into a double cross that , with luck , exhibited the best characteristics of each parent : In 1930 the entire process took from five to seven years to complete . Participants in this research did not depend upon complex instrumentation , Ph.D . degrees , or sophisticated theoretical abstractions . Rather , the major prerequisite was a lengthy commitment of land and labor . Controlled pollinations required manipulating each corn plant individually throughout the season , bagging shoots and silks as well as detassling . Researchers kept painstaking records on each strain tested , noting its vital statistics , the changing field conditions , and its final assets and liabilities . The most critical problem of corn research , and the stage at which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hybrid combinations to particular regional variations . The agricultural problems introduced by hybrid corn were in large part a function of the dramatically different farming requirements of hybrids and open pollinates , and these problems were exacerbated by the different research and extension agendas of the university and Funk Brothers . While their research fundamentally reflected their differing roles ? that is , Funk Brothers used science for profit while the university used it for public service ? their behavior did not reflect such simple ideals . Indeed , the similarities between the two are striking . ( Both groups had been studying corn breeding and nomenclature since at least the 1890s . ) At the Illinois station chemist Cyril G. Hopkins invented the ear-torow method of selection , which allowed for identification of parents , and demonstrated that the chemical composition of corn could be altered by selecting for particular characteristics such as high or low oil or protein content . These studies were of little direct benefit to farmers but helped identify the commercial limits of breeding ( Alexander , 1959 ) . Perry Holden and A. D. Shamel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inheritance patterns , and in the first decade of the twentieth century , L. H. Smith studied hybrid vigor and the transmission of unit characters in corn , a fairly typical scientific response to the rediscovery of Mendel 's laws in 1900 . In the 1920s and 1930s , George Dungan and C. M. Woodworth examined inheritance of characteristics and , particularly , chemical composition of hybrids ( U.I. , Agronomy Department , 1941 ) . Eugene Funk was also active . In 1892 he developed a specialized varietal cross called " Funk 's 90-Day " that was designed for late planting or short growing seasons . In that year , too , he began using Hopkins 's ear-to-row method of corn improvement by which he developed smooth , utility type corn , a minor revolution that ultimately redefined standards in open pollinated corn ( J. D. Funk , 1903 ; Holbert , 1945 ) .  | Both groups were involved in Illinois farmers organizations such as the Illinois Corn Breeders Association , which Dean of the Agricultural College Eugene Davenport created in 1901 and in which Eugene Funk was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1970 ) . Funk also sat on the Field Crops section of the university 's Agricultural Advisory Committee . While one expects university agronomists to have been well acquainted with contemporary scientific trends , it is notable that Eugene Funk was also corresponding with early geneticists such as Donald Jones and George Shull and hosting Hugo deVries on the latter 's tour of American agricultural centers ( Funk Brothers Seed Company , 1940 ; Jones , 1921 ; Shull , 1914 ) . The differences , however , between Funk Brothers and the university more readily account for their divergent concerns in corn research and development . First , despite the university 's impressive array of scientists , technicians , laboratories , and equipment , their commitment to hybrid corn was mediated by their multidisciplinary nature . Corn farmers and producers were not the only clientele clamoring for attention , and the college and station had other priorities . Soil surveys occupied the lion 's share of research time at the station , followed closely by cultural studies of other new crops such as alfalfa , clover , and soybeans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did the university possess the experimental fields necessary for full-scale corn research . In the 1910s , its available farmland was both sparse and of marginal quality . Funk Brothers , on the other hand , owned over 22,000 acres of prime Illinois farmland , constituting a field laboratory of unmatched scale . And while the company continued to produce and sell open-pollinated corn as well as other crop seed , its attention to hybrids was complete and uncompromised . Funk Brothers 's research projects on corn extended beyond the standard inbreeding studies and gave the company the appearance of a hybrid corn experiment station unfettered by the usual demands from farmers . Its catalogues from the late 1920s through 1941 were testimonials to scientific experimentation and research , describing in detail the procedures used in hybridizing . The company also sponsored its own yield contests , modeled on those of the university 's experiment station , for farmers growing Funk Brothers 's strains . The most fundamental difference between the two groups , however , was reflected in their very different organizational structures , which provided distinct opportunities as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At Funk Brothers , the commercially oriented research program was given a substantial boost by long-term support from the USDA . In 1913 Eugene Funk decided that corn disease was the greatest problem of Illinois farmers and the greatest obstacle to permanent corn improvement . He spent three years studying the problem with the assistance of James R. Holbert , then an agronomy student at Purdue who spent summers working with Funk . In 1916 Funk went to Washington for help , arguing that Funk Farms would be a good place to establish a federal field station for the  | study of corn diseases . The following year the station was in place and Holbert became a USDA employee in charge of station work ( E. D. Funk , 1938 ) . During the twenty years the station was in operation , it contributed more to the accelerated pace of hybrid production than any other single farm or station , and , by Funk Brothers 's own admission , distinguishing between USDA and Funk Brothers 's contributions to the work was virtually impossible ( Steele , 1984 ) . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of capital and equipment , it did provide it with unusual advantages . Most importantly , the USDA supported Holbert who , by the 1930s , was easily one of the most sophisticated and experienced corn breeders in the country . This linkage also provided access to the research findings of other breeders , both public and private , which were not as available to small-scale breeders . And , of course , the prestige Funk Brothers gained from the association undoubtedly enhanced its business and commercial integrity and was useful in attracting university scientists such as Earl Sieveking who , in 1928 , left the University of Illinois for a research position at Funk Brothers . Not surprisingly , university scientists and administrators were less than thrilled with federal stations such as the one at Funk Brothers , and in 1931 an Alabama experiment station employee called them " one of the most embarrassing features of federal-state relations " ( Funchess , 1931 ) . While the university had a formal relationship with the USDA via the federal appropriations , its corn work commanded no special attention , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were strained at best . In 1916 , two years after the Smith-Lever bill was adopted setting up extension work , Davenport threatened to abrogate that agreement because he felt it seriously undermined university autonomy ( Davenport , 1916 ) . He was , in general , highly suspicious of federal involvement with state programs and accused the government of sending field representatives into Illinois whom farmers identified as university men but who were untrained and incompetent ( Davenport , 1913 , 1916 ) . It seems plausible that this tension explains in part why the USDA overlooked the University of Illinois in selecting a state experiment station to cooperate with the field station ; the lucky winner was Purdue , Holbert 's alma mater . The university 's research and extension efforts were most clearly shaped by their commitment to the needs and interests of Illinois farmers . While university scientists conducted a significant amount of theoretical research and published in professional journals , the experiment station publications tended to concentrate on routine farm issues . In corn research especially , the station 's practical work was dominant . Between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systematizing farm practices compared with four concerned with hybrid research , two of which were cooperative projects instigated by Funk Brothers ( U.1. , Agronomy Department , 1941 ) . The practical studies involving corn were of two types . One concentrated on familiar farming concerns and included studies of the effect of frequent  | and infrequent cultivation on yield , the effect of varying distances between corn stalks on yield , the differing effects on corn of planting according to the checking method and the drilling method , the effect of time of harvest on yield , and so forth . The other type of corn work focused on systematizing traditional methods of corn improvement , that is , identifying and selecting good seed from the field for planting . When the Division of Crops Extension was established in 1922 , its director , J. C. Hackleman , concentrated his efforts on teaching farmers how to distinguish visually between good and bad seed corn , how to increase their yields through such selection , how to construct and use seed germinators , and he encouraged them to enter the annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hackleman , 1922-1938 ) . Hackleman emphasized the extension ideal of self help by attempting to educate farmers in a way that enabled them to manage their farms in a productive and scientific fashion . In addition , he created an agency called the Illinois Crop Improvement Association ( ICIA ) , whose goals of identifying seed types and increasing supplies of pure seed were achieved through an elaborate system of inspecting and certifying corn destined for sale as field seed ( Lang , 1973 ) . ' While the ICIA enjoyed a certain popularity among pure seed enthusiasts , and in fact grew both in terms of membership and acres certified , its excessively complicated requirements for certification alienated the largest seed companies who , while sitting on its board of directors , did not certify their own seed ( Woodworth , 1934 ) . The university ultimately waived its requirement that entrants in the yield contest certify their entries providing they had a corn breeder on staff , a reluctant recognition that the university could not control large companies ' research or success ( U.I. , Agronomy Department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became commercially available , the university and Funk Brothers had built up momentum in quite different directions , and this was reflected in their approach to extending results to farmers . Funk Brothers 's interest in getting its hybrids on the market before the competitors led the company to claim , rather optimistically , that it had produced the first commercial hybrid as early as 1916 ( Funk Brothers Seed Company , 1941 ) . The company introduced its first " true double cross hybrid " in the 1928 catalogue , prefacing the particular description with a lengthy discussion of scientific corn breeding . While they did not recommend that farmers plant only the new hybrids , and in fact charged double the price of premium open-pollinates , their enthusiasm for hybrids was entirely uncritical . They hoped to induce farmers to adopt hybrids with such incentives as a seed package containing both hybrid and open-pollinated corn , free hybrid seed for buyers of open-pollinates , and even free hybrid seed to boys entering the yield contest in exchange for names and addresses of farmers ( Funk Brothers Seed Company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until 1940 , they received less and less attention in the catalogue . The real problems at Funk Brothers , however , centered not so much on convincing farmers to try hybrids but rather on creating hybrids  | appropriate to regional variations . In 1929 the company shipped nearly 1,000 bushels of hybrid seed to growers in thirty-five states , Canada , and Cuba . Much to their chagrin , all the seed failed except that grown in Bloomington ( Funk Brothers Seed Company , 1944 ) . While in a good year most hybrid corn yielded at a higher rate than open pollinates , a year of drought , early frosts , late rains , chinch bugs , rootworms , or any particular natural disaster would claim the specialized hybrids and leave untouched the more " experienced " open pollinates . The process of research and development was consequently an ongoing process . By 1939 Funk Brothers offered over thirty of its own specialized hybrids plus nearly thirty hybrids developed by agricultural colleges ( Funk Brothers Seed Company , 1938 ) . For the university , the commercial appearance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach until about 1940 was characterized by conservatism , caution , and frustration . First , while their research contributed substantially to hybrid development , their extension efforts had successfully promoted a system of farm practices fundamentally incongruent with hybrids . For example , although farmers could modestly improve their open-pollinates ' yields by selecting good seed from the field as Hackleman taught them , such a practice had disastrous consequences with hybrid corn . Since second generation hybrids were substantially less vigorous than first generation ones , farmers who used the hybrids two years in a row suffered a much decreased yield . Farmers repeatedly tried selecting seed for planting from their hybrid fields , either unable or unwilling to believe that they needed to buy new seed each year ( Hackleman , 1934 , 1938 ) . In addition , in the early years when available hybrids were not adapted to specific conditions , a farmers ' local open pollinate would often perform better than hybrids ( Hackleman , 1935 ) . This problem in adaptation led to many exaggerated claims both for and against hybrids , leaving experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to predict the performance of any single strain . Second , university officials were unclear how to proceed with their own inbreds and single cross seed . While in 1931 it seemed plausible for farmers to do their own hybridizing with university inbreds , by 1940 the idea was all but dead ( Corn Belt , 1937 ; U.I. , Agronomy Department , 1921 ) . Once the university began disseminating inbreds for crossing , it became difficult to ensure that participating farmers bred them properly and responsibly . Some farmers received inbreds and single cross seed and sold them as true hybrids , a practice that confused everyone and reflected badly on the university ( Hackleman , 1936 ) . By 1937 the university had developed a program in conjunction with the ICIA for distributing inbreds and single cross seed that catered to established seed producers . While the large producers obtained station inbreds for crossing with their own lines , the program also made a serious attempt to supply the smaller seed houses that did not have breeding programs and were therefore entirely dependent on the station ( Blair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corn juggernaut was rolling . Where in 1933 hybrid corn acreage in the United States was only 0.4 percent , by 1945 it  | was 90 percent ( Sprague , 1978 ) . While the virtues of hybrids ? their higher yield and resistance to environmental problems ? offered persuasive reasons for switching from open pollinates , there were two more compelling incentives . First , the adoption rate was hastened by several bad crop years , especially the drought in 1936 , when seeds of all kinds became scarce . Not only were farmers anxious to obtain high-yielding seed corn during a period of high prices , but they were also more receptive to advertisements for hybrid corn bred especially for drought resistance ( Hackleman , 1936 ) . In addition , the Agricultural Adjustment Administration launched their restricted acreage program in 1934 , whereby farmers were encouraged to take land out of production . For many farmers , the prospect of reduced output was the ultimate incentive to try hybrids , whose higher yield per acre allowed farmers to produce as much as ever , if not more ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success of hybrid corn signalled the end of an era . With the creation and growth of private agricultural research centers such as Funk Brothers , scientific authority was claimed by both private and public sectors . During these years , the university 's role as the farmers ' advocate became tangled in conflicts between tradition and innovation , public and private , caution and enthusiasm . As an advocate , the university attempted to " put a brake on " early adoption of hybrids when it became clear that adaptation was incomplete , and through the ICIA it tried to regulate the distribution of station inbreds in a way that gave small producers a chance to compete ( Hackleman , 1937:20 ) . The university also continued sponsoring and publishing the results of state corn yield contests , which attempted to evaluate fairly the assets and liabilities of different hybrids throughout the region . Despite these efforts , however , the concentration of authority , if not expertise , shifted unmistakably to commercial firms such as Funk . The farmer could no longer select his own seed and was obliged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selection . When in doubt , Funk reassured farmers , " let us choose the corn that is best for you " ( Funk Brothers Seed Company , 1935 ) . And , indeed , all hybrids looked virtually identical , making visual selection impossible . Only those who understood the mysterious pedigree system could make such important decisions . By 1938 , the university advised farmers to rely on the integrity of big seed companies ( Klinefelter , 1938 ) . The university was no longer the sole proprietor of agricultural expertise , and in fact private centers could often claim broader familiarity with both practical farming and research trends . But while some argued that universities should concentrate on theoretical science and leave practical matters to private researchers , the university 's public service function demanded a more activist role ( Wallace , 1955 ) . It should come as no surprise that in the wake of hybrid corn , the university shifted its attention from hybrid corn production to corn marketing and by-product conversion , issues the private firms were content to ignore .  | Conclusion Beyond the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world 's food supply , this case of hybrid development raises thorny questions about the role of the land grant system in commodity production and its responsibility to those engaged in agriculture as farmers and seed producers . Clearly , hybrid corn did not benefit both groups uniformly . While large seed companies were enormously strengthened , smaller seed producers often were absorbed by large producers or squeezed out of the market entirely . The benefit to farmers , moreover , has been mixed . The ability of hybrids to withstand a wide range of adverse field conditions has made corn growing a more stable and predictable venture , but the social and economic costs have been considerable . Not only must farmers buy new seed each year , hybrid corn has introduced an array of corollary farm products such as fertilizer ; insecticide , pesticide , and herbicide ; the equipment used to apply these chemicals ; and the enormous ( and enormously expensive ) machinery used to plant and harvest corn . In the past thirty years such additional " inputs " have attained the status of farming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the higher yielding capacity of hybrid corn , which initially increased farmers ' yield and income , has had the overall effect of sustaining chronic overproduction and declining farm prices . For the land grant university , this history of hybrid corn development provides a useful lesson in the politics of agricultural research . At issue is the way in which the university identifies its primary responsibilities and clientele . The Illinois agricultural population represented a broad spectrum of needs and interests and benefitted unevenly from hybrid development . As Hightower ( 1973 ) has pointed out , the increasing interdependence of agribusiness and the land grant university on research and development matters often has a negative impact on farmers and consumers and undermines the " good faith " understanding between the farmer and the university by which the university is perceived as a public servant that acts in the best interests of the farmer . Despite this , the relationship between farmers , seedsmen , and the university has always been ambiguous , and the research and development choices made by the university have rarely been guided by long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the advantage of American agriculture is unclear ; in the case of hybrid corn , it seems that only the seed companies emerged from the turmoil unbruised . References Alexander , D. E. " Early Work in Corn Experimentation at the University of Illinois . " Urbana , Illinois : Unpublished manuscript , Alexander Collection , March 20 , 1959 . Blair , Joseph C. " Annual Report of the Agricultural Experiment Station . " Urbana : University of Illinois Archives , 8/1/2 , Box 120 , 1938.  | Cavanagh , Helen . Seed , Soil , and Science : The Story of Eugene D. Funk . Chicago : Lakeside , 1959 . Corn Belt Regional Workers Meeting . Urbana : University of Illinois Archives , 8/ 1/2 , Box 32 , March 12 , 1937 . Davenport , E. D. " Relations Between the Federal Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations . " Mimeograph . Presented to American Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations . Urbana : University of Illinois Archives , 8/1/2 , Box 85 , 1913 . . " Recommendation for Abrogation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Urbana : University of Illinois Archives , 8/ 1/2 , Box 83 , 1916 . Funchess , M. J. et at . " Report of Committee on Federal State Relations in Agricultural Research . " Urbana : University of Illinois Archives , 8/1/2 , Box 83 , November 17 , 1931 . Funk Brothers Seed Company . Catalogues . Bloomington , Illinois : Funk Brothers Files , 1928 , 1929 , 1932 , 1935 , 1938 , 1940 , 1941 , 1944 . . " Supplemental Data Pertaining to Application for Relief Under Section 722 of the Internal Revenue Code for Fiscal Years Ending June 30 , 1941 , 1942 , 1943 . " Bloomington , Illinois : Funk Brothers Files , 1941 . Funk , E. D. " The Search for Better Corn . " Address written for presentation in St. Charles , Illinois , but not given due to weather , October 28 , 1938 . Funk , J. D. " Agronomist 's Report . " Bloomington , Illinois : Funk Brothers Files , May 2 , 1903 . Hackleman , J. C. " Annual Reports of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Illinois , Office of Division of Crops Extension , 1922-38 . Hayes , H. K. A Professor 's Story of Hybrid Corn . Minneapolis , Minnesota : Burgess , 1963 . Hightower , Jim . Hard Tomatoes , Hard Times . Cambridge , Massachusetts : Schenkman , 1973 . Holbert , J. R. " Funk 's 176A Story . " Bloomington , Illinois : Unpublished manuscript , Funk Brothers Files , 1945 . Jones , D. F. Letter to E. D. Funk . Bloomington , Illinois : Funk Brothers Files , February 9 , 1921 . Klinefelter , H. E. " The Coming Revolution in Corn Production . " Missouri Farmer 5 , October 15 , 1938 . Lang , A. L. Fifty Years of Service : A History of Seed Certification in Illinois , 1922-1972 . Urbana : Illinois Crop Improvement Association , 1973 . Moores , R. G. Fields of Rich Toil : The Development of the University of Illinois College of Agriculture . Urbana : University of Illinois Press , 1970 . Shull , G. H. Letter to E. D. Funk . Bloomington , Illinois : Funk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. F. " Introductory Remarks to Session of the History of Hybrid Corn . " Pp. 11-12 in David B. Walden ( ed . ) , Maize Breeding and Genetics . New York : John Wiley , 1978 . Steele , Leon . Interview with author , 1984 . University of Illinois Agronomy Department . " Report to the Advisory Committee . " Urbana Alexander Collection , Department of Maize Genetics , January , 1921 . . Meeting of Agronomy Department Advisory Committee to the Illinois Crop Improvement Association . Urbana : University of Illinois Archives , 8/6/2 , Box 9 , April 22 , 1938.  | . " Historical Data for President McKinley . " Urbana : University of Illinois Archives , 8/6/2 , 1941 . Wallace , H. A. " Public and Private Contributions to Hybrid Corn , Past and Future . " Proceedings of the 10th Annual Hybrid Corn Industry Research Conference typescript copy , Funk Brothers Files . Washington , D.C. : American Seed Trade Association , 1955 . Woodworth , C. M. Letter to J. C. Hackleman . Urbana University of Illinois Archives , 8/6/2 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wheat Research at the Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station Jan L. Flora Research Response to State Action In this chapter , I examine one phase of the role of the state in agriculture , the provision of technology through agricultural research . As research in agriculture has traditionally been organized around specific commodities ? principally those for which federal commodity programs have been designed ? this research is specific to a particular commodity ? wheat . Wheat is the major agricultural product in Kansas , and Kansas is the number one wheatproducing state in the nation . Thus , what happens to wheat farming has a vital impact on the state . Commodity research must be seen as an advance from discipline-oriented research , which broke down the specific parts of the wheat-growing cycle into separate and often unarticulated parts . The emergence of commodity research , as opposed to disciplinary research , can be seen as a triumph of the users of research , who were seeking that their state-supported institutions be receptive to their needs and that their investments were profitable . As indicated by the shifts in the acreage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to changing policy decisions , responding to price and policy stimuli with relative alacrity . Are the researchers as responsive ? What constituencies mobilize to express publicly their research needs ? Possible constituencies for such research include farmers and their associations , both general interest and commodityspecific ; food processors ; farm input producers , including international conglomerates for seed , fertilizer , and pesticides ; grain traders ; consumers ; other scientists ; and , finally , the public , as represented particularly by state legislators . Busch and Lacy ( 1983 ) have shown how , for agricultural scientists , the constituencies most directly addressed tend to be other scientists , rather than some of the other more diffuse constituencies . I attempt in this chapter to summarize the wheat research undertaken in the Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station , to examine the logic behind wheat research strategies , and to identify the constituencies benefitted .  | The Development Period ? From Establishment of the Experiment Station to the 1920s Depression In the early period of wheat production in Kansas , farm survival and expansion was based on the expansion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The ability to increase the number of acres planted and harvested depended to a large degree on engineering technology development , which came primarily from the private sector . For the machines that brought the new lands under cultivation and then reaped the harvest , the private researcher was at the forefront , with profit and marketing closely linked to product development . At Kansas State Agricultural College ( KSAC ) , a Farm Machinery Department within the Division of Engineering was established in 1915 , but the first Professor of Agricultural Engineering was appointed only in 1921 ( Willard , 1940:201 , 227 , 266 ) . For the first quarter century of the existence of the Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station ( KAES ) , established in 1888 , the year following passage of the Hatch Act , greatest emphasis in wheat research was placed on cultural practices , although testing of yields of different varieties and selection of improved strains was also important . The early experiments in growing wheat were summarized in two important bulletins . The first , published in 1911 and written by Jardine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Kansas . " Jardine , who was Professor of Agronomy , later became Director of the Experiment Station , President of KSAC , and , in 1925 , U.S. Secretary of Agriculture . The second bulletin , " Growing Wheat in Kansas , " was published in 1918 . It was authored by Call and Salmon . Call later became Director of the Experiment Station and Dean of Agriculture . In the introduction to each bulletin it is noted that , while Kansas was a pre-eminent wheat-producing state ( in the interim between the two bulletins , Kansas became the undisputed leader in total wheat production Call and Salmon , 1918:9 ) , its yields were not a point of pride . Kansas ranked thirtysecond in yield per acre among the states ( Jardine and Call , 1911:5 ) : Kansas farmers are trying to operate more land than their machinery and labor will cover efficiently . They are not giving attention to the rotation of crops , the growing of livestock or the up-keep of the fertility of the soil , which facts . . . undoubtedly contribute largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . The following examples are results presented in the above bulletins , which it was believed would improve those yields : Cultivation Winter wheat yields were from four to six bushels greater for early plowing ( July or early August ) than for late plowing ( mid-September ) in  | seedbed preparation under continuous cropping . Three-inch plowing was preferred to deep plowing , because the increased yield from subsoiling did not pay for the added expense of the operation . In Western Kansas , listing increased yields by protecting small plants from hard winters and spring blowing , and from winter kill when planting was late ( Call and Salmon , 1918:34-40 ) . Summer Fallow While research on summer fallow was considerable , the bulletins draw no clear conclusion whether summer fallowing was profitable or not . KSAC had not yet established an Agricultural Economics Department . The Director 's Report of 1915-1916 is the first to list an agricultural economist as a member of the KAES ( he was in the Economics Department ) . Only in the 1918-1919 Director 's Report does an Agricultural Economics Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistant to Hessian fly , it had to be controlled by cultural means . Early deep plowing was deemed effective , but it would have to be practiced by the entire neighborhood , as the flies migrate considerable distance . Thus , it was concluded that the only practical solution was planting after the fly-free date ( Call and Salmon , 1918:25 ; see Headlee and Parker , 1913 for a more complete summary of work to that date at KSAC on the Hessian fly ) . Seeding Rate Experiments conducted over five years established norms for seeding rates ( Call and Salmon , 1918:31 ) , which were consistent with those derived in the 1890s ( Experiment Station , 1896:105 ) and which have not been significantly modified to the present . While the greatest emphasis in KAES research during the first quarter century was on cultural practices , work was also conducted on varietal development and fertilization . What was significant was that none of the work of the KAES was reflected in significantly improved yields during this development period . So long as new land came into production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improve per acre yields . By 1919 , the amount of land planted to wheat leveled off to around eleven million acres , an average around which planted acres of wheat would fluctuate until the present . The 1920s saw expanded activity in wheat breeding . The Era of Emphasis on Yield per Acre With the advent of World War I and later with acreage limitations in the 1930s , concern shifted even more sharply to increasing yield per acre ( Flora and Rodefeld , 1978 ) . Investments in the 1920s and 1930s began to  | pay off in the 1940s with the release of important new varieties , thus undermining federal policy in the short-term interests of local producers . In the second half of the 1950s , sharp increases in yield occurred in farmers ' fields . In Kansas , wheat yields increased from an average of sixteen bushels per acre ( with a great deal of fluctuation due to great weather variations ) from 1940 to 1956 to twice that amount by the 1970s ( USDA , various dates ) . Varietal Development The first wheat breeder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sorghum breeding ) at Kansas State Agricultural College , J. H. Parker , discussed wheat variety development at KSAC in three overlapping stages : ( 1 ) introduction of new varieties from other places , ( 2 ) selection , and ( 3 ) crossing or hybridization ( Parker , 1934:121-22 ) . In the early years , the first two were carried on simultaneously . In the first year of the experiment station 's existence , some fifty-one varieties were planted for yield tests ( Shelton , 1888:43 ) ; by 1891 , the number had expanded to 240 ( Georgeson et al. , 1891:19 ) . Both hard red winter ( HRW ) and soft red winter ( SRW ) wheat were grown in Kansas in the early days of the experiment station . For at least the first decade , SRW varieties were used as the standard against which performance of other varieties were measured in experiments at Manhattan . In 1918 , SRW wheat was still recommended for approximately the three easternmost tiers of counties of the state ( Call and Salmon , 1918:14 ) . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decades of existence of the KAES were various selections of Turkey red ( brought by the Mennonites from Russia in 1874 ) and Kharkov , another Russian variety imported by the U.S. Department of Agriculture in 1900 . In 1908 , Experiment Station Director Burkett was commissioned by the Board of Regents to travel to Russia and Turkey " for the purposes of investigating the source of seed-wheat supply and make arrangements for importation if deemed advisable " ( Agricultural Experiment Station , 1909:vii ) . Burkett spent four months in Europe . Upon his return he concluded , " The wheat of Turkey is inferior to Kansas-bred wheat , and it is not advisable to look in that direction for improved seed stock " ( Agricultural Experiment Station , 1909:vii-ix ) . From Russia , he selected some twenty varieties from central Crimea and the Province of Kharkov for importation and testing . Few of these varieties were used as bases for future crosses ; none was grown commercially in Kansas . In 1891 , experiments began in the selection of superior berries of a particular variety ( Georgeson et @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selected in this fashion and released at Kansas State was Kanred , selected from Crimean HRW wheat by Professor H. F. Roberts , a botanist , in 1906 . After considerable testing , Kanred was finally released in 1917 . For the seven years it was grown at Manhattan before its release , it yielded over 4.5 bushels more than Turkey or Kharkof ( Call and Salmon , 1918:17 ) . There  | were two major reasons that Kanred never occupied a very large portion of Kansas wheat land : it had weak straw , particularly important with combine harvesting , and it was upstaged by the introduction of the higher yielding Blackhull ( Parker , 1935:147 ) . Blackhull , introduced by a private breeder , did not have the long testing period , which the experiment stations imposed on themselves . Kawvale , a SRW wheat , was selected from older eastern varieties in 1918 ( Parker , 1934:122 ) . In 1931 , a semi-hard pedigree ( pure line ) of Kawvale was released for Southeast Kansas . It was fairly tolerant of Hessian fly and leaf rust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adaptable to combine harvesting ( Agricultural Experiment Station , 1932:34 ; Parker , 1935:155-56 ) . Since the selection process involved strengthening desirable characteristics already present in the variety , breakthroughs in yield or other characteristics could not be expected . Varieties adapted climatically to Kansas , but developed before combine harvesting , were unlikely to have characteristics appropriate to the new harvesting technology . " The coming of the combine has stimulated the demand of Kansas farmers for early varieties of winter wheat with stiff straw and heads from which the grain will not shatter in the field . . . . " ( Parker , 1934:124-25 ) . Cross breeding would allow for the bringing of greater genetic diversity to new varieties adapted to the region . The first crossed wheat to be released by Kansas State was Tenmarq , a combination of Marquis , a popular hard red spring ( HRS ) wheat grown in the northern plains states and in Canada , and a strain of HRW wheat similar to Kanred . Tenmarq was developed by Parker . Apparently , the choice of Marquis as a parent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualities to the HRS wheats . Marquis was one of the most popular wheats in the HRS region . In particular , HRS wheats had greater strength , i.e. , made larger loaves per unit of flour , although HRW wheats had a higher flour yield ( flour-to-grain ratio ) ( Thomas , 1917 ; cited in Parker , 1935:142 ) . Tenmarq was the first successful wheat developed at KSAC for which baking quality was a primary ( along with yield ) characteristic bred into the new variety . Kawvale and Tenmarq had substantially higher yields than previously available varieties . In nursery trials at Manhattan , they averaged 25 and 19 percent higher yields than Kanred ( average of 1923-1929 ) ( Agricultural Experiment Station , 1930:30 ) . Parker 's next released cross after Tenmarq was Quivira , which he bred for less shatter proneness and for resistance to red leaf rust , as well as yield and stiff straw ( Parker , 1934:124-25 ) . While it did not turn out to be a widely adopted wheat , its development illustrates the characteristics that Parker was seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derived from what was learned about rust resistance of many different crosses through their innoculation with rust cultures in the nursery beginning in 1918-1919 ( Agricultural Experiment Station , 1920:32 ) . In the early thirties , similar work was done in classifying varieties according to degree of Hessian fly tolerance ( Agricultural Experiment Station , 1932:128 ) .  | Blackhull , a selection from Turkey wheat made by Earl G. Clark , a private breeder from Sedgwick , Kansas , was first distributed in 1917 , the same year as Kanred . By 1927 , it was grown on four million Kansas acres . About one-third of the wheat grown in Kansas during the decade ending in 1939 was developed by Clark ( Heyne and Reitz , 1944:768 ) . Clark 's varieties did not go through the rigorous testing that publicly released varieties do . According to multi-year KAES trials , Blackhull outyielded Turkey substantially and equalled Kanred . It also had a stiff straw and a tendency to ripen early , thus reducing the impact of hot winds and drought . Its main deficiencies were lack of winterhardiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kansas ) , and , more importantly , it was not well accepted by many millers and bakers . While it normally tested two or three pounds higher than Turkey and Kanred , it had a thicker bran and a lower flour yield . This meant farmers liked it , for they were paid more because of a higher test weight . Millers considered it to be inferior because of a less favorable flour yield and because the gluten or protein is not as " strong " as the proteins of other HRW wheats , i.e. , an equal amount of flour will not produce as large a loaf . No way existed to distinguish the threshed grain from other HRW wheats ( Salmon et at. , 1927 ) . The bulletin on " Blackhull Wheat in Kansas " summarizes the pros and cons of blackhull , concluding with the following statement : Kansas enjoys a premium for her wheat in the world 's markets , because of the splendid reputation which has been established . It would be very unfortunate for all citizens of the state if this reputation should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the trade requirements of a large part of the milling industry . It would , therefore , seem to be the part of wisdom for a majority of Kansas farmers in the hard-wheat belt to grow varieties of the Turkey type ( Salmon et al. , 1927:4 ) . Blackhull and other varieties developed by Clark were designed with the immediate client in mind ? the farmer . Not only did Blackhull have a higher test weight than its competitors , but the straw was bright and the berries attractively plump and long . Experiment stations , perhaps because they could take a long-term perspective , balanced the interests of the farmer ( breeding for yield and disease resistance ) and the miller and baker ( breeding for baking quality ) . Laude and Salmon ( 1932 ) , in examining " Twenty Years of Testing Varieties and Strains of Winter Wheat at the Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station , " conclude that yield differences between wheats traditionally grown in the state and the newer higher yielding varieties were due chiefly to early maturity to escape drought and high temperatures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the era of J. H. Parker , wheat breeding was based on the triple objectives of increased yield , disease resistance , and baking quality , the principal goals of Kansas State 's breeding program to this day . Parker resigned from Kansas State in 1939.  | In 1943 , Kansas State released two varieties ? Comanche and Pawnee ( Pawnee was actually released first by the University of Nebraska in 1942 ) . Both were the fruits of fourteen years of breeding and testing . The breeding was done under the supervision of J. H. Parker . Both had Tenmarq as one parent . Pawnee was a selection of a cross between Tenmarq and Kawvale . Comanche was a cross between Oro ( a selection from Turkey ) and Tenmarq ( Laude et al. , 1955:29-30 ) . Thus , both varieties had a strong Turkey red ancestry . Comanche was recommended for the south-central , central , and southwestern parts of the state and Pawnee for the eastern half of the state . Both showed higher statewide yields than any existent variety Comanche was bunt resistant , sufficiently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in baking quality . It did not have Hessian fly tolerance and therefore was not recommended for Eastern Kansas . Pawnee 's " superior characteristics are high yield and test weight , short stiff straw , high resistance to loose smut , and moderate resistance to leaf rust , stem rust , bunt , and Hessian fly . " It had good milling qualities and was moderately winter-hardy ( Reitz and Laude , 1943:8 ) . Its baking qualities were acceptable . Its major fault was that it shattered readily ( Laude et at. , 1955:29 ) . Varietal development in the period initiated by World War I was first oriented toward stronger , stiffer straw and resistance to shattering to make the wheat more adapted to combine harvesting . Yield , of course , was also a consideration . Pest resistance and baking quality were soon factored in . By the 1940s , wheat breeding came to be based on three pillars : improved yield , milling and baking quality , and resistance to pests and diseases ( KAES , 1983:3 ) . No new variety could be introduced that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least as good as existent varieties in the other two categories . Cultural Practices of the 1920s Through the 1950s Preventing Wind and Soil Erosion . As early as 1918 , it was clear that pulverizing the soil surface was an inappropriate practice for the more arid part of the state . " Recent experiments show that for Central and Western Kansas a dust mulch is not necessary to conserve moisture , as many think " ( Call and Salmon , 1918:41 ) . It was also explained that blowing could also be prevented by cultivating at right angles to the prevailing winds . It was recommended that blowing be stopped by applying straw to the field and working it in with a disk or making occasional lister ridges at right angles to the winds . During the 1930s , wind erosion became an urgent topic of concern . The most serious dust storms in the state 's history occurred in 1935 , following three years of seriously subnormal precipitation . Writing immediately previous to those dust storms , the director of the Fort Hays Branch Experiment Station ( in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , excepting in the very sandy areas is a sign of carelessness .... Land which shows a tendency to blow can not safely be farmed by the suitcase farmer , the city  | agriculturist , or the shiftless tenant " ( Aicher , 1935:67-68 ) . This statement suggests that absentee farming was a pervasive practice and a significant problem in the far western part of the state ( see Hewes , 1973 ) . The branch station director indicated that blowing could be prevented with the timely use of the proper implements . Blowing occurs because the surface is too fine . Particularly unsuitable implements for land with a tendency to blowing are the disk harrow , the drag harrow , and the one-way plow . It was strongly urged that the one-way plow should be used only when there was excessive weed growth brought on by a wet season . Stubble should not be burned off , but should be kept partially on the surface by use of implements such as the lister , the duckfoot weeder , the rod weeder , and the spring tooth harrow . Once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community effort . " Unless all the land in the affected area receives protective attention just as soon as the soil begins to move , tremendous effort at a later date may prove fruitless " ( Aicher , 1935:71 ) . Call ( 1936 ) describes a community effort at stopping soil blowing in Thomas County ( where the Colby Branch Station in extreme northwestern Kansas is located ) in 1914 , which , because it was only getting underway when the winds came , was not successful . The blowing stopped when the rains came . However , that effort provided organizational experience , which was put to use in the 1930s . District meetings were held in the affected territory attended by county agents , county drouth committeemen , and county commissioners . . . . As a result , a detailed survey of the condition of the land in each county was undertaken to determine the exact acreage that was eroding and in need of attention . The National Recovery Administration was asked to appropriate funds with which farmers might purchase fuel oil for tractors or feed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farmers to control blowing were aided this season by rainfall somewhat above that of the previous four years . This increased rainfall , together with various methods of cultivation that have been used to work the soil , .. has re-established a cover of vegetation over much of the area in Kansas that was blowing last spring . Whereas it was estimated that eight million acres were in condition to blow in March , 1935 , a survey of the situation made the first of November showed this area to have been reduced to about 830,000 acres ( Call , 1936:195-196 ) . In the 1950s a new method of reducing wind erosion was developed ? stubble mulching or " trashy " tillage . A sweep or blade type implement is used to keep the residue from the previous crop on top to protect the soil from the winds ( Laude et al. , 1955:14 ) . This is the modern version of spreading straw on the blowing land and partially working it in , which was practiced before the advent of the combined harvester-thresher . Shelterbelts were also recommended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laude et at. , 1955:23 ) .  | The Director 's report for the biennium of 1930-1932 discusses research regarding a new conservation measure : terracing as a means of reducing soil erosion and conserving moisture . Soil loss from one torrential rain of 2.5 inches at Fort Hays was 11.2 tons per acre on summer fallow ground and 11.2 on land planted to kafir . It was .69 tons from land in wheat and .02 or less from sod ( Agricultural Experiment Station , 1932:42 , 119 ) . This was the first research reported on water-caused soil erosion in station directors ' reports . The 1955 bulletin on " Growing Wheat in Kansas " did not recommend terraces on wheat land but recommended them if wheat was grown in rotation with row crops ( Laude et aI. , 1955:12-13 ) . Soil Moisture at Planting Time , Summer Fallowing , and Subsequent Yields . In the 1920s and 1930s , a good deal of work was done at the Western Kansas Branch Experiment Stations ( Fort Hays , Garden City , and Colby ) , in conjunction with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relationship between moisture in the soil at planting time and subsequent yields ( Hallsted , 1937 ) . Using data from over twenty years of experiments , results at all three stations showed that early plowing , rather than late plowing , increased soil moisture dramatically and resulted in moderate yield increases . At the two westernmost stations ? Colby and Garden City ? summer fallowing increased soil moisture more than at Fort Hays and resulted in yields that doubled those of early plowing ( Hallsted and Mathews , 1936:28,36 ) . At Fort Hays , results from nineteen years of experiments indicated that summer fallowingone year in four resulted in the same yields from three crops as that obtained from four years of continuous cropping ( Hallsted , 1937:13 ) . Regarding general cultural practices , the conclusion from time series results from three Western Kansas branch stations was : When wheat stubble land is to be fallowed , the most practical method under most conditions is to leave the stubble of the preceding crop in the land during the winter and spring to protect the soil against wind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-way , disk , or duckfoot as soon as weeds start to grow in the spring . As soon as the second growth of weeds starts , and not later than the middle of May , the land should be plowed or listed . Plowed land may be cultivated with the springtooth harrow , duckfoot cultivator , or rotary rod weeder throughout the summer to prevent weed growth and maintain a cloddy condition of the surface ( Throckmorton and Myers , 1941:16-17 ; see also Laude et at. , 1955:8 , for similar results ) . The results on early plowing and summer fallow led to recommendations for deciding when winter wheat should be abandoned : When the initial soil moisture is deficient and the precipitation is low to April 1 , it is probable that abandonment of the crop and the conservation of water in a summer fallow for a future crop will pay far better than allowing the water to be wasted by the poor crop and weeds on the land ( Hallsted and Mathews , 1936:46 ) .  | Throckmorton ( who later became Experiment Station Director ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the depth of soil moisture at seeding time ( 1941:10 ) .1 Measurement of the depth of soil moisture is much more practical for the farmer than determining the actual number of inches of water in the soil , although the relationship between the three variables varies according to the texture of the soil ; whether farmers actually used these results by measuring depth of soil moisture in deciding how much wheat to plant or to plow up wheat in the spring is not reported in any of the KAES work . Work continued through the 1940s and 1950s on soil moisture in the semiarid western part of the state . Myers indicated that approximately ten inches of moisture were necessary to produce a minimal wheat crop in Western Kansas . There appears to be a threshhold below which the plant will put all its energy into its own growth without seeking to reproduce itself ( Myers , 1940:70 ) . The effectiveness of recommending summer fallowing for most of the period of existence of the Experiment Station is illustrated by the fact that for the period 1947-1951 , about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the state was summer fallowed ( Laude et al. , 1955:7 ) . Throckmorton and Myers state that summer fallow influences crop production in three ways : " It results in higher annual acre yields than can be obtained on continuously cropped land , it reduces the frequency of crop failure , and it stabilizes total production " ( 1941:20 , 23 ) . Pasturing . " It seems that when judiciously pastured , the reduction in yield is seldom more than one or two bushels per acre . Often the value of the pasture is more than enough to make up this loss " ( Call and Salmon , 1918:31 ) . Fertilization Studies of the 1920s to the 1950s Early experiments in fertilizing wheat tended to show negative results . In 1892 , the following tentative result was reached : " So far the plats continuously in wheat , without manure , have given the best return , the manured plats being so rich that the wheat lodges and does not fill out " ( Experiment Station , 1892:50 ) . Similar results were found in 1896 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tons of manure per acre ) , the richness of the new soil , and perhaps the varieties used did not have strong straw . Other results in. 1896 indicated the need to enrich the soil . " The acre which has been in wheat for sixteen years past is beginning to show signs of exhaustion " ( Experiment Station , 1896:90 , 104 ) . By 1907-1908 , research results were showing a positive response of wheat production to fertilizers . Fertilizer experiments were continued with wheat and oats during the past year with marked results favoring the use of barn-yard manure . However ,  | certain chemical fertilizers or combinations of chemical fertilizers have also given increased yields , nitrates and phosphates showing a marked effect , especially with wheat ( Agricultural Experiment Station , 1909:xxxv ) . Call and Salmon point out that yellow berry , rather than being an inherited characteristic indicating that the farmer 's seed is " running out , " is an environmental response to low nitrogen content of the soil ( 1918:23 ) . Experiments at Manhattan showed a nearly 50 percent increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five tons of manure and a 15-20 percent increase in wheat yields from application of a similar amount of manure to land in a corn-cowpeas-wheat rotation ( seven-year averages ) . However , researchers gave only a qualified endorsement to commercial fertilizers . While recommending phosphorus or phosphorus and nitrogen for certain Eastern Kansas soils , they state bluntly , " In Central and Western Kansas , commercial fertilizers never pay " ( Call and Salmon , 1918:47 ) . The first appearance of the term " conservation of the soil " in Experiment Station Director 's Report occurs in 1918-1919 , which states : One of the most important problems in Kansas is the problem of a declining soil fertility . A large proportion of the agriculture of the state in the past has been essentially exploitative , with the result that the soil in large districts of the state is much less productive now than it was 50 years ago ( Agricultural Experiment Station , 1920:14 ) . As late as 1937 , Hallsted , the branch station 's agronomist who did seminal work on cultivation practices , soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " The application of fertilizers , on the Fort Hays Branch Experiment Station has not increased the yields of wheat . That indicates that the failures or low yields were not due to lack of fertility " ( 1937:1 ) . The breakthrough in determining that application of usable nitrogen generally increased wheat yields came from the studies of Gainey and Sewell , bacteriologist and soils agronomist at KSAC . They noted the lush green spots in wheat fields that had been pastured . The spots were found to have been caused by urine deposits from the cattle . The initial study conducted in Central and Western Kansas in 1929 showed the spots contained significantly greater nitrates in the soil and in the plant than did samples taken from nearby locations within the same field ( Gainey and Sewell , 1930 ) . Further study during four subsequent seasons revealed that the spots showed higher grain yields , grain with higher protein content , and the wheat was no more susceptible to lodging than wheat from the nearby control locations . When attempts were made to replicate the spots by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : yields tended to be higher , but protein content of the grain was not significantly different ( Gainey et al. , 1937 ) . Work done in the twenties suggested that cultivation practices had an impact on protein content of wheat produced and on other aspects of  | wheat quality . Sewell and Swanson found that early tillage resulted in more nitrates in the soil at the time of planting , which positively influenced total grain protein produced per acre ( 1926:9 ) . A low percentage of phosphorus in the grain was associated with high nitrate supply in the soil . Apparently , a soil deficient in nitrates produces a low yield and small kernels , which have a high proportion of bran . Since most of the phosphorus is stored in the bran , this explains a high percent of phosphorus where the yield is low . In fact , the percent of phosphorus in the grain is used to indicate the bran-to-flour ratio of wheat . The total quantity of phosphorus in the crop varied directly with yield , showing that phosphorus was not a limiting factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tillage " produced the largest quantity of nitrates in the soil , not only produced the largest yield of wheat and the highest percent of protein , but the flour from this wheat was also of superior quality as measured by loaf volume and texture of the bread " ( Sewell and Swanson , 1926:16 ) . The linkage between cultivation practices and nitrogen production in the soil , and wheat quality was established . Work in the 1950s , which drew on twenty years of time series experiments in Western Kansas , illustrates a complicated relationship between nitrogen fertility and available moisture . Early plowing dramatically increased soil moisture over that occurring with late plowing . This was not translated into substantially greater yields except at the Colby Station in far Northwestern Kansas . At the Fort Hays Station , the advantage of July over September plowing was five bushels per acre , at Garden City , one and onehalf bushels . At Colby , there was actually a yield advantage for the late planted wheat . The explanation was the following : ... more nitrates are made available by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sections of the dryland areas of the Great Plains , such as Hays , there usually is enough moisture stored by early tillage to provide water for the lush growth induced by the extra nitrates . At Colby and Garden City , . . . less moisture but ample nitrates are usually provided by early tillage . In the latter areas there may not be enough moisture in the early-tilled land for the growth caused by the abundant nitrates . Accordingly , reduced yields may result from early tillage in drier years ( Laude et al. , 1955:9 ) . Early plowing also had a positive impact on yields in Eastern Kansas . Experiments at Manhattan from 1913 to 1952 indicate that " an average of one bushel of wheat per acre is lost for each week 's delay in plowing the land after July 15 " ( Laude et al. , 1955:6 ) . Since moisture is usually not a limiting factor in Eastern Kansas , the introduction of precipitation-associated nitrogen is the probable explanation for increased yields from early plowing . Experiments conducted in Eastern and Central Kansas during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nitrogen with fifty pounds of phosphorus ( P2O5 ) increased wheat yields thirteen to fifteen bushels to the acre . The addition of potash had marginal impact . Because moisture , more than fertilizer , limits crop production in Western Kansas , response to fertilizers is unpredictable . Fertilizers on dryland wheat  | will seldom reduce yields . Yields may be increased but the increase is liable to be too small to pay for the fertilizer ( Laude et at. , 1955:17 ) . Since in Western Kansas the principal limiting factor is moisture and since precipitation brings nitrogen , the need for nitrogen was not proven , except perhaps in years of abundant moisture , when yields were well above average . ( The studies of Gainey et at . 1937 were carried out in 1930 and 1931 , both of which were years of above average soil moisture . ) The effectiveness of fertilization of wheat in Western Kansas had to await the development of considerably higher yields , which began in the late 1950s , immediately after the studies cited above . The Export Era of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ export dominance in American agriculture and for wheat in particular can be placed at 1973 , the agricultural experiment station and the entire agricultural production system were preparing the way for an agriculture that was export oriented through the tremendous growth in productivity and the introduction of substantially higher yielding varieties beginning in the latter half of the 1950s . For these decades the method of analysis shifts . The existence of more comprehensive experiment station directors ' reports from 1958 to the present allows a more direct analysis of the presentation of the station to the public and to its most important constituency , the researchers themselves . Annual reports of the KAES Director , which were presented at the station conference beginning in 1958 when the first station-wide conference was held , have been examined . This allows a more direct examination of perceived constituencies and station responses to them than the analysis of research findings allowed . The first experiment station conference had the theme " Agricultural Adjustment " and occurred at the beginning of a period of good times for Kansas wheat farmers ( 1958-1962 ) ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the midst of large-scale migration from farm to city , the director discussed the contribution of land grant education to profound structural changes that had hastened the shift from agrarian to urban life , created new paths of occupational mobility , and offered the world a model of the highest export quality ( Wilson , 1962 ) . Efficiency was the watchword ; adjustment had only a positive side in this period of prosperity of the agricultural sector as a whole . The period from 1964 to the early 1970s was a period of low wheat prices and , in many of those years , rather low incomes for wheat farmers . In 1964 , the director expressed the desire to have a facility for the development of industrial uses of winter wheat and grain sorghum ( Wilson , 1964 ) . Two years later , there was concern expressed for more efficient production of plant proteins , suggesting a desire to expand markets for Kansas wheat by differentiating it qualitywise from wheat produced in other states ( Smith ,  | 1966 ) . By 1971 , research was being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through amino acid supplementation , and expanded use of wheat as a beef feed ( Smith , 1971 ) . Research at the Fort Hays branch station paved the way for utilizing 275 million bushels of wheat as cattle feed in 1972 ( Smith , 1973 ) ? immediately prior to the revealing of a large sale of grain to the Soviet Union ! In 1970 , the director assessed the following research needs for the coming decade ( Smith , 1970 ) : 1 . A concerted effort to improve net farm income ( which except for 1966 , had been mediocre since the early 1960s ) . Kansas had slipped from sixth to seventh in total agricultural production . The director 's goal was to make it fourth by 1980 . He saw increased production as a means of improving net farm income , when in reality , increased production in the short or medium term has historically brought about low farm incomes . 2 . Emergence of " true commercial agriculture . " The director foresaw the emergence of capitalist agriculture , with leasing of land and facilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " True commercial agriculture , " he indicated , " may well account for 95 percent of total agricultural production in the 1980s " ( Smith , 1970:13 ) . 3 . Emphasis on wheat research , for which efficiency gains are easier to achieve than with corn or sorghum . He predicted a 30 percent increase in yields by 1980 , through development of high-yielding varieties . Since development of a new variety took twelve to fifteen years ( recently shortened to seven to ten years ) ( KAES , 1983:7 ) , striving for better yields occurred even in periods of overproduction . In fact , the KAES director 's view of agriculture in industrial terms glossed over the contradiction between expanded production and low farm incomes . Coincidentally with the Russian grain sales and phasing out of farm programs , four new wheat varieties were approved for release in 1973 and 1974 , the first multiple releases since 1943 . With soaring grain prices , there was a call for greater production and an expression of a " need to lower domestic food prices to appease the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production would also help alleviate world hunger and improve the U.S. balance of payments " in the interest of national economic solvency " ( Smith , 1974:11 ) . The energy crisis occurred almost simultaneously with the Russian grain sales . The 1974 director 's report devoted ten pages to a discussion of energy use in agriculture and linkage of that to the need to deal with world hunger ( Smith , 1974:13-22 ) . It was estimated that the 50 percent of synthetic fertilizer used in Kansas , which was applied to wheat , increased wheat yields by 20 percent , which in turn was used to alleviate world hunger , a humanitarian justification of the continued use of scarce natural gas for fertilizer production . The director suggested diversion of substantial research effort in plant science  | projects , which were considered low priority , to research into improving protein content of wheat . In 1975 , it was stated that " future wheat research priorities were clearly indicated as a result of 1974 marketing activities . . . . It was obvious that additional resources and efforts must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bread-making qualities " ( Smith , 1975:11 ) . In 1977 , Lamed wheat was released . It had better bread-making qualities than Scout or Sage , built-in Hessian fly resistance , and good yields ( Smith , 1977:9 ) . Hessian fly resistance had been sought in Kansas State 's early wheat breeding efforts . Resistance to other diseases was also important . In the director 's report ( Smith , 1975 ) , mention is made of research on wheat streak mosaic . The search continued for protection against soilborne wheat mosaic by attempting backcrossing with wheat grass . The 1977 report emphasizes the difficult situation of Kansas farmers ( Smith , 1977 ) . In November 1976 , wheat prices were one-third below those of the previous year and half their peak from early 1974 . The 1976 wheat crop in eight northwest counties exceeded thirty bushels for the eighth consecutive year ( Smith , 1977 ) . ( These data indicate the continuation of secular tendencies toward overproduction as well as a reduction of weatherand disease-associated risk in dryland farming in the semi-arid plains . ) Farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rapidly rising land prices , high taxes , and even drought . In the 1977 report , the solution offered to the farmer and to the nation ( in three previous years , growth in agricultural exports had offset added costs of importing petroleum ) is : " We have no choice but to increase our competitive sales position in wheat and other food grains " ( Smith , 1977:5 ) . Concretely , the director suggested " directing as much attention in the future to improving wheat quality as we have given in the past to increasing yields " ( Smith , 1977:5 ) . Preliminary trials of one of five high protein crosses suggested the possibility of gaining 1.5 percent increase in protein with little or no loss in yield . The goal was to achieve 2.5 percent increase in protein content by 1985 without sacrificing yield . Experience with an infrared type of protein analyzer during the previous year was important in identifying high protein wheat , which might then be segregated for separate marketing from lower protein wheat . It was also used as a preliminary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development . With continued surpluses and resultant low prices in 1977 , the director , in 1978 , made a plea for support from wheat producers and others in developing a hard white winter wheat for Kansas ( Smith , 1978 ) . He explained that Kansas was at a competitive disadvantage in overseas markets since such a large proportion of its wheat production ( two-thirds ) is sold abroad and is of only one type . Developing a second type would give Kansas wheat access to more foreign markets . This expression of willingness to make a major shift in wheat breeding died aborning . White wheat is not mentioned in future reports . The problem of segregation of a second type of wheat in the state 's marketing system was probably the principal stumbling block .  | The collective view of elevator operators was undoubtedly made known to the Kansas State University administration . Only in the 1980s is basic research given a prominent position in the KAES director 's report . The groundwork for such research had been laid a decade earlier . In 1969 , a grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science Foundation ( NSF ) to establish a Division of Biology ( Smith , 1970:11 ) . The basic research in genetic engineering was visibly linked with varietal improvement in the late 1970s ? beginning with the research on soilbome wheat mosaic virus . In 1978 , the legislature funded a special project on " Improved Disease and Insect Resistance in Cereal Crops through Genetic Manipulation and Variety Development " ( $236,000 ) . Conclusions Increased yields created new research agendas . The heavier heads led to more lodging , and , thus , shorter , stiffer straw to resist lodging again became a consideration . Hence , the recent movement to semi-dwarf varieties . The introduction of new strains of wheat with substantially higher yields induced planting of a limited number of varieties with a resultant vulnerability to disease and pests . Breeding then attempted to counter that vulnerability . Although currently used varieties are perhaps more disease resistant than earlier ones , vulnerability to disease still exists . In 1982 , 41 percent of Kansas wheat land was planted to Newton , a semi-dwarf wheat recently developed at Kansas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rust , to which it is somewhat vulnerable , would be much less if a greater diversity of varieties were planted ( KAES , 1983:5 ) . Since the focus on higher yields per acre , brought about in part by governmental attempts to limit production , coincided with the new concern with grain as a generator of foreign exchange , there was no need to readjust research goals drastically in the 1970s . Those goals emphasized varietal development . The new feature in varietal development is a greater concern for milling quality . Significant efforts have been made in the past ten years to introduce new varieties with high protein content . The unsuccessful effort to introduce white wheat was an attempt to improve Kansas 's competitive position in the international wheat market by diversifying potential markets and thereby reducing risk . The tremendous increase in the cost of capital , as real interest rates ( the difference between the nominal interest rate and the inflation rate ) have skyrocketed , land prices have plummeted , and perhaps one-fourth of farmers are in serious financial difficulty , has not had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This major shift in factor prices for farmers since 1981 has not been translated into research policy except for a thrust in the area of conservation tillage , which in the short run has the opposite effect for some farmers because of the need to buy new and different equipment .  | The long-term orientation of wheat varietal development has in an important sense limited purchased inputs . Since the hybridization route was not chosen in wheat , varietal development remained in the public sector , for there was no way for the private sector to capture the fruits of varietal improvement . Thus , public research includes breeding for disease and pest resistance , while it is in the interest of the private sector to seek chemical solutions to those problems . In contrast to private wheat breeders , wheat varietal research at Kansas State has attempted to balance interests of farmers , millers , and bakers by taking the view that in the medium and long term , their interests coincide , since there will be little market for wheat with inferior milling and baking qualities . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong enough to prevent the development of a white wheat , which would have placed Kansas producers in a more competitive position in the world market . Historically , Kansas State University and the land grant system have been best at increasing the productive capacity of farmers . That has been accomplished , in the case of wheat research , in such a way as to contain the need for purchased inputs , such as seed and chemicals , but it has encouraged purchase of fertilizers due to the quest for higher yielding varieties . If wheat research had been principally in the private sector , input requirements would have undoubtedly been higher . Kansas State 's research effort has been most effective when it tackled a long-term problem ? whether it be varietal development , cultural practices , or even soil conservation measures . The experiment station has been less successful in seeking alternative uses of wheat , alternative crops , alternative sources of energy , or , in general , means of shoring up farmers ' incomes during hard times . A principal reason is that the payoff time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or longer . Generally , the conditions that generated the pressure for these new research topics disappear or ameliorate in a shorter time span . An exception is the current farm crisis , which began in 1980 and today shows few signs of ameliorating . The research advances that have been made ? and they are impressive ? have contributed to the improvement of farm incomes over the long term through growth in farm size , greater production per farm , and exportation ( until the 1970s when a migration turnaround to agricultural communities occurred ) of the " excess " population from rural communities . Land grant administrators and many scientists have tended to see only the positive side of the precipitous decline in farm numbers . The consumer , even more than the farmer or the rural community , has been the number one beneficiary of land grant research.2 Notes Thanks is expressed to Marie Neher for contributing to research on an earlier draft of this paper .  | 1 . For instance , they found that when the ground was completely dry at seeding time , the probability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a twentyor-more-bushel crop was zero regardless of future rainfall ; if soil moisture was a foot in depth , the probability of a thirty-bushel crop was zero ; if moisture was three or more feet deep , the probability of a crop failure was only 10 percent and the probability of a thirty-bushel-and-more crop was 23 percent ( Throckmorton and Myers , 1941:10 ) . 2 . See Flora and Flora ( 1986 ) for an examination of the impact of changes in numbers of medium and large farms on rural communities in the wheat and livestock counties of the Great Plains and West . References Agricultural Experiment Station . Twenty-first Annual Report . Manhattan : Kansas State Agricultural College , 1909 . . Director 's Report , 1918-1919 . Manhattan : Kansas State Agricultural College , 1920 . . Fifth Biennial Report of the Director . Manhattan : Kansas State Agricultural College , 1930 . . Sixth Biennial Report of the Director . Manhattan : Kansas State College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences , 1932 . Aicher , L. C. " Curling the Wind . " Twenty-ninth Biennial Report 34:67-71 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Glenn H. " Opening Remarks " and " Closing Remarks . " Pp. in and 78 in Minutes : Station Conference . Manhattan : Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station , January 13-15 , 1958 . Busch , Lawrence , and Lacy , William B. Science , Agriculture , and the Politics of Research . Boulder , Colorado : Westview Press , 1983 . Call , L. E. " Cultural Methods of Controlling Wind Erosion . " Journal of the American Society of Agronomy 28:193-201 , 1936 . Call , L. E. , and Salmon , S. C. " Growing Wheat in Kansas . " Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin No. 219 . Manhattan : Kansas State Agricultural College , 1918 . Experiment Station . " Bulletin . " No. 1 . Manhattan : Kansas State Agricultural College , April 1888 . . " Experiment with Wheat . " Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin No. 33 . Manhattan : Kansas State Agricultural College , August 1892 . . " Experiments with Wheat . " Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin No. 59 . Manhattan : Kansas State Agricultural College , 1896 . Flora , Jan L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Technologies , Farm Size , Public Policy , and Rural Communities : The Great Plains and the West . " Paper prepared for the project , Technology , Public Policy and the Changing Structure of Agriculture , Office of Technology Assessment . Washington , D.C. : U.S. Congress , 1985 . Flora , Jan , and Rodefeld , Richard D. " The Nature , Magnitude , and Consequences of Change in Agricultural Technology . " In R. D. Rodefeld et al . ( eds . ) , Change in Rural America : Causes , Consequences , and Alternatives . St. Louis , Missouri : C. V. Mosby Co. , 1978 . Flora , Jan L. , and Stitz , John M. " Ethnicity , Persistence , and Capitalization of Agriculture in the Great Plains during the Settlement Period : Wheat Production and Risk Avoidance . " Rural Sociology 50 ( Fall ) : 341-60 , 1985.  | Gainey , P. L. , and Sewell , M. C. " The Role of Nitrogen in the Production of Spots in Wheat Fields . " Journal of Agricultural Research 45(3):129 ? 48 , 1930 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and Myers , H. E. " Nitrogen ? The Major Cause in the Production of Spotted Wheat Fields . " Manhattan : Agricultural Experiment Station , Kansas State College of Agriculture and Applied Science , 1937 . Georgeson , C. C. ; Cottrell , H. M. ; and Shelton , W. " Experiments with Wheat . " Experiment Station Bulletin No. 20 . Manhattan : Kansas State Agricultural College , July 1891 . Hallsted , A. L. " Reducing the Risk in Wheat Farming in Western Kansas . " Thirtieth Biennial Report , pages 98 ? 111 . Kansas State Board of Agriculture , 1937 . Hallsted , A. L. , and Mathews , O. R. " Soil Moisture and Winter Wheat with Suggestion on Abandonment . " Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin No. 273 . Manhattan : Kansas State College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences , January 1936 . Headlee , T. J. , and Parker , J. B. " The Hessian Fly . " Bulletin No. 188 . Manhattan : Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station , 1913 . Hewes , Leslie . The Suitcase Farming Frontier : A Study in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : University of Nebraska Press , 1973 . Heyne , E. G. , and Reitz , L. P. " Characteristics and Origins of Blackhull Wheat . " Journal of the American Society of Agronomy 36(9):768 ? 78 , 1944 . Jardine , W. M. , and Call , L. E. " How to Grow Wheat in Kansas . " Farm Bulletin No. 176 . Manhattan : Experiment Station , Kansas State Agricultural College , 1911 . Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station . " Kansas Wheat Research : Producing Grain for the Staff of Life . " Special Publication . Manhattan : Kansas State University , April 1983 . Laude , H. H. , and Salmon , S. C. " Twenty Years of Testing Varieties and Strains of Winter Wheat at the Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station . " Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station Technical Bulletin No. 30 . Manhattan : Kansas State College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences , 1932 . Laude , H. H. ; Hobbs , J. A. ; Smith , F. W. ; Heyne , E. G. ; Clapp , A. L. ; and Zahnley , J. W. " Growing Wheat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Manhattan : Kansas State College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences , August 1955 . Myers , H. E. " Soil Moisture and Winter Wheat in Kansas . " Transactions of the Kansas Academy of Science 43 ( March 28 ? 30 ) : 69 ? 73 , 1940 . Parker , J. H. " The Romance of Plant Breeding . " Kansas State Board of Agriculture Quarterly Report 53 ( March ) : 119-30 , 1934 . . " Wheat Improvement in Kansas , 1874 ? 1934 . " Twenty-Ninth Biennial Report 34:139-64 . Kansas State Board of Agriculture , 1935 . Reitz , L. P. , and Laude , H. H. " Comanche and Pawnee : New Varieties of Hard Red Winter Wheat for Kansas . " Manhattan : Agricultural Experiment Station , Kansas State College of Agriculture and Applied Science , 1943 . Salmon , S. C. ; Swanson , C. O. ; and Laude , H. H. " Blackhull Wheat in Kansas . " Manhattan : Agricultural Experiment Station , Kansas State Agricultural College , 1927 . Sewell , M. C. , and Swanson , C. O. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wheat . " Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station Technical Bulletin No. 19 . Manhattan : Kansas State Agricultural College , 1926 . Shelton , E. M. " Experiments with Wheat . " Experiment Station Bulletin No. 4 . Manhattan : Kansas State Agricultural College , September 1888.  | Smith , Floyd W. " Director 's Report . " Minutes : Station Conference . Manhattan : Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station , 1966 , 1970 , 1971 , 1974 , 1975 , 1977 , 1978 . Throckmorton , R. I. , and Myers , H. E. " Summer Fallow in Kansas . " Manhattan : Agricultural Experiment Station , Kansas State Agriculture and Applied Science , 1941 . U.S. Department of Agriculture . Agricultural Statistics . Washington , D.C. : U.S. Government Printing Office , various years . Willard , Julius Tetrass . History of the Kansas State College of Agriculture and Applied Science . Manhattan : Kansas State College Press , 1940 . Wilson , C. Peairs . " Adapt or Be Adopted . " Minutes : Station Conference , 1962 , pages 19-32 . Manhattan : Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station , January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Minutes : Station Conference , 1964 , pages 38-52 . Manhattan : Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station , January 13-15 , 1964.                     