@@773841

txt // characteristic of the species before it forms new walls . Thus , sexual reproduction is the means by which a diatom species maintains its size over time . Dinoflagellates ( Division Pyrrhophyta ) The dinoflagellates are a very diverse group of organisms , so only members of the pigmented class , Dinophyceae , are discussed in the following account . As a group , they occur in both freshwater and marine habitats . Most are motile , but a few are nonmotile unicellular , and some are even filamentous . Similar to the brown algae and diatoms , the plastids contain chlorophylls a and c . An abundance of xanthophylls and carotenoids masks the chlorophylls , giving the organisms a brown to reddish brown color . The dinoflagellates are the only chlorophyll c-containing algae that produce starch and that lack the chloroplast endoplasmic reticulum ( Table 3.1 ) . There are several unusual cytological features of dinoflagellates . Although two flagella are usually present , one encircles the cell transversely , and the other is directed posteriorly as the cell swims . Both lie in furrows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whirling motion that is characteristic of these organisms . The nucleus is also peculiar in that the DNA has nearly no associated histone proteins ? something typical of prokaryotes ! This and other features have led some biologists to consider the dinoflagellates " mesokaryotes , " although the cells are otherwise eukaryotic . Finally , the eyespot is not contained within any of the chloroplasts , as in Euglena . Dinoflagellate cells may be naked ( Figure 3.37a ) or may have a cell wall . This cellulosic wall is unique in being composed of polygonal plates ( Figure 3.37b , c ) that lie beneath the plasma membrane , like the pellicle in Euglena . Some forms have highly ornamented and elaborate cell walls . Sexual reproduction has been observed in dinoflagellates ; their life hisClassification // tory is monobiontic and meiosis is zygotic . Both isogamy and anisogamy occur . Asexual reproduction involving mitosis and cell division is the most common mode of reproduction . Cell division may involve a shedding of the cell wall plates ( each resulting cell producing a complete set of plates ) , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each synthesizing the ones it lacks . Rapidly reproducing populations may become so abundant that they discolor the water . These " blooms " are known as red tides , and the toxins associated with them frequently kill many fish , invertebrates , and even humans who eat shellfish that have accumulated the poisons . It is not known why the cells produce the poisons , but some of them are extremely potent . One curious feature of marine dinoflagellates is that most are capable of bioluminescence ( the emission of visible light by an organism ) . Although the function is unknown , the chemical mechanism by which the cells produce the turquoise light is apparently similar to that used by fireflies and other bioluminescent animals . Red Algae ( Division Rhodophyta ) The Rhodophyta , or red algae , are also largely marine , although more than 200 freshwater species have been described . Marine red algae , some of which grow at great depths , are in many cases very beautiful plants ; they are often pressed on white paper and used as ornaments . Unicellular , filamentous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pseudoparenchymatous form is especially well developed among the red algae , where the plant consists of numerous interwoven filaments . The plastids contain chlorophyll a ( and d in some ) , along with various carotenoids and xanthophylls . Additionally , the red algae have the phycobilin pigments phycoerythrin , phycocyanin , and allophycocyanin , similar to those of the Cyanophyta . In most Rhodophyta , phycoerythrin is the dominant pigment that masks the others and imparts the reddish color to the plants . With the electron microscope , aggregates of the phycobilins , or phycobilisomes , are evident as dots on the unstacked , single thylakoids ( Figure 3.40 ) . The storage product , which stains red with iodine , is called floridean starch . It is an amylopectin , like the starch in land plants . The starch granules occur throughout the cytoplasm . Aside from apical cells and reproductive cells , most cells are multinucleate in the Rhodophyta . Another feature the red algae share with the blue-green algae is the complete absence of any flagellated stages . The cell walls of Rhodophyta contain a network of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and carrageenan that are of commercial value are examples of polysaccharides composing this matrix . A few species of red algae are harvested for their agar , which is widely used in microbiological culture media . Carrageenan , on the other hand , has many important uses similar to those of alginate . Many red algae have calcium carbonate ( lime ) in their cell walls , also . One peculiar feature of the red algal cell // wall is the pit connection ( or septal plug , Figure 3.38 ) . This structure is deposited between cells after cell division ( or secondarily , later on ) ; its function is not known . Reproduction in the red algae is extremely complex , posing quite a challenge to most botany students . Three representatives of the Rhodophyta are described below , in order of increasing reproductive complexity . Porphyridium . Porphyridium ( Figures 3.39 and 3.40 ) is a unicellular organism , one species of which grows on moist soil where it may form blood red patches . The individual cells are spherical and each contains a single nucleus and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division of the unicells . Nemalion . Nemalion ( Figure 3.41 ) occurs on intertidal rocks and looks like a mass of dark red worms . Its pseudoparenchymatous construction is evident upon gently squashing the gametophytes : several longitudinal filaments , each with its own apical cell , compose the main axis of the plant , and lateral pigmented branches bear the reproductive structures ( Figure 3.41a ) . The life history of Nemalion is a modified dibiontic type , with sporic meiosis . The conspicuous gametophytes are monoecious . Male gametangia , the spermatangia , are clustered ( Figure 3.41b ) , and each liberates a single , colorless male gamete or spermatium . The female gametes , carpogonia , are borne on short lateral branches with their trichogynes emerging from the surface of the gaClassification // metophyte ( Figure 3.41c ) . The aflagellate spermatia may be carried by water currents to the receptive trichogynes with which they unite . A single male nu-cleus moves down the trichogyne to the egg , where it fuses with the egg nu-cleus . After the zygote divides transversely ( Figure 3.41d ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3.41e ) to produce chains of cells ( in a knot ) that become carposporangia ( Figure 3.41f ) . At maturity , each releases a single carpospore . The mass of carposporangia represents the carposporophyte , a diploid stage that develops upon the haploid gametophyte . Upon being shed from the carposporophyte , the carpospores develop into diploid plants , called tetrasporophytes , that are microscopic filaments . Thus , the gametophytes and tetrasporophytes are heteromorphic in Nemalion. // Meiosis occurs in the tetrasporangia , resulting in four haploid tetraspores in each . The tetraspores germinate and develop into the gametophytes . The life cycle of Nemalion is summarized in Figure 3.42 . It is clear from the diagram that this life history is similar to that of U/va except for the intercalation of the carposporophyte between the zygote and tetrasporophyte . Therefore , there are three distinct phases instead of two , but only two of them are free-living , whereas the carposporophyte develops attached to the gametophyte . Polysiphonia . Polysiphonia ( Figure 3.43 ) grows in marine waters at tached by rhizoidal holdfasts to rocks , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is strictly apical and derivatives of the apical cell divide , or ganizing a central cell ( often called a central siphon because of its tubular organization and multinucleate condition ) surrounded by a number of peri central cells . The life history of Polysiphonia is slightly different from that of Nemalion ( Figure 3.42 ) in that the gametophytes and tetrasporophytes are isoClassification // morphic . The haploid gametophytes are dioecious ( Figure 3.43b , f-g ) . After fertilization , the diploid zygote nucleus moves to a nearby cell , the auxiliary cell , and the latter fuses with other nearby cells to form a multinucleate pla cental cell , which contains both haploid and diploid nuclei . The latter migrate into buds of the placental cell , which mature as carpospores surrounded by a sterile , urnlike container , the pericarp . The entire structure , carposporophyte and pericarp , is known as a cystocarp ; it develops upon the female gameto phyte ( Figure 3.43c , h -j ) . The tetrasporophytes are indistinguishable from the gametophytes ( isomorphic ) , except that they produce sporangia in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After meiosis , two members of each tetrad of tetraspores de velop into male gametophytes and two into female gametophytes . Like Nemalion , the life history here is a modified dibiontic one with sporic meiosis ( Figure 3.44 ) . EVOLUTION OF ALGAE Chemical analysis of Precambrian shales ( see Table 6.1 ) has provided abun dant evidence that the crude oil and other matter present in the shales represent carbon compounds originating from photosynthesis , which may be inferred to have been performed by algae . The fossil record has yielded little evidence regarding the origin , interrelationships , and course of evolution of the algae . There is direct evidence that blue-green , and probably green , algae were among the earliest living organisms , already present on the earth more than three billion years ago . Because of their prokaryotic cellular organization , the blue-green algae are different from all the other groups and most probably are more closely related to bacteria . The resemblance of these ancient fossil algae to currently living ( extant ) species is remarkable in some cases . With respect to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motile stages in many otherwise nonmotile organisms suggests that they evolved from a flagellate ancestry . These flagellates probably diversified dur ing the course of evolution into the variety of organisms discussed in earlier pages . Increase in size sometimes involved cellular differentiation and con sequent specialization in the plant body , as in the kelps ( for example , Lami naria ) ; at other times , tissue differentiation did not occur ( for example , in Ulva , the sea lettuce ) . Type of sexual reproduction ? isogamy , anisogamy , and oogamy ? apparently evolved independently of body form . For example , all three patterns of sexual reproduction occur among the species of the single unicellular genus Chlamydomonas , while algae with more complex organi zation may exhibit isogamy ( Ulothrix , Ectocarpus ) or oogamy ( Oedogonium , kelps , red algae ) . The algae also provide examples of increasing specialization and segregation of reproductive tissues from somatic or vegetative tissues . Thus , in unicellular organisms such as Chlamydomonas there is seemingly no // morphological difference between young vegetative cells and gametes ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is localized in special organs ( Oedogonium , Figures 3.1b , 3.13 ) or branches ( Ectocarpus , Figures 3.1c and 3.29d , e ) in many algae . Because of fundamental similarities between the Chlorophyta and the land plants ( so-called higher plants ) , especially with respect to pigmentation and stored photosynthate , it is generally considered that the former represent the ancestral line from which the latter evolved . Current evidence indicates that the other divisions of algae did not evolve beyond the algal level , although the Rhodophyta sometimes have been postulated to have given rise to the As comycota and Basidiomycota among the fungi . These pages should give some insight into what algae are and how useful they are , both economically and biologically . The reference works listed under Selected Readings at the end of the book contain more complete accounts of these exceedingly important and interesting members of the plant kingdom . CHAPTER FOUR Nonvascular Land Plants : Liverworts , Hornworts , and Mosses INTRODUCTION It is generally believed that life first arose in an aquatic environment and that terrestrial plants and animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered to be the modified progeny of green al-gae. gae . In the plants that now populate and have in the past populated the earth , two diverse series are apparent , one possibly derived from haploid and the other from diploid algal ancestors . The plants of the first group , liverworts , hornworts , and mosses , are characterized by a lack of lignified vascular tissue , that is xylem and phloem ( p. 103 ) which , respectively , conduct water and food . The absence of lignified vascular tissue probably accounts for the relatively small size of liverworts , hornworts , and mosses , as they do not have efficient systems for transporting water and food rapidly over any considerable dis-tance . Plants in the second group , seedless and seed-bearing plants , have vas-cular tissue ; this characteristic probably is correlated with the large size and complexity of many vascular plants , and their ability to live in harsh terrestrial habitats . To this group belong the ferns and other seedless vascular plants , as well as the seed-bearing plants . All land plants contain chlorophylls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect to reproduction , all land plants are oogamous and have gam-etangia with both sterile and fertile cells . Although not dibiontic like certain algae , all are diphasic , having both gametophytic and sporophytic phases as well as sporic meiosis . The spores of land plants have protective walls which // enable them to be dispersed through the air and this involves special mecha nisms for their dispersal . Although Hepatophyta ( liverworts ) , Anthocerotophyta ( hornworts ) , and Bryophyta ( mosses ) are usually placed before the vascular plants in classifi cations of the plant kingdom ( see Table 1.1 ) , they are not more ancient , ac-cording to present evidence from the fossil record ( see Table 6.1 on p. 120 ) . Their place in systems of classification is probably inspired by their relative simplicity of form , their small size , and the lack of evidence that they are related to vascular plants . A fossil liverwort and fossil moss are illustrated in Figure 4.1 . LIVERWORTS ( DIVISION HEPATOPHYTA ) Liverworts long ago received their rather curious name because the lobing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animal liver . A number of botanists consider liverworts and hornworts to be closely related to the mosses and classify them both in the division Bryophyta ; others have challenged that view ( see Table 1.1 ) because of differences between liverworts , hornworts , and mosses in the organization of both the gametophytic and sporophytic phases . // Liverworts and hornworts , with a few conspicuous exceptions , seem to require more moist conditions than do mosses , and they grow on moist soil , rocks , and tree bark . The rhizoids of liverworts and hornworts , in contrast to those of mosses , are unicellular . The liverwort sporophyte is less complex than that of mosses and lacks a peristome ( see p. 88 ) , which is present in the sporophyte of most mosses . The essentials of organization of several commonly occurring liverworts ? Ricciocarpus and Riccia , Marchantia , and Porella ? are presented in this section . The liverworts may be thallose , that is , without distinct axes and leaves ( Figure 4.2a ) , or foliose ( Figure 4.8 ) . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thallus . Thallose Liverworts Ricciocarpus and Riccia . The simplest of the thallose liverworts externally , Ricciocarpus ( Figure 4.2 ) and Riccia ( Figure 4.3 ) , are more complex internally than one would expect . Ricciocarpus natans grows either floating upon quiet bodies of freshwater or on their muddy shores . Riccia fluitans is // a submerged aquatic species that grows readily in aquaria and on soil , while most other species of Riccia form small rosettes , about 0.5 to 1 inch ( 2.5 centimeters ) , on moist soils . Growth of these plants is strictly apical , and is initiated at their apices by a single apical cell ; the pattern of development is dichotomous ? that is , by equal lobing or branching into two parts . The aquatic plants usually lack rhizoids , but these are present on the ventral surface of plants that grow on soil . The internal tissues are more or less spongy because of fissures and air chambers , but the plants are clearly differentiated into spongy ( apparently photosynthetic ) tissues and more compact storage tissues ( Figure 4.2b @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhizome , and root . Rhizomes are elongate , often fleshy , nonvertical stems often growing upon , or slightly below , the surface of the soil . Rhizoids are rootlike in performing the functions of anchorage and absorption . They lack root caps and xylem and phloem , which characterize roots ; they may be unicellular , as in liverworts , hornworts , and ferns , or multicellular , as in mosses ( see Chapter 5 for a discussion of rhizomes and roots ) . At certain times of the year the Ricciocarpus plants become sexually mature , producing clearly distinguishable male and female gametangia on the dorsal surface , which is infolded ( Figure 4.2b , d ) to form the dorsal furrow . The male gametangia , which produce minute , biflagellate sperm , are called antheridia ( Figure 4.2c ) ; these consist of a stalk and sterile jacket , which surround the spermatogenous tissue . The female ones , called archegonia ( Figure 4.2d , e ) , are approximately flask-shaped and at maturity contain single eggs within their bases ; the archegonial necks have six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as in all land plants , is oogamous . Unlike the gametangia of algae and fungi , archegonia and antheridia of land plants are composed of gametogenous cells surrounded by somatic ones ( compare Figures 3.1 and 4.2c , e ) . Ricciocarpus plants are bisexual in that archegonia and antheridia are // both borne on one individual ; this is said to be monoecious . Depending on the particular species , Riccia plants produce male and female gametes on different individuals . They are therefore , dioecious . In either case , the sperm , upon release from the mature antheridia , swim to those archegonia that are also mature . The maturity of the archegonium is evidenced by the disintegration and extrusion of the cells within the archegonial neck , making the egg available for union with the sperm . It is probable that here , too , as demonstrated in Chlamydomonas , Oedogonium , Achlya ( a fungus ) , and ferns , a chemical secretion attracts the sperm to the archegonia . In Ricciocarpus and Riccia , the zygotes undergo a number of mitoses and cytokineses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diploid tissues within the archegonium ( Figure 4.2j ) . This spherical structure is the sporophyte because it is diploid and ultimately forms spores . The archegonium enlarges and its basal region becomes two-layered by the cell division . After it enlarges , the archegonium is called the calyptra . Except for the superficial covering layer , the diploid cells , called sporocytes or spore mother cells , undergo two rapidly sequential nuclear divisions in which meiosis occurs , each sporocyte giving rise to a tetrad of haploid cells ( Figure 4.2g ) . Accordingly , like the spores of all land plants , these spores are meiospores . They develop thick , impervious walls , separate from each other , and are shed by decay of the gametophytic plants . After a period of dormancy they develop into new plants . This reproductive cycle is basically the same in liverworts , hornworts , and mosses ( as well as many algae ) , in that it consists of two alternating phases , the haploid gametophyte and the diploid sporophyte . In Ricciocarpus and Riccia , the sporophyte consists of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calyptra and the somatic tissues of the gametophyte . If chlorophyll is present at all within the cells of the sporophyte , it is only in negligible amounts , and the sporophyte is clearly parasitic on the chlorophyllous gametophyte . Although the alternation of generations here is essentially similar to that of certain green algae , it differs in liverworts , hornworts , and mosses in that the sporophytes of these groups are borne within and upon the gametophytes , and thus are not free-living , or dibiontic.2 The life cycle of liverworts and hornworts is summarized in Figure 4.4 . Marchantia . The several species of Marchantia ( Figure 4.5 to 4.7 ) occur on soil ( especially burned-over soil ) or on calcareous rocks . Marchantia has a dichotomously branching , lobed plant body that is more complex internally than that of Riccia and Ricciocarpus , as it has highly specialized air chambers and pores differentiated from the compact storage tissue ( Figure 4.5b ) . This is somewhat similar to the organization of leaves in vascular plants ( p. 114 ) . Specialized , budlike branches , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structures on the plant 's surface ( Figures 4.5c and 4.6 ) , are the mechanisms of vegetation or asexual dissemination and subsequent development of new gametophytic plants . The gemma cups illustrate what has been called the splash-cup mechanism of dispersal . Drops of rain strike the cup , which becomes filled with water ; the attaching stalks of the mature gemmae become loosened ; and when subsequent raindrops strike the cup , the loose gemmae are splashed out of the cup for considerable distances . Marchantia is strictly dioecious . The sex organs of Marchantia are borne in the plant 's special branches called antheridiophores and archegoniophores , collectively termed gametophores ( Figure 4.6a , b ) . These branches begin their development at the apices of the horizontal plant bodies and are elevated by elongation of stalks . That antheridiophores and archegoniophores are branches of the plant body is evidenced by the presence of rhizoids and scales on their stalks and on the lower surfaces of their caps . The antheridia occur in modified , pored air chambers in radiating rows on the upper surface of the antheridiophoral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in radiating rows on the lower side of the archegoniophore between the spokes ( Figure 4.6d ) . Fertilization ( Figure 4.6e ) of at least some of the archegonia occurs after the stalks of the archegoniophores have elongated and may be initiated by splashing of sperm liberated from the antheridial disc . The zygotes develop into sporophytes ( Figure 4.7 ) . The sporophyte of Marchantia differs from those of Riccia and Ricciocarpus in its greater complexity and its nutrition , abundant chloroplasts being present in its diploid cells through most of the developmental period . The complexity of the sporophyte ( Figure 4.7 ) is apparent in its differentiation in foot , stalk ( or seta ) , and capsule regions , and in the presence among the spores of specialized hygroscopic cells , the elaters , which are involved in spore dispersal . Unlike Ricciocarpus , in which there is no special mechanism for spore dispersal , in Marchantia the setae elongate , so that the mature capsules hang down from the lower surface of the archegoniophore ( Figure 4.7b ) ; at this time the capsules open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spores develop into either male or female gametophytes , their sex being genetically determined . Leafy Liverworts Porella . Some species of Porella ( Figure 4.8 ) grow on tree bark , others on wet stones or submerged in water . The Porella plant , representative of the leafy liverworts , consists of apically growing axes with three rows of leaves , the ventral row , called underleaves , being smaller than the two dorsal series . Midribs are absent from the leaves . The leaves of the dorsal series have infolded ventral lobes ( Figure 4.8b ) , which explains the appearance of five rows of leaves suggested by superficial examination . The growth of the plants in // dense mats and the overlapping of the leaves and lobes are effective in holding water by capillary action . Rhizoids occur at the bases of the ventral leaves , the cells of which are isodiametric . The plants are dioecious , the archegonia and antheridia being borne on lateral branches of limited growth ( Figure 4.8a , c ) . The chlorophyllous spo80 Nonvascular Land Plants : Liverworts , Hornworts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marchantia in having foot , seta , and capsule regions , as well as elaters . The sporocytes are spherical . They differ in certain details of development and in the regular opening of the Porella capsules into four segments or valves ( Figure 4.8a ) . The germinating spores give rise to a thallose structure on which a new plant arises as a bud . Although superficially similar to mosses because of their axes and leaves , the leafy liverworts are readily distinguishable by their sex organs and sporophytes . HORNWORTS ( DIVISION ANTHOCEROTOPHYTA ) The Anthocerotophyta includes about five genera ? two of which , Anthoceros ( Figure 4.9 ) and Phaeoceros , are discussed here . Phaeoceros differs from Anthoceros especially in its spores , which are yellow-brown ; those of Anthoceros are black-walled . The gametophytes of Anthoceros and Phaeoceros are multilobed thalli that grow closely appressed to moist soil and rock . Except for ventral mucilage chambers in Anthoceros , they lack internal differentiation . The gametophytes usually contain nitrogen-fixing species of the blue-green alga Nostoc ( Figure 2.8c ) . The cells of Anthoceros and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which many lenticular plastids are present in each cell . Depending on the species of Anthoceros , the plants are monoecious or dioecious . The archegonia and antheridia are embedded within the dorsal tissues of the thallus ( Figure 4.10 ) ; the antheridia , yellow-orange at maturity , are exposed in cavities . Fertilization of the eggs of numerous archegonia by sperm results in the production of many chlorophyllous , needlelike sporophytes ( Figure 4.9 ) , hence the name " hornworts . " These are unlike those of both liverworts and mosses in their continuing development from actively dividing cells // between the foot and base of the sporophyte ( Figure 4.11 ) . The spores , acare produced over a period of several months ; the mature spores are shed at the apex while newly produced sporocytes are continually undergo-ing meiotic division below . Some cells in the sporogenous tract remain sterile and have been called " pseudoelaters , " but seemingly they do not function like the elaters of liverworts . Much of the sporophyte is composed of actively pho-tosynthetic cells and a central strand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functional stomata with guard cells ( see p. 114 ) are present on the epi-dermal cells of the sporophyte . The maturing apex of the latter opens into two parts , exposing the spores and columella ( Figure 4.11 ) . The spores give rise to new gametophytes , the life cycle being similar to that of liverworts . PHYLOGENY OF HEPATOPHYTA AND ANTHOCEROTOPHYTA Although representatives of only two orders of liverworts , the Marchantiales and Jungermanniales ( which include Porella ) , have been discussed in the pre-ceding account , one may wonder about the diversity and relationship of these thallose and leafy types . Not included in the discussion are three other orders of liverworts , two of them thallose and a third that contains a genus of erect , radially symmetrical plants without modified underleaves . The fossil record is not illuminating regarding the relationship and evolutionary sequence and , as a result , theories regarding the phylogeny of liverworts and hornworts are based on comparative morphology of the living plants . These suggested phy-logenies include ( 1 ) development from a monobiontic , haploid green algal ancestor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancestor ; and ( 3 ) de-velopment from a vascular plant ( like one of the Rhyniophyta , p. 164 ) by reduction . The last theory is based largely on comparision of the sporophyte of Anthoceros with that of the Rhyniophyta . According to the first two the82 Nonvascular Land Plants : Liverworts , Hornworts , and Mosses Chap . Four ories , the free-living ancestral sporophyte became phylogenetically epiphytic-parasitic on the gametophyte when the ancestral liverworts began to colonize the land . These are , of course , speculation . It seems certain , however , that the hornworts represent a distinctly different group from liverworts . The game-tophytes of hornworts have single , massive chloroplasts in their cells , the sex organs are embedded within the plant body , and their sporophytes , with con-tinuous development and spore production and a columella , are characteristics that are not present in liverworts . Mosses ( Division Bryophyte ) 83 MOSSES ( DIVISION BRYOPHYTA ) In the Division Bryophyta , two classes of the mosses will be considered ? Mnionopsida and Sphagnopsida . Class Mnionopsida The Mnionopsida are often called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the peat or bog moss . Mosses are widespread in rainy and humid places , but rarer in more arid zones . Only a few species are adapted to survive long droughts , although many can successfully withstand temporary desiccation . The individual moss plant ( Figures 4.12 and 4.13 ) consists of a slender leafy axis , either erect or prostrate , that may or may not have multicellular absorptive branches called rhizoids . It is characteristic of mosses that they rarely occur as individuals but form extensive groups or colonies on moist soil , rocks , and wood . The largest mosses are natives of the Southern Hemisphere and may exceed a foot in length , as in the case of Dawsonia , but in the Northern Hemisphere the large species of the " haircap moss , " Polytrichum , do not usually surpass 6 to 8 inches . Mosses growing on soil are important in preventing erosion . It is convenient to begin consideration of the moss life cycle with the spore . Like other land plants , mosses produce airborne spores that are usually able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widely distributed in the atmosphere , and those that come to rest upon favorable , moist surfaces then absorb water and renew their growth in the process called germination ( Figure 4.14a ) . Many moss spores require light for germination . The spores of many mosses develop into prostrate filamentous systems that branch profusely . The cells of these filaments are filled with lenslike chloroplasts . At least some cells of the filaments are separated from each other by oblique walls ; some branches may be rhizoidal , penetrate the substrate , and apparently function in absorption . The system of branching filaments that develops from the germinating spore is known as the protonema ( Figure 4.14b , c ) . After a period of development during which extensive surfaces may be covered , the protonema forms buds ( Figure 4.14b ) , which grow into leafy shoots ( Figure 4.14c ) . It has been shown recently that growth hormones of the cytokinin group ( benzyladenine and related compounds ) are active in inducing bud formation that does not occur in their absence . At the bases of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; however , additional rhizoids develop from the bases of the leafy axes . Although moss leaves and stems may achieve considerable internal complexity , vascular tissues ( xylem and phloem , p.103 ) are absent ; water is absorbed directly through the surfaces of the leaves and stems in many genera . In most populations , the densely aggregated plants tenaciously hold considerable amounts of water by capillary action . Polytrichum ( Figures 4.12a , 4.13 ) exemplifies a moss that is histologically quite complex . The centers of its stems contain water-conducting cells called hydroids , surrounded by food-conducting cells , the leptoids ( Figure 4.15 ) . Hydroids and leptoids function like xylem and phloem , respectively , although their morphological organization differs and lignin is absent . Most mosses produce leafy shoots that persist for a number of growing seasons ; such species are said to be perennial . At certain times of the year , the tips of some branches of moss plants become fertile ( Figure 4.13 ) , producing sex organs . As in all land plants , reproduction is oogamous , the female @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a small , motile ( biflagellate ) sperm . The antheridia ( Figure 4.16a ) and archegonia ( Figure 4.16b ) are multicellular as in liverworts , and the gametes are covered by a sterile cellular layer . The archegonia are borne // on stalks or pedicels ( Figure 4.16b ) and have long necks composed of six rows of neck cells . Some mosses are monoecious , as in Funaria , both antheridia and ar-chegonia being present on the same individual . Others , such as Polytrichum and Mnium , are dioecious ( Figures 4.13 and 4.16 ) ; the individual leafy shoots are unisexual . Fertile bisexual apexes as well as male apexes of unisexual moss plants are often recognizable because the leaves form a sort of cup about the sex organs ( Figure 4.13b ) . In a number of mosses , the male plants are dwarfs that grow on the leaves of the female plants in the vicinity of the archegonia . The origin of such dwarf males ? that is , whether or not they arise from ger-minating spores and protonema ? has not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antheridia discharge their sperm ( Figure 4.16c ) , some of which may reach the vicinity of an archegonium ; in species with unisexual leafy plants , the contact may be accomplished by splashing raindrops . The inner cells of the neck disintegrate when the arche-gonium is mature , leaving a liquid-filled passageway , the neck canal , to the egg . Studies of other organisms suggest that substances secreted in the moss archegonium chemically attract sperm . When a minute , biflagellate sperm , composed largely of nuclear material , swims down the canal of the archegonial neck and enters the egg cell , nuclear union ( fertilization ) follows , and a zygote is formed . As in certain algae ( seep. 40 , Figure 3.15c ) and liverworts , the moss zygote does not undergo meiosis , but gives rise to an alternate spore-producing phase , the sporophyte . Again , as in the liverworts and hornworts and unlike the al-gae , which have free-living , independent sporophytes , 4 the moss sporophyte is retained permanently on the parent gametophyte ; during its early devel-opment it remains within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . This circumstance , no doubt , has exerted a profound effect on the form of the moss ( and liverwort and hornwort ) sporophyte . Its incipient growth and nutrition certainly are based on metabolites from the archegonium ( here , too , called the calyptra as it enlarges after fertilization ) and the leafy axis , but very soon the cells of the developing sporophyte become chlorophyllous , an indication that the sporophyte is at least partially photoautotrophic . Still , the nitrogen and other elements that come from the soil necessarily must diffuse into the spo-rophyte from the gametophyte , the latter having first absorbed them from the soil . It has been demonstrated that in the sporophytes of Funaria , the rate of photosynthesis exceeds that of respiration , so that the sporophyte , with respect to its carbon nutrition , is independent of the gametophyte . In Polytrichum , however , respiration of the sporophyte exceeds its photosynthesis , so that it is not self-sufficient with respect to carbon nutrition . // Development of the sporophyte from the zygote is very rapid in mosses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growth of the sporophyte is bipolar or biapical . The needlelike sporophyte appears above the apex of the leafy plant after the calyptra has ruptured following fertilization . Part of the calyptra is carried upward at the summit of the sporophyte ( Figure 4.16f ) . When the sporophyte has reached the length characteristic of the species , its tip enlarges to form a spore-bearing region called the capsule , or sporangium ( Figures 4.12 and 4.17a , d ) . The capsule is connected to the leafy gametophyte by a stalk , or seta , and a basal foot buried in the stem apex of the leafy shoot . Unlike the seta of the liverworts , which elongates only after the capsule has matured its spores , that of the mosses elongates throughout development of the sporophyte . The base of the capsule and the seta are developed by division of cells in an intercalary meristem . The moss capsule is quite complex ( Figure 4.17 ) and varies in structure among the numerous genera . It is significant that only a small fraction of the component tissues is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until late in development , when the surface layers thicken and become hard and brown . The sporogenous tract is present as an urnlike ( Funaria ) or cylindrical layer ( Polytrichum ) . As the capsules develop , the cells of the sporogenous tract separate to form spherical sporocytes , which undergo meiosis and cytokinesis to form four spores each . The mechanisms of spore liberation and dissemination are fascinating aspects of mosses and well worthy of study . In most mosses , the shedding of the calyptra and capsule apex , the operculum , after the spores have formed reveals a structure known as the peristome . This is a single or double ring of toothlike segments around the mouth of the capsule ( Figures 4.17f and 4.18 ) . Two types of peristomial " teeth " are illustrated . The 64 short teeth of the peristome of Polytrichum ( Figure 4.18b ) are composed of whole cells and are fastened to the rim of the capsule and to a membrane , the epiphragm , at the mouth of the capsule . In Funaria , by contrast , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which converge at the apex of the capsule , are composed only of the remnants of cell walls ( Figure 4.18a ) . Peristomial movements , which are triggered by slight changes in humidity , result in gradual and continuous spore dissemination under favorable ( dry ) conditions . The biphasic life cycle of a typical moss is summarized in Figure 4.19 . Mosses have not been studied widely in the laboratory because it seems to be difficult to grow many of them to maturity in laboratory cultures . As a result , we are inadequately informed about their physiological processes and their growth and nutritional requirements . Polyploid races of certain genera of mosses have been obtained by cutting up their setae and planting the pieces on moist substrates , as well as by wounding the base of the capsule . Since these tissues are diploid , they form diploid protonemata and , subsequently , diploid leafy shoots . This is an example of apospory , the development of a gametophyte from a sporophyte by an agent other than a spore . The chro mosome number ( n or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spo rophytic or gametophytic . The diploid cells from the regenerating seta form a gametophytic protonema , not a sporophyte as one might expect , even though they are diploid . In conclusion , the gametophytic and sporophytic phases of liverworts , hornworts , mosses , and other plants should not be considered as two differ ent , almost opposed entities , for both are manifestations of the same organism in its complete reproductive cycle . This is strikingly illustrated by the remark-able regenerative capacity of mosses : rhizoids , leaves , stems and their frag ments , the various parts of the sporophyte , and even the antheridia and archegonia5 may regenerate new protonemata , from which follow all the later stages of the complete life cycle . Class Sphagnopsida The class Sphagnopsida includes the single genus Sphagnum , of which several hundred species have been described . The genus Sphagnum ( Figure 4.20 ) , known as " peat " or " bog moss , " is of commercial value in horticulture because of its capacity to hold water and , along with other plant remains , to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulverized . " Milled " or chopped Sphagnum is often used as a germination medium or substrate for delicate seeds because its acidic property reduces the danger of the seeds rotting by discouraging the growth of molds and bacteria . Sphag-num often invades bodies of water and forms extensive surface mats , or " quaking bogs . " This genus differs in a number of respects from most other mosses . The mature plants lack rhizoids and are pale green because of the alternation in the leaves of small , chloroplast-containing cells with larger , nonliving , water-storage cells ( Figure 4.21 ) ; the latter are also present in the weak stems . Certain branches develop downward about the stem and form a wicklike structure . The stem is composed of a central region surrounded by water storage cells . The antheridia of Sphagnum are long stalked and globose , and are borne in the axils of the leaves of conelike branches ( Figure 4.22a , b ) , which may be reddish or purple ; the archegonia are massive ( Figure 4.22 c ) . The sporophyte of Sphagnum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in lacking a peristome and in its domelike area of sporogenous tissue . Furthermore , its seta does not elongate at all , but the entire sporophyte is elevated at maturity by a gametophytic stalk , the pseudopodium . After elevation of the capsule , the operculum is explosively discharged from the capsule , at the annulus region , by expansion of gases within the capsule in sunshine . The shedding of the operculum is accompanied by a just-audible " pop . " Spores that land upon a moist or in an aquatic substrate , if these are acidic , germinate to form protonemata . The protonema of Sphagnum is spatulate , and appears somewhat like that of a fern ( Figure 4.24 ) , in contrast to that of most mosses . The first leaves of the leafy shoot have all chloroplastcontaining cells . Only in the fourth or fifth leaf does differentiation into photosynthetic and water-storage cells occur . Because of the extremely acid condition in bogs , which prevents the growth of most microorganisms that would cause decay , Sphagnum and as-sociated plants often accumulate in the form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such deposits may be of considerable age ; for example , some bogs in the United States are 16,000 years old . Careful sampling and analysis of the pollen and spores preserved in successively older and deeper strata pro-vide a history of vegetation in a given locality and , indirectly , with evidences of climatic changes ( especially temperature and rainfall ) . // Peat is of economic importance in improving the texture and water-hold ing capacity of soils , in providing nutriment to cultivated plants , and in acid ifying soils . In some parts of the world where other forms of fuel are in limited supply , peat is compressed , dried , and burned . It is of interest that the flavor of Scotch whiskeys is in part due to peat smoke . Of greater interest in relation to Sphagnum and peat are the bodies of human beings that have been uncovered in peat excavations in Ireland , Den-mark , and adjacent parts of Germany . These include clothed bodies from the Bronze Age and , among others , the body of a man who had been hanged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now Jutland , in western Den-mark . EVOLUTION OF NONVASCULAR LAND PLANTS The conclusion of this brief account of relatively simple , haploid , land plants ? the liverworts , hornworts , and mosses ? provides an opportunity for consid ering their origin , ancestry , and possible relationships with each other . With respect to interrelationships , once again the fossil record is not helpful . Rel atively few ( as compared with vascular plants ) fossil liverworts and mosses are known , and these resemble our living types . Liverworts occur in Devonian strata ( see Table 6.1 on p. 120 ) , while fossilized mosses appear in Pennsyl vanian strata . There is no evidence from the fossil record , however , that mosses evolved from liverworts . Comparative morphology of living mosses and liv erworts reveals some radially symmetrical , erect , leafy liverworts that suggest mosses in their organization . However , the sexual reproductive organs and sporophytes of such liverworts are different from those of the mosses . Both plant groups have similar patterns of alternation of generations : the dominant phase is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Riccia ) or partially parasitic , albeit chlorophyllous ( other liverworts , horn-worts , and mosses ) , sporophyte upon it . Apparently the algae were the only chlorophyllous plants on earth from Precambrian to Silurian and Devonian times ( see Table 6.1 ) , if the fossil record is at all complete . The divergence of algal progenitors into liverworts , horn-worts , mosses , and the several groups of seedless vascular plants ( see Chapters 6 and 7 ) must accordingly have been very rapid . CHAPTER FIVE Organization of Vascular Plants INTRODUCTION In beginning our discussion of the land plants in Chapter 4 , we stated that they include two major groups ? those without vascular tissue ' and those with vascular tissue . Vascular tissues are xylem and phloem ( p. 103 ) . The members of the first group , the liverworts , hornworts , and mosses , lack lignified vas cular tissue and are , without exception , gametophytes with physically attached sporophytes . The second group is the larger ; normally its members are diploid , spore-producing plants with well-developed vascular tissue . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and vascular plants are terrestrial , but some of each are aquatic . Furthermore , both aquatic and ter restrial algae and fungi are known . The haploid sexual alternate ( gametophyte ) in the life cycle of land plants may be either free-living and photoautrophic or heterotrophic ; in the latter case , the gametophyte is either saprophytic or parasitic upon the sporophyte . It has been suggested that in some of the ear liest land plants the sporophytes became more complex while the gameto phytes ( the sexual phase ) , in contrast , became smaller , shorter lived , and less active in somatic or vegetative functions . In other organisms , however , such as mosses , liverworts , and hornworts , the gametophyte remained dominant , while the sporophytic phase became reduced and physically attached to it . Another theory holds that the mosses , liverworts , and hornworts are de scended from gametophytic algae that " migrated " to the land ; by contrast , the vascular plants are said to have derived from migrant algal sporophytes. // The fossil record has not contributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whatever their origin , vascular plants display a degree of complexity that is unmatched by nonvascular plants . Accordingly , this chapter will present a brief , general introduction to the gross and microscopic structure of the vas cular plants in general . In the following chapters we shall be concerned pri marily with a more specific description of the vegetative organs and the reproductive process in representative vascular plants . A wide range of morphological form and complexity exists among vas cular plants . Among the smallest is the duckweed , Lemna ( Figure 5.1 ) , a mi nute , floating , aquatic flowering plant . At the other extreme are woody vines , shrubs , and trees , climaxed by such long-lived giants as the redwood tree , Sequoiadendron giganteum , which may attain a height of 360 feet . Between these extremes occurs a vast assemblage of species intermediate in size . These may be annual , their maturity , reproduction , and death occurring in one grow ing season , or perennial , the individual plant persisting for more than one season . In spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence as single-celled zygotes and achieve their final size by suc cessive nuclear and cytoplasmic divisions of the zygote and its cellular descendants . Exceptions are organisms propagated vegetatively ? that is , from cuttings , buds , or grafts ? or those that reproduce without union of gametes , such as Cyrtomium ( the holly fern ) , the common dandelion , and certain grasses . Growth involves an increase in volume . It is accomplished most fre quently by an increase in cell number and cell size and is usually accompanied // by differentiation ( the modification of individual cells or tissues in accordance with function ) . Explaining the mechanism of growth and differentiation that forms a complex organism from the cellular progeny of a single zygote is one of the most challenging problems of current biological investigations . Growth in plants may be either generalized or localized . The axes of vascular plants , usually composed of stems and roots , develop from apical meristems , which are stem and root tips where cells are actively dividing . In some axes , in addition , intercalary regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like those at the joints of grass stems . Such intercalary meristems frequently give rise to roots when stem cuttings are placed in moist sand , soil , or water . GROWTH AND DIFFERENTIATION IN STEMS , ROOTS , AND LEAVES The following sections offer a more detailed discussion of the processes of growth and differentiation in the vegetative organs of vascular plants ? namely , stems , roots , and leaves . The external and internal features of stems and roots will be covered separately in four sections . External Morphology of the Stem That portion of the axis which bears leaves is known as the stem . Leaves arise from the stem at nodes ; the regions of the stem between successive nodes are the internodes . In most plants , stems seem to be the most obvious , dominant portion of the axis ; exceptions are bulbous plants ( such as onions and lilies ) and ferns other than tree ferns . In these exceptional types the leaves appear to be dominant . Growth of stems is apical ; the extreme growing tip is hidden within a terminal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a stem with short internodes bearing early developmental stages of leaves ( leaf primordia ) , or in some cases flowers , or both leaves and flowers . Lateral or axillary buds occur between the leaf axil and the stem . Buds may be closed ( covered ) or open , that is , undergoing continuous development and unfolding , as in many herbaceous plants ( for example , the geranium Pelargonium ) . Closed buds occur on woody plants of the temperate zone and are protected by variously thickened and gummy outer leaves called bud scales ( Figure 5.2 ) . The bud scales are shed as spring growth is initiated , leaving behind bud scale scars ( Figure 5.3 ) . The age and the extent of growth of younger branches may be ascertained by examination of successive groups of bud scale scars . Woody stems exhibit other characteristic structures during their dormant period ( Figure 5.3 ) , in addition to terminal and axillary buds and bud scale scars . Leaf scars and vascular bundle scars are often evident , as are Ienticels // ( Figure 5.4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth , often at the sites of stomata of primary growth . Lenticels are pathways of gaseous interchange . Stems may be self-supporting and erect , or they may require support , as in the case of various types of vines . They vary from the pendulous to hori zontal . Certain modified stem types are illustrated in Figures 5.5 and 5.6 . Among these are nonerect , often horizontal , stems designated as stolons and rhizomes . Slolons , often called " runners , " are elongate , nonfleshy , pendulous , or hor100 Organization of Vascular Plants Chap . Five izontal stems that root at their nodes and give rise to leafy buds and shoots at places where they root . Strawberries ( Figure 5.5a ) regularly produce stoIons , the plantlets of which are used in propagation . RhizQmes , which are sometimes subterranean , also are nonerect or horizontal stems , which are often fleshy because they contain large amounts of stored food . Rhizomes continGrowth // ually grow at their apices and their older parts often decay so that the apically growing branches may become separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce rhizomes that are used in propagation . Tubers ( Figure 5.5c ) are the enlarged tips of subterranean stolons or rhizomes . A classic example of a tuber-producing plant is the potato , Solanum tuberosum . Careful examination of potato tubers that have been stored for some time will reveal the presence on their surfaces of spirally arranged buds , the " eyes . " In propagating potatoes , before planting , the " seed " potatoes are cut up into segments that contain at least one eye . The eyes or buds then // develop roots at their bases and begin to grow into shoots or " sprouts , " which break through the soil surface . Up to this point the energy and metabolites required for growth are based on those stored in the original tuber fragment . After some weeks of photosynthesizing and growth , stolonlike branches de velop at the bases of the aerial shoots and begin to enlarge at their tips ( Figure 5.5c ) to form the new crop of tubers . Corms and bulbs differ from stolons and rhizomes in their vertical po @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subterranean stems with buds and shoots at their apices and roots below ( Figure 5.6a ) as in Gladiolus . Bulbs are composed largely of the overlapping fleshy bases of leaves ; these are full of stored food , as in the onion ( Figure 5.6b ) . The stem comprises only a small basal portion of a bulb and is embedded in the fleshy leaf bases and bears a terminal bud at its apex . Bulbs and corms both are agents of vegetative prop agation , meaning that a vegetative or somatic organ , rather than a reproduc tive one , is involved in multiplying the number of individuals . Development of the Stem The growth of the stem is localized in a group of actively dividing cells at its apex , called the apical meristem . It is usually concealed ( Figures 5.2 and 5.7 ) by the numerous , minute leaf primordia that it bears . The cells of the apical meristem divide rapidly , thus increasing in number . Three meristematic regions , the primary meristems , are distinguishable just below the apical mer istem : ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provascular tissue or procambium , in the form of a solid rod , a cylinder , or discrete strands ; and ( 3 ) the ground green-stemmed ) plants , only these primary tissues function in the plant 's nor mal metabolic processes throughout the existence of the organism . As the increase in cell size and the change in form of a given region in the developing axis both decelerate , deposition of cell walls in specialized pat-terns completes the process of differentiation of the primary meristems into three regions of the mature stem : ( 1 ) the vascular tissues , collectively called the stele , composed of xylem and phloem ( Figure 5.8 ) and sometimes the cam bium layer ( see p. 108 ) , derived from the procambium ; ( 2 ) the superficial ep idermal layer , derived from the protoderm ; and ( 3 ) the remainder , cortex , endodermis , and pith , if present , derived from the ground meristem . The pri mary vascular tissues of stems and roots are connected with each other ; the veins of leaves and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vascular tissue called traces . Traces are established by differentiation of procambium strands into xylem and phloem . Xylem and phloem are complex tissues and each may contain as many as four different kinds of simple tissues . The actual water-conducting cells of xylem are tracheids and vessels . A tracheid differentiates from a single pro-cambial cell , while the ontogeny of a vessel involves a series of procambial cells each producing a vessel element , a perforated cell . Vessels occur in a few of the seedless vascular plants , but are most widespread in the flowering plants . Tracheids are elongate cells ( Figures 5.9b and 5.13d ) with somewhat pointed ends . Their walls ( and those of vessels ) are thickened with a mixture of cel lulose and lignin , which gives them rigidity . The first tracheids to differentiate are usually lignified in an annular or helical pattern , while those that differmeristem . When the apex has grown a certain distance beyond a given region of cells , cell multiplication ceases in this region , and the cells enlarge and dif ferentiate into functional primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later in the development of the stem have more lignin deposited on their walls so that only small elongated or circular thin places remain unlig nified . These areas are pits ; they are areas in the wall through which water and solutes can move more rapidly than through the lignified portions of the wall . There is evidence that vessels ( Figure 5.9b ) arose phylogenetically by the perforation of the end walls of tracheids to form a continuous series . Each segment of a vessel is called a vessel member . There may be one large or several smaller perforations between vessel members . Vessels also have a variety of patterns of lignification . In addition to the actual water-conducting tracheids and vessels , which are nonliving at maturity , living parenchyma cells and thick-walled nonliving fibers may both be present in xylem ( Figure 5.13b ) . The ma jor functions of xylem are transport of water ( and solutes dissolved in it ) and support . The sieve cells of phloem , like tracheids , are unicellular , but they are living cells with cellulosic cell walls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas through which the protoplasm of adjacent sieve cells is con tinuous . These cells , which are very similar to sieve cells , may be connected in series , as they are in many flowering plants , to form sieve tubes , composed of sieve tube members ( Figure 5.9b ) in which the sieve areas are aggregated in the terminal walls to form sieve plates ( Figure 5.9c ) , which facilitate con duction of large molecules . In some plants the sieve cells and tubes ( which lack nuclei at maturity ) are associated with smaller nucleate cells , the cumGrowth // panion cells ( Figure 5.9a , c ) . In addition to sieve tubes , parenchyma cells and lignified fibers may be present in phloem . Phloem serves in the conduction of complex substances manufactured in the plant 's metabolism . The xylem and phloem of primary differentiation may be positioned con-centrically , collaterally ( opposite each other , Figure 5.8 ) , or bicollaterally ( with phloem on both sides of the xylem ) . In roots , by contrast , the xylem and phloem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the center is occupied by a pith ( Figure 5.8 ) composed of parenchyma cells with thin , cellulose walls ; these cells may function in storage . The tissue layers lying between the vascular tissues and the epidermis vary in extent and complexity . In general , the cortex is a storage region , although it is photosynthetic in young stems ( and in aerial roots ) . The epidermis is inter-rupted by minute pores , the stomata ( singular , stoma ) surrounded by guard cells ( Figure 5.20 ) ; it is also cutinized ? covered by the cuticle , which is corn106 Organization of Vascular Plants Chap . Five posed of a waxy substance ( cutin ) secreted by the epidermal cells as an outer covering . Stomata are the main pathways for gaseous interchange , although this also occurs to a limited extent through the cuticle . Stomata also occur on leaves and floral organs . Various glandular and nonglandular hairs ( Figure 5.10 ) occur on the epidermis of stems and leaves . The patterns of primary vascular organization have been summarized in the concept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vascular tissue of axes and closely associated tissues . Various types of steles are illustrated in Figure 5.11 and explained in part in its caption . Some botanists refer to siphonosteles as medullated protosteles and look upon the pith either as an evolutionary invasion of cortical tissue through the leaf gaps that are associated with leaf traces ( Figure 5.17b ) or as parenchyma tissue that has developed instead of xylem . Protosteles , which in this text are considered to be central cores of xylem surrounded by phloem , may be circular , ridged , or elliptical in transection ; in some cases , the phloem occurs in segments among the xylem cells . Protosteles are present in many roots and in stems of many vascular cryptogams ( seedless vascular plants , see p. 122 ) , in which they develop almost without exception in the juvenile stages . Amphiphloic siphonosteles that are dissected by leaf gaps into seemingly discrete strands of xylem surrounded by phloem and endodermis are known as dictyosteles . These occur in a number of fern rhizomes having short internodes . Discrete vascular bundles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , those in eusteles and atactosteles are not ) , characterize the stems of many angiosperms ( flowering plants ) . We have summarized the development and structure of primary tissue , the origin of which may be traced to the apical meristem . In some herbaceous and in all woody plants , secondary tissues ( Figure 5.12 ) are added to the primary tissues after elongation of the axis ( at a certain distance from the meristem ) has ceased . The extent and the duration of this secondary growth process vary with the species . Thus , in some individuals of such long-lived trees as // Sequoiadendron gigantea and Pinus aristata ( bristlecone pine ) , and oaks ( Quercus species ) , secondary growth has been occurring for several thousand years . Were it not for this process , lumber as we know it would not exist . Secondary growth depends on the active division of a particular layer of cells , the vascular cambium ( Figure 5.8a , b ) , which lies between the primary xylem and the primary phloem . Most of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cambium and primary xylem ( Figures 5.8a , b , 5.12 ) , but some become secondary phloem between the cambium and primary phloem . The activity of the vascular cambium is seasonal , and in perennial woody plants this is reflected in the deposition of the secondary xylem as annual rings , or cylinders ( Figures 5.12 and 5.13c ) . There may be parenchyma cells in radial series in the secondary xylem ; these are called rays . The explanation for the occurrence of annual rings is that the tracheids and vessels of secondary xylem that differentiate early in the growing season have larger diameters and thinner walls than the smaller , thick-walled ones produced later in the season ( Figure 5.13c ) . The annual rings vary in thickness in relation to rainfall , and it is possible by examining the rings of very old trees to infer the nature of the weather in the past . Increased growth in the internal portion of the stem by cambial activity ruptures the epidermis and cortex , which are unable to expand . These outer layers are gradually replaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a meristematic cylinder , or of strips of meristematic tissue , the cork cambium or phellogen , whose outer derivatives mature as cork cells and the inner as parenchyma cells , that may augment the cortex . As secondary growth continues , the cracks in the outer tissue cut more deeply , and additional layers of periderm form . Accordingly , the bark of woody plants may become quite complex , consisting of strips of periderm and other tissues such as cortex and dead secondary phloem . Secondary xylem is known as wood ( Figure 5.13 ) . The hardness of wood is caused basically by the lignin that thickens the cell walls . the degree of hardness depending on the amount of lignification and the percentage of thickwalled cells present . When wood is cut , the grain and markings depend on the way in which the annual rings and rays have been exposed . External Morphology of the Root Roots differ from stems in lacking leaves ( and hence , nodes , internodes , and axillary buds ) , in having an apical root cap ( Figures 5.14 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having an alternately radial arrangement of their primary xylem and phloem . Roots function in anchoring and absorption . Roots are designated according to origin as primary , secondary , or adventitious . A primary root is the emergent root of an embryonic plant , such as that within a seed ( Figure 5.14a ) ; branches from it are secondary roots . 13y // contrast , adventitious roots are not of embryonic origin but develop from su-perficial tissues of stems or leaves , as in rhizomes , stolons , corms , bulbs ( Fig-ures 5.5 and 5.6 ) , and cuttings . When the emergent primary root continues to develop in length and to function throughout the life of the plant , a taproot system is present . Some taproots become woody and others become fleshy ( for example , beets , carrots , // and turnips ) . When the primary root is not conspicuous and when adventitious or secondary roots comprise the absorbing organs , the root system is said to be fibrous . Externally , roots are simpler than stems . Seedlings grown in a moist chamber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the zone of elon gation , and the root hair zone . The root hair zone corresponds internally to the region of differentiation into the specialized primary tissues . Development of the Root The ontogeny of a root is illustrated in Figures 5.15 and 5.16 . The apical meristem is protected by a root cap , the cells of which are slimy and thus seemingly provide lubrication and protection as the root elongates through the soil . In many roots , the provascular tissue or procambium matures into a solid core of primary xylem and phloem ( Figure 5.16 ) , a protostele , but in some a central pith is present . The vascular tissue in roots is usually surrounded by a pericycle , from which branch roots arise endogenously ; the pericycle , in turn , is surrounded by the endodermis , the thickenings on the walls of which are called casparian strips . The walls of the endodermis are notable for their sub erin ( cork ) thickenings of various patterns . A pericycle and endodermis are sometimes present in the stems of vascular cryptogams ( seedless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and phloem of roots are alternately arranged ( Figure 5.16 ) . The cortex is an extensive layer used for storage ; an extreme of this is // seen in fleshy roots like sweet potatoes . The epidermal cells of roots project as root hairs ( Figure 5.14b ) which function in absorption ; more root hairs are added constantly as increasingly distal regions of the root mature . The root epidermis , obviously , is not cutinized in the absorptive region . Like their stems , the roots of woody plants also undergo secondary thickening through the activity of both vascular and cork cambiums . Stems and roots differ both externally and internally in a number of respects . Externally , it is obvious that stems , which bear leaves , have nodes and internodes , whereas roots lack leaves , nodes , and internodes . The apical meristem of stems is protected by the young leaves and bud scales ( if present ) of the terminal bud , while in roots it is covered by a root cap . Branches of stems originate superficially , usually in the axils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The latter occurs in some roots ( for example , those of Isoetes , p. 139 ) , but in most , branch roots arise endogenously from the per112 Organization of Vascular Plants Chap . Five bicycle and grow out through the cortex ( Figure 5.16c ) . Internally , roots differ from stems in the alternating arrangement of their primary xylem and phloem , which in stems is concentric , collateral , or bicollateral . Leaves Leaves function as photosynthetic organs and participate in gaseous interchange . They arise from the apical meristem as localized mounds of tissue called leaf primordia ( Figure 5.7 ) . In contrast to axes , most leaves have a simple structure , but there is some evidence that the simplicity may be a deceptive result of secondary simplification from more complex beginnings , a phenomenon known as reduction . At one extreme , true leaves ( those with vascular tissue ) approach moss leaves in size ( see Figures 6.8 and 6.13 ) ; at the other extreme are the enormous leaves of tree ferns , palms , and bananas . Large leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) generally are // thought to be derived from axial branches that have become flattened during the course of evolution , the cortical and epidermal tissues having extended between the branches as a sort of webbing . Certain small leaves ( Figure 5.17a ) with unbranched veins are thought to be fundamentally different : they are assumed to have developed as localized surface outgrowths that later became vascular . However , their simplicity has also been considered a manifestation of evolutionary reduction from more complex types . Some leaves , often but not always small ones ( like those of Microphyllophyta , p. 126 ) , have un branched veins , and their traces leave no gaps in the stem steles . Such leaves are microphylls ( Figure 5.17a , c ) . By contrast , megaphylls ( Figure 5.17b , d ) have branching veins , and their traces do leave gaps in the stem stele , which is usually a siphonostele . In external form , leaves may have whole or divided blades ( Figures 5.18a-c ) ; the former are simple and the latter compound leaves . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of leaflets , which are shed as a unit with the petiole . Buds occur only at the base of the petiole in both simple and compound leaves , not at the bases of the leaflet stalks . Various types of compound leaves occur , the commonest ones being either palmately or pin nately compound . In palmately compound leaves ( Figure 5.18b ) , the leaflets emerge from the apex of the petiole , whereas in pinnately compound leaves , the leaflets are attached along a prolongation of the petiole known as the rachis ( Figure 5.18c ) . Leaf blades are traversed by an extensive system of veins , which are the ultimate branches of the vascular traces . Microphylls , as noted above , have single unbranched veins . Megaphylls may have dichotomous , striate , or netted // venation ( Figure 5.19 ) . Two patterns of netted venation ? namely , pinnate and palmate ? are widespread . As compared with axes , most leaves are relatively simple internally . Sec ondary growth is limited , if it occurs , and affects only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutinized , more or less waxy , and imper vious epidermis that is interspersed with stomata and guard cells ( Figures 5.20 and 5.21 ) . The intervening tissues ( Figure 5.21 ) , known as mesophyll , the ma jor site of photosynthesis and gaseous exchange , are frequently differentiated into an upper series of columnar cells , the palisade mesophyll , and a lower series of loosely contiguous cells , the spongy mesophyll ; however , in some leaves the mesophyll is essentially a homogeneous region . The mesophyll cells are rich in chloroplasts and thus active in photosynthesis . None of these cells is far from a vein ; hence , transfer of substances to and away from the pho tosynthesizing mesophyll cells is possible . // Leaves differ in texture , in degree of cutinization , and in the amount of supporting tissue present ; they vary also in their pattern of attachment to the stem and in their arrangement in the bud , known as phyllotaxy . Leaves may be attached to the stem in opposite , alternate ( spiral ) , or whorled patterns . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is already ev-ident in the bud phyllotaxy , but it may change somewhat during development . Inasmuch as buds , which may give rise to branches , are present in the leaf axils , the arrangement of stem branches is related to that of leaves ; thus , leaf arrangement has a profound effect on overall shoot morphology . Whorled phyllotaxy is rarer than the other types . Phyllotaxy of alternate leaves may be expressed by fractions such as ? , ? , and 2/5 , the denominator indicating the number of vertical rows of leaves between two vertically aligned leaves , the numerator the number of turns about the stem between two such leaves . With respect to leaves , plants may be evergreen ( never completely with-out leaves ) or deciduous ( all the leaves are shed periodically ) . Leaf fall is ac complished usually by the formation of a special separating layer , the abscission layer , which severs the leaf at its base or at the base of the petiole ( Figure 5.22 ) . In certain geographical regions , especially northeastern America Adaptations of Vascular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of deciduous trees is preceded by the phe nomenon of autumnal coloration . The chlorophyll of the leaves disintegrates , leaving the yellow-orange pigments ( carotenes and xanthophylls ) , which then increase in amount . Scarlet coloration often reflects development of the pig ment anthocyanin in cell vacuoles . ADAPTATIONS OF VASCULAR PLANTS Although some nonvascular chlorophyllous plants ( certain algae and most liv erworts , hornworts , and mosses ) are terrestrial in habitat and grow even in environments unfavorable for vascular plants , the latter comprise the major vegetation of the land wherever conditions are favorable for their growth . The explanation for this resides in the capacity of vascular plants , through mor- 11 phological and physiological adaptations , to live under more rigorous and in-hospitable conditions , especially with respect to availability of water . Of great adaptive significance in this connection are the cuticle , stomata , and vascular tissue described earlier . These make possible efficient conservation and trans-location of water and its solutes , at the same time providing a pathway for gaseous interchange . There is little doubt that the greater size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones , is correlated with these ad aptations as well as with the presence of a root system , which is rarely absent among living vascular plants . The development of the extensive , vascularized , subterranean system that we call roots , for anchorage and absorption , must have been of tremendous // significance in the evolution of land plants . The origin and course of evolution of the root are unknown . It is probable that certain branches of rhizomes became modified with respect to the functions of anchorage and absorption . Organs of anchorage and absorption are , of course , present in certain algae , liverworts , and mosses , but these lack vascular tissue . It has been suggested that the alternate arrangement of xylem and phloem in roots ( in contrast to their commonly collateral arrangement in stems , including rhizomes ) facili-tates the absorption and conduction of water ; if the arrangement were col-lateral , water would have to pass through the phloem before reaching the xylem . It has also been suggested that the root cap is an adaptation that pro-tects the root @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than does the tip of a rhizome . CHAPTER SIX Seedless Vascular Plants I : Divisions Psilotophyta , Microphyllophyta , and Arthrophyta INTRODUCTION Vascular plants include two major types , seedless and seed-bearing . The seed-less types are sometimes spoken of as vascular cryptogams , ' while those with seeds are called phanerogams . The fossil remains of seedless vascular plants have been identified with certainty in rock strata as ancient as early Silurian ( Table 6.1 ) . Both seedless and seed-bearing types have persisted to the present day . The presence of vascular tissue in the diploid sporophytic phase of all of the vascular plants has often been interpreted as evidence of kinship through descent from a common precursor . Accordingly , these plants are sometimes classified in a single division , the Tracheophyta ( see Table 1.1 ) , a name that emphasizes the presence of vascular tissue . The significance thus attached to vascular tissue has not been universally accepted , however ; some students of evolutionary relationships , phylogeny , consider the widespread occurrence of vascular tissue to be a manifestation of parallel evolution , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a number of sep-arate groups , the ranks of which vary with the classifier ( see Table 1.1 ) . Whatever rank may be assigned them , there is almost unanimous agree-ment that the living , seedless vascular plants include four major groups , in this book accorded divisional rank : Division Psilotophyta , the psilotophytes ; Division Microphyllophyta , the club and spike " mosses " ; Division ArthroDivision // phyta , the arthrophytes ; and Division Pteridophyta , the ferns . The first three groups are discussed in this chapter and the fourth in Chapter 7 . DIVISION PSILOTOPHYTA In the extinct Devonian ( Table 6.1 ) floras , there were several kinds of vascular plants without leaves and roots . These are known through such examples as well-preserved specimens of Rhynia , a member of a group of extinct plants classified in the Division Rhyniophyta ( p. 164 ) . Among extant plants , Psilo-tum ( the whisk fern , Figure 6. la ) is one of the very few that display somewhat similar organization . The superficially leafy genus Tmesipteris is fundamen-tally similar in organization to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Figure 6.1 ) is a herbaceous , dichotomously branching plant approximately 2 feet in height . Its axes ( both the erect ones and the rhizomes ) contain vascular tissue ( Figure 6.2 ) . The plant is tropical and sub-tropical in habitat . Sometimes it is epiphytic , that is , it grows upon other plants , presumably using them only for support . In the United States Psilotum occurs in Hawaii , Florida , Louisiana , Arizona , South Carolina , and Texas . Psilotum plants consist of dichotomously branching rhizomes and erect stems as tall as 18 to 24 inches . The stems arise by upgrowth of some of the rhizome tips . This can be stimulated by exposing them to light . The erect axes are ridged in various patterns and the number of ridges varies with the level above the point of origin from the rhizome , being fewer distally . The erect axes bear small leaflike appendages , called bracts or prophylls ( Figure 6.1b ) . // Because these usually lack vascular tissue , they are not recognized as leaves by most botanists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The evidence for this is the presence in some instances of traces that depart from the stem stele toward the prophyll base , albeit they do not enter it . Branching of the erect stems and rhizomes is dichotomous and initiated at the apices , and growth may be traced to a single apical cell . The stele in Psilotum has been interpreted as a protostele or as a siphonostele . This is because the center of the stele consists of thick-walled , nonliving sclerenchyma cells , which conceivably could represent either a sclerotic pith or part of the primary xylem . The latter is surrounded by primary phloem . The stele in both the erect branches and rhizomes is bounded externally by an endodermis , the innermost layer of the cortex . The latter consists of three different tissues : ( 1 ) an outer , photosynthetic layer adjacent to the epidermis ; ( 2 ) a zone of scle renchyma cells ; and ( 3 ) an inner zone of parenchyma cells , which probably function in storage . Externally , the erect axes are bounded by a heavily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 6.2 ) . Some of the surface cells of the rhizome produce one- to several-celled rhizoids . Its cortical cells may contain fungi , whose role is obscure at present . Such an association of fungi with rhizomes ( and roots , if present ) of vascular plants is called a my corrhiza . Roots and vascularized leaves are absent in Psilotum . In mature plants many of the axes become fertile , producing trilobed synangia on very short lateral branches , which also bear two bracts ( Figure 6.3a , b ) . The synangia are thus cauline , or borne on stems . A synangium con sists of several fused or united sporangia . In Psilotum each synangial lobe undergoes dehiscence when the spores are mature . Meiosis in Psilotum , as in mosses , liverworts , hornworts , and all vascular plants , is sporic ; it occurs when the spores ( meiospores ) arise in groups of four from the diploid sporocytes or spore mother cells in the synangia . When the spores have matured , the synangia crack open and the smooth-walled spores are disseminated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of generations , the spores in further development produce the sexual gametophytic phase . Psi lotum and all the vascular cryptogams are dibiontic , that is , both the game tophyte and sporophyte are free-living , individual entities . The spores of Psilotum germinate very slowly , about six months after they have been planted or fall on a suitable substrate , and then only in dark ness . In nature or in the greenhouse , the gametophyte of Psilotum is a minute ( about 2 millimeters in diameter ) , subterranean , branched cylindrical structure ( Figure 6.4a ) devoid of chlorophyll and , therefore , saprophytic . In some in-stances , only the antheridia and archegonia ( Figure 6.4a , b ) enable one to dis tinguish the gametophyte with certainty from the young sporophytic axis . The gametophyte , like the rhizome , contains mycorrhizal fungi and is covered by rhizoids . After fertilization is effected by a multiflagellate sperm , the zygote undergoes nuclear and cell division to form a young sporophyte , which at first is attached to the gametophyte ( Figure 6.5 ) by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Development of the gametophyte from the spore and of the sporophyte from the zygote are both rather slow processes in Psilotum . Psilotum and certain extinct fossil psilotophytes that are similar in organization are unique among vascular plants in lacking both roots and leaves . // Until recently , most botanists have interpreted them as primitive plants , not greatly modified from their hypothetical , sporophytic , algal progenitors ( see , however , p. 125 for a different viewpoint ) . It is of interest that two races of Psilotum nudum occur , one diploid with haploid gametophytes ( n = 52 to 54 chromosomes ) and one tetraploid with diploid gametophytes . In some of the latter , a vascular strand surrounded by an endodermis is present ; the strand may be discontinuous . The presence of vascular tissue in both gametophyte and sporophyte suggests the funda-mental similarity between the alternating generations . Furthermore , it is again clear that the chromosome number itself does not determine whether sporo-phytic or gametophytic characters prevail . The mechanism that controls this is still obscure . // Tmesipteris The superficially leafy genus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Psilotum , occurs natively in New Caledonia , Australia , and New Zealand . Depending on the species , the plants may be either erect or pendulous epiphytes . The flattened , leaflike appendages , each with a single vein , are usually interpreted as stem branches . Associated with some of these appendages are bilobed synangia , the spores of which develop into cylindrical subterranean gametophytes much like those of Psilotum . However , one of the leading students of the group regards Tmesipteris as a primitive fern and the axes with their bladelike appendages as pinnately compound leaves . The cylindrical , subterranean , saprophytic , mycorrhizal gametophytes of Tmesipteris and Psilotum were considered to be almost unique , but Dr. D. W. Bierhorst has found similar ones in certain ferns , namely , Schizaea melanesica and Stromatopteris moniliformis . Furthermore , the embryogeny and the subterranean and erect axes of these ferns are similar to those of Psilotum and Tmesipteris , at the same time showing such fernlike attributes as circinate vernation ( see page 151 ) and frondlike organization . In light of these and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classified as primitive members of the Pteridophyta ( ferns ) rather than as the Psilotophyta ; the latter category would then contain only extinct plants . On the other hand , the ferns in question do have roots and their sporangia differ considerably in organization from those of Tmesipteris and Psilotum . Psilotum is in some respects ( absence of roots and leaves , dichotomous erect branches and rhizomes ) similar to the extinct Rhynia ( see Figure 7.16 ) and Sawdonia ( see Figure 7.18b ) , which flourished in Devonian times . How126 Seedless Vascular Plants I Chap . Six ever , 400 million years intervene between these extinct fossils and the extant Psilotum , so that one must be cautious in suggesting relationships . DIVISION MICROPHYLLOPHYTA A second group of vascular plants with Devonian ( Table 6.1 ) precursors comprises the club and spike " mosses . " Two series of these are distinguishable among both the living and fossil members of the group on the basis of whether or not their leaves bear ligules . A ligule is a minute tonguelike appendage borne within the tissue at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as Selaginella and Isoetes . Lycopodium , which lacks ligules , will be discussed first . All the members of this group have vascularized leaves and roots . Lycopodium and Selaginella have been called " mosses " because living species are for the most part small-leaved , herbaceous plants . The " club " and " spike " portions of their names refer to the localization of spore-bearing leaves , called sporophylls , at the tips of certain branches with short internodes ; such branches are known as strobili ( Figure 6.8a ) or cones . A strobilus is a stem with short internodes and spore-bearing appendages at its nodes . Three of the living genera , Lycopodium , Selaginella , and Isoetes , which belong to this division , are rather widely distributed in both temperate and tropical habitats . A fourth , Stylites ( similar to Isoetes ) , grows in the Andes mountains of Peru , and a fifth , Phylloglossum ( Figure 6.7 ) , is native to New Zealand and Australia . Lycopodium Species of Lycopodium , commonly known as " ground pine " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of coniferous forests of the temperate zone , although some tropical species are epiphytes . A comparison of the plant body of Lycopodium ( Figure 6.8 ) and other club mosses with that of Psilotum at once reveals two striking differences : unlike Psilotum , the club mosses have both vascularized leaves with stomata , and roots . The axes elongate by growth of the apices and produce a profusion of small , mosslike leaves , each with a single unbranched vein . Leaves with single , unbranched veins , the traces of which do not leave marked gaps ( see Figures 5.17a , c and 6.9 ) as they leave the vascular system of the stem , are called microphylls . The stem in most species of Lycopodium contains some type of protostele ( Figure 6.9 ) , as do the roots , which branch dichotomously . Because of the dense arrangement of the leaves and shortness of the internodes , leaf traces are always visible in transections of the stem . The sporangia of Lycopodium are borne at or near the bases of certain leaves and on their upper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fertile leaves // are known as sporophylls . In some species of Lycopodium , there is evidence that every leaf potentially is a sporophyll ( Figure 6.8b ) . In L. lucidulum , for example , zones of sporophylls alternate with zones of sterile leaves ( Figure 6.8b , c ) . In many others , only the apical leaves of certain branches are fertile ; they are associated in strobili . Each sporangium produces a number of sporogenous cells ; these enlarge , often separate from one another , become spherical , and function as sporocytes . They then undergo meiosis and give rise to tetrads of haploid spores ( meiospores ) . When the spores have matured , each sporangium develops a fissure through which the spores are disseminated . When the spores separate from the tetrad , they may be seen to have markings on their walls ( Figure 6.10b ) where the members of the tetrad formerly cohered . These markings are known as triradiate ridges . Any spores , living or fossil , which have triradiate ridges are assumed to have arisen from sporocytes that underwent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. obscurum , L. complanatum ) germinate very slowly in nature , and the resultant gametophytes ( Figure 6.11 ) are subterranean fleshy structures several millimeters long and devoid of chlorophyll . They contain mycorrhizal fungi and lead a saprophytic existence . // Their slow germination has been speeded in laboratory culture by subjecting them to sulfuric acid , which softens the spore wall . The spores of other species ( L. cernuum ) germinate more rapidly and form epiterranean gametophytes with fleshy bases and green , photosynthetic lobes . The bases contain mycorrhizal fungi . Gametophytes without mycorrhizal fungi have been grown in culture for some species , the gametophytes of which contain fungi in nature . After fertilization of an egg by a biflagellate sperm , the zygote develops into an embryonic sporophyte ( Figure 6.11b , c ) . The early leaves of this sporophyte lack vascular tissue , although typical microphylls develop later . The gametophytes of a number of species are quite persistent , and are recognizable long after the embryonic sporophytes have become established . The life cycle of Lycopodium is summarized in Figure 6.12. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belongs to that series of Microphyllophyta in which the leaves have basal ligules . It is a large genus containing several hundred species , many of them tropical and hydrophytic . Selaginella apoda is a creeping hydrophytic species similar to the African S. kraussiana ( Figure 6.13a ) . Some species of Selaginella , by repeated branching in one plane , produce frondose branches as in S. pallescens ( Figure 6.14a , c ) . // Several species of Selaginella , by contrast , live a xerophytic existence in arid habitats or those subject to periodic desiccation . Among these are S. lep-idophylla ( Figure 6.13b , c ) , the resurrection plant of the southwestern United States , and S. arenicola , which grows largely on exposed rocky situations in the southern United States . In some species ( S. riddellii ) the microphylls are equal in size and borne spirally on the stems ( Figure 6.146 ) . In many others ( S. kraussiana , S. lepi-dophy/la , Figure 6.13a , c ) , a dimorphism in leaves accompanies dorsiventrality // of the axes . Here the leaves are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and two ventral , the dorsal leaves being markedly smaller . In this case the plants are said to be anisophyllous ( Figure 6.13d ) , in contrast to the species with uniform leaves , which are isophyllous . The leaves themselves have single unbranched veins and stomata borne along the midrib on their lower ( abaxial ) surface . Growth of the stems is apical . In the mature region of the stem a transection ( Figure 6.15 ) reveals the presence of a cutinized epidermis without stomata , a broad cortex and , depending on the species , one or more protosteles . These may be present in the center of a cavity and connected to its walls by elongate endodermal cells . Each leaf receives a single trace from the stem stele . Long , naked axes , the rhizophores , extend from the stems to the soil , where they branch dichotomously to form a mass of small roots . The nature of the rhizophore has been a subject of dispute , some botanists considering it // to be a stem because it may , under certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roots together as a root system . The sporophylls in all species of Selaginella occur in more or less com-pact strobili , are equal in size , and arranged in four vertical rows ( Figure 6.16a ) . Sporogenesis in Selaginella is especially significant and instructive . The sporophylls of a particular strobilus produce some sporangia that develop es-sentially like those of Psilotum and Lycopodium , resulting in the production of a large number of spores ( Figures 6.16b and 6.17 left ) by the meiotic di-vision of the sporocytes . In other sporangia in the strobili of Selaginella , how-ever , development of most of the sporocytes is arrested before meiosis ; in most cases , only one sporocyte in such a sporangium completes the meiotic process , while the remainder degenerate . As the single spore tetrad forms , there is avail-able a vast amount of nutritive material originally incorporated within the aborted sporocytes . The members of the single tetrad apparently absorb this and other material , enlarging enormously until they actually distend the spo-rangial wall ( Figures 6.16c and 6.17 right ) . These large spores are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they arise are megasporocytes . In contrast , the ordinary-sized spores have come to be called microspores ( Figure 6.18 ) , although they are about the same size as the spores of many other plants that lack this spore dimorphism or heterospory . The sporangia that bear mega-spores are megasporangia ( on megasporophylls ) , while the microspores arise in microsporangia ( on microsporophylls ) . Selaginella , with its two kinds of spores , is heterosporous , whereas Phylloglossum , Lycopodium , Psilotum , mosses , liverworts , and hornworts are homosporous . In all heterosporous plants , microspores develop into male gametophytes // and megaspores into female gametophytes . Early or complete development may occur within the spore wall and is , accordingly , termed endosporic . The microspore forms the male gametophyte internally ( Figure 6.19a-c ) by nuclear and cell divisions . The male gametophyte consists largely of an antheridium composed of spermatogenous tissue surrounded by a jacket of sterile cells and of one additional cell ( the smaller of the first two formed ) , often called the prothallial cell or sterile cell . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ male gametophytes may protrude from the microspore wall before the sperms are mature . Ultimately , mature sperms are freed from the gametophytes ( Figure 6.20c ) . The female gametophytes , which develop largely within the megaspore walls in early development , arise by a process called free-nuclear division . This is initiated by the megaspore nucleus , which undergoes division not followed immediately by cytokinesis , so two nuclei lie free in the same cytoplasm ( Figure 6.19d ) . These continue to divide until numerous nuclei are formed just below the triradiate ridge . Ultimately , cytokineses occur , so the multinucleate cytoplasm is divided into gametophytic cells just under the triradiate ridge . Expansion of these cells ruptures the megaspore coat . Several archegonia are then organized on the surface of the female gametophyte ( Figure 6.19e ) . These have short necks composed of two tiers of four cells ( Figure 6.20b ) . Three tufts of rhizoids develop from lobes of the protuberant female gametophyte ( Figures 6.19e , f and 6.20a ) . Both the male and female gametophytes lack chlorophyll and are saprophytic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stored in the microspores and megaspores . In some species of Selaginella ( S. riddellii , S. peruviana ) the spores remain uninucleate , and germination does not occur until after the spores have been shed . In most others , however , germination is precocious , the spores // undergoing nuclear and cell division before they have been shed from their sporangia . The male gametophytes may mature , that is , contain ripe sperm , and the female gametophytes may have young archegonia before the micro-spores and megaspores have been shed . Fertilization occasionally occurs while the megaspores and their contained gametophytes are still in the megaspo rangia ( Dr. E. W. Ruf , Jr. , personal communication ) . Although more than one egg may be fertilized by a biflagellate sperm , usually only one zygote develops into an embryonic sporophyte ( Figure 6.19 ) . // As the latter grows , it emerges from the female gametophyte and megaspore ( Figure 6.21 ) , its foot remaining in contact with the former . In Selaginella , as in other plants , the embryonic or primary root may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) primary leaves are often called cotyledons . A number of phenomena that occur in the reproduction of Selaginella just summarized also characterize the reproductive process in seed plants . These include ( 1 ) localization of sporangium-bearing appendages in strobili , ( 2 ) heterospory , ( 3 ) endosporic and intrasporangial development of the gametophytes ( in some species ) and dioecious gametophytes . The life cycle of Selaginella is summarized in Figure 6.22 . Isoetes Although the leaves of the quillwort , Isoetes ( Figure 6.23 ) , are much larger than those of Lycopodium or Selaginella , these leaves are considered to he microphylls because they have single , unbranched veins , and their traces // do not leave gaps as they pass out from the stem stele . The various species of Isoetes are either submerged aquatics or terrestrial , living in marshy areas . The quill-like leaves arise spirally from an extremely short , fleshy , cormlike structure ( Figure 6.23 ) . The leaves are traversed longitudinally by four air chambers . A sectional view of the " corm " ( Figure 6.24 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upper portion from which the leaves arise and a lower from which the roots arise . The lower surface contains a furrow or groove from the flanks of which the dichotomously branching roots emerge . Internally , the stele consists of a central mass of xylem surrounded by phloem , sometimes called the " prismatic layer . " There are few actual conducting cells or tracheids in the xylem , apparently a reflection of the aquatic habitat of the plant . Outside the stele is a cylinder of meristematic cells called the cambium or lateral meristem . This adds mostly parenchyma cells to the cortex , the outer surface of which is eroded each season as older leaf bases disintegrate . The apical meristem is sunken in a depression at the top of the corm ( Figure 6.24 ) and growth in the length of the latter is very slow . // Every leaf of an Isoetes plant is potentially a fertile sporophyll ; like Se laginella , Isoetes is heterosporous ( Figure 6.25 ) . The massive sporangia are partially partitioned by septa covered by a tapetum , a nutritive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several hundred mega-spores , while the microsporangium produces up to a million microspores . The leaves and sporophylls of both Selaginella and Isoetes have at their bases the small appendages known as the ligules ( Figure 6.25 ) . The spores of Isoetes do not germinate until after they have been set free by decay of their sporangia , differing in this respect from the spores of Se laginella . The endosporic gametophytes ( Figure 6.26a , b ) are much like those of Selaginella ( Figure 6.19 ) , but the sperms of Isoetes are multiflagellate and only four are produced by each male gametophyte . An embryonic sporophyte , emergent from the female gametophyte and megaspore , is illustrated in Figure 6.26d . It is sometimes maintained that Isoetes , with multiflagellate sperms , per sistent leaf bases , and secondary growth in the stem , is too different from Lycopodium and Selaginella to be included in the Microphyllophyta and that it should be classified in a group of its own , but this view has not gained wide acceptance . DIVISION ARTHROPHYTA Both woody and herbaceous arthrophytes inhabited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their fossil remains are at once recognizable by the whorled arrangement of their branches and fertile appendages , and in many cases by their ridged stems . The clearly defined nodes and internodes give the plant a jointed appearance , and have suggested the name arthrophytes. // This third group of seedless vascular plants , far more widespread and abundant in Pennsylvanian times ( see Table 6.1 ) than at present , is represented in our living flora only by Equisetum ( Figure 6.27 ) . Species of this genus are known as " horsetails , " " pipes , " and " scouring rushes , " the last name being inspired by the siliceous texture of some of the species . Equisetum The whorled habit of growth of arthrophytes is well illustrated by branching species of Equisetum , such as E. arvense and E. telmateia ( Figure 6.27a ) . In these , a circle of branches originates at each node . Other species , such as E. hyemale ( Figure 6.27b ) , are unbranched during most of the growing season . If their stem apices are cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is an example of apical dominance in which auxins from the apical meristem inhibit the expansion of lateral buds . After the stem apex has differentiated into a strobilus , branches may develop at some of the nodes below . The nodes are marked by a leaf sheath composed of a number of minute , toothlike leaves joined at their bases ( Figure 6.28 ) . The photosynthetic activity of the leaves is negligible ; the bulk of photosynthesis occurs in the vertical , ribbed stems , as in Psi/otum . These erect stems arise from deeply subterranean rhizomes that hear whorls of wiry roots and may produce tu142 Seedless Vascular Plants I Chap . Six berlike structures ( Figure 6.27a ) . The roots and stems of Equisetum develop from apical meristems in which single , prominent apical cells are present . Intercalary meristematic tissue persists at each node and may give rise to adventitious roots as well as add to the length of a given internode . It has been shown that branches of E. hyemale detached from a colony of plants // may be carried downstream and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propagation . Figure 6.29a illustrates the transection of an internode of an Equisetum stem . The vascular tissue forms a circle of discrete strands , a eustele . At maturity the vascular tissue of each strand is associated with a canal ( Figure 6.29b ) that lies on the same radius as a surface ridge . The central part of the pith is absent . A prominent endodermis is present outside the circle of vascular bundles and , in some species , inside this circle as well . The cortex also has canals ; these correspond in position to the valleys of the ridged stem surface . The epidermal cells are silicified , and numerous stomata and guard cells occur on the flanks of the ridges . The stomata are sunken below the surface cells . As in the spike mosses and most club mosses , the sporangia of Equisetum are localized in strobili ( Figures 6.30 and 6.31 ) . In the common Equisetum arvense , the strobiliferous branches , which appear early in the spring , lack chorophyll . As they shed their homosporous spores , green vegetative shoots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such evergreen species as Equisetum hyemale , by contrast , the strobili arise at the tips of the vegetative shoots as these shoots mature ( Figure 6.30b ) . The appendages that bear the sporangia in Equisetum are known as sporangiophores , rather than sporophylls , inasmuch as good evidence from the study of fossils indicates that these appendages are not leaves . Each sporangiophore bears from 5 to 10 cylindrical sporangia on its adaxial surface ( Figure 6.30c ) . These sporangia contain sporogenous tissues that give rise successively during the stages of maturation to sporocytes , tetrads , and mature spores ( meiospores ) as the meiotic process takes place . The spores of the homosporous arthrophyte Equisetum are remarkable because of their appendages , the elaters , which arise by the cracking of the outermost layer of the spore wall ( Figure 6.31b ) . The elaters are exceedingly sensitive to moisture , contracting and expanding with slight variations in rel144 Seedless Vascular Plants I Chap . Six ative humidity . These elaters differ , of course , from liverwort elaters , which are cellular . The thin-walled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the internodes , curvature of the sporangiophore stalks , and bursting of the sporangia ; they germinate rapidly ( Figure 6.31c ) . The richly chlorophyllous spores of Equisetum develop on moist soil into minute , moundlike green gametophytes ( Figure 6.32a ) . These grow at their margins and their rhizoids penetrate the substratum . The gametophytes consist of solid tissue near the substrate and bear green lamellate branches that rise above the substrate ( Figure 6.32a ) . There is good evidence that the gametophytes are of two kinds with respect to the production of sex organs . Some produce only antheridia , while others produce archegonia first and antheridia later . This arrangement , which occurs also in certain ferns , is a mechanism that favors out-crossing or cross-fertilization , but one which also makes possible self-fertilization . The antheridia are borne near the apices of the photosynthetic lamellae and , accordingly , above the surface of the sub strate . The sperms are multiflagellated . The archegonia are borne on the solid tissue at the base of the lamellae . Their necks have four rows of neck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maturity . In Equisetum , after fertilization , a number of zygotes develop into spo rophytes ( Figure 6.32b ) . These consist in the juvenile stage of an absorptive foot , an erect shoot composed of nodes and internodes , and a radicle , which penetrates the soil . Apical growth of both the root and shoot soon establish // the young sporophyte as an independent plant , although the gametophyte is long-persistent in laboratory cultures . SUMMARY The Microphyllophyta and Arthrophyta , and probably the Psilotophyta , represent ancient lines of plant life with few present survivors . These groups can be traced back in the fossil record through the Devonian ( see Table 6.1 ) . Although living members of these groups are herbaceous , relatively small , in146 Seedless Vascular Plants I Chap . Six conspicuous plants , woody treelike members were abundant during the Carboniferous ( see Table 6.1 on p. 120 ) . Generally , the living representatives are either leafless ( Psilotophyta ) or microphyllous ( Microphyllophyta ) , although the leaves of Equisetum may be much-reduced megaphylls . The sporangia of these plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in Psilotophyta and Equisetum ) or in association with leaves ( as in Microphyllophyta ) . The sporangium-bearing appendages of Equisetum , Selaginella , and most species of Lycopodium are grouped in stro-bili . All the living genera alternate a dominant , free-living sporophytic phase with a less conspicuous gametophytic phase . Selaginella , however , exhibits ex-treme reduction of the gametophytic phase along with a tendency to retain the gametophytes upon the sporophyte , both of which are characteristic of seed plants ( see Chapters 8 and 9 ) . The affinities of Psilotum in relation to the fossil record are not clear . CHAPTER SEVEN Seedless Vascular Plants ll ; Division Pteridophyta and Fossil Seedless Vascular Plants DIVISION PTERIDOPHYTA Of the seedless vascular plants , the Psilotophyta , Microphyllophyta , and Ar-throphyta have few representatives in our present flora . By contrast the Pteridophytat ( ferns ) , although probably equally ancient in origin ( see Table 6.1 ) , apparently have been more successful in competing for survival . This chapter includes both an account of the Pteridophyta and a comparative sum-mary of the seedless vascular plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aesthetic appeal of their foliage , ferns are widely culti-vated and appreciated . They are often used as ornamental plants in temperate and tropical gardens as well as in conservatories . The species with large , finely divided leaves are highly prized by connoisseurs of foliage plants . Some ferns , however , have simple leaves , that is , leaves without divided blades . The wiry root mass of certain ferns ( e.g. , Osmunda ) is sometimes used as a substrate for growing epiphytic orchids . The representatives of the three groups of vascular cryptogams discussed in Chapter 6 were leafless ( psilotophytes ) , microphyllous ( club and spike mosses ) , or characterized by much-reduced leaves ( arthrophytes ) . In striking contrast to these are the ferns ( Figures 7.1 and 7.2 ) , which , like the seed plants , have megaphylls . The latter , it will be recalled , have branching veins , and the emergence of their traces leaves gaps in the vascular tissue of the stem ( see Figure 5.17b , d ) , except in a few genera where there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even in the mind of the layperson , the leaf is the dom150 Seedless Vascular Plants II Chap . Seven inant organ of the fern plant , and this impression has a sound scientific foundation . The ferns exhibit considerable diversity of habitat and growth habit . At one extreme are the erect-stemmed , large-leaved tree ferns that grow in tropical rain forests ( Figure 7.3a ) and even on exposed hillsides as they do near Auckland , New Zealand ; tree ferns may exceed 75 feet in height . At the other extreme are small aquatic organisms such as Salvinia and Azolla ( Figure 7.13 ) . A large group of ferns that are intermediate in size includes the familiar cultivated varieties and the natives of shady ravines and woodlands in both the temperate zones and the tropics . As a group , ferns thrive best in moist , shady environments , although a few inhabit rock fissures in bright sunlight ( the latter are subject to periodic desiccation , however ) . Ferns are , with the rarest exceptions , perennials . In the temperate zone , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often subterranean rhizomes . The portions of the leaves above // the soil die at the end of each growing season ; a new set of leaves , already developed near the rhizome apex during this growth season , is elevated the following spring . Vegetative Organization The fern leaf is the dominant organ of the plant , except perhaps in the tree ferns , in which the leaf is challenged by the trunklike stem . In most ferns , the leaves have a unique arrangement in the bud known as circinate vernation . By vernation is meant the arrangement of leaves in the bud . In circinate vernation the lower or abaxial surface of the leaf during early development consistently grows more rapidly than the upper surface , this resulting in the coiling of the leaf . The large , circinate leaves of certain ferns have suggested the name " fiddle head . " This comparison is the more apt , because in a number of ferns the fiddle heads are covered by brown scales . Fern leaves may be either simple , with undivided blades , or compound in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attached to a rachis , a prolongation of the petiole . Stomata and guard cells occur predominantly in the lower epidermal layer ; the upper and lower epidermal layers are cutinized , and enclose a mesophyll region rich in chloroplasts . The mesophyll is traversed by strands of xylem and phloem , which form the veins . The stems of most ferns other than tree ferns are prostrate and fleshy , at the surface of or under the soil . Their apical meristems in many instances contain tetrahedral apical cells from which cellular derivatives arise in three ranks . In such a fern as the climbing fern , Lygodium ( Figure 7.3b ) the stems are small , while the rachises of the compound leaf undergo long-persistent apical growth and " climb . " The wiry roots of ferns originate among the leaf bases . The addition of secondary tissues by cambial activity does not occur in most ferns , and even the stems of tree ferns are entirely primary in origin . The stems of a few ferns contain protosteles , but in most they are siphonosteles or dictyosteles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fern stems is via single-celled tracheids ; vessels ( multicellular , perforated tubes ) do occur , however , in the xylem of the bracken fern , Pteridium , and in Marsilea , as they do sparingly in Selaginella and Equisetum , discussed in Chapter 6 . Reproduction As in all vascular plants , the commonly seen plant itself is the sporophyte , and , accordingly , at maturity it develops sporogenous tissue . In the common ferns , here under consideration , this tissue is borne on modified segments of leaves , or on abaxial ( lower ) surfaces of the vegetative leaves them152 Seedless Vascular Plants II Chap . Seven selves ( Figure 7.4 ) . The fertile regions on fern leaves that bear sporangia are known as receptacles , and the group of sporangia upon a single receptacle is called a sorus . In many species , but by no means in all , the sorus of sporangia is covered during development by a flap of epidermal tissue ( a true indusium , Figure 7.4a , b ) or by the inrolled margin of the leaf ( a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sporangia of some ( mostly tropical ) ferns are rather massive and thick-walled , and produce numerous spores , as do those of the club mosses , spike mosses , and Equisetum . Although a few genera are heterosporous , most are homosporous . In the more familiar ferns , such as Adiantum , the maidenhair fern , and Thelypteris , the lady fern , the numerous sporangia , grouped in sori on the backs or margins of the leaves , are comparatively small , thin-walled , and long-stalked ( Figure 7.5a ) ; these sporangia produce only from 32 to 64 spores . Such spores ( meiospores ) arise by meiosis from sporocytes , and at ma turity their walls thicken with a dark brown , impervious substance , resulting in the brown color of the mature sori . The sporangia differ from those of other vascular cryptogams and seed plants in origin and in a number of other respects , and are said to be lepto sporangiate , in contrast to eusporangiate sporangia . In the origin of the latter , a single superficial meristematic cell , or more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form two layers of cells . By further divisions , the outer layer forms the sporangial wall and the inner the sporogenous tissue . The method of sporangial ontogeny differs from that in common ferns , the leptosporangiate pattern , in which each sporangium arises from a single su perficial meristematic cell that undergoes approximately periclinal division ( Figure 7.6 ) . Here the major portion of the sporangium , both wall and spo154 Seedless Vascular Plants II Chap . Seven rogenous tissue , develops from the outer product of the periclinal division . There are other differences between eusporangiate and leptosporangiate spo rangia , which may be summarized as follows : // A few ferns produce sporangia somewhat intermediate between the eusporangiate and leptosporangiate types . The sporangia of common ferns are attached to the receptacles by stalks . Several types of cells comprise the sporangial wall . In addition to the ordinary sporangial wall cells , which have transparent cell walls , a specialized layer of thick-walled cells , the annulus , runs vertically around the sporangium . It is interrupted at one point by several thin-walled lip cells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ultimately shrivel when the spores have matured , exposing the sporangia ( Figure 7.4b , e ) . The spores are ejected from the sporangia , which crack open ( Figure 7.5b ) in the region of the delicate lip cells as the thickened cells of the hygroscopic annulus , a ringlike layer of cells , contract and then expand suddenly . This serves to catapult the spores into the air . Tremendous numbers of spores are produced by ferns , but the special requirements of most species for moisture and shade effectively reduce the number of gametophytes that develop from these spores . Spores that are deposited by air currents upon sufficiently moist soil and rocks germinate within 5 to 6 days ( Figure 7.7a ) and initiate development of the gametophyte . Early in germination , a colorless rhizoidal cell arises at the base of the filament of green cells ( Figure 7.7a ) . Most fern spores require light for germination , those of the bracken fern , Pteridium aquilinum , being an exception . The early cell divisions are all in the same plane or direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wavelength , an apical cell is formed in the terminal cell of the filament , which begins to cut off cellular derivatives in two directions . As a result , a flat spatulate structure ( Figure 7.7b ) develops with the apical cell in a slight depression . It has been demonstrated in one Thelypteris-like fern that extracts of the sporophytic roots inhibit the development of gametophytes from spores of the same species . This may explain the usual absence of gametophytes from the immediate vicinity of fern sporophytes . The central portion of the developing gametophyte is several cell layers thick , but the wings have only one layer . Additional rhizoids emerge from the cells of the ventral surface and penetrate the substrate . When the germinating spores are well separated , the resulting gametophytes are heart-shaped and may in some species approach 0.5 inch ( 1.2 centimeters ) in diameter . The fern gametophyte was long ago designated the prothallus or prothallium , as it was known to be the precursor of the fern plant even before its sexual function was clearly understood . As well-nourished , monoecious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spores have been planted in laboratory culture ? they develop antheridia and archegonia normally on their ventral surfaces ( Figure 7.7c ) . The archegonia have their basal portions ( venters ) sunken in the central cushion of the gametophyte . They have four rows of neck cells in their rather short necks . The antheridia ( Figure 7.7c ) are globose structures consisting of spermatogenous cells surrounded by three jacket cells . Two of these are ring156 Seedless Vascular Plants II Chap . Seven like , while the most distal serves as a cover cell . The sperms are multiflagellated , like those of Psilotum , Isoetes , and Equisetum . It has been demonstrated that development of antheridia in the gametophytes of certain ferns is enhanced by the addition of antheridiogen to immature gametophytes . Antheridiogen is a substance produced by somewhat precocious gametophytes , which themselves produce archegonia . This is a mechanism that favors cross-fertilization . Later , the gametophytes , which formed antheridia under the stimulus of antheridiogen , also develop archegonia , so that provision for self-fertilization also is present . A somewhat similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cross- and self-fertilization in Equisetum . It is of interest that antheridiogen may also bring about germination of fern spores in darkness . // Slight accumulations of moisture between the substrate and the ventral surface of the gametophyte suffice to open both the antheridia , which dis charge the multiflagellate sperm , and the necks of mature archegonia . The cells inside the necks of the mature archegonia dissolve and are extruded ; thus , a moist passageway develops through which the sperms swim to the mature eggs . The eggs of several archegonia may be fertilized , but usually only one of the zygotes develops into a juvenile sporophyte ( Figure 7.9 ) . The sporophyte development , which is very rapid in the common garden and woodland ferns , is initiated by three successive nuclear and cell divisions of the zygote within the archegonium , forming what is called an octant ( Figure 7.8 ) . By further cell divisions , an embryonic root , leaf , stem , and foot are organized . The foot seemingly functions in nutrient absorption from the ga metophyte . In many ferns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emerges through the apical notch . The stem develops slowly , but ultimately it produces additional leaves . The first few leaves of juvenile ferns differ from those of the mature sporophyte . As growth continues , the later-produced leaves finally come to resemble those typical of the adult species . When the minute sporo phyte has become established , the membranous gametophyte dies . The ga metophyte generation , then , in the ferns , as in other seedless vascular plants , is relatively short-lived and simple in structure . The sporophytic phase is dom inant in the life cycle . The fern life cycle is summarized in Figure 7.10 . The time required for ferns to complete their life cycles from spore to spore varies with the species . The longest segment of the cycle is taken up with the maturation of the young sporophyte to the stage where it can produce spores . The shortest complete cycle recorded is that of the annual fern , Cer atopteris thalictroides , a floating aquatic of warm waters , often cultivated in aquaria ; its life cycle can be completed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by contrast , requires about 18 months under greenhouse conditions . In a number of species of ferns , the gametophyte stage either fails to develop any sex organs at all , or lacks archegonia or antheridia . In such cases , the vegetative tissue of the gametophyte , below its apical notch , develops with-out fertilization into a juvenile sporophyte that then matures . This is the phe nomenon of apogamy , the development of an embryo without union of // gametes . In such ferns , sporophyte and gametophyte have the same chromosomal constitution ( 2n ) , further evidence that , as we noted in the mosses , sporophytes and gametophytes are not merely the expression of diploid and haploid chromosome complements . An additional phenomenon that occurs in ferns is apospory , already cited in Chapter 4 on mosses . If the leaves of young sporophytes are incised at their margins , aposporic regeneration to form 2n gametophytes occurs . The preceding paragraphs have emphasized the organization and reproduction of ferns such as Adiantum and Thelypteris , which are abundant and conspicuous representatives of the fern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Microphyllophyta , and Arthrophyta are relatively small groups , together probably not numbering more than 1,200 to 1,500 species , but the Pteridophyta , the ferns , comprise about 10,000 species . Accordingly , considerable diversity is apparent among them . In illustration , a brief account follows of certain aquatic ferns and certain primitive , eusporangiate ferns . The Heterosporous Water Ferns . These include the amphibious genera Marsilea , Regnellidium , and Pilularia ( Figures 7.11 , 7.12 ) , and the strictly aquatic genera Salvinia and Azolla ( Figure 7.13 ) . Marsilea may be mistaken for wood sorrel ( sour grass ) or for four-leaved clover by the layperson . This genus grows in or at the margins of shallow bodies of water or in marshy meadows , the cloverlike leaves arising alternately from prostrate stolons ( Figure 7.11a ) that are rooted at the nodes . The young leaves are circinately vernate , and the two pairs of leaflets are dichotomously veined . The stomata of the floating leaflets occur only on the upper surfaces . The sporangia , which are small like those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They develop within sporocarps ( Figure 7.11a ) that are probably modified leaflets , brown , hard , and nutlike at maturity . Marsilea is heterosporous . Two kinds of sporangia ? megasporangia and microsporangia ? are present within the sporocarp , each megasporangium containing only one ovoid megaspore at maturity . Unlike those of Selaginella , the megaspores and microspores of Marsilea do not germinate until they have been shed into the water by disintegration of the sporocarp wall . Germination can be hastened by cutting or filing away a segment of this wall . When such has been done , the gelatinous contents of the sporocarp become hydrated and swell ; in expanding , they carry the sori of microsporangia and megasporangia out into the water ( Figure 7.12a ) . The megaspores and microspores ( Figure 7.12b ) then germinate rapidly to form small ephemeral male and female gametophytes . After fertilization by a large ,                     