@@773699

txt Economics in Plain English the question that must be answered before any data are collected , before any laws theorized . " What does it mean for something to be economical ? " might be called the metaquestion of economics . Two hundred years ago , Adam Smith proposed a metaanswer that has never been seriously challenged : Economics is about wealth creation , and wealth-creating choices are ( or should be ) made by comparing the amount of time , labor , resources , and capital invested in a project with the return on that investment ? and with alternative investments and organizations of production . In Smith 's famous description of a pin factory , it is more " economical " to employ twenty people to make 40,000 pins a day , breaking down the work into many separate tasks , than to employ the same number of workers , each working alone and performing every task ? with all of them producing a total of , say , 1,000 pins a day . In Smith 's conception , economics is fundamentally a system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more pins , more food , more real wealth ? out of existing resources . But this seemingly straightforward approach to the goals of economics , says Schumacher , is not all-comprehending . It leaves out what should be a critical factor : the development of the worker . In Smith 's formulation ? as in the industrial system ? labor is treated as an " input " to production , rather than as an end in itself . But in what Schumacher calls a " Buddhist " economy , guided by the principle that work and leisure are not antagonistic but complementary , with both contributing to the development of mind and body , work might be defined equally in terms of worker and - product . The aim of economics would be to enable people to develop their faculties 40 Why Economists Disagree and not just to turn out goods . The goal of economic activity ought not to be to produce as much as possible , but to en-able people to gain the most utility and comfort while using up the least amount of resources ? especially irreplaceable resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to indus-trial growth might be only decades away ; mankind should learn to live within those severe constraints while there is still time.5 Many economists find such fears groundless , contending that somehow science and technology will always find a way to expand the world 's " finite " resources ? or to draw on those of the universe . Nevertheless , the debate over the limits to growth has served to focus attention on the longer-run goals of economics and the ethical issues raised by rapid depletion or pollution of the earth 's resources . The Clash Among Values and Goals Ethics has been moving up on the agenda of economics as economists become increasingly aware of the necessity of working on the goals of economic policy . Goals are value-laden , rich in ethical content . What are the obligations of a rich society to a poor one ? What do we mean by equality ? Is it in conflict with efficiency , and if so , how is the conflict to be mediated ? A growing number of economists now be-lieve that the economist must concentrate more on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goals are set and conflicts resolved among such goals as economic growth , efficiency , equity , security , and stability . Many economists still consider that goals , in their specific forms , should be taken by the economist as " given " ? that is , 41 Economics in Plain English given by the society in general or by particular policy makers . They have maintained that social and economic goals are subjective , and that economists are no better qualified than anyone else at setting them . But this self-limiting position has led to a most unhelpful vagueness on the part of economists in an area crucial to the entire realm of economic and social policy . In economics as well as politics , the clash over values and goals is frequently the heart of the problem . Ethical issues are not absent from the marketplace . A freemarket system depends on fairness , trust , and integrity among buyers and sellers . Power is not equally distributed in the marketplace , nor are information and knowledge ( which are a form of power ) ; hence the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Harvard , a Nobel laureate in economics , has said that one way our economic system adapts to the unequal distribution of information and knowledge is scarcely mentioned in economists ' models ? the development of ethical codes by the members of a profession . Every profession owes its function to the inequality of information between the professional and his client . But that is a difficult situation for the market to control with fairness to both professional and client . A patient has little protection against a physician 's recommendation of unnecessarily costly treatment other than ethical constraints on the doctor 's economic behavior . ' In every contract , ethical elements enter ; no market could function without them . This also holds for economists in the market of ideas . The deepest divisions among economists stem from their different political and ethical beliefs and from the different economic and social interests they represent , whether con-42 Why Economists Disagree sciously or unconsciously . Perhaps the best thing one can do about these sources of difference among economists ? and of the resulting confusion to their clients and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values , politics , and interests out into the open . Meanwhile , let the buyer beware . How Much Dissension ? Periodically , individual economists seek to refute the charge that they always disagree or , as the joke goes , if all the economists were laid end to end , they would never reach a conclusion . In the midst of the debate over the budget for the fiscal year 1986 , seven former chairmen of the Council of Economic Advisers , who had served both Republican and Democratic Presidents , issued a joint statement expressing their deep concern about the size of the projected deficits in the Federal budget for the next several years . The seven ? Walter W. Heller , Gardner Ackley , Paul W. McCracken , Alan Greenspan , Charles L. Schultze , Murray L. Weidenbaum , and Martin Feldstein ? declared : " Despite our different views on some matters , as professional economists we are of one mind about the fundamental dangers which the continued existence of such deficits poses for the nation . Most seriously , continued Federal deficits of the amounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation 's economy . Even in the nearer term , however , the persistence of massive Federal borrowing during a period of economic expansion can bring in its train mounting risks to the maintenance of economic stability at home and in the world economy . " ' 43 Economics in Plain English The group said that " as a practical matter " it would be difficult to restore budgetary balance without some contribution from each of four areas : reductions in the rate of growth of " mandatory " entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare ; reductions in other domestic spending ; a scaled-back increase in military spending ; and a tax increase . Various combinations of these four elements could do the job , they said , adding that they did not agree among themselves " on the best mix . " The choice would involve balancing many values , a number outside the domain of economics ; and " like any group of citizens , our value structures differ . " But Herbert Stein , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Richard Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think military spending should be cut . In an article in The AEI Economist , 8 published by the American Enterprise Institute , Stein contended that any military cutbacks would weaken national security , and he would not take that risk " in order to increase private consumption in America in 1990 by another 2 or 3 percent . " Stein recognized that virtually no one who calls for military cutbacks says he or she wants weaker armed forces : almost all insist they want defense that is as strong as before , but cheaper . But , he argued , stretching out military programs would provide diminished security in the years immediately ahead , and waste could not be eliminated without reducing military strength . " The most prudent assumption , " said Stein , " is that if the defense budget is cut from $300 billion to $270 billion , to be allocated by the same organizations and people as at present , with the same incentives , we will get about the same proportions of strength and waste from the $270 billion as we would have got from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and also less strength . 44 Why Economists Disagree However , William W. Kaufman , a defense expert at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , disputes the proposi-tion , apparently accepted by Stein , that increased defense spending automatically leads to increased military strength . In an analysis published by the Brookings Institution , ' Mr. Kaufman concluded : " Too many programs are being funded too rapidly . Duplication is excessive , and the misallocation of funds is such that carrier battle groups and penetrating bombers receive the lion 's share of the appropriations , while the more essential ground forces , close-air-support aircraft , and fast sealift do substantially less well . " Kaufman did not accept Stein 's assumption that the mili-tary decision-making process and incentives would remain the same and hence that the proportions of waste and strength at any given spending level will remain the same . Instead , he contended that " at the root of the current failure is a decision-making system that has become a parody of modern defense management . " He said that at the Pentagon , " since the advent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back into vogue , but there has been a full-scale retreat to the feudal reign of the 1950s that President Eisenhower worked so hard to end . " The services , he maintained , dominate the allocation pro-cess , and no one seriously challenges their priorities . A small number of programs , including the MX missile , the B-1B bomber , and the 600-ship Navy , he contended , were " arti-facts of the 1980 Presidential campaign and Mr. Reagan 's criticism of the Carter Administration , " and were " protected from service skepticism , bickering and cuts . " Not only on particular issues such as the defense budget but on broad questions of public policy , economists often substitute ideologies or political loyalties for detailed knowl-45 Economics in Plain English edge of the issues they touch . The dissension among the economists is no myth , as an article in the December 1984 issue of the American Economic Review by four European economists , based on a survey of nearly a thousand economists in five countries , demonstrates . The four ? Bruno S. Frey , Werner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Guy Gilbert of the University of Paris ? sought to determine whether the public is right in thinking that economists disagree among themselves perpetually and give conflicting policy advice or whether , as its practitioners often contend , modern economics has established itself as a science enjoying a high degree of consensus . They sent questionnaires covering a wide range of economic issues to a random sample of 2,072 economists in the five countries : the United States , France , West Germany , Austria , and Switzerland . Dissension is what they mostly found . As the first criterion by which to measure consensus or dissension , the four European economists used the concept of " standardized relative entropy , " which condenses the four response categories into one . If there were perfect consensus among all who responded to a particular proposition , the entropy score would be zero ; if there were no consensus at all , the score would be one . Hence , the closer to zero , the greater the agreement ; the closer to one , the greater the disagreement . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high degree of dissension . Their second criterion compared the extreme answers : the percentage of " generally agree " responses to those that were " generally disagree , " for each proposition . For example , of all respondents in the five countries , 68.5 percent disagreed with the statement : " Wage-price controls should be used to 46 Why Economists Disagree control inflation , " and just 9.8 percent agreed . But there were nearly equal divisions on other propositions , such as whether the government should index the income tax rate structure for inflation or whether effluent taxes represent a better approach to pollution control than imposition of pollution ceilings . Only 7 of the 27 propositions were generally supported or generally rejected by more than 50 percent of the respondents , and only 3 propositions were supported or rejected by 60 percent or more . The propositions that received the highest degree of consensus were those that endorsed the price system as an efficient mechanism for social choice . But there was a high degree of dissension on issues involving regulation , the trade-off between inflation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of income , the nature of the " corporate state , " the advantage of cash over in-kind payments , the negative income tax , and monetarism ? the doctrine that the central bank should increase the money supply at a fixed rate ; 52.6 percent disagreed with that proposition . Economists usually maintain that there is greater agreement among them on positive ( analytical ) questions than on normative ( policy ) issues , and more on microeconomic than on macroeconomic questions . But this survey found no statistically significant evidence to support that view . The investigators found a major cause of dissension to be differences in national culture and history , as well as current economic and political conditions . American , German , and Swiss economists tended to be strong supporters of market solutions while French and Austrian economists were more likely to favor government intervention . Until economists face up to the real nature of their disci-47 Economics in Plain English pline , the dissensions among them will continue to breed public confusion , and the pretense of a consensus among its practitioners , under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the analyses and counsel of economists . // The Language of Economics In every special field , including sports , crime , and the stock market , words have special meanings for the specialists . Thus , when the economist talks about the " consumption function , " he is not necessarily showing off but simply using a term to describe a specific mathematical relationship ? the extra spending on consumer goods that results from extra income . There is no other name in the English language for this concept ? unless you prefer to call it " the marginal propensity to consume " or " the propensity-to-consume schedule . " But it is an important concept . It is crucial to understanding how the economy works and to analyzing the probable effects of a tax cut or a boost in government spending . This is not to say that , in talking to ordinary citizens , economists have to use such terms as " consumption func-49 Economics in Plain English tion . " Certainly they should not . In talking to the public , the best economists do n't need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material well enough to put it simply and exactly , in ordinary language . This has some advantages even for the specialists themselves . For jargon can limit , distort or even poison the thinking of those who use it habitually . It can easily degenerate into fakery and display . The Three Languages of Economics Paul Samuelson used as the motto for his pathbreaking Foundations of Economic Analysis the remark of J. Willard Gibbs , a famous mathematician , that " mathematics is a language . " ' ( He said this at a Yale faculty meeting on language requirements . ) Actually , economists have their choice among three languages ? mathematics , Economese , and ordinary English ( or any other ordinary language ) . Every idea can be expressed in all three languages ; for instance , here are three ways of expressing our concept of the consumption function : Table 50 The Language of Economics Each of the three languages has its strengths and weaknesses . Mathematics , when correctly used , is the most concise and exact . It has the great virtue of being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instrument for analyzing problems , quantitatively and logically . But , quite apart from its lack of color and resonance , mathematics has the enormous disadvantage as a language of being incomprehensible to most of the general public and , in its higher forms , even to most economists . And mathematics may force the writer into so high a level of abstraction as to lose contact with economic and social reality . Economese provides tags for concepts and theories that economists find convenient or necessary to use in talking to one another . But Economese is almost as difficult for the public to understand as mathematics ( sometimes more so ) . Plain English has the advantages not only of intelligibility but , at its best , of cleanliness , resonance , rhythm , and beauty . It is supple ? and , for the user , mind-stretching . It forces the economist to reexamine and restate his ideas so that any reasonably intelligent person can understand them . Although it may require more time , effort , and space , the use of plain English can lead to greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reader ; it may provoke fresher and more direct observation of people and events ? the true subject matter of economics ? rather than an endless scholastic debate about the economic literature . In a democracy , economists can not be content to talk only to themselves or to a small elite . They have a critical role to play in helping to bring into being a better-informed citizenry , competent to understand economic issues and act sensibly on important public and private matters . But the citizenry ? or as much of it as possible ? has a 51 Economics in Plain English corresponding responsibility to try to understand what the economists are saying . The layman can ask the economist to get rid of his jargon , but he can not ask him to do without his concepts or theories . One can not conceive of music without rhythm , harmony , counterpoint , notes , scales , keys , chords , etc . Similarly , one can not conceive of economics without the concepts of economics . The problem is to make those con-cepts intelligible . Why Economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grasp . What do J. P. Morgan , Henry Ford , Thomas Edison , Robert Vesco , John D. Rockefeller , Bert Lance , Bebe Rebozo , and Rupert Murdoch have in common ? Well , they all made money by starting or developing businesses and by taking large finan-cial risks . Their common attribute ( with no offense intended to any of them ) might be called entrepreneurship , enter-prise , risk-taking , innovation ? and their style of thought capitalist . But it is n't always this easy to understand an ab-stract economic classification . Consider , for example : Oligopoly An industry ? such as automobiles , aluminum , gypsum , electrical generators , detergents , chewing gum , razor blades , rubber , main-frame computers ? in which a small number of firms supplies most of the industry 's output . Oligopsony A market structure ? as for sheet steel , rails , primary cop-per , leaf tobacco , fluid milk , crude petroleum ? in which 52 The Language of Economics a relatively small number of firms do most of the buying . Transfer payments Payments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployment compensation , and relief checks ? for which no goods are expected in return from the recipients of the payments . Private firms may also make transfer payments , such as corporate gifts to colleges , hospitals or other nonprofit institutions . Most laymen have trouble with the abstractions and generalizations of economics because their meanings are not clear on first sight , the terms are not defined , and the economist often seems to prefer obscurity . There is no reason why an economist who does n't want to interrupt the flow of his thought to give a full definition of " transfer payments " can not at least say , " . . . social security and other transfer payments , " with a quick gain in intelligibility to the reader . Many economists are addicted to jawbreakers and mindbogglers , such as X-inefficiency , short-term profit maximization , equi-productive effort points , residual impactees , flat-top utility-effort functions , socioeconomic influence contracts , empathy . utility , separability hypotheses , carte-blanche reference variables , etc . Some economists write English as though they were translating from nineteenth-century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Salant of the Brookings Institution has a particular antipathy toward nouns used to modify nouns to modify other nouns . When he began to run up against five-noun terms , such as terminal traffic control program category , Salant launched a campaign for a mandatory two-noun limit on economists ? Communication between the economist and the layman 53 Economics in Plain English sometimes breaks down because words in Economese look as though they are words in standard English ; the Econo-. mese word often stands for a mathematical model or economic theory which the economist knows but the layman does not . Take the word " demand , " as in the phrase " demand for oil . " To the layman , this looks like an ordinary English word that refers to how much of a product the public wants to buy . But to the economist , the word " demand " represents a mathematical model , a demand schedule showing the different quantities of oil that the public would be willing to purchase at various prices . So the layman may think of demand as a point , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Who is right , layman or specialist , working stiff or intellectual , citizen or elitist , is not a matter of taste , style , or opinion . The economist conceptualizes and defines demand as a curve because that concept is closer to reality and more useful in analysis . But , knowing that the layman may be thinking of demand as a point , the economist should promptly clarify his use of the term " demand " to increase public understanding . Seeing demand as a curve , as a function of price , is crucial , for example , to the development of national energy policy and public support of a policy to conserve fuel . The concept of demand includes other concepts , such as : Price elasticity of demand The degree of responsiveness of the demand for a good ( such as oil ) to changes in its price . Income elasticity of demand The degree of responsiveness of the demand for a good to changes in the income of consumers . 54 The Language of Economics Economic terms denoting economic theories sometimes bear the name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a nice way for an economist to achieve immortality . Thus we have : Pareto-optimality Named for Vilfredo Pareto . A state of the economy from which no possible movement could be made that would make everyone better off . ( Things are Pareto-optimal when improving my lot must worsen yours . ) Gresham 's Law Named for Sir Thomas Gresham . Bad money drives out good . ( Who would want to pay his debts with good money if he could settle them legally with bad money ? ) Gi ff en 's Paradox Named for Sir Robert Giffen . When prices of inferior ( that is , lower quality ) goods rise , people will buy more of them . ( Rising prices of certain " inferior " goods , such as potatoes , cut into people 's income so much that they buy more of the inferior goods to stay alive . This happened during the potato famine in Ireland in 1845 . ) Slutsky 's Proposition Named for E. Slutsky . This indecent-sounding proposition holds that the moving average of a random series oscillates . Indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so easy for economists to find business cycles in any complex mass of data over periods of time . So we have Kitchin cycles ( 40 months long ) , Juglar cycles ( 1 Juglar equals 3 Kitchins ) , Kondratieff cycles ( 18 Kitchins equal 1 Kondratieffhence the K cycle is said to occur every 50 to 60 years ) . 55 Economics in Plain English In a celebrated sentence in his witty presidential address to the American Economic Association in 1961 , Samuelson spoke of his esoteric work on " substitutability relations in **34;277;TOOLONG matrices of MosakHicks type . " Economists think it is classy to use the names of other economists adjectivally ? as in Keynesian , Pigouvian , Marshallian , Ricardian , Walrasian , Paretian , etc . Latin phrases also lend a touch of class ? especially ceteris paribus ( " other conditions being equal " ) and pari passu ( " with equal progress " ) , that is , when one variable changes simultaneously and equally with another . The Art of Euphemism Economese is sometimes productive of delightful euphemisms , some of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus , economic panic gave way to depression and , when depression became too painful , to recession . Similarly , poor and backward countries gradually evolved into underdeveloped countries , which then became less developed countries ( LDC 's ) , and finally emerged as proud developing countries . On the other hand , rich countries became developed countries , and ? in the current ideological climate at the United Nations ? may eventually wind up as overdeveloped countries ( OC 's ) . An economist might have written : Objective consideration of contemporary phenomena compels the conclusion that success or failure in competitive activities exhibits no tendency to be commensurate with innate capacity , but that a considerable 56 The Language of Economics element of the unpredictable must inevitably be taken into account.3 Actually , however , that sentence is a translation by George Orwell of the verse from Ecclesiastes that goes : I returned , and saw under the sun , that the race is not to the swift , nor the battle to the strong , neither yet riches to men of understanding , nor yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happeneth to them all . The Concepts Behind the Jargon The job of translating genuine , original Economese into plain English is far more difficult . How would you like to try your hand at translating the following two passages : Since regulatory constraints are often inequalities , there are ranges of values for the regulatory parameters such that regulation , for the time being , has no effect on the behavior of the firm . The profit-permissibility function will then coincide with the profitpossibility function without regulation close to the Tatter 's maximum , although elsewhere the two may diverge.4 And here is a carefully constructed sentence concerning factors involved in economic growth : If we postulate a well-behaved CES production function which is first degree homogeneous in the arguments labor , L , and the simple aggregate of all land and conventional reproducible capital , Kt , it be-57 Economics in Plain English comes necessary to accept one of the two following conditions as true : either ( 1 ) the constant elasticity of substitution between labor and all capital exceeded unity , so that over the course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in relative abundance was enlarged , or ( 2 ) the elasticity of substitution was less than unity but capital-deepening technological change lowered the ratio of capital to labor when both are measured in efficiency units , rendering capital services the increasingly scarce input reckoned on an efficiency basis.5 The problem for the ordinary reader in understanding such passages is not that their authors are trying to show off nor that they are trying to soften or obscure their meaning . No , the real problem is that the concepts the economists are using ? the concepts that lie behind the words ? are unknown to the general reader , so the economist might as well be writing in Sanskrit or Urdu . You can not understand Economesc or , what is much more important , economics ? without learning its underlying concepts . // Key Concepts Can the key concepts of economics be simply stated ? Let 's try . RESOURCES : Anything that can be employed to produce economic goods or provide services ? such as arable land , oil , natural gas , minerals , forests , waterfalls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their various strengths , skills , talents , and brains ; plant , equipment , dams , generators , telephone systems , airports , airplanes , and all other forms of capital goods ; mathematics , logic , science , technology , and other forms of human knowledge , some of which are embodied in machines , some in the minds of people , and some stored in libraries , computers , etc . Resources are necessarily used in the production of goods 59 Economics in Plain English ? or , as economists love to say in one of their hoariest jokes , " There is no such thing as a free lunch , " or TINSTAAFL . Of course , strictly speaking , there is such a thing as a free lunch ? not just manna from heaven , but mother 's milk , apples that fall on your head , berries beside the road , plankton ( if you happen to be a whale ) , the pleasures of the sun in the morning and the moon at night , running brooks , fresh breezes , the oceans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods become economic goods as civilization advances . But it is well to remember that both free goods and economic goods are capable of satisfying .. . HUMAN WANTS : These are both physical and psychic , and usually both together . Food satisfies a physical want , but caviar at $500 a pound obviously does a lot more than supply calories ; so do our clothes , houses , cars , furniture , not to mention our books , films , sessions with psychoanalysts , lawyers , tennis coaches . Even doing nothing ? leisure ? fulfils a psychic want . Doing nothing may become the greatest aspiration of some people , those who aspire to the leisure class . SCARCITY : The gap between human wants and the means of satisfying them . The age of scarcity is not ending , as John Kenneth Galbraith suggested two decades ago in The Affluent Society . On the contrary , because of rapid economic growth and the drain on nonrenewable natural resources , scarcity may be increasing . To be sure , one might end scarcity by reducing human wants rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrusting aside the " limits to growth " issue , the economist sees scarcity around him everywhere , every day , 60 Key Concepts in little things as well as big ? in the strain on family budgets and government budgets , in people 's conflicting wants for more income and less work . Scarcity is really what economics is all about . Scarcity and choice . CHOICE : To economize is to choose . Each individual must choose how best to satisfy his wants by allocating his limited time and energy to different uses and by distributing his income among the goods and services he wants to buy . Each business organization must choose how to allocate its limited capital , labor , natural resources , management , and knowledge to achieve its objectives , including profits , growth , and the satisfying of public and governmental pressures . Each nation must decide how limited resources can best be used to satisfy both the present and future needs and desires of its people ? or of their leaders ( not necessarily the same needs and desires ) . At a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have the same problems of deciding what goods to produce , how to produce them , who shall get them , and how much production and employment there will be both now and in the future . Whether the problem of choice confronts the individual , a business organization or a nation , solving the problem will involve some cost . OPPORTUNITY cosT : What you give up , in making one thing , by not making something else . Since resources ( with the sole exception of knowledge in certain forms ) are finite and scarce , you can ordinarily satisfy one want only by not satisfying another want . If you 61 Economics in Plain English use a field to grow oats , you ca n't use it at the same time to grow beans . If you use a day to produce thing A , you ca n't use it to make thing B. Time itself is limited . The opportunity cost of devoting a given amount of resources to national defense , for example , is not devoting those resources to social welfare or vice versa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between guns and butter , energy and the environment , production of more goods versus more leisure , and so on , whenever resources are limited . So must individuals and businesses . COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS : An evaluation of what you spend or sacrifice in relation to what you get . This should be the basis on which you make choices and trade-offs . If benefits exceed costs , a particular use of resources makes sense , though not as much sense as some other use where the benefits would exceed the costs by even more . This principle holds for all economic decisions , whoever makes them and however the decisions are made , whether by a single decision maker or by the interaction of many decision makers in a market . MARGINALISM AND EQUILIBRIUM : Most economic decisions are about a bit more of this or a bit less of that ; we choose " at the margin . " Consumers do n't decide to give up meat altogether , if meat prices go up , but to buy a bit less of it , and substitute a bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get rid of all his workers if wages go up more than productivity , but he may decide to trim his work force and substitute machinery for workers in his effort to maintain or increase his profits . And , within a nation or the 62 Key Concepts world economy , shifts go on all the time at the margin , with some workers and producers shifting from one line of production to another , with one nation expanding its output of electronics and cutting its output of textiles , and another exporting more of its foodstuffs and importing more of its oil . All these shifts at the margin are conceived by economists as tending toward a state of " equilibrium , " in which the consumer is satisfied with his pattern of consumption and sees no advantage in further change , the businessman has done what he could in response to higher wages or other costs and pressures , and the nations have ceased sorting out their division of labor and are ready to settle for the existing market structure . Of course , no such state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change , imbalance , readjustment . Nevertheless , the concept of equilibrium has some usefulness for the economist in indicating the direction of change , and how the current problems of choice may be resolved before new disturbances occur . ECONOMIC SYSTEM : The setup in any nation that determines how resources will be used ; what goods and what services will be produced ; who will get them , and whether and how much the economy 's capability of producing goods will grow . A " command " system is one in which the government makes all those major decisions . A " market " system is one in which many firms and individuals , casting their " dollar votes " in the marketplace and interacting with each other , determine the answers . " Mixed " economic systems contain both " command " and " market " elements . Democratic socialism is such a mixture , with emphasis on public goods and 63 Economics in Plain English social control of business . Communism is basically a command system , capitalism basically a market system , but in all advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States ) each system contains an admixture of the other . Purists within each system ? hard-line Stalinists in the Soviet Union , libertarians in the United States ? would like , to the extent possible , to get rid of the disparate elements of the other system . Purists often feel highly emotional or even religious about expelling what they regard as the alien " command " or " market , " capitalist or socialist elements , as the case may be . THE PROFIT SYSTEM : Those who think they understand it are constantly berating those who they think do n't . Profits are essential to capitalism . No business can survive without some . But that is not to say that any given level of profits is economically necessary or desirable . Competition is supposed to regulate the rate of profit of any firm or industry . Profits may be very high for some industry for a period of time because of growing demand or technological breakthroughs , and the high profits are supposed to attract new resources to expand production in that industry . But profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of monopoly or oligopoly and the difficulty of entry by new firms . Profits help provide capital for business investment in plant and equipment . Businessmen can also raise funds by borrowing at banks and from other savers through new stock or bond issues , but it helps firms to have some profits to show if they ever expect to repeat the process of borrowing . 64 Key Concepts In 1977 corporate profits after taxes amounted to 6.7 percent of national income ? much less than most people believe . Several polls have found that the public generally thinks that corporate profits amount to one-third or more of national income . ECONOMIC INCENTIVES : Businessmen regard profits as the elixir of life and are inclined to treat them reverently . They grow furious with those whom they accuse of regarding profits as a dirty word . Profits , they say , are the incentive for creativity and efficiency . Profits are the preserver of liberty . Lemuel Boulware , a retired vice-president of General Electric Company and a titan of tough bargaining with labor unions , said , " Profit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonowners much more than it does the owners of a business . Profit is even the poor man 's best friend . It is the greatest engine of human betterment ever devised by man . " But non-true believers ask whether greater corporate profits and social welfare necessarily coincide . If particular companies ' pursuit of greater profits means the rapid exhaustion of a scarce resource ( such as soil or minerals ) , society may suffer , they say . Similarly , they add , the search for greater profits may influence foreign policy in dangerous or wasteful ways ( as by maximizing arms sales to the Middle East or swelling the production of military hardware for national use or storage for future use ) . In short , the cost-benefit ratio of individual firms , as measured by profits , does not necessarily correspond to the costbenefit ratios for the nation or the world as a whole . The sum of optimal , profit-maximizing decisions by firms may or 65 Economics in Plain English may not be the best decision for the society as a whole . The toughest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs and benefits ; the same resources can be shifted to many different uses , and some costs ( like that of pollution ) are hard to calculate . It is also difficult to measure potential benefits , such as those of clean air , bettereducated minds , a richer cultural scene or peace itself ( within cities or between nations ) . Practically speaking , even if one has a good idea of the national or global cost-benefit ratios and seeks to shift resources to better uses , it may be hard to get the people who control those resources to shift them or allow them to be shifted ? because of habits or vested interests . A particular company or region does n't always want to give up its defense orders ; a labor union does n't want to see jobs moved to another region or country where the benefits might be larger for the society as a whole , but not for the individual union and its members . Those who habitually praise the free-enterprise , profit , or market system do n't like to submit to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adversely , even if only in the short run . MARKETS : Minisystems ( or microsystems ? their study is called microeconomics ) in which particular goods and services are exchanged at a price , with the traders free to sell or not sell what they have for what they want . Communist systems have markets ( such as the markets for vodka or mandolins or underwear , as well as black or illegal markets ) but the state plans and coordinates the ( legal ) markets . Capitalist systems are coordinated mainly by changing prices , costs , and profits . 66 Key Concepts INTERDEPENDENCE : In capitalist systems , all markets are interdependent , with money , goods , and services flowing from market to market , from consumers to producers to workers , and so on , around and around in a " circular " way . Money flows one way and goods and services flow the other , in an ever-continuing series of voluntary exchanges . The exchanges are voluntary because each party sees an advantage to himself or herself in the trade ; thus , exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gainer + 1 loser = 0 ) but a positive-sum game in which both buyer and seller consider themselves winners ? although one may win more than the other . But if any rational buyer or seller considers himself a net loser by an exchange , the exchange will not take place . Of course , people can be gypped ? but they do not know that at the time they make the deal , or they will not make it . And some people may regret having to sell something they own at a loss or buy something at a price far above what they had intended ; but if they go ahead , it is presumably because it would cost them even more if they did not . SPECIALIZATION , COMPARATIVE ADVANTAGE , AND THE DIVISION OF LABOR : These interlinked ideas explain why voluntary exchange , with benefits to both buyers and sellers , takes place . Specialization ? the concentration of a producer ( individual , business , or nation ) on a narrower range of production than all the things it consumes ? occurs because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be used to produce more goods in total ? so that there will be a bigger pie for the different specializers to divide up if they exchange shares of what each has produced with one another . 67 Economics in Plain English Each producer has a " comparative advantage " in doing what it does best ? and trading for the rest . Just as a highly paid lawyer should not waste his time typing his own briefs ( even if he is a better typist than his secretary ) or a highly paid doctor should not paint his own house ( even if he is a better and faster painter than any he can hire ) , a nation should concentrate on what it can do best , given its limited resources . Critics of this argument contend , however , that free trade is a game stacked against labor or against poorer nations . Many labor unions in advanced countries claim that free trade undermines wage standards and shifts jobs to lowwage countries ; they reject the counterargument of freetrade advocates that a rise in total productivity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pie , insisting that many workers thrown out of their old jobs can not or will not move to the industries with " comparative advantage . " Those who recognize that there is reality to this claim often propose that government should help the immediate sufferers from free trade to " adjust " by providing subsidies to help them move or to train them for new jobs ; in effect , the beneficiaries of free trade ought to " bribe " the victims , and thereby share the benefits with them . Poor countries also contend that rich , industrial countries have profited unduly and unfairly from free trade . The prices of industrial goods produced by the rich countries , they say , are fixed by powerful industries , while the prices of their own raw materials and minerals are set in highly competitive world markets to their disadvantage . The developing countries assert that their dependence on foreign markets makes their own economic development hazardous : a shift in world market prices can cripple their growth and worsen 68 Key Concepts the misery and hunger of their people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Malthusian devil is still around , waiting to pick up stragglers , the casualties of changing market conditions . // Markets All economics is divided into two major parts : MICROECONOMICS ( micro = small ) : The part concerned with the behavior of people and organizations in particular markets ; and MACROECONOMICS ( macro = great ) : The part concerned with the operation of a nation 's economy as a whole . In this chapter we look at microeconomics , the study of particular markets , of which the two most fundamental concepts are supply and demand . SUPPLY : The varying amounts of any good that its producers or owners are willing to offer at different prices . As 71 Economics in Plain English we noted earlier in connection with demand , to the economist supply is not a point ( a fixed amount ) but a curve that relates quantity to price . In the case of supply , price and quantity are ordinarily positively correlated ; higher prices call forth increased supplies . Some suppliers are " price takers " ; they must accept as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the market . Among price takers are the producers of corn and wheat , leather and hides , coal and concrete , alcohol and ammonia , bricks and lime ? products which are relatively homogeneous and which have many producers , so that it is easy for customers to substitute the output of one producer for that of another . But some producers , called " price searchers , " have a greater measure of control over a market and look for customers willing to pay the prices they set . Price searchers include local builders or merchants or candy concessionaires in a movie theater who can raise their prices above what outside competitors charge ? because their customers find it inconvenient or more costly ( including time and transportation costs ) to go elsewhere . Some price searchers are big producers , like General Motors or the Aluminum Corporation of America , who are dominant forces in a wide market . And some are producers of highly specialized and desirable goods , such as Gucci shoes , Steuben glass , IBM computers , particular books , films , pharmaceuticals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ varying degrees of " elasticity of supply " ? the additional quantity they are willing to offer at higher prices . A few products have zero-elasticity of supply ; there is only one Hope diamond , and no matter how much anyone is willing to pay , there will never be more than 72 Markets one Hope diamond ? or one Mona Lisa , one Acropolis , one Marlon Brando . The market can bid the price of them skyhigh without increasing the supply . But few goods are unique . Some are extremely elastic in their supply ; you can get as many extra paper clips , cans of dog food , stockings , or copies of a best-selling book as you like , with little or no increase in price , or even a reduction in price over time . Supplies of most goods are more elastic in the long run than in the short , because it takes time for producers to expand their plant for making more of the product to meet increasing demand . Many goods will fall in price as the volume of production increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better technology , savings on materials , lower fixed costs , etc. ; this has been the case with radio and TV sets , ball-point pens , calculators , computers , and chickens . The general public and most politicians underestimate the elasticity of supply ; they do n't seem to believe , for example , that higher prices will bring forth more oil , or that increased supplies will keep oil prices from going through the roof . Nor do they believe that lifting rent controls in New York will bring more housing ? including existing housing ? on the market . Price is determined by the interaction of supply and .. . DEMAND : The quantity of any good that would be bought at different prices . Generally speaking , the higher the price of anything , the less of it will be demanded . One 's desire for a good is not the same as one 's demand for it . Desire has to be backed by money and a willingness to spend the money to become demand . When the price of a 73 Economics in Plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually buy more of it , depending on what he thinks an extra unit of that good is worth " at the margin " ? on what economists call its " marginal utility . " Characteristically , goods have " diminishing marginal utility " ? that is , the more you have of any particular good , the less you are willing to pay for an ' additional unit of it . If you have one auto , a second car may be worth considerably less to you , and a third may be worth far less than the cost of owning and operating one more car . A few products may seem to possess " increasing marginal utility , " so that the more you get , the more you want ? like eating pistachio nuts or drinking beer or smoking cigarettes . But sooner or later , diminishing marginal utility appears to set in . Even a billionaire may find that he has no appetite for that seventh villa , that third yacht , or that sixth wife . An exception may be drugs like heroin , on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases . Avid collectors of art , stamps , or rare books may also be slightly pathological ? their appetites grow with consumption , rather than diminish . Normally consumers , rich , poor , or middle class , vary their consumption patterns in response to prices going up or down for two basic reasons : THE SUBSTITUTION EFFECT : Using more of a now less expensive product and less of a more expensive one . If gasoline prices and taxes on " gas-guzzling monsters " go up , we may substitute smaller cars for larger ones , extra miles of commuting by bus for commuting in our own cars , or even apartments in town for houses in the suburbs or exurbs . One might even substitute status-enhancing clothes or jewelry for status-enhancing cars . 74 Markets Shoppers routinely substitute cheaper chicken for dearer veal , Tide for Bold ( or vice versa ) , etc. , juggling new market prices and marginal utilities endlessly . THE INCOME EFFECT : The effect of a price increase or decrease on the real income of a consumer . A price increase causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes it rise . With a price decrease , the consumer has more money to spend either on that good or on other goods . Ordinarily , a price cut on a particular good makes it seem like a bargain , and that pleasant experience often leads us to buy more of it . Similarly , a price increase is experienced as unpleasant , and usually causes us to buy less of it ? unless , as we noted in the case of Giffen 's Paradox , the income effect of a price increase is such that one must consume more of the " inferior good " ( potatoes or spaghetti or bread ) whose prices have risen , as a substitute for the " superior goods " ( steak or lobster or entertainment ) which one can no longer afford . The substitution and income effects , taken together , determine the elasticity of demand for any product . The demand for coffee , wine , oil , and food products ( taken collectively , not individually ) is relatively inelastic ; producers who realize this often try to restrict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the Arab oil embargo of 1973 was a perfect demonstration of how , in the face of highly inelastic demand , oil producers were able to restrict supply and greatly raise prices. * Wine growers in France and milk producers in Wisconsin have been known to spill their products on the ground in order to keep prices up , in the face of inelastic de- * The cut in oil supply was only about 10 percent ? but oil prices were quadrupled , with slight effect on consumption . 75 Economics in Plain English mand . Their aim is to keep a small increase in supply from causing a huge drop in price ? and in their own incomes . THE PRICE MECHANISM : Markets come into equilibrium at the price at which supply ( the quantity offered ) equals demand ( the quantity demanded ) . Sellers are satisfied ( in the sense that they are selling all they want to sell at that price , and would not want to sell more at a lower price ) and all buyers are satisfied ( in the sense that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not want more at a higher price ) . Market prices may move up or down ( or remain the same ) in response to a host of factors causing shifts in supply ( the whole supply curve ) or demand ( the whole demand curve ) or both together . Bad weather makes prices go up ? not just the prices of agricultural products , but of a great many other goods , ranging from steel to nightgowns , because of interruptions of production , breakdowns in transportation , power failures , etc . Changes in technology cause shifts in supply curves ; a more efficient way of making transistors brings down the prices of calculators , computers , radios , television sets , record players , recorders . Increases in the scale of production , as we have seen , often bring down certain product prices . Shrinking oil and mineral reserves contract supply , and prices move up . " Diseconomies " resulting from shrinking scales of production , as when the market for handmade pocketbooks , horsedrawn carriages , grandfather clocks , custom tailoring , and handmade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only absolutely , but relatively far 76 Markets above what they were in the old days , when skilled labor was cheaper and more abundant . Similarly , many factors can cause demand curves to swing up or down ? booms or busts in the national economy , affecting the incomes of consumers ; changes in taste ? a President may increase the national taste for chamber music or hominy grits , a popular singer may increase ( or decrease ) the taste for orange juice ; changes in " joint demand " ? a fall-off in movie attendance may shrink the demand for popcorn , a rise of interest in skiing may increase the demand for liniment and orthopedic surgery ; changes in fashion ? the Hamptons may be in , Newport may be out ; changes in the seasons , changes in military threats , changes in the livability or stench and danger of cities , changes in the public mood toward hope or despair , excitement or boredom ? in brief , changes . The price mechanism sensitively catches and reacts to all such changes . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be produced ? because benefits to producers will tend to exceed costs by a wider margin ? and human and material resources will tend to shift to those uses . If equilibrium prices of other goods move down , less of them will be produced , as the cost-benefit ratio for producers is squeezed , and resources shift away to other uses , where the cost-benefit ratios ( measured by profits ) are higher . Similarly , consumers will drop out of a market ( or buy less in it ) as their own cost-benefit ratio declines with a rising price of a particular product . Conversely , they will buy more of a product when their cost-benefit ratio improves . This is how a market economy allocates its goods and services ; the price mechanism constantly flickers out millions 77 Economics in Plain English and millions of signals . These bits of precisely articulated information help producers to decide what to produce and consumers what to consume , in order to make more money or increase their satisfactions . INCOME DISTRIBUTION : The price mechanism also is the prime determinant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since income is the return to resources owners ( including workers , who own and sell their own labor ) , as determined in the marketplace . You do n't have to like it . But whether you do or not , it is the supply and demand of particular goods and services in the marketplace ( backed up by the force of law protecting individual ownership rights ) that determine that some rock singer makes a million dollars a year and some professor of microbiology makes thirty thousand dollars and some textile worker seven thousand dollars and some luckless people nothing ( unless they get unemployment compensation or welfare ) . In the United States , the government takes a hand in changing the distribution of income . It taxes money away from some and transfers it to others . Its purported aim ( as through the progressive income tax ) is to take relatively more from the rich and ( through public education , health , housing , and other programs as well as transfers ) give relatively more to the poor . In fact , however , much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the rich ; for instance , state colleges and universities benefit the middle class or rich much more than they do the poor , and so do Federal housing loans , urban redevelopment programs , highway programs , subsidies for airports and private airplanes , grants for research and the arts , and some programs 78 Markets to preserve wildlife and the woods ( where the rich and middle class go , rarely the poor ) . This does not make such government programs necessarily wrong ; the programs may be inherently desirable ? and beneficial in the long run also to the poor ( if , for example , medical progress is fostered by research grants to the already well-off , or if subsidies to the development of solar energy ultimately protect the jobs and increase the living standards of the poor as well ) . Virtually every organized group in the society , from oil drillers to doctors to lawyers to farmers to workers to bankers to college professors to defense producers to old people to welfare recipients seeks to use the Federal government to increase its share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the operation of the market that fundamentally determines the distribution of income , although the role of government has grown increasingly important in shaping patterns . While government in the United States has not imposed an upper ceiling on individual incomes , it has put a rough floor under the lowest incomes . No one need starve or lack clothing , shelter , or health care ? if he or she knows how to get help , which is a considerable if . It is not only through government that various private groups attempt to alter the distribution of income in their favor . Discrimination against minority workers or women increases the take of male white workers , and some unions , whether openly or covertly , favor such discrimination . Management groups or university faculties may do ( and in the past have done ) the same . Government , through the equalopportunity laws , tries to correct such discrimination . The chief way that private groups seek to increase their 79 Economics in Plain English share of income is by augmenting their monopoly power in the market . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control by one seller of the production or sale of a product or service . Those who praise monopoly say it permits strong firms to do research , be nice to their workers and benefit society . Those who damn it say it milks consumers and leads to excessively concentrated political as well as economic power . COMPETITION : The opposite of monopoly ? a market in which many suppliers contend for sales and many consumers contend for available goods . Competition is considered a good way of keeping suppliers on their toes and passing benefits along to consumers . The foes of competition always insist that they are trying to prevent " cutthroat " competition ? stores that underprice " unfairly , " osteopathic physicians who take clients away from M.D.s , foreign producers who " dump " their goods at prices below costs , gypsy taxi drivers who are breaking the fee structure of licensed cabs and allegedly taking bread out of the mouths of the children of legitimate cab drivers , etc . The simple rule is : Monopolists hate competition . MONOPOLISTIC COMPETITION : The halfway house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in most major American industries . The question is how concentrated an industry must be before its market power is to be deemed injurious to the public interest . Alternatively , when can an industry be regarded as " workably " competitive ? The antitrust authorities 80 Markets and the courts are supposed to sort out that difficult issue . They tackle it hesitantly , torn between the goals of efficiency and equity , a fundamental conflict within a mixed economy . EFFICIENCY VERSUS EQUITY-AND OTHER SOCIAL GOALS : Lovers of the market system say its glory is its efficiency ; it gives the most output for any given set of resources . But critics contend that markets are not necessarily " fair " ( they may reward the greedy or tricky , not the good or even the socially valuable ) . And , add the critics , market prices do not take account of the undesirable social effects of production ? such " externalities " as filth , contamination of water and air , urban congestion , ruin of land ( as from strip mining ) , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , does the market price provide a reward for favorable externalities , such as housing that improves the whole community , or the growth of skills and knowledge that results from a company 's research and training programs , so that such effects are underproduced relative to social need . Markets are criticized for distributing income unequally and arbitrarily ; excessively large rewards go , say the critics , to those who got to a country first ? and their heirs . The critics contend that in advanced capitalist economies markets are dominated by producers and stacked against consumer interests . The defenders of capitalism sometimes concede that markets are imperfect , but they say that other systems are marked by complete domination of consumers by producers . In Communist countries , the state is the sole monopolist and the sole check on its own powers , as the following dispatch from Malcolm Browne to The New York Times ( dated July 19 , 1977 ) indicates : 81 Economics in Plain English Moscow ? The Soviet leadership today ordered the bureaucracy to provide more attractive food , goods , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shopkeepers with which citizens must contend . A joint party and government directive voiced the Kremlin 's displeasure with the indifferent goods and services available in the Soviet Union and elaborated goals for improving matters . But it did not specify exactly how the proposed new era of consumer welfare was to be brought about and how it was to be financed . The directive , covering six columns of print in the party newspaper Pravda , simply ordered government agencies to provide more seats in restaurants , more storage facilities for food , better designed and more attractive packaging , semiprepared convenience foods and especially frozen foods , shopping centers , vending machines and home delivery service of complete meals . The basic decisions concerning the allocation of government investment to consumer goods and the actual supply of goods are determined for five years at a time by the State Planning Committee ... . Among the specific criticisms voiced in the latest directive were these : The quality of service in stores and public eating places is falling short of the increased needs of the population . The distribution for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while these products are available in warehouses . There are cases of rude and intolerable treatment of customers . 82 Markets Many manufacturers continue to produce outdated designs for which there is no demand . Consumerism obviously has its work cut out for it in the Communist world . But can bureaucrats change the situation much simply by commanding underlings to provide better service and to show more sensitivity to consumers ' needs ? It seems improbable , because all power rests in the hands of producers , both top dogs and underlings . A command system has difficulty in distributing rewards and providing economic incentives for the host of small daily actions that add up to good service and attention to consumer needs and tastes . Can Orders of Lenin or good-conduct medals do the job for the hosts of salespeople and producers involved ? Awarding the medals is , after all , a command function that does n't change the system . Can fear be as efficient as the desire for personal gain and the daily pressures of the marketplace ? Not likely . PRIVATE GOODS AND PUBLIC GOODS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is loaded in favor of such " private " goods as autos , soap , deodorants , watches , refrigerators , clothing , etc. , and against " public goods , " such as public television , public beaches , concert halls , museums , symphony orchestras , ballets , parks , hospitals , medical services , public schools , or decent homes for the aged . Private goods are favored by the market system , say its critics , because they are easier to produce , package , sell ? and make a profit on . But champions of the market system say private goods are what customers really want . Given a free choice , they assert , people always prefer to spend their own money on whatever 83 Economics in Plain English they prefer , rather than pay higher taxes and have the government spend it for them , allegedly in their own best interests . The critics respond that people have been " brainwashed " by advertising , and corrupted by the all-pervasive commercial culture and by their desires for status and the attributes of material success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the critics , because they are hard to sell to individual customers . Since everyone shares public goods , each individual thinks , " If I do n't pay for my small share ( of a park , a school system , or public TV ) it wo n't matter much . I wo n't get less of it . Let somebody else pay . " But the champions of capitalism maintain that Communist societies do n't do any better on public goods than do capitalist societies ; if anything , they say , the Communists are less sensitive to pollution and environmental considerations , less efficient in providing public services to citizens , because they are more secretive , less democratic , less subject to being cast out by the electorate . Indeed , public goods in totalitarian societies are evaluated as to whether they will enhance the power and prolong the regime of the political authorities and the bureaucracy , not whether they serve the interests of ordinary people . However , the priorities accorded to public versus private goods are not simply a matter of consumer choices and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , once General Eisenhower , who warned against the emergence of a " military-industrial complex . " " This conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms industry , " he said , " is new in the American experience . The total influence ? economic , political , even spiritual ? is 84 Markets felt in every city , every state-house , every office of the Federal Government . We recognize the imperative need for this development . Yet we must not fail to comprehend its grave implications . Our toil , resources , and livelihood are all involved ; so is the very structure of our society . " Yet the taxpayers in the United States exert considerable pressure upon government not to spend too much on the military . It may be that a market system that conditions people to regard private goods as highly desirable personal benefits , and public goods , whether military or social , as unwelcome burdens , to be paid for by an inequitable tax system , underspends on genuine public needs . But the champions of the market insist that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and overproduced in any system where politicians and bureaucrats have too much power ? whether the system is called capitalist or Communist . With all its imperfections , they maintain , the market is still a better guide than the state to what the public really wants , and a better guarantor of efficiency in its production and fairness in its distribution . The decision of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China to give greater freedom to capitalist-style market forces and independence to a million state-owned enterprises may be the most damning indictment thus far of the failures of central planning and rigid controls of Communist states . The Chinese , under Deng Xioping , are moving further along the capitalist road , without calling it that : nominally , China would continue to adhere to Communist principles . Deng , unlike his predecessor , does not believe in great leaps forward or cultural revolutions . Even after the reforms , some 85 Economics in Plain English central planning will remain for key industries , such as steel , coal , cement , and fertilizers , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet a genuine overhaul of the centrally controlled system seems to be in the works . The most crucial change will be in the price system , which will switch from fixed prices to flexible ones responsive to changes in supply and demand . ' And the Chinese stress their determination to promote competition and provide greater economic incentives to producers to meet the needs of consumers , to increase productivity , and to innovate . The changes in China 's economic system could have a far more powerful effect on the Soviet Union than did earlier experiments in Hungary , Yugoslavia , and other Communist countries , because of China 's enormous population and the strategic threat China poses to Russia . For what the proposed changes in the Chinese system imply is acceptance by a group of top Communist leaders that the complexity of developing and operating a modern economy is incompatible with the methods of central planning and control practiced in the Soviet Union and still preached as orthodoxy through much of the Communist world . David Warsh 's book The Idea of Economic Complexity2 serves to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new technology but a higher degree of complexity , with economies consisting of a greater and greater number of " separable , analyzable parts . " Growing complexity , in economic terms , means an increasing number of different jobs , different businesses , different machinery , different goods and services ; it also means an ever greater division of labor , which means more interdependence , nationally and internationally . 86 Markets On the surface , it might seem that greater complexity would require greater control for an economy to work efficiently . But the reverse is true , as the experience of capitalist and Communist countries demonstrates . The gap between living standards in Western and Communist economies , as Warsh notes , grows greater every day . There are twenty-six centrally planned economies which , with nearly 40 percent of the world 's population , produce slightly less than 20 percent of the world 's goods . But the Communist countries account for nearly 40 percent of the world 's military spending . This huge outlay for arms helps to retard the Communists ' economic development and exacerbates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospect for the knitting together of these two blocs through extensive foreign trade is not bright , " writes Warsh . He doubts that two such different systems can really coexist peacefully when the gap between them ? material and technical ? keeps widening . " Given the exceedingly precarious balance of the arms race , " he says , " it seems to me that all the questions really worth worrying about grow out of this great inequality . " China 's decision to try a new route to narrow the gap in income and living standards is thus important not only for its own development , and possibly that of the entire Eastern and world economy , but also for international peace . That would especially he the case if China should succeed in moving forward in industry , as it has in agriculture , and establish a model for the Soviet Union . But the resistance to capitalist-style economic change in Russia is extremely deep-rooted in the upper reaches of the political ruling class , the bureaucracy and the military ; partly their resistance seems rooted in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime in the world , partly in their fear of the political consequences of lifting repression . Yet the Soviet system may be mired in endless stagnation if its leaders continue to resist the lessons the Chinese ? and many Soviet economists ? have been learning about the complexities of modern economic systems and how to deal with them . " The chief advantage of time , " said the French philosopher Henri Bergson , " is that it prevents everything from happening at once . " To this the economist Jagdish Bhagwati of Columbia University adds , " The chief advantage of economic theory is that it prevents us from considering everything at the same time . " There 's a second corollary that Mr. Warsh 's book inspires : Growing complexity requires greater interdependence among decision makers . There remain problems , including air and water pollution , congestion , crime , disease , and the arms race , which require cooperation and control . Capitalists as well as Communists still have things to learn . Ultimately , the issue may be ideology versus philosophy : Ideology : False @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest positions. * Philosophy : What you believe . Footnote // The National Economy What causes a nation 's economy to expand or contract ? What causes inflation and unemployment ? How does a national economy grow over the long run ? And how can a nation 's economic health and performance be improved ? Those are the main questions involved in macroeconomics , the branch of economics that studies the national economy as a whole . THE FALLACY OF COMPOSITION : It is often mistakenly assumed that what is true for the parts of a system is true for the . system as a whole . If you stand up at a football game , you can see better , but if everybody stands up nobody can see better . In economics , if you , as an individual , decide to save more 89 Economics in Plain English out of your income , you will increase your wealth . But if everyone in the nation tries to save more out of income , this may reduce national wealth ? by reducing , in succession , sales , the production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and ultimately national saving and investment . If you , as an individual , are able to raise your prices , that may be a good thing for your business . But if every business does the same , the obvious result will be inflation , a bad thing for the nation . Balancing the budget so that outgo does not exceed income may be a sound rule for you and your family . But budget balancing does not always make sense for the national government ; for the government to do so during a business slump when unemployment is rising would worsen the slump and increase unemployment . Cutting wage rates may enable one employer to hire more workers ; but cutting the wages of all workers may lead to fewer , not more , jobs ? since workers would have less to spend on goods . Thus , when we shift from micro- to macroeconomics , some key concepts change . The fundamental concepts of macroeconomics are not supply and demand , as in microeconomics , but aggregate supply and aggregate demand . AGGREGATE SUPPLY : The capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to produce goods and services . Aggregate supply is more or less fixed at any given time , but it can grow over time ? as the labor force grows , industry invests in new plant and equipment , the government builds more schools , highways , airports , and other capital goods ? and as science , technology , and human knowledge advance . 90 The National Economy In the short run , however , aggregate supply sets a limit on what the economy can produce , a limit that may or may not be exceeded by .. . AGGREGATE DEMAND : All the money that people , businesses , and governments spend on goods and services . Instability and hardship in a national economy result when aggregate demand and aggregate supply get out of whack . INFLATION : The form instability takes when aggregate demand grows more rapidly than aggregate supply , yanking up the general level of prices ; this is " demand-pull inflation . " An excessive increase in the supply of money causes total demand to increase too much , and hence causes inflation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial monopolies , or international cartels , driving up costs faster than productivity ; this is " cost-push inflation . " Expectations of inflation may be a self-fulfilling prophecy as every seller of goods and services raises prices and wages in an effort to keep ahead of the game ; as the wheel spins on and on , this is known as " momentum inflation . " " UNEMPLOYMENT : The form that instability takes when aggregate demand falls below aggregate supply ; this creates a " capacity gap , " with part of the nation 's labor force and some of its industrial plant standing idle . The demand for labor is a " derived demand " ? that is , derived from the demand for goods and services . The way to cure mass unemployment is to expand the total demand for the goods and services that the economy is capable of producing . 91 Economics in Plain English Unemployment also results , in the case of particular workers , from other factors , such as lack of education , or skills that employers can use and are willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ older people , or women , or minimum wage laws that set wages above the productive value of some workers , such as inexperienced teen-agers . Urban decay , social unrest , and crime doubtless contribute to unemployment . Employers may move their plants or offices away from troubled city centers to the suburbs or other states , and workers may be unable to follow because of family circumstances or inadequate transportation or housing in the new area . Rundown regions , such as Appalachia or parts of New England , may suffer high unemployment due to industrial stagnation and the immobility of labor . Unemployment resulting from social , locational , technological , and specific market factors unrelated to overall weakness in the economy is called structural unemployment . But when unemployment increases by the hundreds of thousands or millions over the course of a single year , you can be sure the change is due not to structural factors but to a business slump ? and insufficient aggregate demand . The waste due to inefficient use of resources may be greatly exceeded by the waste due to involuntary unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a person standing idle . FISCAL AND MONETARY POLICY : The two basic ways of trying to bring aggregate demand into balance with aggregate supply , and thereby to prevent either inflation or unemployment . 92 The National Economy MONETARY POLICY : The regulation by the Federal Reserve System ( or Fed , as it is called for short ) of the nation 's money supply and interest rates . In the United States , about one-fourth of all the money used to make payments consists of currency ? coins and bills ? and three-fourths consists of checks drawn against " demand deposits " in commercial banks . United States currency is minted by the Treasury and distributed to private commercial banks by the Fed . The amount of currency put into circulation depends on how much cash individuals and businesses want to hold in the form of coins or bills . Commercial banks can , in effect , create money by making loans to their customers ( loans create demand deposits against which the borrowers can draw ) . But , by manipulating the reserves of the banking system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? or must extinguish . MONEY SUPPLY : The narrow definition of the money supply , M-1 , is the sum of currency in circulation , demand deposits , traveler 's checks , and other checkable deposits ( that is , other deposits against which you can write checks ) . A broader definition of the money supply , M-2 , includes M-1 plus overnight repurchase agreements between banks , Eurodollars ( dollars held abroad , outside the control of the United States monetary authorities ) , money market mutual funds , and savings and small-time deposits . A still broader definition , M-3 , adds to M-2 large time deposits , longer term repurchase agreements between banks , and money market mutual fund balances held only by financial institutions . An even broader money-supply measure called L adds other liquid assets to M-3. 93 Economics in Plain English Thanks to the ingenuity of the financial markets , measures of the money supply are in constant flux . You can think of M-1 as the money used to buy goods and services . But time and savings deposits and other liquid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hence , one should pay attention to both the narrow and broader definitions to see how the money supply is changing . OPEN-MARKET OPERATIONS : The Fed regulates the money supply chiefly by buying or selling government securities in the " open market " ? that is , through security dealers , banks , businesses , and individual persons . When the Fed is worried about inflation , it tightens up the money supply by selling government securities . This reduces the reserves of the banks and cuts their ability to make loans to the public . When the Fed is worried about unemployment and a sagging economy , it buys government securities in the open market and thereby expands the money supply . This increases the reserves of the banks and their ability to make loans . And if individuals and businesses borrow more , this swells the aggregate demand for goods and services , and hence for labor . CHANGING RESERVE REQUIREMENTS : The Fed can also spur or retard the economy by changing the ratio of reserves that a commercial bank is required to hold against deposits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lending ability , curbs the growth of the money supply , and checks inflation . A decrease in reserve requirements does the reverse : it increases the bank 's ability to lend , spurs growth of the money supply , and tends to increase employment . 94 The National Economy INTEREST-RATE POLICY : The Fed can also try to manage the economy by influencing changes in interest rates . Lower interest rates encourage borrowing , higher rates deter it . Interest rates ? the price of money ? are particularly important in affecting the demand for housing , autos , and other goods bought on credit . The Fed can exert some influence on interest rates , both indirectly and directly . Indirectly , it can push interest rates up by making money " tight " ? that is , by decreasing the growth of the money supply , causing borrowers to bid up the price of money . Directly , the Fed controls two key rates of interest ? the Federal funds rate ( which commercial banks charge each other for overnight loans ) and the discount rate ( which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to replenish their reserves ) . The Fed may use the Fed-funds rate or the discount rate to let the banks know that it wants other interest rates to move up or down . The Fed usually asserts that it really follows the market ; but the market often follows the Fed . Federal Reserve officials contend that , at least in the longer run , it is the expectations of borrowers and lenders about the business outlook , and particularly about inflation , that determine whether interest rates rise or fall . Fears of inflation tend to push interest rates up , as lenders seek extra compensation for the loss of the value of their money , and borrowers , expecting to gain as prices rise , are willing to pay more . Conversely , a slowing of inflation tends to bring interest rates down . So the Fed insists that the only way it can act to prevent high and rising interest rates ? so unpopular with Congressmen , stockbrokers , investors , home buyers , and others ? is by preventing inflation ; that is , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fed 's critics 95 Economics in Plain English often attack it for increasing the money supply too slowly , with excess unemployment and sluggish economic growth or recession the result . FiscAL POLICY : Actions taken by the Federal government to stabilize the economy by increasing or decreasing Federal spending , increasing or decreasing taxes , and increasing or decreasing the deficit or surplus in the Federal budget . The President makes the basic plan for fiscal policy when he submits his budget to Congress every year in late January . Congress , which has the power of the purse under the Constitution , either gives the President about what he wants or struggles to alter his budget , depending on its judgment on national needs and priorities ? with the Congressional Budget Office to advise it on what would make a sensible fiscal policy to spur the economy or moderate it . The Federal Reserve has no official role in fiscal policy ? though Fed chairmen have often engaged in a good deal of criticism of the Administration 's or Congress 's fiscal actions . Constructing the national budget involves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulated or retarded . The budget is the principal national mechanism for allocating resources to the public sector or the private , and for determining priorities within the public sector . But the particular budgetary decisions on spending and taxes also need to be interrelated in order to measure their total impact on the national economy . The budget plays a major role in stabilizing or destabilizing the nation 's economy . The basic fiscal policy rules for stabilization can be simply stated : ? If the economy is suffering from inflation caused by 96 The National Economy excess aggregate demand , reduce government spending or increase tax rates , or both . ? If the economy is suffering from unemployment caused by too little aggregate demand , increase government spending , reduce tax rates , or both . STAGFLATION : Economic stagnation combined with inflation . What should fiscal policy be when the economy is suffering from the economic disease of simultaneous inflation and unemployment ? The treatment will require some combination of economic balance , juggling , guessing , luck , improvisation , and specific measures aimed at specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you must first decide whether inflation or unemployment is the more serious problem and whether the economy is moving toward worse inflation or worse unemployment . If inflation is seen as the greater menace , national fiscal and monetary policy should be aimed at restraint . But if unemployment is held to be the greater danger , fiscal and monetary stimulus should be applied . Republicans usually favor restraint , Democrats stimulus . Setting aggregate demand so that it is neither too strong nor too weak ? a fine line that may be impossible to find ? does not give the whole answer to how to deal with stagflation . If inflation persists , even without excess aggregate demand , specific attacks should be launched on the forces pushing up wages and prices faster than productivity . Efforts could be made to increase productivity as a means of curbing inflation ; for instance , you might call for an in-97 Economics in Plain English vestment tax credit or more liberal depreciation allowances to induce industry to invest more in productive equipment . But raising national productivity is extremely tough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop an ongoing inflationary spiral without putting the economy into recession is an unsolved problem . Direct wage and price controls may have some shock value , but are likely to become less effective and more disturbing to the economy as time goes by . And nowadays they lack political support . Direct controls go against the free-enterprise philosophy of the Republicans ? and against the political interests of the Democrats . Labor , strong in the Democratic camp , opposes wage controls , fearing that it will lose ground , because wages are easier to control than prices ? with the employers to help do the controlling . And business interests , which have considerable clout in the Democratic as well as Republican party , are against price controls because they see them as a blow to profits , a source of inefficiency , and a curb to their own autonomy . Yet both Democratic and Republican Administrations , under the lash of inflation and the pressures of adversely affected voters , keep looking for methods to curb the market power of business and labor . Presidents resort to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of " open mouth " policy . They seek to set standards ( " guidelines " or " guideposts " ) for noninflationary wage and price decisions . The hope is that labor and management can somehow be led to accept noninflationary wage and price standards on a voluntary basis . Thus far it has seemed like a vain hope . Stagflation also calls forth a host of proposals for reducing 98 The National Economy unemployment by means other than a more rapid increase in aggregate demand ( which , it is feared , would worsen the inflation ) . Among the proposed means of attacking structural unemployment are : public-service job programs ; youth-employment programs ; attacks on racial discrimination and other restrictive practices , such as archaic building codes and apprenticeship rules ; Federal subsidies to cities without the financial means of maintaining adequate police , fire , educational , and other services ; welfare reform , to encourage those on welfare to seek employment without a dollar-fordollar loss of welfare benefits ; community services , such as day care for young children , that would enable more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the ability of such programs to solve the structural unemployment problem , and they believe that more emphasis should be put on eliminating the minimum wage , which keeps young and lowproductivity workers out of jobs . Others think the best way to get rid of structural unemployment is not by creating public jobs for the unemployed ( as Arthur Okun puts it , " injecting the needle right in your sore throat " ) but by increasing the aggregate demand for goods , services , and labor , while using " incomes policy " to prevent inflation . Incomes policy refers to measures aimed at keeping the growth of incomes in line with the real growth of output . Thus , wage " guidelines " may specify that workers should increase their wages by only as much as national productivity grows ? by about 3 percent per year . Other guidelines or controls may be laid down for prices , interest payments , rents , profits , dividends , which are all forms of income . 99 Economics in Plain English Thus far it can confidently , although regretfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cracked , either in the United States or in Western Europe . Both inflation and unemployment dog the European economies after their long postwar boom ; countries like Germany and Switzerland , which once were heavy importers of foreign labor from southern Europe , now send those workers back home ( somewhat alleviating their own unemployment but increasing unemployment in southern Europe ) . The mysterious ailment called stagflation saps a nation 's .. . ECONOMIC GROWTH : The expansion over a period of years of an economy 's capacity to produce real goods and services . The concept of economic growth is based on an analogy with biological growth , which has been defined as a process , indirectly resulting from chemical , osmotic , and other forces , by which material is introduced into the organism and transferred from one part of it to another , so that the organism expands . Economic growth involves similar processes in economic organisms . But what is an economic organism ? It 's not the flow of goods and services that issues forth every year ( or every day or hour ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , farms , rivers , dams , banks and underlying ideas that produces the stream of goods and services . What are the forces that determine the growth of the economic organism ? To what extent can they be altered ? Economic growth is the result of two basic sets of causes . One is a set of cultural forces , including science , technology , population changes , religion , politics , and social attitudes toward work , material possessions , etc . The other is a set of 100 The National Economy economic factors affecting the possibility of accumulating capital funds and investing them in goods-producing equipment . These two sets of forces , cultural and economic , must be joined if growth is to occur . The two come together in the act of investment ; that is the genetic moment for economic growth . To provide the resources for investment , individuals , businesses , and the economy as a whole must refrain from consuming all of current output ; that is the act of saving . But it is investment that translates saved resources into productive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Economists divide investment into two broad categories : autonomous and induced . Autonomous investment creates its own demand ; induced investment represents a response to already existing demand that forces producers to increase capacity . Autonomous investment results chiefly from new techniques of production , which cut production costs ; new products , which open up new markets ; new resources , which themselves often result from new technology ; population growth and migration ; and wars ? or the " moral equivalent " of wars , such as energy crises , rioting in cities , starvation in poor countries , or " cold wars " ? contests between economic systems for hegemony over third countries . Induced investment , developing from factors within an economic system , results primarily from changes in the level of business activity , and from the relationship of costs , prices , interest rates , and profits . An economy operating far below existing capacity stifles investment ; during the Great Depression , net investment fell to zero and below ? that is , we lived off past investment , ran down existing plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth represents the capacity of the economy to produce ( the stock of its productive resources ) , it is customarily measured by changes in .. . GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT ( GNP ) : the flow of current production ? the value of goods and services produced by the economy as a whole over a given time period , such as one year . GNP is measured in two different ways : ( 1 ) the money spent to buy the output or ( 2 ) the money received for producing the output . The first is called the flow-of-product method ; the second the earnings-and-cost method . Theoretically the two should always be equal ? a dollar spent by a consumer equals a dollar received by a producer and spent for labor , electricity , advertising , or retained as profit . In computing GNP , economists count only the production of final goods and services ? the final product that reaches the consumer . For instance , GNP would include only the value of the packaged loaves of bread consumers have bagged at the checkout counter in a supermarket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wheat , the millers , the shippers , the packagers , the advertisers , the wholesalers , and everyone else involved in producing the final loaves of bread . The final value of the bread equals not the gross sales but the " value added " by everyone involved in the production process . GNP can be measured either in " current dollars " ? dollars measured at what they can currently purchase ? or in " constant dollars " ? dollars corrected for inflation relative to some base period . GNP in current dollars is also called " nominal GNP , " and GNP in constant dollars is also called " real GNP . " ( The reader in quest of data on nominal and real 102 The National Economy GNP is referred to the Appendix on page 204 . ) Real GNP is computed by dividing nominal GNP by a price index called " the GNP deflator " ; this measures a sample of prices covering the whole national economy . There are four major components of GNP : ( 1 ) consumer spending on final goods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumer outlays on new housing ; ( 3 ) government spending on goods and services ; and ( 4 ) net exports ? the difference between exports and imports . GNP is a useful measure of total economic activity , but not of changes in social well-being . For instance , GNP counts the output of chemicals that pollute air and water the same as equipment to clean up air and water . GNP counts handguns that kill the same as medicine to save life . It does not discriminate between the values of cigarettes and vitamins . GNP puts no value at all on leisure time . And GNP data are not corrected for the destruction of natural resources . The analysis of past changes in GNP and its components provides a basis for forecasting the national economy . ECONOMIC FORECASTING : Divining the future . How do economists forecast ? 1 The basic techniques of the art of prophecy have not changed much since ancient times ; everything one can say about the future must be based on knowledge about the present and the past . Economists still use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the assumption that the future has already been determined . The stock market is in an uptrend right now , so the trend will continue . The consumer is spending more , so the consumer can be expected to go on spending more . Business is hopeful , so business will continue hopeful ? and 103 Economics in Plain English capital spending will recover . ( This is all not quite as loony as it sounds ; trends do continue ? until they change . The safest prediction about tomorrow 's weather is that it will not be too different from today 's . ) Then there is the symptomatic or " straws in the wind " technique of prediction ? the reading of thermometers , barometers , and economic indicators ( statistical series that plot the business cycle ) . The index of leading indicators is up , says the economist , so there is a good chance that business will move up . But you can be sure of this only when the movement of the leading indicators has been confirmed by the coincident and lagging indicators. * @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is the form book . Many economists follow the humorist James Thurber and say , " You could look it up . " For example , " America 's economic recoveries have , since Tojo 's war , run for an average of 34 months . By this ready reckoning the current recovery , now 28 months old , is nearing senility " ( The Economist , August 6 , 1977 ) . Footnote 104 The National Economy More profoundly , say the scholars of the form book , history is cyclical ; it waxeth as it waneth . Economic philosophers can always cite history to suit their purposes , as the Devil cites scripture and the statisticians cite statistics . Modern mathematical economists ( " econometricians " ) nowadays employ , for forecasting purposes , the most impressive black magic of all : science , out of the bowels of the computer . Econometricians say : " Regard this dynamic model , derived from masses of empirical data , tracing the interrelationships of many variables . It will yield quantitative outputs when you feed it quantitative inputs . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a set of equations . The knowns ( present facts or assumptions ) in the equations are used as a means of deriving the unknowns ( the future level of GNP , employment , unemployment , the price level , housing construction , profits , etc . ) . For instance , one equation might tell you that consumption will depend on income ( our old " consumption function " ) plus some other factors . Another equation might tell you that business investment will depend on last year 's profits , current interest rates , and other variables . A third equation might describe the future course of government spending , derived particularly from presently available information on the government budget . And so on . Taken together , and solved together , all these equations will give you a picture of the future based on presently available information and past relationships among economic variables . The econometric models , however huge and sophisticated , rarely disclose anything surprising or dramatic about the future . By shifting the assumptions on which they are based , 105 Economics in Plain English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But businessmen and government officials , who must make decisions that reach into the future , regard them as better than nothing . The " standard forecast " at least offers a reasonable basis for planning , if everything goes according to Hoyle . Some economists distrust and even despise the huge econometric models and believe that simple , positive economic laws are better and will prevail . " OPEC will break up and oil prices will come down , " predicts a Chicago freemarket economist . " A price set above the market by a cartel must lead to oversupply and underconsumption . Then OPEC will split . No cartel has ever lasted . " The only thing the free-market positivists can not predict is when their prediction will come true . They regard this as a minor defect . Finally there are the seers who base their forecasts not on economic laws but on insights ? political insights , psychological insights , experienced , personal , insightful insights . While Presidents and other politicians do not have as much control over the business cycle as they would like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business executives complicate the problem of control by national leaders ? there is nevertheless an unmistakable correlation between economic expansions and national election years in the United States and other countries . In the years from 1946 through 1984 , per capita income , adjusted for inflation , grew twice as fast in Presidential election years as in non-election years ( with the exception of the Eisenhower years ) . Booms in 1964 , 1972 , and 1984 , induced by fiscal and monetary policies , helped to generate the Johnson , Nixon , and Reagan landslides . Clearly , the movements of the American economy depend 106 The National Economy on more than Presidential speeches or even fiscal and monetary policies . There is some sort of natural or organic , if irregular , process of economic fluctuation that emerges from the decisions ? and mistakes ? of business people and consumers . But there is also such a thing as the political business cycle , as the researches of Edward R. Tufte , Douglas Hibbs , Jr. , William D. Nordhaus , and others have established . ' That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pushing it up , thrusting it down , as politicians seek to manipulate the national economy for their own political advantage . This manipulation may or may not be adverse to the public interest , depending on how it is done and on underlying economic conditions . The electoral process , operating at its best , may spur attention to critical national problems and call forth appropriate action . Or , operating at its worst , the electoral process may cause political leaders to overstimulate the national economy ? and destabilize it . // The World Economy Diagnosing the world economy and its problems involves the use of both microeconomics and macroeconomics . Microeconomics is needed to analyze world markets for oil , sugar , steel , textiles , autos , computers , and other internationally traded goods , as well as flows of foreign investment . Macroeconomics , applied to large areas rather than just a single nation , is needed to explain inflation , unemployment , economic growth or decay throughout the world . Special problems arise in the world economy because sovereignty is divided among many nations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways with the movement of goods , money , and people across national borders . 109 Economics in Plain English INTERNATIONAL MONEY ( OR FOREIGN EXCHANGE ) : Anything that is acceptable to discharge debts between the people or businesses or governments of one country and those of another . The many different nations create not only a Babel of languages but of moneys . In fact , money is really a form of language ? a remarkably precise and , at the same time , remarkably imprecise form of language . A piece of paper money has a simple cardinal number printed on it , but that number does not indicate the value of the bill . The true worth of each bill is ratio : this dollar or this mark or this peso or this krona in relation to the prices of all goods and services that these different currencies can buy at home or abroad . And all those prices are constantly changing , not only in their " average " level , however calculated , but in relation to each other , and hence to the dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a particular person . Money is not just language ; it is also a contract . A United States dollar or German mark is exchanged between a person or a firm that offers something for sale ? say , a box of strawberries or an electrical generator ? and a person or firm that buys it . But the purchaser by implication promises the seller that he can get something of equal value later with the money he accepts . Only it will not be the purchaser of the goods who will make good that promise . It will be somebody else , somebody who had nothing to do with the original contract . The promise will not be kept precisely . Who stands behind the contract ? The nation-state . But the state is a notoriously untrustworthy character . And all the states , with all their different moneys acting in discordant concert , are even more untrustworthy ? not because they are led by evil men and women but because the problems of exchange is so damned difficult and complicated . The dollar 1 1o The World Economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mark , or rather two-and-a-fraction marks . And very likely , before pesos from Mexico City can buy beer in Munich , they first become dollars , then become marks , and eventually , if the game is to go on , become dollars again and then pesos again ( which is necessary to keep the Mexican and German and United States balances of payments in some sort of order ) . The Almighty Dollar It is the dollar that is the kingpin of the world monetary system . The United States emerged from the war as the strongest economy in the world and the natural leader of the non-Communist nations ; its fundamental mission was to lead its wartime allies and its former enemies , Germany and Japan , toward reconstruction and economic growth . This mission was considered by American internationalists crucial to the future expansion of the United States and world economies and to the resuscitation of the enfeebled nations of Europe and Asia . That brilliant job of resuscitation is now taken for granted , but no one who in those days saw the grim , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famine , the desperate mood , and the corruption of the people can ever forget it . In the decades after the war , the world economy experienced the greatest upsurge of growth in all history . World trade revived , and the world monetary system was rebuilt as the United States deliberately incurred deficits in its balance of payments in order to feed dollars and gold to the world . In effect , the United States was acting like the big winner in a 111 Economics in Plain English poker game who knows that unless the poker chips are redistributed , the game is over . Those deliberately incurred American deficits made the best of sense , both for the United States and for the rest of the world . The concept of an interdependent world economy was no mere intellectual abstraction , but the basis for shared prosperity and growth . So the reconstructed world economy and monetary system was founded on the strength of the American economy , on the strength of the dollar , and on the deficits in the United States balance of payments ? that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollars . Therein lay a serious contradiction : A strong dollar and chronic deficits in the United States balance of payments would in time prove to be incompatible ; either the dollar would weaken or the American deficits would have to be ended . There was a further contradiction : If the American deficits ended , the flow of dollars that was providing the monetary reserves for world economic expansion would also cease . In fact , when the United States decided in the late 1950 's that the reconstruction period was over , it turned out to be extremely hard to end the deficits . One reason was that the United States was reluctant to give up its role as leader of the non-Communist world . The twentieth century had acquired the billing , at least in the United States , as " the American century . " Both the Korean and Vietnam wars signified American determination to carry the " free world 's burdens " ? the equivalent of Britain 's " white man 's burden " a century earlier . America 's persistent payments deficits were not due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of grow-112 The World Economy ing importance , as the deficits went on year after year , was the overvaluation of the United States dollar in relation to gold and to other currencies . This hurt American exports and made imports , as well as foreign travel and foreign investment , cheaper for Americans . So the migration of American business overseas went on apace , with corporations using abundant and overvalued dollars to buy up foreign assets , start branches and subsidiaries abroad , hire foreign labor , and use other foreign resources to increase their worldwide profits . Foreigners , in the midst of the dollar prosperity , were schizoid about the trend . Many , especially those in close partnership with the Americans , welcomed the growth that United States capital , technology , and managerial know-how helped bring . But there was increasing concern in Europe about the inflation that the rapid dollar inflow was also helping to breed . And there was growing opposition to the " American challenge " of economic and political dominance ? and about the recklessness of American military policy . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the United States and its European allies . It also sealed the doom of the postwar world monetary system that had been built on a strong dollar and fixed exchange rates between the dollar , gold , and all other currencies . The Bretton Woods Agreement of 1944 , which established the postwar monetary system , had required every country joining the International Monetary Fund to pick a par value for its currency in terms of gold ( whether it actually had 113 Economics in Plain English any gold or not ) . The United States , which had most of the world 's gold reserves , said it would keep the par value of the dollar at 1/35 of an ounce of gold ( where President Roosevelt had set it in 1933 ? before then it had been worth 1/21 of an ounce ) . So gold was officially priced at $35 to an ounce of gold , and all other countries picked par values for their moneys in relation to the dollar and gold . But the persistent outflow of dollars was undermining the value of the dollar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war accelerated the outflow of dollars from the United States and , even more damaging to the dollar , President Lyndon B. Johnson unleashed inflation at home by his unwillingness to ask Congress either for a tax increase to pay for the Vietnam war or to cut his Great Society spending programs to make room for the war in the Federal budget . President Nixon inherited the inflation ? and eventually made it worse . After a year of trying to stop inflation by tight money alone , Mr. Nixon brought the country a recession . Finding rising unemployment combined with a hangover of inflation politically intolerable ? especially with the 1972 Congressional elections looming ? he switched to a highly expansive fiscal and monetary policy ( the Federal Reserve was sympathetic to his goals ) . For political reasons , he announced ? few politicians had ever made it so explicit ? " I am now a Keynesian . " That is , he intended to expand aggregate demand to achieve full employment . But to prevent that expansive fiscal and monetary policy from causing inflation , President Nixon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price controls . Under Nixonian management , the United States balanceof-payments deficit had worsened . Dollars had poured out 114 The World Economy of the country ; so , as part of his August 15 " New Economic Policy , " Mr. Nixon also slammed shut the gold window of the United States , refusing to pay out any more gold to foreign claimants in exchange for their surplus dollars . Nevertheless , overvalued dollars continued to gush out as expectations of what once would have been unthinkable ? a dollar devaluation ? grew . Finally , on December 18 , 1971 , at an extraordinary monetary conference at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington , held under the aegis of the ten richest nations amid the trappings and relics of the greatest achievements of American technology , the dollar was devalued by 8 percent . The object of the Smithsonian conference , from the American standpoint , was to devalue the dollar enough to produce equilibrium or , if possible , a big surplus in the American balance of payments . This would , it was hoped , restore American economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollar standard , " with the United States as monarch of the world monetary system . For this reason the Nixon Administration was eager not to " devalue the dollar " officially , but to make other governments upvalue their currencies . Logically , there would seem to be no difference between devaluing one currency and upvaluing others in relation to it ? and indeed there is virtually none . However , there was one important difference . The dollar had been regarded as the fixed star of the world monetary system , the star around which all the other national currencies revolved . For the dollar to change its own value ? to be devalued in relation to other moneys and to gold ? would symbolize a radical change in the conception of the world monetary order , like the Copernican revolution in which the earth was no longer seen as the unchanging center of the universe . 115 Economics in Plain English The Movable Dollar After the Smithsonian devaluation of the dollar , no matter how much the Americans might insist that the dollar was still the fixed center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on saying , like Galileo , " But it does move . " And in fact , after the Smithsonian agreement , United States officials themselves gradually accepted the new concept of a movable dollar . The Smithsonian agreement ? the " greatest monetary agreement in the history of the world , " Richard Nixon called it ? was supposed to be a one-shot realignment of exchange rates that would preserve the fixed-exchange-rate system created at Bretton Woods . But the Smithsonian agreement failed to hit on an exchange-rate structure that would restore monetary equilibrium in the demand and supply for different currencies . With inflation raging at different rates in different countries , that was doubtless impossible . The Nixon Administration , in any case , made virtually no effort to defend the Smithsonian exchange rates . It practiced the doctrine of " benign neglect , " secure in the belief that foreigners had no alternative to taking in more dollars unless they would be willing to further increase the value of their own currencies , which the United States still wanted them to do . The impact of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States caught Washington and most economists by surprise . American economists tended to minimize the importance of foreign trade to the United States , since exports or imports constitute a seemingly small part ( only 7 percent ) of this country 's Gross National Product . But the dollar devaluation , combined with expansive 116 The World Economy fiscal and monetary policy , intensified inflationary pressures , which wage and price controls could barely suppress . Devaluation spurred domestic inflation in the United States , certainly in the short run , by raising the dollar prices here of internationally traded goods ? not only the prices of imports entering the United States but also , and more important , the prices of all exportable American goods as well . Many American products suddenly looked like a terrific bargain to foreigners , and they rushed to buy ? beef in Chicago , oil in Baton Rouge , oil paintings at Sotheby ParkeBernet Galleries in New York , real estate in Houston , and farmland in Iowa . The effect of devaluation was immediate on primary products , such as food and raw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods such as automobiles and tractors , especially under then-existing price controls . But as the prices of such basic internationally traded raw-material " inputs " as iron and steel , copper , aluminum , zinc , lead , and plastics rose , so did the prices of autos , tractors , and other manufactured goods . And when President Nixon 's price controls were lifted , the prices of industrial goods soared . Ironically , the devaluation of the dollar initially had a perverse effect on the United States balance of trade and payments . Economists had expected some lag , but it lasted longer than it was supposed to . Indeed , the dollar outflow quickened . The reason was that the devaluation increased the dollar price of imports ? especially because of the high income-elasticity of the American demand for imports . The American economy , driven forward by expansive fiscal and monetary policies , was expanding more rapidly and sucking in more goods from abroad . Simultaneously , devaluation cut the dollar price of Amer-117 Economics in Plain English ican exports , causing foreign demand for cheaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain goods , the United States imposed export controls on soybeans and other agricultural goods ? greatly upsetting the Japanese in particular and restricting the rise of American earnings abroad . Even more important , booming demand at home restricted the growth of United States exports . Hence the American trade position worsened , and dollars continued to flow overseas to cover the payments gap . The basic United States blunder was to think it could run a noninflationary devaluation of the dollar without first slowing the economy . It did just the reverse ? coupling devaluation with strong fiscal and monetary stimulus . A Floating World Monetary System The fixed-exchange rate system could not survive the continuing dollar outflow . In early 1973 there was a second dollar devaluation , amounting to 10 percent , following a dramatic around-the-world flight by then Under Secretary of the Treasury , Paul Volcker ( later the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York ) . But instead of calming the foreign-exchange markets , it roiled them further . In late February and early March , dollars began to flood into West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a storm . The German central bank took in over $3 billion a day , paying out marks to all comers in a vain attempt to keep the mark 's value from rising . After dishing out more than $10 billion worth of marks , German monetary officials at the Bundesbank ( West Germany 's Federal Reserve System ) grew frightened of the inflation they would 118 The World Economy cause if they kept taking in masses of dollars from abroad and paying out marks . They threw in the sponge ? stopped defending the fixed exchange rate between the dollar and the mark ; so the mark floated upward , and the dollar floated downward . The Bretton Woods fixed-rate system was dead ; the whole world monetary system was afloat , with currencies moving up or down in response to the supply and demand for each currency . The Western European nations , striving for monetary and economic integration , tried to hold their currencies inside a " snake " ? really a water snake , which floated about in relation to the dollar . World Inflation The loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world monetary system , brought on a flight from all currencies into anything precious and scarce that would hold its value in a time of monetary crisis ? gold , silver , platinum , and many other commodities , all of which seemed suddenly in short supply ? as demand raced ahead of supply at existing prices , and prices soared . Overnight it seemed as though the gloomy long-range forecasts of the exhaustion of world resources were coming true in a rush , with world inflation the fever gauge of commodity shortages . Accidents of nature fed the commodity inflation . One of the weirdest was the disappearance of anchovies off the coast of Peru . Why this happened is still unclear . One theory is that the cause was the 1972 ? 73 invasion of a warm-water current called El Nino , which upset the ecology of the coldwater Humboldt Current , drastically reducing the supply of 119 Economics in Plain English plankton and other nutrients on which anchovies ( as well as whales ) feed . Some marine biologists , however , doubt that this was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1957 and again in 1962 ? but had not earlier seriously damaged the anchovy stock . Did an influx of predators eat the spawn ? Were the young fish blown into hostile waters ? Nobody really knows what micro-factor reduced the supply of anchovies . Whatever the explanation , as the Morgan Guaranty Bank 's economists stressed , Peru 's anchovy catch fell from more than 10 million tons to 2 million tons in 1973 , wiping out a critical part of the world 's fishmeal supply , which is used to feed livestock . The markets for cattle , pigs , and anchovies are interdependent . Bad growing weather for cereals , the failure of much of the Soviet Union 's grain crop , the massive Soviet-American wheat deal ? a key element in the politics of detente ? all exacerbated the commodity inflation . But the overall inflationary trend was no fluke , not a result of a series of micro-accidents . All nations were in a simultaneous economic boom , and the world 's aggregate demand was outrunning aggregate supply . The vast outflow of U.S. dollars had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause of world inflation . The public 's perception of rising prices was transmogrified , as inevitably happens when an inflation lasts long enough , into a perception that paper money was losing its value and was not worth holding . Speculators rushed from currencies into commodities . By October of 1973 , world commodity prices had more than doubled from the start of the year . And then , with the outbreak of the Yom Kippur war in the Middle East , the Arabs launched their oil weapon against the West . 120 The World Economy The Oil Explosion World commodity inflation had given the oil producers both the motivation and the opportunity to boost their prices skyhigh . The rising cost of imports to the Arabs , Iranians , and other oil-producing states , the rapidly growing demand for oil , thanks to the simultaneous boom in all the major industrial countries , the disappearance of American buffer stocks of oil ? all these developments gave OPEC the golden opportunity for a financial killing . The Arab oil embargo , designed to induce the Western powers to force Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply at the critical moment , threw the Western allies into disarray in a mad scramble for oil , and paved the way for a fourfold increase in the price of crude oil . The price in the Persian Gulf was jacked up from about $2.10 a barrel to $8 a barrel . That meant the greatest single financial coup in history ? a $70 billion haul by the oil producers in a single year . Arab nations will continue to reap enormous income from oil year after year until the world 's oil importers cut their oil consumption or develop energy supplies of their own ? or until the oil producers run out of oil . The fantastic transfer of money to the oil-producing countries created an unprecedented shock for the world economy . That shock was , paradoxically , both inflationary and contractionary . The huge increase in oil prices and payments worsened inflation in the United States , Japan , and Western Europe by increasing both living costs and costs of production . It put powerful pressure , both direct and indirect , upon the industrial and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cover their oil deficits . But by the end of 121 Economics in Plain English the 1970s , the tremendous increase in oil prices put through by OPEC called forth a big increase in supply from nonOPEC sources . At the same time , OPEC 's high oil prices produced a cutback in the demand for oil throughout the world . Total energy use in proportion to gross national product was shrinking in virtually all countries . Before 1973 world oil consumption had risen at an annual rate of about 1 to 1 with GNP . By the end of the 1970s the oil coefficient had fallen to 0.25-that is , oil consumption grew only one-fourth as much as GNP . And so , in the e irly 1980s , an oil glut developed , weakening OPEC 's power , bringing down oil prices , and helping to reduce the rate of world inflation . However , those countries that continued to spend far more than they collected in taxes , to create far too much money , to run huge deficits in trade , and to depreciate their currencies demonstrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oil price explosion to blame it on . The World Debt Crisis One hangover of the oil price explosion was the world debt crisis of the 1980s . OPEC countries had increased their earnings enormously ; they deposited their gains in United States and other Western banks which , in turn , lent these " petrodollars " to the developing countries to pay for their oil and other imports . Once the oil glut came and oil prices began to drop , even some oil-exporting countries , which had borrowed heavily to develop their economies , were unable to service their debts . 122 The World Economy The world debt crisis burst into public view in August 1982 , when Mexico , with a foreign debt of $85 billion , declared its inability to meet its debt payments . In short order , Brazil , Argentina , Chile , Venezuela , and a long list of other countries followed suit . Total external debts of the developing countries had soared above $800 billion . American banks that had lent heavily , especially to Latin American countries , were in danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In ordinary times , the fact that outstanding loans to just five Latin American countries exceeded 150 percent of the total capital of the nine largest American banks might have been nothing to worry about . But these were not ordinary times . As a result of the world economic slump , their depressed exports , and high interest rates , the Latin American debtors desperately needed outside help , whether from the United States and other industrial countries , the International Monetary Fund and other international agencies , or commercial banks . If more money were not made available to rescue the debtor countries , the international monetary system could have collapsed . The debt crisis was managed by a policy of " muddling through " ? with the commercial banks putting together packages of emergency loans and the International Monetary Funds bringing pressures on the debtor countries to put their finances in order ? in a desperate gamble for time . The gamble was that the world economy would recover soon enough from the deep slump of 1981 ? 82 to rescue the debtor countries and increase the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debts , or rather , the current interest charges on them . To correct the helter-skelter policies of the past that had gotten them into so much trouble ? not only were their 123 Economics in Plain English foreign debts soaring , but domestic inflations threatened to get completely out of control ? the debtor countries were required by the I.M.F. , as a condition for obtaining outside public and private help , to adopt " austerity " programs . They cut government spending and reduced imports , in efforts to reduce both their budget and trade deficits . These austerity measures resulted in rising unemployment and declining living standards , which in turn intensified political pressures on many governments , raising the danger that new democratic governments in Latin America might not survive . It was touch-and-go whether these political pressures could be contained long enough to permit the debtor countries to adjust to their straitened conditions and begin to grow again . Through a combination of hard work and luck , the crisis was contained ? although long-run dangers persisted . The most important factor in helping the debtor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States and the other industrial countries , which increased the markets for the exports of the debtor countries . It was crucial that expansion continue if the world debt crisis were to be kept from exploding . And it was crucial that the debtor countries share in the expansion of the world economy to stop the decline in their living standards and reduce unemployment . But growth for the debtors was hard because confidence in their economies had been shattered , both at home and abroad . And that meant that businesses and banks were afraid to invest in them , thanks to their high rates of inflation and deteriorating currencies . For the debtor countries to regain growth , they would need to restore domestic order and step up their rate of investment , both to create more jobs and to increase the efficiency of their production . They needed more domestic saving and a bigger inflow of capital , whether from 124 The World Economy foreign commercial banks or business investors , or governments and international agencies . They particularly needed to win the confidence of their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the capital they had moved abroad to " safe havens , " especially in the United States . But both foreign and domestic investors and lenders were increasingly worried about the risks of pouring more money into the shaky developing countries . Many urged that the World Bank and the governments of the rich countries give more help to the poor . But in a time of huge budget deficits of its own , the United States would not take the lead in providing more aid to the developing countries . Foreign aid lacks a strong domestic constituency in the United States and is particularly hard to raise in sufficient amounts in periods of strain at home over unemployment , loss of export markets , and resentment toward growing imports , problems that were all intensified in the United States by an overly " strong " ? that is , high-priced ? dollar , which increased the price of American exports and cheapened the cost of imports . Capital Flows and the Dollar In the highly optimistic State of the Union address with which he launched his second term , President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . " Skeptics regarded this plea as a rationalization of America 's need for a continued vast inflow of foreign capital to cover the still widening United States trade deficit . But despite warnings from many economists that the dollar was overvalued and headed for a fall , the capital inflow had been strong enough to keep the value of the dollar high . 125 Economics in Plain English While foreign leaders , such as Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , were warning that the too strong dollar was increasing protectionist pressures and posing a threat to the debtridden Third World , Mr. Reagan and his advisers seemed to regard the high-flying dollar as the very symbol of American vitality . To be sure , the leaders of the other industrial countries recognized that the rapid U.S. expansion and the resulting trade deficit had benefited their export industries . Yet they were worried that the flow of capital to the U.S. was hampering investment in their own countries , retarding real economic growth and exacerbating their unemployment problems . The flow of capital to the world 's richest nation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. from a creditor to a debtor nation . At the rate capital was flowing in , by 1987 the U.S. would owe the rest of the world more than $350 billion , half again as much as the combined debts of the three largest debtors , Brazil , Mexico , and Argentina . And by the early 1990s , the U.S. foreign debt could exceed $1 trillion . Would a continued inflow of foreign capital over the long term , assuming that it could be sustained , be desirable from the U.S. point of view ? " Non-economists might be tempted to think that an inflow of capital is beneficial , whereas economic thinking leads us to a different conclusion , " says Professor Maurice Levi of the University of British Columbia . ' His reasoning is that there may be a benefit to the sellers of debt or equity during the period when the capital is flowing in , but in all subsequent periods interest must be paid on debt , and dividends and rent paid on equity . The once-and-for-all benefit would then be followed by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt-service and equity-service . But does the capital inflow not create plant and equipment 126 The World Economy and other physical or technological resources that throw off a stream of benefits for the nation receiving the capital ? It does when the capital is used for investments that would otherwise not have been made , employing domestic capital . Issues of nationalism apart , the longer term benefits resulting from capital inflow depend on whether the funds from abroad are invested in productive resources or used simply to cover trade deficits , so that the nation can continue to consume more than it is producing . While it may seem farfetched to think of the United States as making itself vulnerable to a foreign debt crisis like that of Argentina , Brazil , or Mexico , some leading economists are concerned that a mounting international debt could inhibit U.S. policies for growth . Richard N. Cooper , a Harvard economics professor who served as Under Secretary of State in the Carter Administration , says , " We do n't have complete control of our own fate . " He warns that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause dislocations , pointing out that " if foreigners should collectively decide to reduce their investments in the U.S. from $100 billion to $70 billion a year , that reduction in the inflow could trigger a dollar crisis . " Like Professor Cooper , a great many " mainstream " economists have been warning that a fall in the dollar and a drop in capital inflow would force down imports , with a resulting rise in inflation ( since a trade deficit helps check inflation by giving the nation more goods than it produces ) . Without the inflow of funds that have been covering half the Federal budget , they add , there would also be a rise in U.S. interest rates that would hurt securities markets and choke back investment in plant and equipment , housing , and autos and other durable consumer goods , arresting the growth of the economy and probably throwing it into recession . Could the mainstream economic analysis of the overvalued 127 The in Plain English e World Economy dollar and the standard forecast of an inevitable reversal of the large capital inflows possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , looking for the " magic circle " of big budget deficits , trade deficits , high interest rates , big capital inflows , and a strong dollar to break apart , have been clinging to concepts rendered obsolete by changes in the world economy and financial system and by vigorous U.S. growth ? President Reagan 's closest supporters and advisers answered with a resounding " yes . " They contended that the old theory of linking trade surpluses or deficits to a rising currency or a falling one is no longer valid , because capital movements dwarf trade transactions . International trade in goods and services totals about $2 trillion a year , but estimates of annual capital flows are more than 10 times as great , averaging $20 to $30 billion a year . Capital movements in and out of New York have been averaging $350 billion a day , according to the New York Clearing House of major banks . Institutional investors can change exchange rates by shifting their portfolio preferences toward those countries where they can get the best after-tax return on investments , given comparable maturity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Deputy Secretary of the Treasury in the Reagan Administration , contends that there are seven key determinants of capital movements to any country relative to all others : ( 1 ) prospects for sustainable economic growth ; ( 2 ) pre-tax rates of return from stocks , real estate , or fixedincome securities ; ( 3 ) projected inflation rates ; ( 4 ) tax rates on investments ; ( 5 ) capital market conditions ; ( 6 ) government regulations and social rigidity , including the freedom to open a plant and close it , hire or fire workers ; and ( 7 ) sovereign risk ? that is , the reliability or unreliability of governments . On the basis of all these factors , especially the stronger rate of U.S. growth , McNamar found it not surprising that the dollar had been outperforming the rest of the world 's currencies . President Reagan explicitly embraced the economicgrowth theory for the dollar 's strength . He was unwilling to intervene in currency markets in an effort to reduce the dollar 's value . While the factors cited by President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rising dollar of the past , they do not assure a comparable capital inflow and strong dollar in the years ahead . Where the value of any currency is concerned , events can turn around rapidly . And the byword of the foreign exchange markets is : " What goes up must come down . " Whether the high-flying dollar is going to come down , and in a soft or hard landing , will depend on the interplay of several factors : THE TRADE DEFICIT : While the United States has been able to pull in enough capital from abroad to readily finance its trade deficit in the past two years , it is improbable that this can continue indefinitely without a deterioration in the dollar 's price . External or internal factors could operate to bring down the U.S. trade deficit . Foreign governments might accelerate the growth of their own economies , reducing their own trade surpluses . Or as injured American export- or import-competing industries continue to suffer , the United States might go increasingly protectionist to curb cheaper imports that wipe out jobs . Industrial and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another to reduce the U.S. trade deficit . When it shrinks , and however it shrinks , the volume of foreign investment in this country will also contract . THE BUSINESS CYCLE : The rates of economic expansion ? or // Economics in Plain English contraction ? in the U.S. and abroad could change the pattern of capital flows . The expensive dollar is creating bargains overseas , channeling more funds from the U.S. into foreign investment and causing more foreigners to invest at home . A recession in the U.S. could have a strong effect in reversing capital flows ? provided that foreign economies do not fall into deeper recessions of their own . A sharper fall of profits in this country than overseas would surely curtail net investment here . INTEREST RATE DIFFERENTIALS : Although interest rates may not he as powerful a force in causing capital to move as they once were ? a favorite proverb was " Six percent will draw money from the moon " ? their importance is far from negligible . The spread between American and foreign rates has been narrowing , and if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital to the United States . FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKETS : Speculative markets commonly overshoot on the upside and downside alike , and the foreign exchange market is highly speculative . Many observers believe the market for the dollar has overshot on the highside . If they are right , the dollar has a good way to fall before it reaches equilibrium ? or falls too far on the downside . That fall in the dollar , especially if it coincides with slowing economic growth , declining profits , and a wiping out of interest-rate differentials , would further check capital flows from abroad into the United States . MONETARY POLICY : The Federal Reserve System constantly hovers between concerns about being too easy and breeding inflation or being too tight and breeding recession . If monetary policy , under the pressures of an Administration dominated by expansionist concerns , becomes too easy , a resulting upsurge of inflationary expectations would hurt the 130 The World Economy dollar and curb net capital inflows by weakening foreigners ' willingness to invest in dollar assets . FISCAL POLICY : Conversely , measures to reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would , at least in the short run , be likely to strengthen the dollar , even if they resulted in lower interest rates . But if lower budget deficits brought down inflationary expectations and reduced interest rates over time , without dumping the economy into steep recession , they could ease the dollar down gradually and bring the economy into a soft landing . // Economics in Action : Government Economic logic must always be subject to the test of what happens in the real world . It was the eighteenth-century philosopher David Hume ? also a pioneer of economics ? who showed in his Treatise of Human Nature that the truths of reason are true by definition but that the truths of the world we live in are based on experience , not abstract logic . ' So it is essential that we look at actual cases of economics in action , if we are to establish economic truths . Take , for instance , the matter we just mentioned at the close of the last chapter : the economic and political consequences of protectionism . Let us examine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress passed the highly protectionist Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act . As though to disprove the old saw that if all economists were laid end to end they would never reach a conclusion , 1,038 American economists ? including virtually every reputable economist in the country of whatever political view ? signed a petition urging President Herbert Hoover to veto the bill . The economists warned that if enacted HawleySmoot would " inevitably provoke other countries to pay us back in kind " ? with damaging impact on the United States as well as other nations . But President Hoover ignored the economists ' advice . The Republican Party had traditionally favored high tariff policies as a formula for economic prosperity . And the Republican platform of 1928 had promised to relieve the already present depression in agriculture by raising tariff rates on farm products . Soon after taking office in January of 1929 , President Hoover , determined to keep his party 's promise to the farmers , called together a special session of Congress . By June , the House of Representatives reported to the floor a tariff bill in substantially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of logrolling and what is now called " Christmas-treeing " began ; a great many amendments were added to the bill , raising tariff rates across the entire range of imports . The politically appetizing process of increasing tariff rates and extending coverage to other products continued in the Senate . The Senate-House conference committee generally compromised by accepting the highest rates set by either house . When the bill reached President Hoover , he signed it because , as Professor Frank Taussig of Harvard , a distin-134 Economics in Action : Government guished economist of the day , wrote , " His party could not go before the country stultified by having nothing whatever to show for a year 's prolonged and conspicuous labor . " With business slumping , opposition to foreign firms ' entering the American market mounted . Some of the more important pressure groups traditionally in favor of liberal trade had not maintained firm and unyielding opposition to the Hawley-Smoot bill . Labor realized that higher prices would result , but succumbed to the hope that the bill would relieve unemployment , which was already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replace imports . Farmers were willing to grasp at any protection that might possibly help them , despite their need for foreign markets . The economists proved right in their warning of the likelihood of foreign retaliation . France , Italy , Spain , and others raised tariff barriers or introduced drastic quotas on imports in 1930 . Switzerland initiated a largely successful boycott of American products . Canada raised its tariff walls to the highest point in its history . Great Britain passed the Emergency Tariff Act of 1931 and the Import Duties Act of 1932 . The British Commonwealth concluded severely discriminatory preferential tariff arrangements in Ottawa in 1932 . The higher trade barriers of the United States frustrated the efforts of the Japanese government to improve economic conditions through expanded trade and led to a more nationalistic and militant foreign policy . Hawley-Smoot sowed the seeds of the Japanese Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere . International conferences to work out a truce in the trade war failed in 1931 , 1932 , and 1933 . The United States was worse off after Hawley-Smoot than it had been before . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than we did . American ex-135 Economics in Plain English ports sank like a stone ? because of both the higher trade barriers and the spreading world depression , to which the collapse of trade contributed . By 1932 , United States exports to Great Britain had fallen to one third of their 1929 level . In 1932 , American exports to Canada and France were only one fourth of 1929 , and , in the case of Australia and Oceania , one fifth of 1929 . The decline of some specific American export commodities was even more dramatic . Agriculture , the sector that the President had originally sought to benefit , suffered most . Wheat exports , which had totaled $200 million ten years earlier , fell to $5 million in 1932 . Exports of the automobile industry fell from $541 million in 1929 to $76 million in 1932 . In retrospect , the protectionist Hawley-Smoot Act was worse than futile . It did not solve unemployment or other problems of American labor , industry , and agriculture ; instead , it worsened them by helping to shatter world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many countries and to the deepening political and economic crisis of the 1930 's . It helped bring on the Second World War in Europe and Asia . Profiting from the Lesson in International Economics The United States and other Western countries presumably learned the lessons of Hawley-Smoot and the protectionism that followed in its train . The American leadership in postWorld War II reconstruction put heavy stress on continuous progress toward a liberal world trading system . But by the summer of 1977 , in the wake of the severe world recession and inflation , the International Monetary 136 Economics in Action : Government Fund warned that there had been a serious break in the pattern of trade and payments liberalization that had marked world economic policy of the three decades after the war . The IMF found that , despite their pledges to free trade , more and more countries were adopting " restrictive policies ? especially nontariff barriers to imports , which were supported to an increasing extent by the negotiation of export restraint agreements . " A nontariff barrier ( or NTB ) can be any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including quotas on imports , " buy American " or " buy British " legislation , health and safety regulations , bureaucratic red tape , or other barriers to foreign countries ' goods . The pressures of high unemployment and massive imbalances in nations ' payment deficits had encroached on the principles of liberalization . The United States set quotas on most types of specialty steel and then imposed quotas on imports of beef , veal , and mutton . France , West Germany , and Britain restricted imports of textiles and garments from developing countries . Japan subjected imports of silk yarn to prior notification and entered into an export restraint agreement with Korea on silk yarns . Brazil tightened import controls and suspended imports of many items . Peru set up a system of restrictive import licensing . Even some oil-rich ? but spendthrift ? countries , such as Iran and Nigeria , have had to clamp on import controls . Thus , Adam Smith 's principle of free trade is once again in jeopardy , as it always is when business slump and unemployment afflict the world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But protectionism is no solution ; it is only an aggravant of a worldwide slump . The hard job of knowledgeable politicians is to contain or appease the pressures of the special interests for protec-137 Economics in Plain English tion against foreign competition ? but without wrecking liberal international trade . The political and military , as well as the economic , costs of protectionism may be . unbearable . Beggar-thy-neighbor economics ultimately means beggar thyself . Why Governments Create Inflation : After the French Revolution The task facing governments , that of creating enough aggregate demand to cure a slump and unemployment , but not so much as to cause inflation , sounds modern , but it is centuries old . Take what happened during the French Revolution . The French Revolution of 1789 began , of course , as a reaction against the extravagant , lascivious , pleasure-loving habits of the aristocrats . For a brief time after the revolution , simple spartan values prevailed in the new republic . But , because the revolution had frightened business and driven capital and gold out of the country or into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stagnation , the Revolutionary government of France began in 1790 to print paper money , the so-called " assignats . " These were issued against the security of the vast public lands confiscated from the church and the emigrant noblemen . The assignats were also designed to help the common people acquire these public lands and thus change the social order . At first the issue of assignats worked beautifully and did exactly what it was supposed to do ? stimulate production , 138 Economics in Action : Government revive employment , and get the country humming again . But this initial success generated demands for more of the same treatment , and the new government could not find the courage to stop issuing paper money in time ? before it had set a genuine inflation in motion . As more and more assignats poured from the printing presses , prices climbed , and a new disease in the character of the French people began to spread . One of the symptoms of this new social disease was the obliteration of thrift . A celebrated historian of the decay , Andrew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1876 ) 2 is a minor classic , noted : " The French are naturally thrifty , but , with such masses of money and with such uncertainty as to its future value , the ordinary motives for saving and care diminished , and a loose luxury spread throughout the country . " Speculation and gambling became epidemic . Some gamblers rushed to the stock market , others to the roulette wheel . Throughout the country , a deep dislike for steady labor set in . Workers loafed and businessmen saw no point in going after moderate gains through hard work , steady investment , and step-by-step technical improvements . A new reckless spirit spread to official circles . Even heroes of the Revolution such as Mirabeau became cynical and corrupt and began to take heavy bribes while still mouthing the rhetoric of popular reform . The disease spread even to journalism , where it took deep and lasting root . As Andrew White observed , the corruption stemming from inflation " grew as naturally as a fungus on a muck heap . " At the start of the revolution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character and a simplicity of dress worthy of Roman matrons ; " but now all was changed , " said 139                     