@@172909

By way of clamping down a tight censorship of news and photographs the eight westernmost states and Alaska last fortnight were officially made a " Theater of Operations . " All news and photographs of troops , their identity , location , number , individual names was forbidden except with official sanction . The Navy next issued a strong warning " To the Public " with subheads reading : THIS IS A MODERN WAR-THIS IS A TOTAL WAR-THIS IS A HARSH WAR . It warned citizens not to discuss ships , sailors , weapons , casualties , ship damage or defense production . Still more drastically , Army and Navy on the West Coast began censoring domestic telegrams and examining air express . <P> The first shakedown stage of U.S. censorship brought up a few baffling cases of censorship in action . Most striking example : Columnists Pearson and Allen ( Washington Merry-Go-Round ) were called on the carpet by a White House spokesman , and told to withdraw an about-to-be-published column criticizing Navy 's competence at Pearl Harbor . They were told that if they did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official news sources-a penalty which would virtually put any Washington newspaperman out of business . On the surface the action looked like an attempt to suppress criticism of the conduct of the war-something far beyond the legitimate function of a military censorship . <P> Meanwhile , new Censor Byron Price , squeezed into offices in the Post Office Building , was hampered in his efforts to set up a smooth-functioning censorship machinery by a deluge of newsmen 's questions that made him the most consulted man in Washington . He did get two assistants to help him : to assist in radio censorship , 56-year-old , Ohio-born John H. Ryan , vice president and general manager of a Midwest radio chain ; to assist with press censorship , 45-year-old , Arkansas-born John H. Sorrells , Scripps-Howard executive editor ( since 1930 ) . <P> Army and Navy each continued to run its own censorship show independently . The Navy drafted Editor Paul Smith of the San Francisco Chronicle as chief of its press section . The Army reached new heights in its definition of what constitutes a military secret . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant of American Locomotive is located at - : there is no such thing as Glenn Martin 's aircraft plant at Baltimore , and Bethlehem Steel may or may not be located at Sparrows Point . In short , information that is common knowledge or a matter of public record and which does n't require even a third-grade education to digest or collate is not supposed to be repeated in print . Army 's ideas of non-printable " secret " information thus included even such information as is contained in telephone directories and standard reference works . Washington correspondents hoped that the first hysteria of censorship would soon pass .                     