@@494168

DECEMBER 16 , 1940 victory by Jim Farley , although the claim of Raymond Moley to be rated among the president-makers is not un ? worthy of discussion . In any case , Franklin Roosevelt as an instance of president-making is less striking than Willkie , the story of whose miss-making remains to be told . They sneer at me for being all awry . What ! Did the hand then of the potter shake ? This is not the story which Mr. Josephson has chosen to tell . He has material for'his theme in Hanna and House , but the emphasis of his book is not on them , nor on Theo ? dore Roosevelt as a president-maker . He has written , in ? stead , a brilliant and illuminating history of the executive during four administrations , in which president-making , always the king of political sports , bore fruit twice in a power behind or beside the throne . The similarities and more especially the divergences , in character and behavior , between Hanna and House are developed against the back ? grounds furnished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ putty to receive any impression ; Wilson , hard as steel but drawn by the magnetism of flattery . In the most important acts of both , which involved the country in war , their makers played politics . Hanna wrote after the Maine dis ? aster , " I am not in favor of heedlessly precipitating the country into the horrors of war " ; but lest the Democrats should steal the issue of Cuba libre , he joined the pressure group which forced McKinley to deny his Methodist con ? science and deliver to Congress his message of war against a country which was seeking peace on any terms . The part which House played in bringing the country into war was more intricate . Undoubtedly his ultimate object was to make his president the arbiter of the world ? a result which might have been achieved at Paris if the hands that held the cards , both Wilson 's and House 's , had not ' fumbled . In February , 1916 , House agreed with Sir Edward Grey to propose a conference to end the War , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference failed to make a peace favorable to the Allies , " the United States would ( probably ) leave the conference as a belligerent . " In April , House was asking the pacifist Secretary of War , Newton D. Baker , about the disposition of troops to put down popu ? lar riots against entering the war . " It would be mistaken mercy to temporize with troubles of this sort . " Yet House planned Wilson 's campaign of 1916 on the slogan : " He kept us out of war . " As Hanna made war in 1898 to gratify the country whipped into hysteria by Roosevelt and Hearst , House played up peace in 1916 to swing an elec ? torate become more reasonable and skeptical . Mr. Josephson believes in the personal ' element in his ? tory . As his other books , " The Robber Barons , " " The Politicos , " " The Life of Zola , " show , he excels in por ? traiture , especially in contrasting types , as Herbert Croly and Louis Brandeis , Hanna and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly , none more important than the effect of the last pair , professed liberals and reformers , in riveting the chains of an effete political and economic system on a people ready to move forward . If Roosevelt'had not for personal ambition inter ? vened in the movement which La Follette had initiated , " it would have resulted not merely in a temporary schism , a futile quarrel of personalities , a prating of ' righteousness ' and the Decalogue ? but the foundation of a true oppositionparty . " Again if Wilson had not chosen soon after his elec ? tion to work with his party as it stood , instead of imitating La Follette in Wisconsin in becoming its master , he would have built out of the half-corrupt , secretly reactionary Democratic Party a renewed , truly progressive party , and accomplished " a fundamental change and overhauling of our party system . " The year 1912 was a critical one in American history , a year in which the movement of prog ? ress , which had been gathering force , was marshaled under two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broken faith . ROBERT MORSS LOVETT New Books for Children The annual output of children 's books shows some interesting trends and developments which almost promise to make this a renaissance period in children 's literature . Writers are moving away from a superficial appeal to a consideration of children as they really are and of the part books play in their growth . This is a sphere for exploration . A real challenge lies in try ? ing to find out what satisfies children 's needs , widens their hori ? zons through new content , gives free play to imagination and interests , and amuses them on their own level . Publishers seem to be giving writers and artists a chance to coordinate their efforts to produce more beautiful books . Many of the illustrations are original and colorful . Formats and typog ? raphy are attractive . Large , beautiful picture books are brought out for youngsters , and among the new books , some , very artistic ones can be found for children of all ages . One promising trend is that distinguished authors , who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those writers who have attained distinction in this field . During the past year Gertrude Stein , Pearl Buck , Andri Maurois , Sally Benson , Kay Boyle and Elizabeth Goudge are some of those who have taken a hand at writing for children . For the list for children of younger ages , Miss Stanton has chosen stories that are realistic and that deal with the things little children experience in their daily lives . This year there are more books of this type that have charm . Illustrations are , on the whole , better than the text . Little children do not have a clear understanding of the difference between the real and the magic or unreal , and have no way of knowing that something that happens in a book can ? not happen to them . If writers realized this , they would elimi ? nate some of their attempts at being exotic or clever without regard to the effect on children . When Miss Stanton says that very young children want realistic stories , she does not mean always , but only until they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can assimilate the excursions into the unreal . Children must have the ability to distinguish the difference between the two and to get the fun out of the exchange . By the time they are six or seven , children understand enough so that they can move into the fantastic without being confused or made anxious by it . Distortion of images is the basis for humor at these ages , but writers should realize that objects and relationships must be understood and images be clear before the distortion becomes humorous . For the older children , books are chosen for their value in content , well conceived plot , convincing style , and humor of the particular age level . Children of these ages are in a great learning period in their lives , with a wide variety of interests developing . Books dealing with all periods , places and subjects are needed to satisfy these interests . This does not imply that stories are to be used as a means of sugar-coating a lot of in 842 formation but that stories in a historic or geographic setting not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ background and based as far as possible on genuine source Materials . Why place a story in the South Seas or in China if the atmosphere created might just as well be Brooklyn ? Plots are convincing when they are based on conflicts and action in the world of nature and man that lie within the grasp of the children , and are not trumpec1.4up - action for action 's sake . Directness of expression is the quality of style most worth searching for in selecting books for children of any age . The universal love for " Heidi " is based on interest in the simple activities of people in an earthy setting . " Little Women " is still a best seller because it brings to the young girl the realities and intricacies of family life . Some books are chosen because they satisfy the children 's need to find in the world of fantasy help in assimilating some of their own struggles and inner conflicts , or to find their own wishful thinking expressed and satisfied in the realm of fiction . Identification of themselves with characters in stories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world of stern realities . Boys need stories of heroism and adventure and biographies of the great . Girls , too , need heroism and great people to identify themselves with . As critics , we should not overlook the books that express these human desires , in our search for those that have more literary quality from an adult point of view . Are modern children developing any taste for good litera ? ture along with their absorption in the funnies , the movies and the " Heigho Silver " radio programs ? Parents are asking this question constantly , and teachers are taking stock of their work with children to see if they can say that good books have just as large a place in the lives of children today as they had before all these newer and more extraverted forms of enter ? tainment muscled their way into the home . The answer is yes .                     