@@487832

Constantine Poulos got into Greece and lived with the guerrillas before the first British contingents arrived in 1944 . Regular readers of The Nation will recall that he has covered subsequent events in that unhappy country with insight and a real prophetic gift , while being constantly subject to bitter attacks from both the far left and the far right . Now in Israel for the Overseas News Agency , he wrote the present article , marking the fifth anniversary of Greek " liberation , " almost four weeks ago so that it might reach our office in good time . This was two weeks before the announcement by the Greek guerrillas that they had ceased hostilities . Mr. Poulos 's conclusions , it will be noted , have been more than borne out by events . ) Tel Aviv , October 2 N HIS speech of September 21 before the U. N. General Assembly , Dean Acheson expressed the hope " that Russia would join in renewed consul- ' , tations looking toward a settlement in Greece . " Obviously the State Department now feels that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did last May when Pravda suggested that " the Greek problem not only can but must be solved . " Even before that , Ernest Bevin had raised the subject of Greece " as second in importance only to Germany . " Nevertheless , the Greek problem did not make the agenda of the Paris meeting of the Foreign Ministers . It now appears that Moscow and Washington have decided to reach an " agreement . " As far back as May , 1948 , the United States was prepared to consider the Greek phase of the Kremlin 's " peace offensive . " At that time the reliable James Reston wrote in the New York Times : The feeling here in Washington is that the Russians could easily improve the international situation by en-couraging a relaxation of pressure in Greece . . . . The Greek situation therefore seems to have certain diplo-matic possibilities . These may be explored at Belgrade - if the Danubian conference is arranged . The enthusiasm of the United States for pouring $300,000,000 a year into Greece and maintaining a military and economic staff there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the uprising of the Greek Communists to come to an end . The place for working out an agreement was selected , t by the time the Danubian conference was held in Belgrade , the Tito-Cominform schism had presented the Russians with new problems , and the Americans sought titer solutions . Both powers could bide their time so far as Greece was concerned . N THE summer of 1948 Russia was far more concerned with destroying Tito than with the fate of the long stalemated guerrilla forces in Greece . When it became evident that Tito would not be overthrown merely by splenetic denunciations , the Kremlin renewed its support for an " autonomous " Macedonian state to be created out of Macedonian areas now divided among Bulgaria , Greece , and Yugoslavia . Evidently Russia hoped to unseat Tito either by the threat inherent in such an explosive project or by actually engineering an uprising in Yugoslav Macedonia which would be supported by the Greek guerrillas and by irregular anti-Tito forces based in Albania and Yugoslavia . But there was no uprising in Yugoslavia , and Tito was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guerrillas , who then controlled a large part of the country . Markos Vafiades , their titular commander , who had been expelled from the Greek Communist Party in 1924 for refusing to join in the Comintern 's pro-Bulgarian propaganda for an " autonomous Macedonia , " rebelled again . His naive attempt to steer clear of the Kremlin-Tito fight was doomed from the start . Moscow could not afford any deviations on this vital issue . Last anuary Markos disappeared . The sincerity of the Greek left , which had always successfully disproved the manufactured charges that it was planning to sell out Greek Macedonia , had been vindicated in the first few years after the " liberation " of Greece . But in March , 1949 , the Kremlin 's Greek agents announced the formation of a Provisional Democratic Government which included for the first time representatives from the " People 's Liberation Front of Slav Macedonia . " Thus the Greek left was betrayed once more and the truly popular basis of the Greek guerrilla movement destroyed . By picking up the disastrous Macedonian issue which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party again subordinated the needs and aspirations of the Greek people to the Kremlin 's plots . Nor was this enough . The party began at once to put in its cheap twopenny 's worth of calumnies against Tito . In July , as the threat of possible Greek guerrilra attacks developed , Tito closed the Greek-Yugoslav frontier and stopped providing asylum and aid to the guerrillas . After that the Greek government 's ' military successes were cheap . Tito bears no responsibility for the defeat of the guerrillas . For a full year he had steadfastly resisted , for ideological as well as personal reasons , the strong pressure that London and Washington put on him to close the frontier . It was Moscow 's decision which determined that the gallant Greek guerrilla movement was expendable . Russia 's overtures to the Western powers for a " settlement " of the Greek civil war , proudly echoed in the world-wide Stalinist press during the past two years , heralded the beginning of the end of the insurrection in Greece . Now Russia is again willing to make the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one year ago , or six months ago . Russia 's mood six months ago was explained by one analyst in this manner : " There is reason to suppose that the Russians would , at the present stage , be willing to pay a price for some sort of peace guaranty ? even if it should mean for them some loss of face in Berlin and perhaps in Greece and one or two other places . ' ' O NE way or another , the Berlin hurdle has been cleared , and the Greek " settlement " is next on the books  --  a grand , generous Russian contribution to world peace . Abandonment of the Greek guerrilla movement is a " concession " in the Soviet Union 's general peace offensive , a maneuver which was correctly spelled out in The Nation two years ago Constantine Poulos : What 's Our Game in Greece ? August 30 , 19471 I predicted at that time that Russia 's aggressive moves in Greece were all carefully calculated , marked " for disposal " before they were even executed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union 's peaceful intention . I also said that the " Greek guerrillas would be left holding the bag , reduced to bitter , endless fighting , without a voice or a hand raised in their support . " Today the word " people " may be substituted for the word " guerrillas . " To put it bleakly , there is no way out in Greece now . The State Department 's desire for an agreement is based on the calculation that sooner or later Congress will restrain its enthusiasm for pouring limitless funds into Greece . ( By next spring , the third anniversary of Truman 's Doctrine , the United States will have spent one billion dollars in Greece . ) Russia imposed the Truman Doctrine , and Russia disposes of it . But the Truman Doctrine did solidify the power of the brutal and reactionary Athens tyranny , and the United States is still . committed to support that tyranny . As a result of this commitment American officials in Greece have never been able , despite their control of the flow of dollars , to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avarice and nithlessness of the Athens crowd . They will certainly be less able to do any of these things when the flow of dollars is reduced . That is why all genteel hopes that an " arrangement " between the great powers will put an end to the basic struggle between the Greek people and the vested interests are naive , if not nonsensical . Five and a half years ago the British Foreign Office suggested and worked out an arrangement with the Kremlin  --  a " free hand " for Great Britain in Greece in exchange for a " free hand " for the Soviet Union in Rumania ; we have yet to see all its bloody consequences . Greece was liberated just five years ago this month . The resistance to the pre-war dictatorship and the Nazi occupation sprang from the militant spirit of a splendid people kept in misery , poverty , and backwardness for at least a century . This reslatance marked their regenelik , - Rion . That the Stalinists exploited this spirit , led it do4in blind alleys , and subordinated it to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist betrayal of the struggle of the Greek people against fascism and exploitation , American support for the forces consolidating that same fascism and exploitation  --  that is the history of Greece during the past five years . As a footnote , it should be noted that Constantine Maniadakis , the notorious chief of Dictator John Metaxas ' Gestapo , returned to Greece from the Argentine three months ago . His arrival was prominently and joyfully recorded in the right-wing press of - Athens , and a few weeks ago he announced the formal -- tion of a new political party called the " Greek Renaissance . " 