@@494152

Lags in Defense THE MAJORITY of American citizens who want this country to give Britain every possible aid without going to war itself believe that the policy they favor is in effect . Both presidential candidates endorsed it ; the one who seemed most sure to follow it was elected . Britain still has available purchasing power and can order anything she wants . Congress has appropriated large sums for expansion of defense industries . Mr. Roosevelt has enunciated his apparently generous ruleof-thumb by which we let Britain buy half of whatever we can produce . We have a skilled Defense Advisory Commission at work . The tendency is now to lie back and await results . Yet the dispatches give us no rest . One British city after another is heavily bombed , and , while the destruction goes on , Hitler apparently keeps his great DECEMBER 16 , 1940 numerical lead in planes . German submarines , bombers and raiders are now sinking British merchant shipping faster than it can be replaced . Nobody knows how much his preparations for land warfare exceed those of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on the sea , and remembering the immense manufacturing resources he has captured , the prudent must fear that here as well he will be ready to exert superior power whenever the opportunity comes . Are we really doing everything we can to aid Britain , and in time ? And are our own preparations for defense being pushed to the limit ? The answer to both questions is no . The fault would probably be speedily remedied if the people were aware of it . Only recently the British have overcome their natural caution about wounding our sensibilities or encouraging defeatism enough to let it be known that they are not getting all they need . Still , the public is not fully aware that this country is not doing all it can . This is what it must know in order that action may be spurred . The deficiency falls mainly in three categories , and what is being done in each is largely a matter of judgment on the part of the administration . In the first category lie the decisions concerning how much to give Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that either she or we may have at once . In this category are the fifty over-age destroyers already traded for naval bases , and the new giant bombers she has been allowed to buy . We have many more over-age destroyers . New fighting planes are coining off the runways every day . We possess hundreds of merchant ships , and many more are being launched . Britain has extreme need for destroyers , merchant ships , planes . Only two considerations prevent her getting more of them ? and of other things in the same category . One is the fear that isolationist forces would raise the cry that we are being drawn into the war . The other is that the criticism would be made that we were impoverishing our own defense . But is there anyone who does not know that if Britain survives , we shall not have to fight at all ? Or that if she falls , the little more or less we can give her now would not make much difference to us ? In that case it will be productive capacity for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks more than compensate ourselves for what we now let her have by taking over the weapons on order for her that would be coming from the factories . The next category lies in the amount of effort and expense being devoted to rapid expansion of production . Everybody familiar with industry knows that a moderately slow program of increasing output is sounder and more efficient than one that grows too rapidly . Time is needed to master the new processes , to train the necessary personnel , to detect and correct mistakes . Each extra shift of workers is less efficient823 than the normal one . it produces at higher labor cost . A sudden jump in demand for materials inereolies the price , . and may uncover actual shortages . Qrtfusion and nervous strain accompany the ' whole process of speeding up . Furthermore , since increasiqg.haiic capacity requires many months , a program of . dbing everything possible now would necessitate more Itiorities and rationing . It is largely on these accounts that our defense industries are moving more slowly:than they might . This is not exactly a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural way to proceed . But it would take a deliberate choice and a : good deal of firmness to insist on the opposite way . 4fIf we : ourselves were at war , " the saying runs in Washington , " it would be done . But would people accept it as long as we are not engaged ? " Surely they must accept it , if they want to do their utmost to keep Ifrom being forced to fight . Hitler will not attack us if Britain is in the way , and we are ready . Finally'there is the category of organizing to the best advantage the effort and expense we are undertaking . Getting production both rapidly and efficiently is far more than a matter of appropriating money , drawing designs and signing contracts . It is also a matter of checking on the process , of expert engineering management both of single factories and of whole industries . No agency in Washington is at present equipped to do this on a sufficiently large scale . The army and navy inspect for quality , but they do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management practices . The Defense Commission is occupied with policies and large decisions . There should be an administrative body for each critical industry , composed of representatives of management , labor , the defense services , and a competent expert in management . The industry should be organized as a whole to utilize idle capacity , schedule production , allot materials , develop substitutes , check the performance of single establishments . Those who know the requirements are advocating such organization . But again the answer is made , " Would the industries accept it , as long as we are not at war ? " We believe they certainly would accept it if the people knew the need and proper leadership were offered . Labor in steel and elsewhere is already asking for such a step . There is a final choice , concerning which the right answer is more difficult to make . It is the question how much to sacrifice present production , in so far as that is necessary in order to increase output a year or two hence . Thus , industry can devote all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the armed forces now or it can devote five percent or more of its effort to enlarging its plant and overhauling its methods and equipment in order to turn out a much larger amount in 1942 ? This is a policy question of the first rank , the answer to which depends on the strategic judgment of those 8 24 with the best means of knowing the facts . If our utmost force is so desperately needed in the next six months that what we can do in two years is insignificant by comparison , the answer will be to sacrifice nothing to long-term expansion . But if we can contribute enough now to be sure that Hitler can not win within two years , it is wiser to expand , and make an , overwhelming contribution later . Our own judgment is that basic expansion is essential and need not be sacrificed if everything else possible is done . But few in Washington are sure , and decisions are daily being made at thousands of desks without any guidance on this point from those whose business it is to decide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confront the issue and lay down a policy . We need , above everything else , a strategic plan . Three out of four decisions which limit aid to Britain and the speed of , production for defense are caused by the administration 's fear of offending those who criticize it for edging nearer to war . If we were at war , it is said , the delaying decisions would be reversed . Yet the , only possible consequence of this caution is to increase the risk of fighting , and of fighting under adverse conditions . This nation resolved to aid Britain against Hitler and to do so in its own interest . This is the only way to insure against having to cope with a victorious Axis . Is it the American way to be half-hearted about action we have firmly resolved to take ? Are our citizens so lacking in common sense that they will not understand that the best way to become embroiled is , having decided to stand back of Britain , not to help her enough ? Shall we let the fear of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that outspoken leadership in this issue would not elicit overwhelming support . The task of the United States for the next few months is to organize its ' economy exactly as if it were at war , in order to avoid hostilities in the near future or a war economy for a generation .                     