@@494243

Back to Power Politics THE GREATEST TASK confronting the people of the : T United Nations is winning the war against Ger'many and Japan . Nothing should be allowed to inter-Jere with or to postpone that result . The one hope the Nazis and the Japanese warlords still retain is that their enemies may fall to quarreling ittnong themselves . People in the United Nations should therefore guard with the greatest care their critical utterances about one another . It is in the light of the foregoing principles that we Approach the gravely disheartening developments of the past fortnight in international affairs . Relations be.tween the United States and Great Britain have worsened with a rapidity and to a degree no one would have believed possible . And other sectors of the inter-.national front have darkened correspondingly . Russo-Polish relations arc at their lowest ebb . Italy , for all purposes , is without a government , while riots practical in Sicily approach the status of civil war . The fighting in Greece is indirectly affecting all of Europe . Throughout the world , people are asking themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is rotting away and whether in fact that moral purpose ever ocisted ; And are answering in the negative the question whether preventing a third world war can reathe prospect of sonably be called bright . American isolationists have crawled out of their holes to demand that the United States should once again let Europe stew in its own juice . It is obvious that so much change could not actually take place in so short a time ; and that those who are suddenly dismayed had not previously been facing the facts . The editors of The New Republic do not count themselves in this number . They have never believed there was more than a bare chance of creating a new world out of governments in which old-fashioned rulers continued to work in old-fashioned ways , for selfish nationalistic and imperialistic ends . It was necessary to prosecute the war with the utmost vigor because otherwise we should all have been ruled by the Nazis ( who in fact came dangerously close to achieving world domination ) . But fleeing from the greater evil should not cause us to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrong , before the war , with Roosevelt 's America , Churchill 's England and Stalin 's Russia . There still are . The crisis that has developed is one that has existed continuously beneath the surface and has now come out into the open because , with the decline of German power , it could no longer be suppressed . As Heinz Eulau points out in this issue of The New Republic , fascism was not a mere accident that developed in a few countries . It marked a stage in the decay of exploitative capitalism , and has appeared in greater or less degree in nearly all countries , with or without the explicit label , including Great Britain and the United States . Most of those Europeans who are politically minded at all , who have any realization of what is going on in the world , want to do away with the conditions which created fascism , not only in Ger8 5 2 many and Italy , but everywhere else . This politically conscious group includes the Communists , but is by no means confined to them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically everybody except the fascists themselves and their dull-witted allies , the monarchists and other reactionaries . Like the rest of the plain people all over the world , these Europeans would like to see a settlement after the war that would remove the conditions which , twice in one generation , have led to conflict . The plain people , in fact , are the only ones who have any real interest in preventing war . The rulers in almost all countries arc hypocritical on this point . Either they do not care particularly about peace , or they certainly do not care enough to abandon national policies which are incompatible with peace . It would be a delusion to attach too much importance to the personalities of Churchill , Stalin and Roosevelt . They are the products of powerful forces and are members of powerful groups . Since , however , they are so completely the spokesmen for their groups , we can usefully summarize tendencies in terms of the policies of these men . Mr. Churchill talks about democracy , but in so far as he is sincere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The rights of the people of India mean nothing to him compared with the " right " of the British Empire still to exist ? and to him it is still an empire , not a commonwealth of nations . The rights of the Greek people mean dangerously little to him under the same circumstances . He is such a passionate Tory and capitalist that he is unable to see any difference among people on the Left , and he is cruelly unfair to all of them . His idolatry for royalty and for authoritarianism led him , before wartime discretion closed his lips , into glowing words of friendship for Franco and Mussolini and bitter words of hatred for Soviet Russia . As well expect an African witch doctor to perform a delicate surgical operation as to expect such a man to take the lead in creating a better new world . THE NEW REPUBLIC Stalin is neither a capitalist nor a royalist , yet it is almost equally difficult for Western democrats to work with him . His instincts are totalitarian and he came to power in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and had all but lost the instinct for it . Today he is a dictator in a land which has broken the shackles of private capitalism but has not yet accompanied economic democracy with political liberty ? and has produced an indoctrinated rising generation in which the overwhelming majority appears to be satisfied with this state of affairs . Stalin is obviously cynical about the chance for collective security and about the good intentions toward himself of Britain and America , which only twenty-five years ago tried hard to overthrow the Soviet government by giving arms and money to its enemies . He intends to protect Russia in a military way by extending her boundaries and preventing hostile governments in the neighboring states . He will do this with the consent of as many people outside Russia as possible , but if necessary , with no consent from anybody . Compared with Churchill and Stalin , Roosevelt seems mild and vacillating indeed . He has carefully . refrained from making the war into a moral crusade , remembering Woodrow Wilson 's error and tragic downfall . Expediency has been erected almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Pearl Harbor , of Franco , Petain , Darlan , Victor Emmanuel , Salazar , Vargas and others since Pearl Harbor . The President , despite Mr. Dewey 's campaign nonsense , is a firm believer in private capitalism ; and he has always been more of an umpire between the New Dealers and the conservatives than one of the New Dealers himself . It is true , however , that his acts look moderate and reasonable compared to the grim power politics practised in Moscow and London . It is also true that American foreign policy of late has sounded conspicuously better than it did a year or two ago . It scorns clear that some of the actions of which the liberals complained , which were vigorously defended , have now been quietly dropped . This is the background against which the developing European situation must be judged . If the great powers honestly intend to follow the path of democracy and justice , individually and collectively , as the overwhelming majority of all the people in the world want them to do , there is not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparatively easy and simple solution . Take the Polish proposals for ex-ample . The new Poland that is suggested is probably better than the Poland of 1939 . There are good rea-sons , historical and ethnographic , for making the Cur-zon Line Poland 's eastern boundary . There is no solid reason why a democratic Germany should object to the loss of East Prussia or Silesia , provided that popula-tions are transferred , and provided both Germany and the rest of Europe are maintained at a high level of DECEMBER 25 , 1944 prosperity . It is nonsense to say that what is left of Germany could not support a population of that size . There is no earthly reason why the Dardanelles and Suez should not be internationalized and why Great Britain and Russia should not end permanently their " war of diplomacy " over the Balkans and Asia Minor . Does this sound Utopian ? It is not . Russian " imperialism " is almost entirely defensive in character . The Russians still think the West means to attack them , and that fear lies behind their actions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Balkans . They demand a share of Iranian oil because they are afraid that otherwise it will all be used by potential enemies . If we could really guarantee our pacific and friendly intentions , most of the Russian prdblern would be solved . It is of the greatest importance to recognize that Churchill does not speak for all England . The London Times , The Manchester Guardian , such weeklies as The New Statesman and The Tribune , H. G. Wells , many members of Parliament , have attacked him as strongly as anybody on this side of the water has done . Despite the disgraceful timidity on this occasion of the Labor Party , it remains true that a Labor government representative of the rising tide of liberal sentiment in Great Britain could work an instantaneous and far-reaching improvement in British foreign policy . The United States could and should help this improvement by putting reality behind our professed policy of self-determination in the political field for all nations and ? a much harder test ? by encouraging the development of economic as well as political democracy everywhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy will never be achieved by men of the caliber of five of the six new nominees for the State Department . It will be achieved only if American liberals stand together and keep in close alignment with British liberals and with similar forces in all other countries . Only if we do our part have we any chance of organizing the world for peace and of preventing that third world war which came ominously nearer on the day when Papandreou 's police fired on the Greek patriots in the streets of Athens . The Meaning of Mindoro In spite of the hyperbole with which General MacArthur finds it necessary to surround his account of the blow at Mindoro , the move is obviously of the first importance . The rather surprising feature of the landing is to find the correspondents in the field and the press at home assuming that it is primarily directed toward Luzon and the recovery of Manila . It will aid in that process , certainly ; the presence of heavy bombers on Mindoro , with fighters that arc able to cover them for strikes on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ untenable as a harbor and is bound to place severe strains on the Japanese defending the 853 northern island when we get around to landing there . But the Mindoro attack is far more important for what it accomplishes directly than for the prospects it offers in the future . It breaks through the barrier of the Philippines and lets American surface ships into the South China Sea , the key area of the whole Japanese system of empire . The enemy have probably succeeded in stockpiling some of the goods they can get nowhere but in their Co-Prosperity Sphere , in the three years they have held it ; but it is unlikely that they have foreseen all the shortages that will develop under the pressure of war , and even stockpiles will not last forever . Some route to the producing areas of the Indies is essential to them and the landing on Mindoro threatens to cut off the only route they now have . Hard Fighting Ahead Our submarines have been doing remarkable work in rendering the operation of this supply route fitful and uncertain , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with good air cover would finish it altogether . Before this can be achieved , however , Mindoro must be set up as an air base on the scale of Saipan or Foggia , and the southern fringes of Cebu and Negros must be so cleared as to prevent Japanese operations against convoys bound for the new base . The mere engineering work is bound to take time ( we captured Saipan in June and it was December before the B-z9 's appeared over the Japanese islands ) and the Japanese are fully capable of realizing the implications of the Mindoro landing . The prospect is that they will counter-attack heavily and that Mindoro will see fighting fully as desperate as that which resulted from the landing on Guadalcanal . These offensives into a new area always look better on the first two days than at any other stage . The Germans ' Bolt Positions On all the European fronts , with one possible exception , the Germans have reached positions which are tactically similar and are being described by the phrase " bolt position . " A good example is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break through for something like two weeks now . The town of Dairen is the center and key of the whole . Through it.runs from east to west the only good highway between Aachen and Cologne . Through it also , on the right bank of the Roer , runs the only good north-south highway . These highways do not amount to much as routes of transit after having been under shellfire and bombing for several weeks , but they are solidly grounded , not too difficult of repair by modern engineering techniques , and they follow the only routes that are really possible in a topographical Sense . An army can move without the aid of such routes but not very far ; even with tracked transport the shipment of such supplies as ammunition to the front soon becomes altogether                     