@@487472

IN THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY , THE BRITISH made certain things clear : They would lay down the Palestine mandate when they pleased ; until they did , they would govern and maintain order exclusively through their own agencies ; they would withdraw their forces at whatever times and places they found it convenient to do so . This attitude obviously precluded any U. N. intervention until the mandate was ended , and imposed upon the government of Palestine an inescapable responsibility to keep order with all the forces at its disposal . Events of the first week following the adoption of partition indicate that Britain either will not or can not do so . Arab attacks on Jews and Jewish property , mounting as the days pass , have been carried out with little interference from British troops or police . Haganah , the Jewish defense force , with occasional support from hastily formed Arab civil guards , has tried to rint , orlri i , rxrcr.nt Rrif-ici , barn . 11 gone so far as to interfere with Haganah 's efforts , and to arrest and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no authority to exercise police functions . Meanwhile , Syria threatens full-fledged war , as the Arab states meet in Cairo to determine their policy toward partition . What the situation needs is firmness and clear evidence that the British intend to cooperate in the implementation of the United Nations plan . The Arabs will accept partition only if they know the decision of the Assembly has the unqualified backing of the other nations ; they will keep order only if they know order will be enforced . If the British fail to act , they will share responsibility with the Arabs for sabotaging the Palestine solution . OUR ADMIRATION AND RESPECT FOR THE National Association of Manufacturers is not exactly overwhelming , but we must admit that for bounce and brass it has no living rival , except possibly the Politburo . After its performance in 1946 , when it loudly assured the public that the OPA was the only obstacle to higher production and lower - prices , we had expected the N. A. M. to be a little diffident about making new pronouncements on inflation . Not at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York 's Waldorf Astoria , ready ' to sell the only genuine and infallible cure for inflation . We have , unfortunately , insufficient space to analyze in detail the twelve-point program submitted by President Earl Bunting to the Fifty-second Congress of American Industry sponsored by the organization . It advocates moderate foreign relief but urges that foreign-reconstruction loans be financed through the World Bank or by private sources rather than by means of taxes . How increased competition in capital markets will discourage inflation , the-program does not explain . It suggests , however , that interest rates should " seek their own levels free of government domination " ? a step which might serve to damp down credit expansion but only by adding to the cost of the national-debt service and so offsetting much of the government economy demanded by the association . While all the experts agree that reduced taxes at this time would add to inflationary pressures , the N. A. M. demands a substantial cut in individual income taxes . Turning to its own special field , the association proposes that unions forgo further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for lower unit costs and pass on the benefits to the customers . An admirable idea , this last suggestion ; but aidlough we know of many manufacturers who have reduced costs , we have heard of very few who have cut prices unless forced to do so by consumer resistance . AS LONG AS BIG BUSINESS RETAINS ITS RIGID i orthodoxy , it is almost inevitable that labor should display similar inflexibility . The net result is a cause-andeffect cycle of inflation that is bringing us closer by the week to disaster . The lateSt step in the process is Philip Murray 's announcement that the C. I. 0 . is about to launch a drive for the third round of wage increases since the war . There is no doubt that the unions make an excellent case . As Murray points out , industrial wage-earners may find more dollars in their pay envelope than they did two years ago , but in terms of purchasing power they are poorer by some 18 per cent ; Secretary of Labor Schwellenbach testifies , on the other hand , that profits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages , which " have not regained what they lost in the decontrol period . " Regardless of the precise degree to which either high prices or increased wages are the responsible fact &; in the spiral , it is a simple fact that labor is willing to see controls applied to both . Business , for the most part , is not . Schwellenbach implies that labor will probably call off its demands for new wage increases if it is given " some real assurance that price rises will be checked . " Robert R. Nathan , formerly , The NATION economic consultant to the C. I. 0. , is even more pointed . Given a 15 per cent cut in the cost of living , he told the Senate Banking Committee , there  --  would be only the most " dubious " case for further pay rises . And Murray himself is known to favor the President 's anti-inflation program , which includes wage controls in " special cases . " The C. I. 0 . chief may be sending up a trial balloon , as his opponents suggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a program of controls , it will prove a highly patriotic maneuver . LABOR 'S NEW MAGNA CHARTA , AS THE TAFTHartley act is known in good Republican circles , has just produced a few major freedoms . Invoking the Communist-oath provision ; the National Labor Relations Board has freed the Remington-Rand corporation from any further obligation to deal with the United Electrical , Radio , and Machine Workers , a C. L 0 . union that includes the great majority of the company 's employees in its membership . It has freed a small independent machinists ' union , claiming only an insignificant fraction of the company 's emplOyees , to contend for the right to represent all of them in collective bargaining , unhampered by having its rivals on the ballot . And it has freed the members of the U. E. itself to revert to the pre-Wagner-act law of the jungle , namely , recourse to strikes without benefit of collective bargaining . There is little doubt that this particular union is vulnerable under the anti-Communist provision , and the unwillingness of its high officers to sign the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transcends the political views of a handful of men at the top of a union . What is decided today with respect to the U. E. can be applied tomorrow to the United Mine Workers under Lewis and the Steelworkers under Murray , neither more of a Communist than J. Parnell Thomas . Acting under the law , the board is inviting the kind of industrial chaos that ripped the country in the early thirties . The irony of the situation is that the provision which opens up this dismal vista is one that even Senator Taft tried to eliminate , its legality being extremely dubious . The hope is that the Supreme Court , when it inevitably reviews the law , will decide , first , that members of a legal party , however obnoxious , can not be denied equal protection under the law ; and , second , that the rank and file of a union must not be penalized for the attitudes and decisions of a union hierarch . DURING THE PAST TWO WEEKS , THE PUBLIC has been given an instructive lesson in the logic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House Committee on Un-American Activities , the New York Herald Tribune 's Heptisax expressed the December 13 , 1947-opinion that the committee was violating rights secured by the Constitution . Shortly after his article appeared , however , the motion-picture industry , under the goading of Eric Johnston , decided to discharge or " suspend " the writers , directors , and producers who had been marked by the committee . After pondering this decision for a while , Heptisax realized that he could hardly justify the action of the industry in terms of what he had previously said about the committee . Driven into a corner , he proceeded to qualify his earlier conclusions . " For the sake of our own intellectual integrity , " he writes , " 1 think we 'll have to ' finger ' the reds and call them ' the enemy ' by legislative action " ; that is , outlaw the CoMmunist Party . Others who have criticized the committee but upheld the action of the industry will be driven by the logic of their position to similar or even more drastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied to Communists or to other groups holding unpopular views , follow quite logically once it is conceded that a Congressional committee of inquiry has the right to inquire into an individual 's political beliefs and affiliations . In short , anti-communism is a one-way through street . Once you enter it you either proceed to the end or you ' back out  --  quickly . YOU CAN FOOL SOME OF THE PEOPLE SOME of the time , but you ca n't fool the good people of Massachusetts forever , as a recent event there shows . Five years ago , stunned ' y what Paul Blanshard in these pages has called " one of the most fantastic campaigns of misrepresentation in the history of American politics , " Massachusetts voters rejected , by a seven-to-five margin , a revision of the law which would permit doctors to give birth-control information to married women for the protection of life or health . Now , in response to a new drive conducted by the Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts , more than 80,000 citizens of the state have filed petitions with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law go on the agenda of the Legislature which convenes in January The number of signatures required for such an action is only 20,000 . But all over the state , the League reports , " hundreds of volunteers sprang into action to obtain signatures .. .. It is a truly democratic expression of public opinion . . . . Tribute should he paid to , the hundreds of town and city clerks and registrars of voters who cooperated so splendidly in certifying so promptly the thousands of signatures . " The Roman Catholic church in Massachusetts , as Mr. Blanshard also reported , has started its usual counter-offensive against this move . But leaders of the movement have high hopes that it will become law , at long last , by referendum in November of 1948 , if the Massachusetts Legislature surrenders to the threat of clerical political power before then . 637 Displaced Americans HEN we think of Navajos , vire think of blankets with beautiful figures executed in strong bright colors , the product , it would seem , of a vigorous and contented people . Set beside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have " taken care " of the Indians , another picture containing a quite different set of figures . To wit : There are 60,000 Navajo Indians , though there were only 9,000 or 10,000 when they were settled on their reservation after the treaty of 1868 . They are a vigorous people . The present reservation comprises 24,000 square miles of land . Even allowing for great stretches of desert , that would seem to be enough for 60,000 people . It was , for a time , when the Navajos were free to build up their Rocks of sheep . But in 1933 it was found that the range on which their prosperity was based was rapidly being destroyed by over-grazing . There followed a reduction and conservation program . It saved , or will save , the land , but it reduced the Navajos to a poverty so abject that it is not even picturesque . This poverty was disguised in the thirties by allotments of money from WPA , PWA , and CCC ; - in the war years , by the availability of jobs off the reservation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the allotments of men in the services-3,600 Navajos served in the war and 300 died  --  by the high prices for what wool and lambs there were . Now the false prosperity has faded like a mirage and poverty has taken over . Today , thousands of Navajos are literally facing starvation . The diet , of the tribe as a whole averages 1,200 calories , against 3,450 for Americans generally , against 1,500 for Germans in the American zone . Today , the resources of the reservation , vast though it is , can support only 25,000 of the 60,000 . Only 161 out of 11,000 Navajo families own herds large enough to maintain life even at the subsistence level . By the treaty of 1868 , the government is obligated to provide medical care and to furnish adequate school facilities and a teacher for every thirty Navajo children . Yet on the whole reservation there are only six hospitals with 316 beds for general patients and 135 for tuberculosis patients  --  the tuberculosis death rate in the sunny land of the Navajos is fourteen times the rate for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The experts disagree on the number of field nurses on the reservation . Some say one , some say two ! Of about 25,000 children of school age , fewer than 6,000 can be accommodated , and these go to overcrowded schools manned by overworked teachers . Most of these facts are taken from , an article by Oliver La Farge in Harper 's for November . " The only soludon to the Indian problem , " says Mr. La Farge , " is to build up their health , their economic condition , and their competence until we can honestly say that they no longer need special care and federal protection . " He proposes a long-range program which would make the Navajos self-supporting on or off the reservation . The development of all the irrigable land on the reservation would provide permanent , stable livelihoods for about 5,000 of the 11,000 families . Education and training would make it possible for those who can not subsist or do not wish to stay on the reservation to make their living elsewhere . The House Public Lands Committee has now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there is at least a chance that it will be passed during the present session . Write your Congressman . Meanwhile , President Truman has said that he will ask Congress to enact in the January session a ten-year program designed to lift the standard of the Indians to the level of other Americans . It is high . time . Behind the French " Insurrection .11 BY FREDA KIRCHWEY T HE waves of strikes in France , accumulating last week-end to a threatening crest , seem to be subsiding . As we go to press , representatives of the General Confederation of Workers and the Minister of Labor are discussing terms of settlement . But if Americans greet the end of the so-called " insurrection " with an accurate idea of what it was all about , it will not be the fault of their press and radio . With a few creditable exceptions , American newspapers and broadcasts have played down all the issues except the one that suits the dominant pattern of anti-Russian fanaticism. - I have read five editorials in the New York Times published between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest tension in France . Not one of them discusses the level of wages or the effects of inflation . Not one mentions hunger . Not one even deals with the general economic plight of the country . What the Times has concentrated on , as have most of its contemporaries , is the Communist threat implicit in the whole strike movement . Since the Communists themselves openly acknowledge their political objectives and since their demonstration of power is undoubtedly a threat to orderly government , one can not quarrel with the press for driving these points home and emphasizing their significance . What one can quarrel with is its failure to explain why two million French workers flocked into the streets , tying up services and production , on the decision of a group of leaders whose revolutionary purposes they share only to a limited extent . Or its failure to point out that even the leader ofthe non-Communist wing of the C. G. T. , the redoubtable Leon Jouhaux , who is heading up the " workers ' force " revolt against Communist control of the federation , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starvation - wages and insufficient rations . Communist tactics are by-products  --  not causes  --  of an economic situation and economic policies which have pressed so heavily on the city workers of France that they are ready to risk everything rather than continue to endure without protest their growing misery and sense of frustration . A FEW correspondents have , it is true , brought out a few of the underlying facts in occasional news stories from France ; one of the most conscientious , incidentally , has been Charles R. Hargrove of the Wall Street Journal . But the best analysis of the economic background of the strikes was given by I. F. Stone , writing from Washington , in PM . Stone quoted the Herter report to Congress to the effect that the present French bread ration of 200 grams ( about 8 ounces ) , is " lower than the lowest official ration under the German occupation , " while the average city worker must spend from 70 to 80 per cent of his income on food . An unskilled laborer receives only 295 francs a day , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The situation was bad enough when the Herter committee presented its figures . It is much worse now . The attempt of the French government to balance the budget has sent living costs shooting up . To quote from Mr. Stone 's story : Cost-of-living subsidies were abandoned . Two days later , price controls were removed from 473 items . Five days later , gas and electricity rates were raised 45 per cent , railroad and subway fares 25 per cent , and freight charges 28.5 per cent . The price of coal went up from 1,160 francs a ton to 2,160 francs a ton . The price of bread went up from about 15.5 francs a. kilogram ( 2.2 pounds ) to 24 to 28 francs . All this since November 7 . Undoubtedly , those papers which have insisted on the " purely political purposes " of the strike movement will attribute its collapse " purely " to the - French government 's strong measures . Again they will be wrong . The emergency powers granted by the Assembly , the heavy penalties imposed on sabotage and violence may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other tactics  --  tactics of conciliation and restraint on the part of responsible officials on both sides  --  are beginning to reduce tension and isolate the extremists . Hunger , too , which drove the workers into the streets , will help drive them back ' to the plants when they see that the government is making a genuine effort to meet their legitimate demands . Whether the strikes will end in a troubled truce or in Jecemper 13 , 1947 , a real armistice depends on many things outside the control of the workers or their leaders . Internally , it depends on the capacity of the government to halt inflation without lowering still farther the standard of living of the urban workers . That it can accomplish this before American relief arrives in quantity is most unlikely . What is needed in France is more food and more production generally . Only then will prices drop and wages seem worth working for . Meanwhile , Daniel Mayer , the Socialist Minister of Labor , has promised to establish a wage-price relationship to cover the first six months of 1948 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 1,500 franc monthly inflation bonus . The C. G. T. is asking for a review of cost-of-living and wage rates every three months and a bonus of 2,500 francs . The differential is not too wide to be bridged by a reasonable compromise , and one may be reached within a few days . But the long-range hope of political and industrial peace depends upon Washington . The adoption by Congress of the emergency-aid measure must be followed by quick action . And it must be the sort of action that will rebut the Communist argument that American capital is plotting to dominate the Continent . The visit to Paris of John Foster Dulles and his meeting with De Gaulle , " , however innocent its purpose may have been , ' was certainly ill-timed if the United States wants to convince the 639 French people that it intends to keep its fingers out of their poliical affairs . During these weeks of bitter struggle , the Communists have undoubtedly weakened themselves by allowing Moscow 's international objectives to overshadow so ' obviously the immediate and desperate needs of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States is dallying with De Gaulle and using relief as a carrot on a visible political stick , their own mistakes will begin to fade . In London , too , the Russians have damaged their prestige and popularity with the French by openly bidding for German favor . But , again , if the American delegates try to harness France to their announced plan to step up production in western Germany , while ruling out the socialization of German industry , French Communists will be able to concentrate fire on this highly unpopular aspect of the Marshall Plan and distract attention , in part at least , from Russia 's demand for a centralized German government . The trouble in France is probably simmering down , but Americans must realize that it will not be ended by any show of force or ruthless policy of deflation . Political peace will come only if the great powers , but America above all , pursue a policy that offers a chance for economic recovery on terms the ordinary French - worker can understand and trust .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      