@@485109

The Shape of Things THE UNANNOUNCED ARRIVAL OF PRIME Minister Churchill and Lord Beaverbrook in Washington gave sudden and dramatic meaning to the words " grand strategy , " which , though on every lip , have sounded a bit hollow during the dark days since December 7 . Before that , even though the United States was certainly " in the war , " our role was that of contributor rather than full participant . We backed up but did not share the efforts of the belligerent nations . Now we must , abruptly and fast , merge our men and resources and plans in a struggle so nearly universal that one mind , or even one policy board , can hardly encompass it . We must take our place  --  and obviously it will be a leading one  --  on the over-all world-strategy board which must emerge from the dramatic conference in Washington . Out of this meeting , too , must come proposals for regional military commands , for economic-planning and political-policy boards . The new problems created by the Far Eastern war and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boldness never before achieved among the enemies of Hitlerism . All over the world , in Germany and the conquered countries as well as in the fighting democracies , those enemies will rejoice at the evidence of initiative and determination provided by Mr. Churchill 's gallant flight to Washington . * THE LARGE-SCALE JAPANESE LANDING ON the shores of the Lingayen Gulf some 150 miles north of Manila is , in one sense , a surprising move . It commits the Japanese to a major operation in the Philippines after they had already become heavily engaged in Malaya . Yet Singapore must be their chief objective , for it is the key to the East Indies , the Burma road , and the main line of Anglo-American communications . Its loss would long delay the maturing of a counter-offensive against Japan and would leave the Philippines isolated , greatly assisting their conquest . The heavy attack on Luzon must mean , therefore , that the Japanese regard the American forces there as so dangerous a threat to their command of the South China Sea that they must be disposed of 654 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General MacArthur appears to have had a very shrewd idea of where the major blow against Manila was to be expected and has not been induced to scatter his limited forces by widespread feint attacks . The British command in Malaya , which has been under fire because of its seemingly feeble defense of the northern border , has probably been moved by similar considerations . The new line that it has now established in Perak will ease its communication problems , assist the containing of any new landings on the east coast , and make available support by fighter planes from the air bases in the vicinity of Singapore . BY OCCUPYING TIMOR THE BRITISH AND Dutch have indicated that they do not intend to be caught napping yet again by a strict observance of neutral rights . When one side in a war flagrantly and repeatedly disregards international law , the other is finally compelled to follow suit in self-defense In the case of Timor , the eastern half of which is a Portuguese possession , the British had proposed to Lisbon some weeks ago that measures be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willingness to receive British and Dutch aid but only after aggression had occurred . Since the colony 's defenses are negligible , this would clearly have been too late . Moreover , the Japanese had recently obtained a concession to establish an air line between Timor and their base in the Palau Islands . There was no conceivable commercial justification for such a line , but despite British and Dutch protests it was granted . When , therefore , Japanese submarines were observed in the neighborhood of the island , the AngloDutch authorities decided to act . The strategic position of Timor is such that the risk of Japanese occupation had to be averted at any cost . As a submarine base it would have endangered shipping routes throughout the East Indies , and it is within bombing range of the Australian naval station at Port Darwin and the great Dutch base at Soerabaja . The Lisbon government has protested but has not taken any other action . However , it is under pressure from the Axis , which at any time now may decide that Portugal must be " protected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would be a wise move for the British and Americans to go the whole hog and assume control of the even more vital Atlantic islands  --  the Azores , the Cape Verde Islands , and the Madeiras We can not afford to let the Nazis reach these outposts first . THERE ARE A GOOD MANY SIGNS OF AN early German putsch in the direction of North Africa , provided Hitler is able to extricate enough men from the Russian snows . This would mean the entry of Spain into The NATION the war on the side of the Axis , the occupation of Portugal , and demands on Marshal Petain to waive the colonial clause of the armistice agreement  --  or else . Nor is it easy to see how Hitler could get control of the Mediterranean and the all-important northwest corner of Africa , including Dakar , without the use of the French fleet . Apparently our relations with Vichy take little account of these probabilities . The State Department continues to act on the assumption that we would antagonize the French people and drive them into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possessions . But this assumption is based on the premise that Vichy and the French people are one and the same thing , which is ridiculous . The more pressure we put on the unrepresentative Petain government the more encouragement we give to the real France ; the more we appease Vichy the more we enhance its prestige and aid its efforts to bring France into the New Order . A few days ago Washington announced proudly that an agreement had been reached with the Governor of Martinique ? a notorious pro-fascist  --  for the preservation of the neutral attitude of the French possessions and fleet in this hemisphere . There is no suggestion that any guaranties have been asked for , nor is the State Department apparently perturbed by the fact that Vichy has denied knowledge of the agreement and could therefore refuse to honor it . Considering the strategic position of Martinique in relation to the Canal Zone and our Caribbean bases , this matter seems to have been handled in a fatally optimistic fashion . OUR DEPENDENCE ON IMPORTS FOR VITAL raw materials is now being painfully brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not count on receiving any shipments of rubber and tin from the Far East , from which we have hitherto received the bulk of our supplies . And even after the shipping situation has improved we may continue to experience scarcity of these commodities , for the ravages of war in Malaya will cut down output for a long time to come . With the evacuation of Penang the British lost one of their two big Eastern tin smelters , and they are now fighting the Japanese in an area containing many important rubber plantations and tin mines . A scorched-earth policy to prevent use of these by the enemy is threatened , and if this becomes necessary on a large scale , rubber at least will be in short supply for years . We are beginning to build up a synthetic-rubber industry , but its costs of production are high and its capacity small in comparison with rubber consumption . Latin American output of both plantation and wild rubber can be increased somewhat , but even after two years it could hardly amount to more than about one-sixth of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both rubber and tin in the country  --  amounting to about one year 's supply of each . December 27 , 1941 With economy these stocks can probably be made to last two years , but this will involve discontinuing certain forms of manufacture and the strict rationing of such articles as tires . The sale of new tires has been suspended until January 7 , presumably to enable a rationing scheme to be organized . Many millions of car owners are likely to find themselves entirely excluded from purchasing tires , but some special provision will have to be made for defense workers . If they can not be provided with houses near their jobs , they . must be given means of transport . * 655 blies be broken down into as small " bits and pieces " as possible to permit scattered facilities to be brought into the defense program . The report , which was widely circulated among Administration officials before its release , is believed to represent the views of those who advocate the merging of both OPM and SPAB in a new over-all defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and army-navy procurement officials , despite all the ballyhoo given that program in October , is said to have put New Dealers and the White House in a mood for a drastic reorganization of the defense setup . We hope that this is so . * THE NEED FOR A COMPLETE CHANGE IN THE present personnel and methods of the defense program is ably argued and graphically illustrated in the special report made by the Tolan committee , " Recommendations on Full Utilization of America 's Industrial Capacity and Labor Supply in the War Effort . " The committee urges the setting up of a central board which would in effect constitute a civilian Ministry of Supply , empowered to take control of procurement from army and navy officials . It calls for an inventory of the production facilities of every industry , their pooling and conversion for defense purposes , and the widest possible spread of orders . It suggests that plane , tank , and other armament assem-* WITH ALL THE PROBLEMS THAT PRESS IN ON a country suddenly at war , the House of Representatives has found time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist Party , the German-American Bund , and the Kyffheuser Bund . The measure calls for the registration of these organizations as direct agents of foreign governments and the surrender of their membership lists for the public record Here is one more lazy attempt to substitute legislative buckshot aimed at specific groups or individuals for a reasoned law resting on a broad base of public policy . Suppose the Senate should prove thoughtless enough to go along on this bill and imagine for a moment that the President would sign it . What would happen then ? It is our guess that before his signature was dry the Communist Party , U. S. A. , the German-American Bund , and the Kyffheuser Bund would have formally passed out of existence , and that within the succeeding twenty-four hours something like a League of American Workers with Hand and Brain , a German-American Kulturverein , and a Dingelhoofer Bund would come into being . Then Congress would have to start all over again , and after a while it would have no time left for the war . Compulsory publicity concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities seems to us a more intelligent and effective approach . If the late America First Committee had been forced to disclose the identity of its angels , we suspect it would have decomposed long before Japanese bombs blew it to bits . * THE SPEED WITH WHICH CONGRESS PASSED the bill extending the draft age for military service to cover all men between twenty and forty-four , inclusive , contrasts sharply with the delay encountered by the original Burke-Wadsworth conscription bill less than a year and a half ago The only opposition to the Administration program for extending the draft arose in connection with the army 's desire to conscript youths under twenty-one . The House balked at this request and voted to retain twenty-one as the lower limit of the draft . But 656 after the Senate had acceded to the Administration 's request and set the limit at nineteen , the conferees compromised on twenty . While there is a certain justice in the argument that a man should not be called upon to fight for his country before he is permitted to vote , we believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to nineteen , or even eighteen . It is generally agreed that young men in their upper teens make much better soldiers than men in their thirties or forties . Young men have shown themselves particularly skilful in aviation and mechanized warfare . Moreover , men of this age are least likely to be engaged in essential civilian activities or to be encumbered by family responsibility . In peace time it might be argued that it is wise to permit these young men to complete their education before starting their military service , but in time of war it becomes a choice between men not yet established in productive life and men at the peak of their productive powers . We believe that in view of the army 's experience with draftees in the twenty-eight to thirty-five age group , its recommendations should have been given more weight .                     