@@492142

ARCTIC OUTPOST By ARTHUR W. BAUM FIFTY-ODD tons of Army Liberator C-87 settled its paunchy torso on the velvet of packed snow runway , taxied to a halt , and waited like a sow for the converging litter of airport trucks and cars . From the flight deck inside , a bellow warned us to stay put until the pilot , a smiling , loud-snaring Irishman burn in Greenpoint , Brooklyn , got out and settled a jack under the Fillip 's delicately balanced tail , The tail jack was no whim . Before we had left the United States the pilot , former veteran air-lines skipper Chuck O'Connor . had trimmed the converted bomber by getting his shoulders under the rear end of the plane and lifting . Until the tail end of fifty tons could be hoisted by a simple hunch of muscles , O'Connor 's ship would not leave the ground . The jack in place , I jumped out and landed on earth that , up to n day before , 1 had never imagined I should see and had certainly never hankered for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crew , working freight hauls for the Array under contracts by which commercial air lines operate Army equipment . knew very well this indeterminate spot in the land with a bleak name . But a year before that day this last winter , no one knew it . Had the Liberator landed a year earlier it would have torn n path through virgin spruce trees and come to crumpled rest on white earth that had never known anything but the tracks of mink and the whir of ptarmigan wings . We should have been the subject of newspaper headlines and toiling rescue expeditions . Now , very calmly , we had just landed tons of meat and quantities of cautiously unidentified boxes for those who peopled what we can only call Base X of the United States Army Air Force Air Transport Command . Only six months earlier a bulldozer had skidded off n boat onto a lake shore and dug in its cleats . As the dozer crawled away from the shore it left the beginnings of the first road to the spot where the Royal Canadian Air Force had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Behind that dozer and through the air bad come everything that now made Base X  --  several six-thousand-foot concrete runways. huge hangars , scurrying jeeps and big trailer trucks , dozens of barracks and operations buildings , and hundreds of Canadian and American soldiers . This was what Brig Gen. George F. Giles , commander of ATC 's North Atlantic Wing , had meant when he swept his band across the bleakness of a huge polar map and said , This Far North area lends itself to successful air routes . We have established many of them and have many more in mind . The possibilities are tremendous . " The possibilities are so good that the ripping noise some cosmic observer above the North Pole may have heard this last year was simply the bursting of timeless seams of silence on the frosty stocking cap of the world , the Arctic Circle . That hitherto cool , remote and noise- global lid is off , torn loose by aircraft motors crisscrossing it with a mesh of sound that is apt to last as long as men fly . War , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressing into use a truth that lay neglected as long as transportation was earthbound . The truth is this : the shortest distance between two points on a ball is inevitably along the line of an arc which , continued on through the two points , would cut the ball in half . Briefly , this is the great-circle principle , whose application by the Air Transport Command hasconfounded the beliefs that we gleaned from our schoolday geographies , which laid the earth flat and distorted on colored pages . The world is round , and the lifting power of an airplane wing skimming to war over the crusty top of this ball serves to remind us that it is . The aircraft pilot knows it . If he were bent on a straight-line trip from Chicago to Chungking he would head , not for Sari Francisco , but a trifle west of due north , across Lake Superior . He would skirt Hudson Bay , flip over the Beaufort Sea and slide down somewhere past Yakutsk into China . That route would save him a neat 40 per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the pilot leaving Seattle and flying NNE to drop into Moscow via Lapland would cross his path . And another pilot , flying NNW on the short line from New York to Tokyo , would cut both their exhaust streams above never-melting ice . Spreading realization of the convenience of hopping over a hump instead of winding around it has inspired the distribution in this country of n rash of polar maps . It is significant that they are all North Polar maps . For this lopsided world happens to be a northern world , a huddle of land and peoples on the top half of the sphere . Nearly three quarters of all land lies in the northern hemisphere . Just about two thirds of the world 's population has managed to crowd itself into a single narrow girdle between the Tropic of Cancer and the Arctic Circle . In this belt Lie all of the world 's eleven largest cities . Now that civilization has lifted its emergency transport from the surface of soil and water , this packing of life in a single quarter of the orb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course , at the moment , there are no control towers , gas trucks , stewardesses or other flying necessities exactly at 90 degrees north . But the censor knows that hundreds of American soldiers are stationed at spots astonishingly closer to the North Pole than they ever dreamed of reaching . So if your son writes , " Dear Morn : I ca n't tell you where I am , but yesterday I saw a bear with white fur , " he is n't bivouacked at the zoo . He is helping to pioneer flying routes in lands which we all shall know much better after the war . And the chances are very good that his health is excellent , his pay easy to save , and his major vexations merely potential frostbite in winter , black flies in summer , and the usual sergeant . Base X , cut from the stunted spruce lands of Labrador , is one of the places he might be . Base X is far and away the largest populated place in all Labrador , yet it is no town . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school , no taverns , no wives , no children . The whole feminine population is limited to two Canadian nurses , each with at least a regiment to squire her . For most of the year nothing leaves or arrives save by air . Roads go through and around the base and back again , nowhere else . The nearest railway station is so many impossible miles away it is n't even thought of . Except for aircraft , radio is the only outside communication . The nearest tiny settlement , of Eskimos , English trading-company descendants and Grenfell mission workers , is a dog-team journey . Base X undoubtedly has more electric lights , telephonms , refrigerators , electric shavers and other present-day staples than all the rest of Labrador combined . Yet it is an island of human beings with only the forms of civilian luxuries . Its real economy and whole existence are nothing more than the protection and functioning of ( Continued on Page 36 ) its core of long runways and the aircraft that fly in and out on six points of the compass . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knot on one thread of the new air roads of the north . As a working unit of Air Transport 's global system , Base X has watched hundreds of aircraft on their way to war . Everything in and of the base is streamlined to the continuance and expansion of that traffic . Everything , that is , except Whitey , the one useless presence . Whitey is a big . hard-bodied tramp of a Husky dog , with the slanted Oriental eyes and almost invisible pupils of his breed . The airfield pet , Whitey is a constant reminder that the placid panorama around Base X is not just another Wisconsin or Minnesota winter scene . He startles newcomers by refusing crumbs of candy and cake . To Whitey 's nose , if it does n't smell Like frozen fish , it is n't food . Not long ago a visiting native sled owner captured the dog and temporarily enslaved him in his dog team , which brought to light the one unhappy effect of American soldiers in Labrador . It seems that by buying up every available puppy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men had wiped out a complete generation of sled dogs for miles around , a none-too-liberal supply to begin with . The sun , which at noon in the winter does n't clear the treetops too much , also keeps the boys informed that Base X is up there on the baldheaded side of the earth . So do temperatures down to 70 degrees below zero . But the most painful evidence of isolation is the lack of neighbors , home folks and sweethearts to spend money on . Without these unguents for overstuffed pockets , military pay burns itself right through all restraints and into subversive devices that have to do with cards and dice . Base X stoutly claims higher pay-offs on its guessing games than any other equal area in the services . That , of course , interests only a normal percentage of the men . Besides , there are other outlets for the pressures of isolation . For one thing , the whole base works hard , Labrador breezes do n't encourage dawdling at any job , and the general fine health of the ATC men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their task . Col. Albert D. Smith , commanding officer of the Americans , says , " The normal ills of civilized centers are far away up here . Pure air and the vigor of the climate keep our health level way above average . " Colonel Smith , a veteran flier who led the first flight of aircraft in a single non-continuous journey across the continent thirty-odd years ago , insists that his men " really enjoy this life . " Things Could be a Lot Worse That is undoubtedly true , although there are qualifications like those expressed by a representative of the Deep South , He did n't deny that he felt quite fit at the base , he just wanted to point out that " This shore ai n't no suburb of Mobile . " Both Canadians and Americana have movies available , and both have skating rinks and issue skates . During is ante fraction of last summer the Americans tried to interest the Canadians in baseball , and had more luck than the Canadians when they tried to sell the Americans the art of curling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work little streams with bent pins back home have converted enthusiastically to drop-line fishing for smelts through holes chopped in the ice of a near-by lake . Fresh fish comes in handy in the mess hall , where the food is adequate and generally good , although dehydrated eggs and reconstituted powdered milk provide an occasional diet trap . Base X has rather easily whipped the weather . Clothing issues include windproof parkas , and brutal big snow-tossing machines keep ahead of every blizzard by skimming snow layers as they fall . Heated hangars make sure that important aircraft can take the air quickly , and frost jackets keep wings in sharp readiness to lift . Motor repairs can be effected on a blizzardy field under the protection of two-story tents on wheels which are heated by the ubiquitous and important little unit heaters hauled around on wheels or runners . The gasoline unit heaters , plus a little canvas , provide a mobile tool of warmth available for nearly any outdoor job . Major Putnam 's low-bosomed , openwork jeep , however , is something else again . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scoops in so much air delivered fresh from the Pole that I was never very sure whether I was seeing camouflaged defense installations or crystallized eyelash . I do remember envying a potato-storage cave because it was sunk snugly into an earth bank , and the fuel tanks appeared to have been very intelligent in getting themselves deeply buried . Even the scattered stations of the Canadian troops charged with the security of the base looked as if they crouched as close as possible to the ground . On one canter we hung onto the jeep 's mane while it walked stiff-legged down into a Christmas-card dell where Jim Belcore was housemother to a water pump . Jim is a woodsman who knows how to live alone . For an after-breakfast snack he dealt us out a quarter of a custard pie each , approximately a pint of tea as black and strong as squid ink , and an arm-tossing description of his approaching triumph over a mink that had been snooping around his waterfall . Between times he stepped outside to hand meat scraps to insistent whisky-jacks , the bold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cabin walls , hung with sketches of imaginary girl chums , done with his not-too-artistic or respectful pen and sometimes elaborated with equally informal doggerel. 13elcore 's pumphouse cabin was in keeping with the Sam McGee Alaskan tradition , burning hot inside . Base X barracks also cling to this belief that the inside of a shelter can not possibly be too warm , There must be something in the theory . At any rate , there is conversational stimulation in the presence of warm air behind a wall that shuts off cold air . On any evening too nippy for the skating rink , Base Xis little more than a solid patch of raw spruce roofs covering animated conversations . In the four-bunk cells hung with magazine-girl pin-ups where the pilots gather , there speaks the new language of the north . Only at rare explorers ' clubs is it likely that the censored names which fly back and forth in these groups have ever before been so lightly used . Recent arrivals bring news a few hours old from points that a couple of decades back were reached only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Short-snorters , members of that curious club of aerial ocean-crossers whose card is a signed dollar bill , pass their bills around for more signatures . Some of them carry strips of foreign money a yard long representing countries that cover a major part of the hemisphere . They talk of ice caps , bergs , snow runways on frozen lakes , of bucking through overcasts loaded with ice crystals , of ice fog and de-icers . They recall fellow pilots who have gone on to fight , ferry or haul freight in any one of a dozen countries across half a globe . They criticize the quality of coffee at camps which heretofore knew food only as jerked reindeer , fish or blubber , if they knew it at all . The Jills of Home Conversations that last for hours often never get beyond censorable territory  --  unless the hero who holds the stage has just returned from a flight to the States , Then the talk whips into nostalgic lines embracing girls , trolley cars , telephones , girls , ice-cream sodas , concrete sidewalks , store windows and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a round trip back to dreamland without a shopping list that would founder a whole suburban  --  ' clubful of housewives . Gadgets , edibles , something to read  --  especially something to read . Once a mature male sitting across a barracks room suddenly tossed me a magazine . It was an encyclopedic collection of comic strips . " Look , " he groaned sheepishly , " that thing was printed for seven-year-old kids . I 'm a grown man . But I swear to you that I have read every word in there not once , but three times . My only defense is that I have read everything else around here four times . " Essentially he was making n complaint . But he conceded readily that after his next trip home he would gladly ( Continued from Page 361 come back , that after the war he was sure he would try to come back for a visit . A lot of Base X men , whether they are pilots just passing through or soldiers stationed there , will visit Labrador again . And when , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of air traffic , numbers of astonished vacationists may be offered air cruises that will take them to comfortable , established places that today would sound silly in a travel folder . Where freight and fighters move so easily and abundantly in war , passengers and more freight may move in peace . It was snowing as our deep-chested Liberator sped down the runway and took the night air for the return trip to the United States . On the third groaning attempt the huge wheels retracted , five heaters were turned on , and four motors yielded altitude in generous gulps as the ship swung onto a southerly course . At several thousand feet and twenty miles , the lights of Base X blinked out . Only then was it wholly realizable what a spearpoint of civilization ATC 's frigid outpost really was . For down below lay northern wasteland in the utter blackness of an untenanted land at night . That emptiness sharply outlined how easy it had been , in a few days , to fall into the hallucination that Base X was a rather normal little city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that just thinking ahead ? Even half a sky full of gleaming , shimmering northern lights failed to dilute the blackness below . But up on the pilot 's deck , in the soft light from luminous instrument dials , it was easy to compare the setting with the cab of the Ottumwa-to-Omaha night freight . Pilot O'Connor leaned a negligent elbow on the wheel as we droned on and seemed ready any minute to ask for pipe and slippers or for a brakeman to run up ahead and throw a track switch . Somehow it had the feeling of a solid main line . Or was that , too , just a twinge of prophecy for this whole war-burn air road system over the new polar worlds ?                     