@@431303

 | Why Is Labor Unrest at the Danger Point ? Condensed from The American Magazine William M. Leiserson With Beverly Smith THE labor situation in this country has drifted to the danger point . Strikes are increasing . Labor disputes are piling up faster than they can be settled . Workers are resentful . Employers are angry . The public is puzzled and alarmed . It will not do to call names ? to renounce workers and unions as " unpatriotic , " employers as " war profiteers , " and Government people as " bungling bureaucrats . " These groups arc as patriotic as any other group of citizens . They too have sons and In-others dying on the fighting fronts ; they too long for the speediest possible victory , and for a peaceful and prosperous America after the war . Why , then , do we have this ever owing turmoil , bitterness and dispute ? I believe it is because , three years after Pearl Harbor , we stil have no definite policy toward labor ( luring the war , or plan for labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an improvisation which , while patching the immediate breach , has generated new misunderstandings . Is it possible to have a definite labor policy in wartime ? Yes . We had one in the last war . President Wilson called a War Labor Conference , made up of representatives of labor and employers , with exPresident Taft and Frank Walsh as joint impartial chairmen . This conference , in several weeks of hard work , patient negotiation and patriotic compromise , thrashed out the main differences between labor and employers . It recommended the creation of a War Labor Board to settle disputes . It also ? and this is the important thing laid down definite principles for the Board to follow . Thus we obtained a specific program , mutually agreed upon by labor and industry , backed by Government authority , and endorsed by public opinion . It worked , and carried us up through the Armistice , not without strikes but with remarkably little opposition to the Board or its policies . Real labor strife came only in 1919 , after the Board was discontinued and nothing put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present war came upon us :  | Our Defense Program started in 1940 . Arms factories began to hum . At such times labor disputes always increase , because the worker , in greater demand , sees a chance for a raise . The long-established U. S. Conciliation Service df the Department of Labor could not keep up with the growing flow of disputes . Then Sidney Hillman , of the Office of Production Management , took a hand . Hillman established an OPM Labor Division to mediate labor disputes . Unfortunately , this duplicated and conflicted with the work of the U. S. Conciliation Service . Next the President , without any general agreement on policy between labor and employers , created the National Defense Mediation Board . This Board not only duplicated the work of the other two agencies but made the fatal error of confusing mediation with arbitration . This difference is fundamental . A Mediation Board acts as a mutual friend of the parties in dispute , helping them to reach an agreement . A voluntary Arbitration Board acts as a judge , before whom the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by his decision . A compulsory Arbitration Board is also a judge , but this time a judge before whom the parties have been dragged by the scruff of the neck , and whose decision is backed by force . If any board tries to be now a mutual friend , now a judge-by-agreement , and now a judge-by-force , it is going to get into trouble . The National Defense Mediation Board started out to be a mediator . But when disputes could not be settled by agreement , the Board appealed to Mr. Roosevelt to use his emergency powers . In the Federal Shipbuilding case , for instance , Mr Roosevelt had the Navy take ove the company . A settlement by force . In this way the Board drifted int compulsory arbitration . First , it los the confidence of employers . Then , a its decisions seemed to follow no se. policy , it lost the confidence of labor . Finally , the Board died , destroyed by its own confusion . Now the mineworkers struck and other disputes accumulated . Pearl Harbor was just around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor unrest . The House of Representatives passed the Smith Bill , providing for drastic legal controls o unions and labor relations . The Sen ate seemed about to go along with the House . To head off this legislation , high Government officials induced President Roosevelt to call a War Labor Conference to arrange by voluntary agreement the elimination of strikes and lockouts , and the establishment of policies and machinery for peaceful settlement of labor controversies . Meeting just after Pearl Harbor , this conference had a great opportunity . What happened ? It was in session for only two or three days . True , it agreed promptly that there should be no strikes or lockouts in war industries , and that there should be " a Board " to settle labor disputes . It did not consider the kind of mediation machinery needed . It evaded the two basic issues , wages and the union shop , which have bedeviled the labor situation ever since . The great opportunity was lost . The conference failed because no  | seriOus preparations were made to n t ire its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation . ( bnsequently the new War Labor rd had no set policy , it " decided is case on its merits . " This meant L .. t workers and employers could not I low just what their rights were , nless they took cases to the WLB. ! lions and employers , instead of pa1 , tly settling their disputes by the Iii-fashioned method of collective gaining , ran to the WLB with i ! it troubles . And since you had to l ve a dispute in order to get a derision , disputes were often drummed up artificially . With disputes piling up faster than they could be settled , exasperating delays ensued . A new confusion was introduced in October 1942 , with the passage of laws stabilizing wages and prices , and making the WLB responsible for administering wage controls . Thus , to i i s already split personality added mutual the blend and judge , the WLB character of cop . And this authority was tangled up with that of the Director of Economic Stabilization , who might or might not grant a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage stabilizer , " the WLB , might grant raises up to 15 percent , according to the Little Steel formula . but the workers alone could not apply for this raise and even if the employer added his plea , the WLB night deny it . The best way to get a raise , organized workers soon learned , was to make a rumpus , perhaps even pull a " wildcat " strike , under the principle of " the squeaking wheel gets the grease . " And some of there have learned that if they make enough of a rumpus they can get ever more than 15 percent , hidden tinder such euphemisms as travel time or reduced meal periods . The WLB did not intend any such policy . It just drifted into it . But the result was a positive invitation to labor unrest . Also , it was unjust to white-collar workers , to unorganized workers , and to all the quieter type of men who in wartime work hard and keep their mouths shut . The railroads of the United States have their own system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Railway Labor Act . This provides definite procedures for a step-by-step process of collective bargaining , conciliation , mediation and arbitration . It has worked well for many years . In 1943 the railroad workers , noting that other unions were getting pay raises to remove gross inequities , asked for a raise . This demand passed through the regular railroad channels of negotiation , resulting in a recommendation for a raise of eight cents an hour . Then the Director of Economic Stabilization intervened , and vetoed the raise . The railway workers , surprised and aggrieved , patiently tried for six months to get their case adjusted peacefully . Then they gave up and prepared to strike . The President had the Army take over the railroads . The wage question was reopened and new issues were injected in the case . The upshot was that the railroad workers were given raises of from nine to 11 cents an hour , and this was approved ' by the Director as proper under the Stabilization Program , although he had vetoed the eight cents . In this case lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tie-up , placed an unnecessary extra burden on the Army , re-enacted earlier negotiations , and ended up about where it had started . Let me emphasize here that the men involved in this mess are not " bad " men . Most of them are very good men . The members of the WLB are serving , often at a personal sacrifice , in a perplexing , ungrateful job . At the same time American industry and workers , despite the labor tangles , have performed up to now a miracle of war production . And most of the top labor leaders have tried hard to live up to their no-strike pledges . It is the system which is impossible . Most of our current strikes are directed not against the employer but against confusions and delay in the Government machinery for settling disputes . Sometimes these strikes are directed - against the workers ' own leaders , for " failure to get action " from the Government agencies . Political bargaining is too often replacing collective bargaining . Clearly , haphazard , unprepared methods of meeting labor problems do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as possible , to decide on a cooperative national labor policy both for the war and after it . To succeed , such a conference can not be a hasty affair . Representatives of labor and industry must come prepared to work hard and long , to negotiate patiently , to plan wisely , and to compromise whenever possible in the public interest . Every issue settled at the conference will avoid a thousand disputes later on . The conference might well agree on some such policies as these : That workers and employers , any labor dispute , first make serious effort to resolve their differences by collective bargainig and mutual agreement within fixed time limit . That Government mediation machinery , now scattered through many agencies , be centralized the Department of Labor ; a that voluntary arbitration be recognized as a separate function to encouraged if mediation fails . That the administration of Economic Stabilization be made entirely separate from that of settling labor disputes , so that workers get what they are entitled to under Stabilization without having drum up an argument . Above all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most frequently cause strikes , such as wages and t union shop . The area of disagreement at the conference may well be surprising small . The leaders of both labor a industry look forward with dread what may happen when the w ends . If strikes then get out of control it will not merely cripple industry It will damage the labor movement itself . It will disgust our returning soldiers and sailors . It will do harm to every one of us . There is thus a great power public opinion which can be invoke to bring labor and management t agree on the fundamentals of a coherent national policy . If the President of the United States will put this squarely up to such a Labor Conference of 1945 , I believe it can perform an historic service for our country .                     