@@475169

N October 12 , 1942 , a sharp , brief drama was acted out in the House of Representatives . A bill to abolish state poll taxes , introduced shortly before his death by Congressman Lee Geyer , had languished for months in the Judiciary Committee not by accident but through A the express desire of the Southern delegation . Eugene Cox of Georgia was trying desperately to keep the bill where it was . Now there is one sure way to free a bill that is locked up like this . If a majority of the House members sign a petition to discharge the bill , out it comes . This is difficult to accomplish , but it was done with Geyer 's bill . Through the long months while the petition lay on the Speaker 's desk in the well of the House , persistent jockeying was going on behind the scenes . Slowly the signatures accumulated and the man responsible for getting most of them was Vito Marcantonio , Congressman from New York City . At last there were enough names and the bald-headed Sam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ready to entertain a motion to bring up the bill . The Southern Democrats , who had been riding high throughout the session , were beaten . Wrath welling in his heart , the gentleman from Tobacco Road rose in his seat and looked across the House at the gentleman from Little Italy . " Let me make one statement . . . to . . . the gentleman , " Cox said . " I salute you , sir . I salute you for having at last attained that burning ambition which you carry in your soul of becoming for one moment of your life the master of this House . You bring it to you , sir , on its knee , and again I congratulate you . " In point of fact , Marcantonio 's victory , although it drove Cox to one of his finest flights of outraged rhetoric , was more apparent than real . The Geyer Bill passed the House only to be filibustered to death in the Senate . At the opening of the next session , Cox and his confederates were still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the incident brought together , on the basic issue of suffrage , two of the most ill-assorted products of constitutional democracy . Cox , from the piney woods of Georgia , with the aid of the poll tax , goes to Congress every two years on the vote of three per cent of his adult constituents . Marcantonio , from the sidewalks of New York , is a fellow-traveler of the Communists who has built an all-party machine supported by practically everyone but Jehovah 's Witnesses . Cox , of course , is an old-style operator , of a sort familiar ever since the passage of the Fifteenth Amendment . Marcantonio is something new in American politics . AT FORTY-TWO , Marcantonio is well on his way to becoming a first-class national figure , though one of a most unorthodox sort . Heretofore , his influence in the Congress has been that of a gadfly , not a leader . Because he has so consistently been a mouthpiece for the Communist Party , his support of any measure has generally been more embarrassing than helpful . Lately , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into assets , in playing the political interstices for all they are worth . For example , when the Seventy-eighth Congress convened , seven new anti-poll tax bills were introduced . Three were sponsored by Republicans , three by Democrats , and one by Marcantonio , who , although he runs on both old-party tickets , is registered in the American Labor Party . The seven bills were identical ; six , obviously , had to be withdrawn . Since Marcantonio is easily the most reviled of all his colleagues , his bill , according to Congressional protocol , should have been the leading candidate for the scrap pile . But as it happened , his bill survived and all the others were allowed to die in committee . The strategy was simple . Marcantonio and the left-wing lobbyists who were backing him played on party rivalries . To the Democrats , all Northerners of course , they argued that a Republican bill would further antagonize an already angry South ; to the Republicans , they pointed out that it would be absurd to hand the Democrats the credit , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legislators had retired each other 's bills , all but Marcantonio 's , his was offered as a " coalition " bill , and the other sponsors were magnanimously given roles in pushing the bill through the House . By this stroke , Marcantonio acquired the prestige associated with leading the fight against the poll tax ; and with the same payment , he acquired the prestige of the other Congressmen , without whose respectable support the bill might not have passed the House last year . If it becomes law , in this Congress or another , Marcantonio will stand as a kind of latter-day Lincoln in the affections of the Negro community . Already he has received what his unhappycolleagues must admit is $100,000 worth of free publicity in the Negro press . The last holdout among the six sponsors was Joseph Clark Baldwin , a Manhattan Republican . Baldwin probably yielded to the pressure in Washington , but , had that failed , another argument might have proved equally compelling . If he had persisted with his bill , a Democrat might have warmed his seat in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this simply by running a candidate of the American Labor Party against Baldwin in the coming election , thereby splitting away enough of Baldwin 's vote to elect a Democrat . Although he has been read out of the American Labor Party by its state officials , Marcantonio remains as chairman of the New York County organization , outlaw child of the state body . Actually , the county ALP is controlled by Communists . It has executed every turn in the Moscow line with as much speed and as little grace as the Communist Party itself . The New York Communists moved into the ALP in 1938 , when their own party was thrown off the ballot . They number no more than ten thousand , but they are a tight little band . Fire , flood , and pestilence could not keep them from the polls on primary day . They can elect no candidate of their own , but by entering one , and illicitly claiming for him the prestige of the state ALP , they can drain considerable support away from the more liberal of the major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Republican or a Democrat , an illegal procedure in most states but permissible in New York , they can in many districts guarantee election . As chairman of the county ALP , therefore , Marcantonio is in a position not only to obtain Republican and Democratic assistance in his own district but also to influence nominations and elections throughout the city . To prove his strength , Marcantonio once warned the Democratic County Committee , better known as Tammany Hall , that unless it nominated a Negro or an Italian for a vacant sinecure in the city judiciary , he would see to it that its man was defeated . Tammany ignored him and put up an Irishman . The ALP nomination thereupon went to the Republican candidate , a Negro , who won by a small but safe majority . Experts predict that this year Marcantonio will tip the balance in four or five Congressional elections . Four or five representatives will make a lot of difference in the next Congress . By controlling a handful of Communists , Marcantonio has become a pivotal power in a pivotal state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressman s political virtuosity by referring to him as " the Honorable Fritto Misto " ? Mixed Fry . His personal attributes are as manifold and as delusive as his political connections . He looks at least ten years younger than he is . He is shorter than average and wiry in build . His eyes , hair , and complexion are dark . His face is wellmolded and attractive . His most noticeable feature is a pair of broad but badly stooped shoulders . Because of this his head is constantly tilted forward . The stooped shoulders can give the appearance of a frail and overworked person , a younger statesman bowed early by the pressing affairs of the republic . Hornrimmed glasses , which a nervous habit leads him to adjust every few moments , add to this effect . But at other times , when he is bearding an adversary or haranguing a crowd , the forward thrust of his head makes him look tough and belligerent . When he mingles with the Bohemian intellectuals who are his friends , he looks like an earnest young law student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every word that is said . In ordinary conversation , he talks in the reasonably clear and precise accents of a New Yorker who has tried hard to cultivate a good speaking voice . When he speaks before his constituents , however , he moves quickly into the vernacular , mugging and shrieking in a manner not unlike that of his political mentor , Fiorello H. La Guardia . When he discusses questions of no great moment to him as a politician , his logic is sound , his sense of humor excellent , and his manner pleasing on the whole . But on subjects close to his heart ? the virtues of the Russian state , for example ? he grows harshly dogmatic and makes no pretense to reasonableness . Marcantonio denies that he is a Communist . " Anyone who says that I am a Communist , " he has written , " is a liar and a scoundrel . " He always has a lot of protesting to do . Unquestionably , he does not belong to the Communist Party . He would be foolish if he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often made gestures like a fascist and that he once praised Hamilton Fish as " that fine liberal Republican . " But those are the gestures of an adroit politician whose constituents are Italian and mostly Republican . Otherwise , his policies are invariably those of the Communists , and if this is , as he says , to be explained as " pure coincidence , " then it is a coincidence that passes all understanding . The touchstone of Communist conduct is foreign policy . In his first term in Congress , Marcantonio was pacifist and isolationist ; his chief concern was the abolition of compulsory military training in land-grant colleges . In his second term , the party line changed , and so did his ; he demanded that the Neutrality Act be interpreted to allow shipments of arms to Loyalist Spain . In the beginning of his third term , when the Russo-German pact was in force , he was isolationist again ; he demanded rigid interpretation and enforcement of the Neutrality Act ; he was the only Congressman who voted against every measure not only for aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as Hitler invaded Russia , he wanted repeal of the whole Act ; he became , months before Pearl Harbor , one of the first Congressmen to call for an open declaration of war and the immediate dispatch of an expeditionary force . " Hitler may soon be within rowboat distance of our country , " he said , meaning that if the Nazis got to the Bering Strait , small craft could ferry them to Alaska . Explaining himself to the House , he said , " I still believe that .. up to June , 1941 , the war was an imperialist war . However , I maintain that . . . the invasion of the Soviet Union by Hitler transformed that war which was essentially imperialist into a war which is now essentially one of national defense . " In the early thirties , the Communists opposed Roosevelt . " The WPA , " Marcantonio said , " is doing more to destroy the American standard of living than any group of reactionary industrialists in the country . " In 1938 , when the Communists supported Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reactionary movement to scuttle WPA . " At about this time he became president of the International Labor Defense , the American branch of the Comintern 's International Red Aid . " I am not and never have been a Communist , " said Marcantonio , a contributing editor to the New Masses . " I say flatly that Red-baiters are the very worst type of criminal . " II M ARCANTONIO represents the Twentieth Congressional District , known in New York as East Harlem . East Harlem is a huge and verminous slum area that runs from the edge of the Negro district to the wharves of the East River . Its largest racial group is Italian . Next come Puerto Ricans , then small settlements of Negroes and Jews . This is the district which , in years gone by , Fiorello La Guardia represented in Washington . The present Congressman has been able to offer something to each racial group . To the Italians it was enough , for a beginning at least , that his name was Marcantonio and that he had been blessed by the Little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who harbor no love for Romans , by championing their nationalism , by flying to their island to defend some rebels beleaguered by the law , and by writing a bill to grant Puerto Rico immediate independence with staggering indemnities . Both the Italians and the Puerto Ricans are Roman Catholic , and Mother Church plays an important part in politics . On certain feast days Marcantonio can be seen , a lighted taper in hand , walking barefoot through the district with the pious . He seldom fails to put in an appearance at the annual celebration for the Madonna of the Miracles , Our Lady of Mount Carmel . Negroes and Jews in the district were won by his spirited denunciations of Jim Crow MAGAZINE and anti-Semitism . On his staff of five or six secretaries , each race is represented . The Congressman and his district have known each other well for many years . He was born there on December 10 , 1902 . His father was a carpenter and the family lived in the heart of the district . At eighteen Vito became a leader of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the landlords . He acquired the first part of his machine twentytwo years ago when he attracted the attention of La Guardia , who was then trying to break Tammany control of the district and get into Congress himself . Marcantonio was still in law school at the time , but La Guardia had been impressed by his work in the Tenants ' League , and he spotted the young man as sound political timber . Marcantonio has enjoyed La Guardia 's favor ever since . The Mayor usually refers to his prot ? g ? as " Vito , my good son , " and when the younger man displeases him , which has been often since Vito took up with the Communists , the Mayor shrugs and speaks ruefully of " my erring son . " Some genuine feeling may still lie beneath this pose of the long-suffering parent . But it can not fully explain why La Guardia never bucks Marcantonio , while Marcantonio frequently defies the Mayor . La Guardia , like so many other New York politicians these days , needs the support of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indeed , La Guardia is more beholden than most , for Marcantonio controls not only the ALP but the machine on which La Guardia first rode to power . When La Guardia was in Congress himself , his association in Washington with men like Smith Brookhart and the elder La Follette was a source of constant irritation to Republican leaders in New York . He knew that his party standing was never better than shaky . To build up independent strength , he started the F. H. La Guardia Political Club , an association of young Italian professional men who would follow him no matter what the party did . Marcantonio was put at its head . For further security , La Guardia organized a couple of local parties of his own invention . These were to assure him a place on the ballot any time the Republicans failed to . Marcantonio presided over them also . The La Guardia Club , known in the district as " the Gibonis , " an affectionate equivalent for " the wops , " became the basis of the La Guardia machine . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marcantonio . They are important parts of his machine , and he could , if he wished , turn them against La Guardia at any time . The Mayor knows this and even when Marcantonio was vehemently isolationist , and the Mayor just as vehemently interventionist , he could always find reasons for endorsing his wayward son . He has even had to support Marcantonio at the expense of others of his backers . When , in 1942 , some members of the city administration threatened briefly to make a fight against Marcantonio , La Guardia told the press that if this happened , he might be forced to trim the payroll a little . When Marcantonio first ran for Congress , he had only the Republican nomination and the blessing of his patron and predecessor , La Guardia . In that year , 1932 , Marcantonio won by 247 votes , In 1942 he ran as the regular candidate of the Republican , Democratic , and American Labor Parties . No other candidate 's name appeared beside his on the ballot . He won by 19,049 votes . ( The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) The machine that has thus withered all opposition bears no resemblance to the traditional steam roller fueled by patronage and party regularity ; it is instead a homemade jalopy , assembled from parts he has pried loose from other machines . Nevertheless , it is one of the strongest machines in the country , opposed by no organized group of any consequence , and it stands at the service of the Communist Party , whose members in the district could meet in the cloakroom of any Republican club . The feat is probably without parallel in American political history . all slums , especially those inhabited by immigaants and their children , East Harlem seethes with politics . Party feelings run high . On almost every block , Republican and Democratic clubs outdo each other in providing amusement for those who , because of poverty and the language barrier , can not use the entertainment facilities that serve the city as a whole . They offer the people the legal and economic counsel they need for survival in the hostile world outside . The clubs compete with each other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions have joined the fray . But none can compete with Marcantonio . Every Saturday noon , when the House recesses , he flies home to New York . He may make as many as ten speeches over the week end , but Sunday afternoon is reserved for oiling the machine . The scene in the La Guardia Club after one o'clock on Sunday looks like nothing so much as a busy day in the clinic of a great city hospital . Marcantonio and three or four secretaries sit at desks on a platform in the front of the main hall . Before them on wooden camp chairs are about a hundred constituents , many of them cradling infants in their arms . A guard stands at the door and seats new arrivals . As many as four hundred may come and go in an afternoon . This is the Marcantonio machine at work , gathering in Republicans , Democrats , anarchists , fascists , anything . One by one the constituents shamble up to their Congressman 's desk and tell him their troubles . They speak in Spanish , Italian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marcantonio can always answer in kind , throwing in a little Yiddish if the need arises . Mostly their problems concern money or jobs . During the depression , the majority were relief applicants ; sixty per cent of Harlem was then living on public funds and at one time unemployment rose to eight-five per cent . As attorney for the Workers ' Alliance , the powerful union of unemployed and relief workers , the Congressman was in an excellent position to help . Today the same people are back for Army dependency allotments . Many want government or war-plant jobs . Some need legal aid , and Marcantonio always keeps a good lawyer on the payroll . Sometimes the problems are considerably more complicated . Several months ago a troubled couple came to him . Their daughter had become pregnant by a British sailor and they wanted him to marry the girl . They knew his name but not his present location . Marcantonio said that he would see what he could do . With small hope of success , he wrote the British Embassy explaining the case and asking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a military secret . A few days later he got a call from the British Embassy . His Majesty 's Government , an Etonian voice said , wished to apologize to the American Congressman for the damage done to Miss So-andSo by a member of the Royal Navy . While His Majesty 's Government , the aide went on , could not order the young man to marry the girl , it was hoping that the problem would solve itself when the seaman was given an immediate leave of eight weeks in New York . The problem did solve itself , and on the wedding day His Majesty 's Government sent over a complement of sailors in full regalia , who formed a guard of honor outside the church . ALTHOUGH he can seldom deliver so handsomely , Marcantonio sees personally about thirty thousand voters in the course of a Congressional term . So large an investment naturally pays huge dividends . But while grateful constituents can win general elections , they can not always secure party backing for their friends , nor can they be counted on to win primaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enmity of Tammany Hall , which had not yet been brought to its present low estate by La Guardia . When he sought re-election in 1936 , he lost , for the first and last time , to a Democrat . His own party had not really been behind him . Never very enthusiastic about him in the first place , the Republicans dropped him , temporarily , when they saw that he was voting with the New Deal and consorting with Communists . One of his principal supporters , Luigi Antonini , Italian leader of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union , had been alienated by his Communist proclivities . Shortly before the primaries in 1938 , the Republicancounty leaders read Marcantonio out of the party . Soon after that the ALP disowned him , though not before a fight had taken place in which a clubhouse was wrecked and Marcantonio lost some teeth . In such a fix the average politician would have reasoned that the jig was up . But not Marcantonio . In 1937 he began putting together an entirely new machine . He had retained the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders . He was getting considerable financial help from the left-wing CIO unions , and the Communist Party saw to it that he had a good staff of experienced canvassers . Organized virtue , in the form of social workers and settlement-house directors , of which his wife , Miriam Sanders of Harlem House , is one , continued to regard him as a dauntless adversary of Tammany corruption . When he entered the Republican primaries in 1938 , he won easily against the machine . The ALP primaries and the general election were still easier . The Republican machine that opposed him then is now in his hands . Although he still stands excommunicated from the Republican Party , no Republican leader in the district has mentioned the matter for years . And he controls the city ALP , lock , stock , and pork barrel . IV GGP.TRAMMANY HALL , " Marcantonio once wrote , before it was supporting him , " has been art enemy of the people ever since it was founded by a traitor , Aaron Burr . " Now he lies in the viper 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1940 . In 1938 he had entered the Democratic primaries and walked off with thirty per cent of the . vote . In 1940 he had won the general election by his fattest margin , and Tammany could see that future opposition was useless . Besides , Tammany 's cupboard was getting very bare , and it was nodding courteously to the American Labor Party . He won the 1942 Democratic primary by a thumping majority . The primary election was hardly a contest . A local ward-heeler had entered the race , supposedly with official backing , but he somehow forgot that he was a candidate . He did not make a single speech . When one of the Tammany leaders was cruising around the polls on primary day , he discovered a misguided precinct captain who was actually working for the dummy candidate . He took the man around the corner and gave him a good cuffing . No precinct captain is likely to be so thoughtless again . Marcantonio now enjoys the enthusiastic support of Clarence H. Neal , Jr. , perhaps the most influential Democratic leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slot-machine operator , was called into court last year to explain how he had influenced the Aurelio nomination , * he proudly boasted that he had worked through Clarence Neal . Neal has survived the infamy , however . He recently consolidated his power by leading a successful palace revolution in which Michael J. Kennedy was removed as head of Tammany Hall and Neal 's candidate , Edward V. Loughlin , was elected as his successor . One of Neal 's prot6g6s , James Pemberton , a young Negro , has become the major-domo of the Marcantonio machine . Pemberton , a Tammany district leader , is personally devoted to Marcantonio , and , since his clubhouse chores are few these days , he spends nearly all his time working for the Congressman . On week days , when the House is in session , Pemberton keeps the machine going ; he spends his week ends traveling with the Congressman and conferring with him between speaking engagements . Through Pemberton , Marcantonio can always get his point of view across in Tammany executive meetings . Marcantonio used to retain a former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerfully built man who must weigh close to three hundred pounds , has been accompanying him everywhere , his political and physical needs are ministered to at the same time . In his isolationist phases , Marcantonio relied heavily an the argument that we ought to clean up our own backyard first . Captious critics might say the same to him . East Harlem is one of the centers of New York vice and racketeering . In *See " Aurelio : the People 's Choice , " by Ferdinand Lundberg , in Harper 's for January , 1944. prostitution it ranks second only to Negro Harlem . It is headquarters for the policy racket . Dutch Schultz , Owney Madden , Lucky Luciano , and Arnold Rothstein had large holdings there . Lepke Buchalter used to keep his Trigger Mike Coppola busy along upper Lexington Avenue . Most shopkeepers in the neighborhood are victimized by protection rackets ; their stores are made to serve as " drops " for the policy lotteries . Those who sell protection to the businessmen buy or demand it for themselves from the police and politicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city administration and a paradise for venal officers of the law . Marcantonio , a hard-riding Paul Revere when he sees " international gangsterism " on the march , has had little to say about the gangsters who gouge East Harlem . Once in 1933 , when he was seeking a district leadership for himself , some thugs got rough with several of his workers , and he complained to the District Attorney . Since then he has shown no zeal for changing conditions in East Harlem , nor has he ever spoken publicly about them . Floating crap games move undisturbed from one political club to another , but the candidate of the settlement-house workers does not appear to be outraged . The truth is that a state of neutrality exists between him and the racketeers . His machine could not possibly operate in the face of their opposition . Few of the voters whom he helps at his Sunday afternoon Good Will Hour would get to the polls if the gangsters decided that East Harlem needed another Congressman . F.FORX the war fascism was a delicate issue among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by con-viction , and almost none was evangeli-cally fascist , like the German Bundists . But most were ardent Italian patriots , and fascism was the form of their country 's government . An attack on Mussolini was an attack on the Italian genius . Marc-antonio , whose anti-fascist oratory en-deared him to the Communists , has always managed to avoid any mention of Mus-solini and the corporate state , at least in East Harlem . Indeed , he has often been forced to pay tacit tribute to II Duce by gracing with his presence the meetings of the large Italian societies that became powerful in East Harlem through the gratuities of the consulate . One day in the middle thirties he was arrested in the morning for leading a Communist demonstration that threatened to become a riot ; after bail was provided , he went uptown to a fascist banquet , where his arrival was greeted by a band playing the " Giovinezza . " A group of Italian trade unionists has published a brochure on Marcantonio replete with pictures of him in the company of fascist government officials . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but that the fascist vote was indispensable to the machine . The Roman of old times came to bury Caesar , not to praise him ; his namesake has been careful to do neither ? in East Harlem . During the Italian war in Ethiopia , for example , he was a leading member of the American League Against War and Fascism . But in East Harlem , at the same time , he was addressing the local leagues for war and fascism . No word of explicit approval for the Italian legions ever passed his lips . But he did talk about " the agents of the racketeering League of Nations , the big salary-grabbers , " who , in their anonymity , might easily be taken for the anti-fascists seeking League sanctions against the Italian government . N EXT fall the Marcantonio machine will face a difficult test . The twentieth Congressional District no longer exists . The New York Legislature , dominated by upstate Republicans who have nothing to fear from Marcantonio , has reapportioned the state and tried to gerrymander Marcantonio out of office . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his East Harlem Spaniards and Italians , but life will be complicated by the addition of vast German and Irish hordes from the adjoining Yorkville area . Since Yorkville is almost wholly Democratic , the Republican and Labor parts of his machine will remain intact . He may have difficulties in the Democratic primaries , but Clarence Neal 's recent victory in Tammany Hall was Marcantonio'svictory also . Tammany may not dare to support him openly , but it will probably praise him with faint damns . His campaign for Democratic support began early in February , when he handed the Labor Party nomination to James Torrens , a Tammany candidate for Congress in a contiguous district . Even if he should fail to be re-elected for a term or two , his power will increase rather than diminish . At this writing he controls the ALP only in Manhattan , but by April he should be boss of the entire state apparatus . The Communist wing of the ALP last year acquired control of the Brooklyn organization , and it will try to win a majority on the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the present state leaders that they have had a hard time deciding whether to resist the Communists or resign without a fight and start a new party . They have determined to make a fight , but they admit that they have almost no chance of winning . If the Communists capture the state ALP , a good many of its supporters will move into the Democratic Party , whence they originally came . On occasion the ALP vote has been as high as 500,000 . Under Communist domination , not more than half that number will vote with it . But the right-wing leaders of the party have never used their 500,000 votes as effectively as Marcantonio has used his 10,000 Communists . They are professional trade-union leaders and , although they have never been averse to what they call " honorable reciprocity , " their simple minds could not conceive the kind of elaborate deals that Marcantonio has rigged in Manhattan and Washington . In his hands the ALP will be considerably smaller , but its trading power will be used to greater advantage . Marcantonio 's future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , recently announced the mass conversion of his followers to the two-party system , he probably had in mind the strange case of the Honorable Vito Marcantonio , who runs with the Republican and Democratic hounds but holds with the Communist hare .                     