@@485698

America 's center-city hospitals are going broke . Mayor Edward Koch 's bitterly contested plan to close four of seventeen municipally owned institutions in New York City is the most prominent example of an accelerating though long-standing trend . Charting the fates of 326 hospitals in eighteen Northeastern central cities , Dr. Alan Sagar , assistant professor of urban Peter Koenig ts a freelance writer . and health planning at Brandeis University , discovered that ninety-five of them had closed or relocated between 1937 and 1977 . But the hard times the inner-city hospitals arc suffering as a result of depleted public resources represent one dark corner of the current hospital picture . The situation is much brighter in the private sector for a new breedzof hospitals , the investor-owned chains . These privately lowned , for-profit chains , which did not even exist fifteen years ago , grossed $10 billion last year . The investor-owned chains do not directly benefit at the expense of inner-city hospitals . In the main , they are concentrated in suburbs and regions of the country where cities are growing . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of patients who are fully insured , leaying the nonprofit hospitals the rest . They thus benefit indirectly from policies that have contributed to the straitened ! fiscal conditions in which the inner-city hospitals now find themselves . In the prosperous 1960s , hospitals performed a dual function : treating the seriously ill covered by health insurance , while keeping open emergency rooms and outpatient clinics for , the poor who had no family doctors . Singe the 1974-75 recession , however , hospitals have cut down op emergency-room and , outpatient services . In the Northeastern and North Central states , these cutbacks have been forced by tightened Medicare and Medicaid eligibility requirements . Hospitals in these states have also suffered because reimbursement from state and private insurers is based on a strict accounting of their costs  --  in contrast to the reimbursement formulas in other parts of the country , which are based on what hospitals charge patients . Thus , the chains have both taken care to make acquisitions in parts of the country where the hospital business is still profitable and promoted a sideline for themselves managing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are turning to the chains for contract-management services that supposedly will cut costs and install business-style efficiency . Actually , the chains ' contract-management sideline is also part of a broader trend in medicine . In the 1960s , when times were gobel , doctors-and manufacturers of medical technology prospered by selling care without regard to cost. - Now , with times hard , operations like the investor-owned chains that purvey cut-rate care in the guise of efficiency are prospering . Since Big Business is most experienced in using economies of scale and other , even harder-nosed techniques to cut costs , the public can look for more private corporate control of health care in the 1980s . Already , for example , Big Business is buying up for-profit health maintenance organizations , fostered by the Federal Government to keep doctors ' fees down . The basic ! , debate over health care will remain the same : are profits compatible with effective and fair treatment of the ill or not ? But the defenders of the entrepreneurial medical system are now businessmen and corporate P.R . types rather than Individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chains sprang up " in the 1960s when Medicare and Medicaid brought new dollars into the industry , and made owning and operating hospitals look like a good investment , " The Wall Street Journal reported on July 21 , 1976 . High ! interest rates curtailed construction activity , holkever  --  many of the early movers and shakers in the fledgling industry were capital-poor entrepreneurs  --  and the companies began looking into the possibility of selling their management skills to existing hospitals . " Fulfilling a management contract , they reasoned , would n't involve large capital outlays as building or buying a hospital did , " The Journal continued , " so profits could start flowing faster . " Throughout the late 1960s and early 1970s , Barron 's reported on'April 4 , 1977 , as public and nonprofit hospitals got poorer , the revenues of the hospital chains grew faster than revenues in such glamour industries as computers and office machines . " As the public 's patience with soaring health-care Costs waxes thinner sic , " Barron 's concluded , " more community hospitals should be driven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thirty-five chains had developed into a major industry boasting six companies on the New York Stock Exchange , four on the American Exchange and a lobby , in Washington , the Federation of American Hospitals , whose motto is " Quality Care Through the Efficiency of Private Enterprise . " Today , of the 6,000 community hospitals in the United States , 4,000 are operated not-for-profit by charities , 1,000 are municipallyowned and 1,000 are privately owned and run for profit . - In , This last category , are 500 hospitals owned by doctors , many of them serving the supek-rich . But the 500 largest private hospitals are run by the chain 's . The chains , moreover , manage 275 other public and nonprofit hospitals under contract , and expect future growth in contract management to keep up with the 76 percent gain in revenues poSted last year . The chains charge a hospital 3 to 4 percent of its gross revenues for their services . In return , they claim , ' they cut costs , in almost any setting , without reducing the quality of care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chains are better at selling their claims than they are at living up to them . In The Road to Recovery , published in 1976 , Jack R. Anderson , chairman of Nashville-based Hospital Affiliates International Inc . ( H.A.I. ) , the largest chain and a subsidiary of Philadelphia-based INA Corporation , an insurance company with $2 billion in annual revenues , describes management techniques he says reduce waste in hospitals . Anderson 's theories are typical of the theories offered by the hospital-management industry as a whole . He notes that : ? Since 50 percent to 60 percent of a hospital 's costs are for labor , hospital management companies begin cutting there . Hospital chains employ an average of 2:5 employeesper patient , compared with , ' a minimum of 3 in public and nonprofit hospitals . But the quality of care does not suffer , Anderson claims , because the chains improve productivity  --  in part through good labor relations . ? The chains use sophisticated accounting and ? inventory control methods . They collect all that Medicare-Medicaid , Blue Cross-Blue Shield and other insurers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uninsured costs in full . ? The , chains make better , use of a hospital 's ancillary services  --  pharmacies , operating rooms , intensive care units , diagnostic and therapeutic services . " Ancillary services typically contribute-about 90 percent of the profits of a hospital , " Anderson writes . " The routine services  --  nursing , food management , housekeeping , dietary and the like  --  usually entail high overhead , , and little or no profit . . . " ? The chains buy in bulk , everything from insurance and computer time to ordinary supplies . ? The chains recruit smart young graduates of business schools as well as hospital administration programs , train them and rotate them around . This guarantees that even the smallest hospitals , say in the South and Southwest  --  where the chains first blossomed and still do a lot of their business  --  get professional management . - In sum , according to Anderson and- his colleagues , traditional hospital management ' has been wasteful and inept , but now the chains have come along with new , improved management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of ' administrators of public and not-for-profit hospitals would agree that " wasteful " and " inept " accurately describe much of the business practice in their hospitals . However , many of these administrators charge that managers of the chains do not give the public a true picture of their operations . Specifically , these critics charge that : ? A lower employee-to-patient ratio does diminish hospital care . Alexander Williams , a former H.A.I. employee who stayed on as executive director at New York City 's Roosevelt Hospital after H.A.I. tried unsuccessfully to turn that hospital around financially , says : " Care at Roosevelt is not as good as it was before the cuts in staff . " ? The chains ' claim of good labor relations is farcical even by their own description . Anderson , for example , writes of " a concerted attempt . . . being made on the part of hospital management to get away from job titles such as maids , janitors , custodians and so on . Instead , workers holding these positions are now known as environmental service specialists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bedside care suffers in hospitals where capital-intensive ancillary/services are expected to make the money , and nursing is expected to break even at best . ' ? What the chains really do is supplement permanent staffs with lower-paid part-time workers . These workers perform inefficiently because they do n't know their way around the units to which they 're assigned  --  and because they 're poorly paid . - ? Ultimately , the chains balance a hospital 's books as much by raising fees and screening out the underinsured as by cutting costs . ? In a 1977 study for the National Health Law Program , a Los Angeles-based Nader-style group , Ruth Roemer reported that a year earlier , before Los Angeles-based National Medical Enterprises Inc. began managing Merced Community Medical Center in California , the fee for a brief emergency-room visit there was $4.50 for the doctor 's care and $16 for the room . Soon aftr N.M.E . took over , the fee went to $26 for the doctor 's care and $50 for the room . N.M.E . says it raised Merced 's rates because they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says that regardless of the reasons for , the increase , the underinsured in Merced County had to look elsewhere for care . " The chains skim the full-paying patients , " she says . This means that the chains ' cost-cutting not only diminishes care in the hospitals they run but also in the hospitals that end up taking in the underinsured they turn away . Says David Kindig , executive director of Montefiore Hospital in New York City : " We run a deficit , not because of sloppy management , but because of the care we give to the working poor in our emergency room and outpatient clinics . " The chains ' skimming takes effect at the national as well as local level . In 1976 , it appeared that Roosevelt Hospital in New York City was going broke . In response to this emergency , Roosevelt 's board of trustees fired their executive director and hired , H.A.I. to manage the hospital for two years with an option to extend the contract a third year . The board agreed to pay H.A.I. $400,000 annually , plus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promised to get Roosevelt out of the i ed . Immediately upon signing its contract with Roosevelt , H.A.I. dispatched scores of specialists to New York to review the hospital 's operations . The company installed its own executive and financial directors , and fired 10 percent of Roosevelt 's employees . This was the hospital 's second 10 percent labor cut in three years . In 1978 , despite H.A.I. 's best efforts , Roosevelt still lost $1.2 million . Other hospital administrators in New York say this was because of the high concentration of Medicaid patients there , and because of the stringent Medicaid and Blue Cross reimbursement rates in New York . Nevertheless , H.A.I. 's solution to Roosevelt 's continuing financial problem was to cut more staff . Roosevelt 's board rejected this solution , and went back to banks for more credit . Then the board stepped up its pursuit of a merger with nearby St. Luke 's Hospital . H.A.I. bowed out of New York . Its management says it plans to stay out of decaying older cities in the future . A reading of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan to do the same . The strategy of the investor-owned hospital , chains , then , is , first , to steer clear of troubled , urban centers altogether ; second , to steer clear of underinsured sick persons in the parts of the country where chains are active , and third , to provide care they themselves admit conforms to cost-efficiency guidelines more than to the patients ' welfare  --  arguing that the separate considerations . need not conflict . This strategy has a certain logic to it in a nation that currently can not afford its health-care system . In the absence of a political prescription for cutting costs based a doctrine of equity , it seems inevitable that someone should come along and cut costs for profit . But the net effect is to , shore up the nation 's richer hospitals at the expense of its poorer ones . Michael Bromberg , the chief lobbyist for the private chains , claims that investors will end up owning at most 25 percent of the nation 's community hospitals . ' Others , such as William Shonick , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angeles studying the performance of hospital chains in California , foresee a different future : " We could wake up in a few years with a few Exxons controlling half the hospitals . " What does seem likely , whatever the eventual ownership breakdown , is that the hospitals the Exxons end up owning will be the'hospitals placed to turn a profit , while the taxpayers get stuck with the rat .                     