@@487835

delegation , en route to Poland , Czechoslovakia , Italy , Israel . Other members were to meet us in Poland ; still others in Italy . The mission was primarily organized to take part in ceremonies dedicating various institutions in those countries to the memory of Fiorello LaGuardia , who was given the One World Award in 1947 , a short time before he died : a big elementary school in Wroclaw , Poland ( formerly Breslau ) , a high school in Prague , a hospital in Foggia , Italy . A secondary object was to attend , as part of the American delegation , the Cultural Congress for Peace at Wroclaw . Now that the journey is ended I find it hard to estimate the value in terms of good-will and understanding of such a mission as ours . I can say , though , that our hosts in each country were obviously glad to welcome Americans whose purposes were non-political . The very name LaGuardia. carried reassurance ; so , I believe , did the names and records of the One World group . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how useful it would be if a similar mission , made up of the sorts of men and women who welcomed us , could visit the United States on some comparable errand . This of course was purest fantasy so far as Eastern Europe was concerned . No such group would be allowed by its government to go ; if it were , its members would not be admitted to the United States . Behind all the evident goodwill stood the obdurate facts of official suspicion and hostility , of stubborn incomprehension . I. Wroclaw THE Polish government plane we boarded at Le Bourget was old and rather battered ; after the champagne and four-course meals on our Air France Constellation the luncheon seemed Spartan  --  crackers , four varieties , an apple , and something to drink . It was a deceptive preview of Polish fare . We flew straight over France and Germany . The land under us was closely cultivated . A plane's-eye view of Europe encourages illusions : ignoring politics , trade restrictions , even boundaries , it ties the Continent together in a single close-textured pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back to post-war reality . We landed almost at dusk and were met by officials and guides from the Cultural Congress who put us into a bus and took us to town . It was a ghostly introduction . to the old German city that had been gutted in the houseto-house struggle between the Nazis and the advancing Red Army . A shelled-out city has a different look from a bombed one : the destruction in Warsaw is worse but , apart from the ghetto , somehow less horrifying . Wroclaw , is a skeleton , a great solid city reduced to bones and eye-sockets . The Poles are spending incredible energy on rebuilding , and their pride in the work done is enormous and justified . But on our first evening it was the spectacle of desolation that impressed us . This was perhaps intended ; in any case it provided a dramatic backdrop for all that followed . The Congress was to begin next day , and when we arrived at the hotel we found ourselves almost lost in the confusion of last-minute preparations . But if the arrangements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making heroic efforts to deal with an emergency for which almost no facilities existed . They were vigorous , kind , apologetic . And as the show got under way we were impressed at every turn by the immense achievement represented in a three-day congress , attended by , more than 600 delegates- arriving from thirty-eight countries , in a city that had only begun to emerge from chaos and a fantastic process of reconversion and repopulation . The enthusiasm and energy that surrounded us contrasted like flame against gray with the physical ruin . N OW that it is over , we have learned what the press of other countries , America in particular , said about the congress . Much of it was true . But the criticisms were larded with so many misrepresentations that a few belated comments seem in order . The truth is , the assembled " intellectuals " behaved very much like ordinary statesmen . Perhaps that is the worst thing one could say , for the announced purpose of the meeting was to arrive at understandings possible only to men and women trained in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political pressures . What took place might , have happened in the Palais de Chaillot or at Lake Success : the delegates orated , denounced , intrigued , chatted pleasantly at lunch or in the corridors , and at the end divided inexorably according to their ideological and national affiliations . The Cultural Congress was the political world in microcosm , with the right wing amputated . The Communists and their close allies predominated ; but non-Communists , present in considerable numbers , were given a full and polite hearing . The chief trouble was that the Russians , possibly by design , sounded at the outset a keynote of fierce and partisan controversy which fixed the mood of the meetings beyond hope of redemption . October 30 , 1948 The savage attack of Fadayev , the Soviet novelist , on American " imperialism , " cultural and political , made discussion in the ordinary sense quite impossible . Ehrenburg 's brilliant speech next morning echoed the same unqualified charges , though he concluded with an appeal to the Americans present to join the anti-imperialist crusade . What followed was inevitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American policy remained to defend if not to praise it . Other issues were overshadowed . To those expecting an exchange of views on measures that might be taken to mitigate antagonisms this was a serious disappointment . Perhaps the error-was to entertain such hopes . Perhaps the liberals in particular should have adapted themselves to the facts and either insisted en bloc upon a different procechire or jumped into the fight with greater energy . But when have liberals ever done either ? As alwaysethey were unorganized , impeded by their own doubts , qualifications , and discriminations , as well as by a temperamental dislike of verbal free-for-alls . Besides , many delegates wanted to talk about other things , and since neither discipline nor concerted plan existed in the American or British groups  --  where the most vocal dissenters were to be found  --  no real counterattack was possible . It was completely typical that the first American speech after Fadayev and Ehrenberg should have been an amiable , personal , rambling talk by 0 . John Rogge , prepared in advance and devoted largely to the thesis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become aware of the unconscious motivations behind the policies they advocate . He inserted a few introductory words deprecating the more sweeping denunciations of America , but the final effect was one of total irrelevance . The Russians and other like-minded delegates were clearly astonished ; they had expected a direct ' political reply . The able , very hostile speech of Bryn Hovde of the New School of Social Research came two days after the initial attack . The third scheduled American speech , by Albert Kahn , was a hearty indorsement of the Soviet position . If none of these managed to express fully the views of the majority , of Americans , they at least revealed democratic ' division and individual self-expression in their fullest flower . Perhaps this was worth demonstrating . It would be tedious to describe the struggle in the resolutions committee . I can only say , as one who voted for it , that the resolution which emerged was a genuine compromise . By the same token it was unsatisfactory to almost everybody . True , the Soviet and other Communist ' delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as I did , on even a few of the twelve or- fifteen hours of hairsplitting in committee would deny that the far left retreated a long way from the original Russian formula , which explicitly attributed the threat to peace to the United States alone . Inch by inch they yielded ground , 483 first to distxibute responsibility , among a " few self-interested men in America ' knot only the United States and Europe conceivably Including Eastern Europe ) , " and finally to include most of a substitute " liberal " resolution written by Julian Huxley . If the final result was oversimplified and still slanted eastward , it represented the nearest approach to common ground that the assorted " intellectuals " could attain . All but the most supple must have voted yes with spoken or unspoken reservations , but only a handful , seven Americans and four British , voted against it . I F THIS were all Wroclaw had to offer , the hostile press reports might have been merited . Fortunately it was not all . Excellent papers were read on various relevant subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutral countries . Outside the school auditorium that served as meeting place , delegates had a chance to talk to their fellows without feeling it necessary to shout . ' A Soviet-American luncheon was held  --  on the Russians ' invitation  --  at which good food and moderate quantities of vodka encouraged hopeful conversation , at least at my end of the table , about ways of facilitating an exchange of cultural material . The old novelist , Saslayski , who sat opposite me , proclaimed himself a steady and admiring reader of The Nation , though he insisted that we had become more reactionary in the past five years , citing the contributions of Louis Fischer as evidence . It seemed almost impolite , in the face of such amiability , to point out that Mr. Fischer 's last contribution appeared almost four years ago . There were ' other pleasures and compensations : an official reception to the delegates in Wroclaw 's City Hall , its medieval magnificence restored after considerable ; damage in the war ; the exhibition showing three years of progress in the " recovered " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hall on the exhibition grounds ; and finally , for the members of the One World group , the dedication ceremonies at the new school . Nothing could have been more amusing and varied than the Mayor 's reception . Delegates came in costumes that ranged from formal evening dress to knickerbockers and dirndls : the food was gorgeous enough to stagger even a Russian ambassador ; the music was gay ' , the warmth and hospitality of our hosts were unaffected . As for the exhibition , it was praised by the most critical members of our delegation . Never have I seen a more imaginative presentation of cultural and economic material . The two mass-meetings deserve special mention . The first , held by the Federation of Polish Women , was attended by 15,000 or more women brought by train and bus and truck from every corner of the country  --  teachers , peasants in their fine holiday costumes ( many wearing crosses on their breasts ) , trade-unionists from factories and stores , civil servants , housewives . Gathered in 484 a hall considerably larger and handsomer than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Nazi assemblies  --  this mass of women displayed eager , unflagging attention and a warmth of response that were very moving . To speak to them was a pleasure even fat a reluctant orator like myself . Women from every delegation that included women gave brief talks , all carefully , translated . No attempt was made to control speakers or subject matter or to insure a preponderance of left representatives . The men 's meeting next day was even larger and just as free and friendly . The final demonstration of good feeling at Wroclaw was the ceremony in. honor of LaGuardia . Staged very informally , on the balcony of the new school named for the American leader , the dedication was attended by the Mayor , the principal , several teachers , and a big group The NATION of young children . Norman Corwin spoke for the One World delegation ; the replies by the Mayor and other local dignitaries were unqualified in their praise of LaGuardia 's efforts to bring the peoples together by making relief and rehabilitation a matter of need rather than of national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideals represented by New York 's favorite mayor . A friendlier , more honestly democratic affair could hardly be imagined . This ceremony , together with the popular meetings in the great hall on the exhibition grounds , provided a welcome contrast to the polemics of the " intellectuals . " If a little of the same spirit had Invaded the congress , it would have gone much farther in the direCtion it was supposedly aimed , that is , toward peace . Next week Miss Kirchwey will describe the visit of the One World delegation to Warsaw and Prague.                     