@@487452

THE ATMOSPHERE OF A PHILLIPS OPPENHEIM mystery still hangs over the events leading to the ? downfall of Laval , but General de Gaulle 's scornful phrase , " a palace revolution , " seems the best summary of what has occurred . The Vichy government is a nest of intriguers , all reactionary but each fighting for his own ? hand . Since none has any popular following , each must try to capture the support of Marshal Petain , the one really national figure in the government . And since power in France now rests ultimately on German approval , each must curry favor with the Nazis . Laval , an ? extremely cunning politician , grasped the situation early and maneuvered himself into the key positions , becom ? ing Vice-Premier and heir-apparent , Foreign Minister and controller of press and radio . In his negotiations with the Nazis he was prepared to meet almost any demands , but Petain , while ready for a large measure of collaboration , drew the line at taking part actively in the war . Thus Laval found his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his promises and attempted through a coup to gain full control of the government . He overreached himself , however , and gave an opening to his enemies in the Cabinet which they were not slow to seize . THE APPOINTMENT OF FLANDIN , AN OLD apostle of appeasement , is an indication that no drastic change in policy is intended . But the problem of reconciling Nazi demands for an active instead of a passive anti-British policy with Petain 's rigid ideas of the limits imposed by national interest and honor remains to be solved . That is why Herr Abetz has hastened to Vichy . Hints have meanwhile appeared in the German press that sterner measures  --  even full occupation of the country  --  may follow if Vichy continues to be unaccommodating . At the game time , better terms may be offered to France for a military alliance now that Italy has proved a broken reed . But could any government carry the French people , who did not want to fight against Germany , into a war on the side of Germany ? It seems very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Order . " LORD LOTHIAN WILL BE HARD TO REPLACE , for be had become popular in Washington and the straightforward way in which he put the British case in press interviews and speeches made it impossible to paint British propaganda as a sinister mystery . His last address was a frank appeal for aid coupled with a reasoned argument for the belief that the fates of British and American democracy can not be separated . His death at a time when vital negotiations were in progress is a severe blow to Britain . It is necessary to name a successor quickly but hard to find the right man . The new ambassador ought to be someone who knows America well , whose devotion to democracy is beyond doubt , and who is able to interpret for us the social renaissance which is growing in Britain under the rain of bombs . Few of the men mentioned in press speculations here and in London seem to measure up to this specification . One name heavily tipped is that of Sir Andrew Duncan , now Minister of Supply , who seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the job . He is an able business man , corporation lawyer , and organizer of industrial combinations who would no doubt feel at home in the Bankers ' Club but would be unlikely to react sympathetically to the atmosphere of New Deal Washington . Nor should we feel more enthusiastic about Lord Halifax , to whom the aroma of appeasement still clings obstinately . Other names mentioned include Anthony Eden , David Lloyd George , and Sir Archibald Sinclair . Mr. Eden 's prestige has risen since he took over the War Office , and he would be a popular choice in this country , but he is still a promising young man rather than a statesman . Mr. Lloyd George , in spite of his age , is a virile personality and would certainly be an eloquent spokesman for Britain . But probably the best of the three would be Sir Archibald Sinclair , who as leader of the Liberals has proved himself a militant and pertinacious democrat . THE GRAVE LAG IN OUR DEFENSE PROGRAM was revealed by William S. Knudsen speaking before the National Association of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the machine-tool industry . It should be a matter of concern to every American . Plane production , which was to have been 6i8 1,000 a month by January 1 , is still only about 700 , and most of the planes now being put out are of the lighter variety . At least one important airplane factory is producing fewer planes than it was last year at this time . No more guns or machine-guns are being turned out now than six months ago . Four light tanks are being produced a day , but the larger medium tanks will not be available in quantity until next summer . At the same time Secretary Stimson revealed that delays in construction work in the camps would cause postponements of from one week to two and one-half months in calling up the National Guard and drafted men . Attempts are being made to blame the entire lag in defense on labor disputes , although Secretary Stimson declared that they were not responsible for one per cent of the delay in the camps , and there have been few labor difficulties elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be blacked out from Friday to Monday . By some this will be taken as an argument for increasing the work week over the forty hours now provided by law . But machines can be put into continuous use without disturbing the basic work week for labor . As Mr. Knudsen declared , " we can train the men " to operate the machinery . It is up to management to make the arrangements . HOPE FOR REPEAL OF THE NEUTRALITY ACT in order to give increased aid to Great Britain is heightened by the forthright plea of Representative Sol Bloom , chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , that it be rescinded immediately . At the same time Representative May , of the House Military Affairs Committee , has announced that he will introduce a bill on the first day of the next session to repeal the Johnson Act . Elimination of these two burdensome laws is clearly necessary if effective aid is to be given Great Britain in time to stave off Germany 's spring offensive . Secretary Morgenthau very properly declared last week that he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the clear prohibitions contained in these two laws . Subterfuges , however laudable in intention , should be avoided in a matter of such gravity . Congress alone has the authority to see that Britain receives the full assistance , short of war , that this country is capable of providing . In view of the emergency , it should face this issue before considering any other legislation . SWEETNESS AND LIGHT WAS THE DOMINANT theme of the annual Congress of Industry of the National Association of Manufacturers . The sweetness was reflected in the association 's magnanimous offer to " cooperate " with local school authorities in finding a way by which the concept of private enterprise might be inculcated in the schools . Local business men were urged to " get in closer contact with school boards and individual teachers . . . for the discussion of mutual problems . " Apparently the light is to be applied in the form of a torch to such of the 800 public-school textbooks as are found , with the assistance of Ralph W. Robey , to be " prejudicial to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the system of free enterprise . " Several officers of the association , speaking at the concluding meeting , urged its members to show personal evangelistic fervor in the great " crusade " which lies ahead . The purpose of this crusade is to convince the people that " free enterprise is the base and bulwark of all the freedoms of the common people . " Behind this rather naive and unhistorical concept lay a none too well concealed determination to make use of the national emergency to check social gains of all types . To this end speakers urged , among other things , a weakening of the Wagner Act , abridgment of the right to strike during the emergency , and a broadening of the income-tax base , with higher rates in the lower brackets . A crusade , but hardly a new one ! THE PLACING OF IRON AND STEEL PRODUCTS on the list of articles which can only be exported under license is apparently intended to serve as a warning to Japan rather than as an immediate bar to further aggression . Since the ban on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago , Japan has been buying abnormally large quantities of steel products . The current ruling does not stop shipment on Japanese purchases , but it limits future exports to the " usual or prewar exports " and gives the government power to clamp down on all exports in case of further Japanese depredations . No action has yet been taken to check the outflow of copper and zinc , although Japanese purchases of these metals are perhaps an even greater menace to our defense program than its purchase of steel . Within the past week Japan is reported to have been buying large stocks of copper , and its zinc purchases have forced a reduction in the output of a high-grade alloy steel badly needed for the defense program . As a result of the orders which have been issued by the President under the May Defense Act , the United States has gained the power to cripple Japan 's war machine . But as long as we continue to provide oil , copper , zinc , lead , and a normal quota of iron and steel products , Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last week , that Tokyo will be the judge as to whether or not we are " minding our business " in aiding Great Britain . THERE 'S MORE THAN ONE WAY OF SKINNING a cat or crippling an independent newspaper . The Chattanooga News-Free Press and two of its officers were convicted in the United States Circuit Court last week on Deamber 21 , 1940 charges of conspiracy to violate the Sherman Anti-Trust Act by writing advertising contracts which carried a clause stipulating that the firm involved could not advertise in any other afternoon newspaper in the field . George Fort Milton 's new paper , the Evening Tribune , was taken into bankruptcy by this outrageous clause . His first paper , the News  --  now embalmed in the masthead of the News-Free Press  --  failed about a year ago as the result of a slightly different but just as effective attack . It had won the hatred of the power trust and assorted reactionaries by its vigorous support of the New Deal and particularly of the Tennessee Valley Authority . The TVA survived , but the News went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nation at the time . A hundred days later Mr. Milton launched the Evening Tribune . It lasted five months . Mr. Milton thereupon brought a complaint against the nee Press contracts . He won his point ; it is , so far as we know , the first criminal conviction of a newspaper for unfair tactics , and it should discourage such practices . But the victory must seem rather empty to Mr. Milton , for Judge Darr of the Circuit Court blandly stated that in his opinion the clause had been inserted in the contract without intent or guilt of " any moral wrong " and fined the convicted corporation and its two officers one cent each . There is still freedom of the press in Chattanooga  --  for the Free Press , as long as it speaks for the right people . TRADE UNIONS WHICH MAINTAIN CLOSED-shop contracts and then insist on high initiation fees from new members seem to us to be playing into the hands of the enemies of labor . A recent witness before the Tolan committee investigating the problems of migrant workers told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $300 in order to join the Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and so become eligible for a job at Fort Belvoir . C. F. Preller , representing Local 26 of the brotherhood , admitted , when called before the committee , that this was the regular fee , and explained the high level by saying they had found it insured " a better class of mechanics . " They were willing , he continued , to accept $50 down and after that $1 a day until the $300 was paid off . Even with this concession the fee is prohibitive for a man who has been unemployed for any length of time and who has no guaranty that the job will last for more than a few weeks . Only a minority of unions appear to charge exorbitant entrance fees , but these have recently been in the limelight owing to the prevalence of the practice in unions with members working on defense building jobs . In many important organizations , both A. F. of L. and C. I. 0. , there is either no fee at all or merely a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe unions which set up financial 619 barriers to membership should reconsider their position . The practice has an unpleasant smell of medieval-guild monopoly . THE DETAILS OF VICHY 'S ANTI-JEWISH LAWS as published in the Journal Otficiel show them to be even more restrictive than was originally indicated . Everyone who has three Jewish grandparents , or two Jewish grandparents married to each other , is subject to the specified restrictions . Jews are barred from all elected bodies , from membership in the government , from judgeships , and from numerous specified administrative positions . They are not permitted to serve as officers in the army , navy , or police , and are barred altogether from the teaching profession . Entrance into other professional activities such as journalism , radio , and dramatics is severely restricted . About the only concession to the Jews which differs from the restrictions prevailing in Germany is permission to serve in the " liberal professions , " subject to quota restrictions and a complete prohibition against their holding office in professional societies . If Herr Hitler has not yet ordered complete conformity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wishes to preserve German superiority in the arts of oppression . THAT HIGH-POWERED POLITICAL MACHINE of Wendell Willkie 's which rode roughshod under all opposition a month ago is still going strong . And still in reverse . Shortly after the election the editor of The Nation received a note signed by Mr. Willkie advising her that a message which she never sent had " touched him deeply , " had indeed conveyed " a heartening faith in the principles " for which he stood . Now the edge has been taken off this tribute by the revelation that equally warm messages have been going out to victorious Democratic candidates who somehow got on the Willkie mailing lists . These are nice form letters in which the Republican champion tells of his happiness on learning of the election of so-and-so and adds : " It was because of the splendid efforts of you and others on the firing line that the Republican Party made so good a showing . " At least ten of these went out to triumphant Tammany men , who had the time of their lives drafting cute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all extravagantly unimportant , and we only mention it to show that when it comes to real starry-eyed botching the professors of the New Deal ca n't bat a lash in the company of the streamlined Willkie entourage . NO DOUBT NASSAU IS BORING ; EX-KINGS , moreover , never figured in those lists we used to draw up in a happier day of the things we 'd take to a desert island . We do n't blame Wallis Windsor for using an 620 The NATION infected wisdom tooth as an excuse to spend a few days in fabulous Florida . But when we note that the sedan carrying Wallis and her hard-won Duke from the hospital to a tower apartment in the Miami Biltmore Hotel for a post-operation " rest " was loaded with twenty-seven pieces of luggage  --  they were not marked Bundles for Britain  --  we ca n't help wondering how the news will be received in the shelters of London and the shambles of Coventry . It only remains for the Duchess to write a book on that old theme , " Did I ever tell you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rout of the Italian army in Egypt following the equally spectacular defeat in Albania may prove to be the turning-point in the war . The German failures to carry Britain by assault when it was at its weakest last summer or to bomb it into surrender this fall were the first signs that the victorious onslaught of the Axis could be checked . But the Battle of Britain was essentially a defensive action , and wars are not won solely by defense . In Albania and Egypt , Greece and Britain have turned to the counter-offensive and have proved to the world that there is at least one weak spot in the totalitarian front . Since Italy fought without assistance from its partner , it may seem that German prestige is not involved in the debacle and that the Nazi war potential is not seriously weakened . But Germany in the recent past has made much of Britain 's inability to assist invaded allies ; now that argument will snap back in Hitler 's face . The spirit of the conquered peoples will be reinforced . The neutral countries will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea of inexorable destiny with which Hitler has attempted to endow his " New Order " has been challenged . These are some of the wider consequences of the Italian defeats . There are also immediate strategic gains for Britain which are worth consideration . The foremost is the removal of the threat to the Suez Canal , which not long ago appeared to be in serious danger . Even if the pursuit of Graziani 's legions is halted near the Libyan frontier , and even if Mussolini is able to send reinforcements across the dangerous narrows between Sicily and Tripoli , it will still be a long while before any new . invasion of Egypt becomes practicable . The carefully prepared bases , the long-accumulated stores for that operation are in British hands . Tens of thousands of soldiers have been captured , and the morale of the whole Libyan army has suffered a wound which , at best , will take many months to heal . At the same time the supposed Axis plan for a flank attack on British positions in the Near East has been nipped in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a British lake , and it will not be surprising if the Italian outpost in the Dodecanese Islands , now deprived of all hope of succor , surrenders in the near future . The question is being asked : Will these disasters put Italy out of the war ? The answer seems to depend largely on internal reactions . The frantic efforts of the Fascist press to minimize the British and Greek victories , while at the same time preparing the people for bad news , are good evidence of the disquiet felt in Rome . So too is the campaign which is being launched against the fainthearted , the slack , and the " pro-British , " and the attempts to rally the masses to the regime by the pretense that fascism is fighting in behalf of the revolutionary proletariat . But , despite censors , the news from Albania and Libya is spreading in Italy , and , despite propagandists , Italian enthusiasm for the war , never more than lukewarm , grows colder . All hopes of a short , cheap , and profitable war have faded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the country is not immune from attack ; high prices and diminished rations are reminders of the power of the blockade . The unpopularity of the war among Italians is one of the obstacles which Germany must face if it attempts to come to the rescue . Mussolini has lost face at home and abroad ; he will lose more if too ostentatious assistance is pressed upon him . If German troops are sent to help out in Albania , their wearied and disheartened allies might gladly leave all the fighting to them , and to send any considerable force into Italy itself would be to invite popular uprisings and to promote disaffection in the Italian army . So far as Libya is concerned , the British fleet stands in the way of any sizable reinforcements , and the utmost that Germany could do would be to detach some part of its air force . But this in turn might mean lessening the pressure on the British Isles . The extrication of the Italians in Albania would appear to demand the organization of a large-scale expedition and would require the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both . It seems unlikely that Yugoslavia would now acquiesce , and even Bulgaria is unwilling to risk war with Turkey in order to oblige the Axis . Thus a German attempt to outflank Greece through either of these two countries might provoke resistance on a scale which would call for really formidable numbers . It is an undertaking from which Hitler may well shrink , particularly in the depths of the Balkan winter , when conditions are a severe discouragement to Blitzkrieg tactics . Apart , then , from the dispatch of a moderate number of planes , there seems little that Germany can do at the present time to pull its partner out of the mire . The one possibility would be a diversion through Spain . But Italian troubles will hardly have increased Franco 's eagerness to join the war , nor will they have reduced his price  --  a large chunk of December 21 , 1940 French Africa . Laval , there is good reason to suppose , was willing td pay , but Laval is out , and that is a sign that Petain will continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He has one good card in his handWeygand 's colonial army  --  and with most of the Italian trumps taken , that card has increased in value . So we see that the Italian defeats , which the German press pretends to regard with indifference , actually impose obstacles to a number of German moves . The first grand attempt to cut British imperial lines has failed . Once again it may be necessary to try a frontal attack on the main citadel , the strength of which is many times greater than it was six months ago . Models to Avoid I N THE last war the Department of Justice sought to keep control of prosecutions under the Epionage Act and similar statutes in its own hands . It not only tried to prevent separate action by the states but even instructed the various United States attorneys throughout the country not to submit such cases to a grand jury " without first obtaining the approval of the Attorney General . " A circular sent out by the department to United States attorneys on May 23 , 1918 , explained that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become the medium whereby efforts are made to suppress honest , legitimate criticism of the Administration or of government policies ; nor should it be permitted to become a medium for personal feuds or persecutions . " The Department of Justice felt that " protection of loyal persons from unjust suspicion and prosecution is quite as important as the suppression of actual disloyalty . " As former Attorney General Cummings and former Assistant Attorney General McFarland said in 1937 in their discussion of this period in their book " Federal Justice , " such prosecutions are " a dangerous weapon in the hands of vindictive or fanatical prosecutors . " Wilson 's Attorney General , T. W. Gregory , did his best to prevent these abuses . Despite his efforts , as another of his war-time circulars ( No. 851 , on June 19 , 1918 ) testifies , state authorities often made unauthorized arrests under federal law and held persons for " weeks and even months " without notifying the United States marshals or attorneys in their districts . It was with a consciousness of these past abuses that on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new " Neutrality Laws Unit , " which was to have " responsibility for control of all prosecutive action grow- " ing out of violations or charges of violations of laws relating to neutrality , foreign enlistments , treason , sedition , espionage , sabotage , or kindred offenses . " The dangers involved were noted by the Attorney General in his address to the conference of state law-enforcement officials 62t held at the Department of Justice building in Washington last August . The Attorney General , particularly in connection with aliens , said that " hateful treatment or oppression or harassment would tend to make sullen enemies of those who wish to be good Americans and would make them a potential fifth column . " As a result of this meeting a Federal-State Conference on Law Enforcement Problems of National Defense has been established in Washington . Unfortunately , the committee in charge of this conference is made up of officials whose record on civil liberties does not inspire confidence : the Governors of Rhode Island and Maryland , the Attorneys General of California and Virginia , the Speaker of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Council of State Governments , the president of the Interstate Commission on Crime , and Chairman Sumners of the House Judiciary Committee . The last , a believer in " Anglo-Saxon supremacy , " is rabidly anti-labor . No doubt the Department of Justice intended by its August meeting to keep state action against " subversion " and " sabotage " under control . But it only succeeded in stimulating it . Although matters connected with national defense are intrusted to the federal government by the Constitution and we have ample legislation left on the statute books from the last war , four model " anti-sabotage " and " defense " bills have been drafted by the conference for submission to the state legislatures . One is entitled " A Model Sabotage Prevention Act " ; another , " A Model Act to Provide for a State Guard . " Both are so drawn as to invite the very abuses and dangers the Department of Justice has sought to avoid . The first would make a criminal of anyone who " intentionally . . . impairs . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with reasonable grounds to- believe that such act will hinder , delay , or interfere with national defense , " or conspires to commit such an act , or induces another person to commit such an act , even though the act is not committed . A newspaper editor who supports a strike for a wage increase in a defense industry might well be held guilty by some state authorities of violating this act , and he could be sentenced under it to ten years in prison plus a $10,000 fine . Similarly punishable is one who " intentionally makes or causes to be made or omits to note on inspection any defect in any article with reasonable grounds to believe that such article . . . is intended to be used in connection with national defense . " This also is appallingly loose , and though the model act provides that it may not be used to impair the right to collective bargaining , that provision might well prove but a pious gesture under conditions of intense war-time hysteria . The dangers of this anti-sabotage bill are brought into sharper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a state guard . This state guard would be empow- 622 ered to catch " saboteurs " and to pursue them into other states . ' Members of the guard while on duty would be immune from arrest for anything except treason or felony . Imagine what could have been done in the Vultee strike with an anti-sabotage bill of this kind and a state guard of the kind one would find in California . We have ample federal legislation to cover sabotage , and if more is needed it can be obtained . In the light of our experience in the last war it is the duty of the Attorney General to fight the enactment of such state legislation . " It has been the view of this department , " Attorney General Gregory said in his 1918 report , " that every act of arbitrary and unnecessary interference with the life , habits , and occupation of the citizen would lessen efficiency , disturb order , and weaken public confidence in the American standards of justice . " We commend those words as warning to Attorney General Jackson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of migrants are roaming the highways of the nation in search of work . During the past few months the House Committee Investigating Interstate Migration has gathered a great deal of information about these destitute citizens , but the surface of the problem has barely been scratched . The tobacco belt , the mines and oil fields of the southern Appalachians , the ghost towns throughout the country  --  all these potential sources of further migration were , largely for lack of funds , either neglected or scantily studied by the committee , which under the able chairmanship of Representative John H. Tolan is now holding its final hearings in Washington . In the course of its investigations the committee examined a great number of witnesses  --  planters , government officials , sociologists , and many victims of the changing economy of the South . While the stories of the migrants themselves were tragically uniform accounts of following the crops , of hopeless family wanderings that netted at best $300 a year , of farmers turned scab in the industrial cities of the North , the testimony of the experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of using government acreage-reduction payments to buy tractors , which were promptly used to cut down a labor force already ' cut down by the crop reduction itself . Where there were 30,000 tractors in use in the South in 1930 , there were 100,000 in 1938 . And while some of the witnesses who appeared before the Tolan committee contended that the effects of mechanization had been negligible , figures submitted by the Southern Tenant Farmers ' Union concerning their own membership clearly reflect the disintegration , for one reason or another , of the plantation system . The NATION In 1934 , 90 per cent of the union 's members were sharecroppers or tenants ; by 1937 , 60 per cent had become day laborers ; and today 75 per cent work for wages on the plantations of Missouri , Arkansas , and Mississippi . H. L. Mitchell , who has furnished us with the figures in connection with the S. T. F. U. , points out that the rapid turnover in its membership is a measure of the extent to which these workers have become migrants . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the largest number ever enrolled at one time was 40,000 . Some of the Tolan committee 's witnesses were disposed to believe that further migration will be checked by the expansion of defense industries , but the consensus was less hopeful . The migrants of today have lived for years below the subsistence level and have no industrial skills or experience . They are suited only for farm labor ? and in this area the war offers no hope . Rupert Vance , the University of North Carolina sociologist , told the committee : " The Southeast has two great problem areas in the old cotton belt and the Appalachian Mountains . They are likely as a result of the war to be joined by a third problem zone  --  the tobacco belt . . . . The cotton market is vanishing before our eyes , and the price is held up only by the support of governmental operations . " The Tolan committee has hardly got its teeth into one of the major domestic problems of the United States . We would like to see its work continued and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent that certain legislative steps are long overdue . It should not be difficult for the federal government , by virtue of its contributions to state relief funds , to force modification of state laws which require one to three years ' residence before holding an unemployed worker eligible for relief . Increased appropriations for the Farm Security Administration are likewise in order . This agency , which besides making loans to share-croppers has established camps for migrant workers , has so far been their only source of aid . A few camps , providing decent housing for less than 10,000 workers , is obviously no solution , but these camps might serve as models for an extensive program of low-cost housing , undertaken jointly by the government and employers of migratory labor . Such measures are obviously superficial , however , and are offered to relieve a serious situation rather than to solve the problem . At the heart of the matter is the crying need for extending minimum-wage legislation to agricultural workers . Testifying before the committee , both Secretary of Labor Perkins and Colonel Philip B. Fleming criticized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that a precedent already exists in the sugar industry , where the government makes payment of a minimum wage a prerequisite for subsidies to the owners of plantations and refineries . With Southern planters receiving millions of dollars annually in government subsidies , it should not be impossible to impose working conditions that would not drive Southern farm labor to the highways in desperation . Too Normal for Comfort BY FREDA KIRCHWEY S IX weeks have slipped by since election . The Winkle crusade is in process of becoming an impersonal organization dedicated gently to the " principles " on which the Republican campaign was fought , but nobody seems to remember just what they were . Business is going on as usual , and the President 's third inauguration lies just ahead . Somehow , everything seems a little too normal and unchanged for comfort . .. Before the election we were alternately warned and promised that as soon as that crisis of national decision was past , things would happen . Swift developments in Congress or , if Congress were shuffled out of the Capitol , drastic executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected was that nothing would happen . .. And that is what has happened  --  nothing . Instead of action , a curious relaxation seems to have attacked the government and , indeed , the country as a whole . Certainly there has been no access of courage or vigor or decision or awareness that we are , as we keep saying we are , in a period of very desperate crisis . Is Britain 's sudden burst of energy and success in the Mediterranean responsible for the apathy in America ? Do we need to see the whites of catastrophe 's eyes before we move ? I do n't know the answer , but I am sure of the fact . This country is not behaving like a country that realizes its own hopes and interests and even its national existence are at issue . It is not acting as if it intended to defend at any cost its freedom and its institutions . It is acting , instead , as if it had ten years , or five , or two in which to prepare to defend those things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft is behind schedule . Shipments to England are behind schedule . Equally important , the progress toward democratic control of these processes is imperceptible . The interesting proposal for speeding up airplane production described by I. F. Stone on another page of this issue is an encouraging exception to the rule , but it is still only a proposal and its chance of winning the support of the industries involved , or of the Defense Commission , seems slim . In general the progress of events seems to be heading the other way . Attacks on the Walsh-Healey Act become more insistent ; threats to civil liberties lurk in such legislation as we discuss editorially on page 621 ; the refugee question , a sure test of our democratic pretensions , has bogged down deeper than ever in conflicting jurisdictions and rulings and theories of procedure Can we afford this sort of stalemate ? The condition of the world forbids it , unequivocally . It can be said without any hesitation that only a tremendous effort backed by confidence and determination and coordinated on a solidly democratic basis will enable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this effort it will surrender , in one way or another , and become a subsidiary of Hitler 's New Order holding company . And this will be the fate it deserves . Never have we needed clear-cut leadership as we do today . The vague conflicts of objective and method which could be tolerated with mere discomfort in the first years of the Roosevelt regime have become major dangers today . We must head in one direction , not a dozen . We can no longer tolerate the contradictions that make the State Department at one and the same time the mouthpiece of an aggressive anti-fascist foreign policy and a tacit agent and ally of Hitlerism . We can not ask labor 's self-sacrificing support of the defense 624 program and at the same time permit defense contracts to go to Henry Ford . We must become , if for the first time in our history , a nation with a single , consistent policy ; and that policy must be both democratic and militant . Most people expected such a policy to be born out of the election campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It can serve as a mandate , a goad to action , or it can provide a heap of laurels on which to relax . To relax today is to betray a suicidal lack of imagination . But one has to search far in official circles to find a full , harsh realization that unless we act , tensely and courageously , catastrophe is just around the corner .                     