@@491903

THE WAR IS RACE TO MAKE THINGS 0 N THE Sunday that Japan attacked Hawaii , 1 was finishing an article for The Saturday Evening Post on raw materials . As the bulletins came in over the radio , I turned to the last page where , attempting to sum up , I had written : " What we have been trying to do has been to fight a total war in halfhearted , piecemeal manner , fighting and not fighting it at the same time . We have drifted into an administrative confusion that reminds Washington reporters of the NRA before the Supreme Court mercifully declared it unconstitutional . You find defense officials today hoping against their fears that a declaration of war will come to cut through the indecision . " For several weeks I had been wandering around Washington trying to piece together the facts on our raw-materials position . The complete story was nowhere in any single agency . One Government department would send me on to the next  --  the blame was always greener in the other fellow 's bureaucracy . OPM officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Army wo n't tell us what it wants ? Army officials , in turn , would ask : How can we say this is what we need , when no one has decided whether we are in this war , whom we are to fight or where ? One general pulled out of his desk a chart showing our stock piles of strategic materials  --  rubber , tin , chrome , manganese and other essential imports  --  which might be cut off . In most instances the stock piles amounted to little more than a year 's supply . " We should have three-year stock piles to fight this kind of war , " he said . " We ca n't possibly import large enough quantities to build such stock piles , " he continued . " We should cut civilian consumption and divert the materials to these piles . OPM , though , is curtailing civilians as little as necessary , yet look at the resistance , " and he shrugged his shoulders . Again , I was discussing the victory program with one of the production chiefs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a study , begun last spring , to determine how many tanks , airplanes and guns are needed to beat the Axis . Asked whether he thought they could be produced in the time called for in the program , he replied , " Perhaps they could be , but not with our present attitude . We 're supposed to be the arsenal of democracy , but we 're going at it without fear or fervor . " By grace of Japanese bombs we have the fear or fervor . Whether the decisions that have to be made will be made in time still is a question . Probably no aspect of our war effort is more complicated than materials , and no reporter could make even a pretense of knowing all the answers . In this article , however , I shall try as well as I can to draw a picture of what we have and what we are up against . Even before the triple Axis declaration of war , our materials situation had reached a critical stage . From all over the country businessmen were writing into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zinc , steel and nickel to keep their plants from being shut down and their workers from being thrown out of jobs . In Congress there were dire predictions of " the end of little business " and angry charges that hoarding and bad priorities management , not shortages , were to blame . Resolutions and bills were being introduced for investigations and drastic defense changes . There were newspaper reports that our shipments to Russia were lagging . At a good-will banquet in should insure spreading existing stocks over a number of years . Old rubber can be reclaimed , tires retreaded , auto speeds cut down and many automobiles shut up in garages . Normally we produce only 10 per cent of the antimony we use , 1 per cent of the chromite , 50 per cent of the tungsten , 6 per cent of the manganese , virtually none of the tin or nickel , although nickel , coming from Canada , is not a worry . While in gross tonnages these minerals do not loom large , they are vital for alloys  --  one might describe them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be deficient . To forestall possible " war rickets , " for months throughout the country a great prospecting hunt has been going on . In Idaho , while a low-grade deposit of antimony was being explored , a huge strike of high-grade tungsten was found . Mercury , too , was discovered near by . Nothing but a narrow Forest Service road connects the deposit with the town of Cascade , seventy-five miles away , and it was planned to use airplanes this winter to ferry in equipment and to bring the ore out . At Stillwater , Montana , mining engineers are diamond-drilling into a blizzard-swept mountain to bring a chromite mine into production by spring . Chrome hardens the steel that goes into armor plate , projectiles and gun carriages . It also serves chemical and refractory purposes . The Stillwater Mountain is believed to contain more than 2,000 , - 000 tons of the ore , but it is low grade and will have to be mixed with imported chrome . Bureau of Mines experts do not believe there is sufficient chromite in this country to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are no prospects for domestic tin . As for manganese , here Mountain States enthusiasts wax most evangelistic . Go low enough in grade and high enough in price , they preach , and the kingdom of self-sufficiency will be ours . Dr. C. K. Leith , perhaps our foremost geological expert , who went through the manganese revival campaign of the last war , recalls that in 1918 , given every encouragement , domestic producers could supply only about one third of the manganese required . Leith , now with OPM , says , " If they meet one third of our much greater requirements today , they 'll be doing well . " The hunt for these metals has been pushed throughout the Western Hemisphere . In one part of Alaska , explorers had to battle fierce bears for a nickel deposit ; in another the tundras were so deep tractors could n't be used and mining equipment had to be lugged in on human back . " Mining attaches " have been sent to Mexico , Peru , Chile , Brazil and the Argentine . One rich manganese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geological reports bear fruit , may supply all the high-grade manganese we need . A nickel lode that has been uncovered is being talked of as " another Sudbury , " which is the name of Canada 's famed nickel mines . South American Storehouse F OR some time we have been getting almost all of Latin America 's minerals . Italy 's and Germany 's only leak of any proportion from the continent was through the Lati air line , which carried industrial diamonds , mica and quartz crystals . Japan 's sources were being systematically throttled through preclusive-buying agreements negotiated by Jesse Jones and his lanky , cotton-broker deputy , Will Clayton . By mid-December , agreements had been signed to purchase all of the essential war materials of Brazil , Peru , Mexico and Bolivia , and agreements were being worked out with Chile and the Argentine . When Japan bid up prices , Jones and Clayton countered by agreeing to take full production for three years . in Peru the Japanese threatened to halt their purchases of 200,000 bales of Peruvian cotton . With Latin America 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convoy from the Far East , experts in Washington agree that we face no absolute shortage of any war essential . The great uncertainty is shipping . How many ships can we free for such imports from the military needs of getting munitions where we want them , and how many of these ships will he sunk ? Against this , with the oceans held by the American and British navies , what can the Axis mobilize ? No one in this country knows exactly . Hugh Dalton , who heads Britain 's Ministry of Economic Warfare , has stated that Japan started the war with a fourteen months ' stock of essential war materials . These stocks exhausted , she would have slim resources to fall back upon : 7,000,000 tons of steel annually , with perhaps one half of that capacity dependent upon imported ore and scrap ; perhaps 60,000,000 pounds of aluminum a year ; 125,000 tons of copper ; very little oil . However , the materials Japan needs lie in Russia and in the Far East , in the Netherlands East Indies and in the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich in chrome , and have also been supplying Japan with more than 1,000,000 tons of iron ore annually . In unloosing their naval blitzkrieg , the Japanese apparently gambled , Nazi style , upon gaining quick control over some of these areas . Germany 's position is more elusive . The British Ministry of Economic Warfare has a good idea of what it is , and the knowledge has been made available to a select few American officials . British agents risked their lives for that information and it is a closely guarded secret . Estimates , though , can be made from published statistics , and they indicate that those who believe the blockade alone can bring Germany to her knees in a year or two are cherishing an illusion . Perhaps the simplest index is the comparative billions that have been spent on war . Gen. George Marshall , Chief of Staff , told a congressional committee that it would cost the United States $100 , - 000,000,000 to duplicate Hitler 's war machine . Operating with suppressed labor and under ruthless regimentation , the Nazis , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marshall made that statement , according to the better estimates around Washington , Germany probably has spent the equivalent of another $40,000,000,000 and has received perhaps another $5,000,000,000 of finished war goods from the occupied countries . Japan 's contribution is put at $5,000,000,000 ; or $150,000 , - 000,000 in all . Against tliat , the British have spent something like $40,000,000,000 , the United States $25,000,000,000 and the Russians , over the years , anywhere between fifty and seventy-five billions . Totaled , that gives us one hundred and fifteen to one hundred and forty billions against one hundred and fifty billions . The National City Bank has estimated that every $10,000,000,000 of munitions represents 5,000,000 man-years of work , which is some indication of the lag that has to be overcome . Nazi Might ACTUAACTUALLY the lag is greater than these billions LLY indicate , because Germany , having been at the business of war so much longer , has a far larger proportion of her money in immediate fighting equipment . Our billions are represented in good part in new plants and in ships , in existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons . Soviet officials told the American-British mission to Moscow that the Nazis invaded Russia with 30,000 tanks ; Germany 's air force has been variously estimated at between 30,000 and 50,000 planes ; Beaverbrook has warned that Hitler can turn 100,000 artillery guns on the British Isles . This tremendous striking power has enabled the Nazis to acquire raw materials they lacked at the outset of the war  --  Lorraine ore , Rumanian oil , Greek chrome and Norwegian aluminum . Hitler invaded Poland with 25,000,000 tons of steel capacity ; after France 's fall he had 42,000,000 tons ; with his conquest of the Ukraine , his potential capacity , embracing all Europe , rose to nearly 60,000,000 tons . A mining expert who has been in every European country in recent years gives Germany and her dominated territories , in which he includes all Europe and the Ukraine , the following percentages of 1940 's total world output : 47 per cent of the coal , 44 per cent of the pig iron ; 27 per cent of the manganese ; 33 per cent of the zinc ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the magnesium ; 47 per cent of the aluminum . Those percentages are higher than are popularly credited to Hitler , but they come from an excellent source . Germany is not now getting this full production , but the potential is there . The Nazis have substituted aluminum for many normal copper uses and steel for brass in cartridges , as have the Russians . When William Batt , OPM 's Chief of Materials , returned from Russia , he brought back samples of Nazi and Soviet cartridges . We have begun to produce steel cartridges experimentally . Like Japan , Germany 's great weakness is oil ; she has only 3 per cent of the world 's supply , and the oil she needs lies in the Caucasus . Whether Germany and Japan can break through to the oil and other materials they lack and whether they will be able to tap effectively the territories they conquer are the two great question marks of the war in its present stage . With Europe 's railroads sorely overtaxed , Hitler can not hope to draw heavily on the resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least the Eastern Mediterranean . Since each new area gained increases the Axis potential for waging a long war , we can be said to be engaged in a race of materials . It is a race to turn our far greater resources into munitions and to ship those munitions to the strategic spots to halt the Axis in their race to gain control over more of the world 's raw materials . Two miniatures of this race can be seen in chrome and tungsten . About 10 per cent of our chrome comes from Turkey . Until the Neutrality Law was changed , American ships could not go into Turkish ports . The chrome had to be got out overland to British boats and then to ports along the east coast of Africa , where our ships picked it up  --  a lagging process . Chrome happens to be one of the alloy metals Germany needs badly and Hitler has turned thumbscrews on Turkey to sell the chrome , threatening invasion . Will that chrome fall to the Nazis and , if so , how much of it can we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of France , K. C. Li sent in his card to Jesse Jones , Li is the head of theWah Chang Trading Corporation , which operates strategic-metals mines in the Chinese provinces . RFC officials describe Li as " the most important Chinese , not connected with the Chinese government , in this country . " Li told Jones that 7000 tons of tungsten  --  one third of a year 's supply for ue-10,000 tons of antimony and 2000 tons of tin were in Indo-China . The Germans were demanding that Vichy name a Nazi sympathizer to govern Indo-China , and the Japanese were threatening invasion . The metal was sure to fall into Axis hands . Within half an hour a cable was on its way , purchasing it for the United States . When the Nazi agents and a detachment of Japanese marines arrived , they found the tungsten , antimony and tin well in hand under an American bill of lading . Shipped immediately to this country , those metals have gone into the making of high-precision tools , shrapnel and armor-piercing shells , some of which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been witnessing , although at times the issue has become confused , is a race for the mobilization of the world 's resources . And from now on , with war in both oceans , this basic rule can be laid down : What we do not mobilize for ourselves we can expect to be mobilized against us . Nothing short of the mobilization of a predominant proportion of the world 's raw materials can insure victory , if only because the Jules Verne scale on which this war is being fought requires that every army and navy be backed by the resources of whole continents , not merely nations . We already have spent as much as the last war cost and additional appropriations are talked of amounting to $150,000 , - 000,000 . By December our war spending was at a rate of better than $20,000,000,000 a year , which almost equals the total worth of all the railroads in the United States . How voracious a devourer of materials this war has been can be glimpsed from a few comparisons with the last war : The tanks we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in time , weighed six tons . Today a light tank weighs thirteen and a half tons ; the medium tank twenty-eight tons ; the heavy tank sixty tons . When , last fall , President Roosevelt ordered tank production doubled , it was as if he had said , " Let us build four Panama Canals a year . " Our monthly goal of airplane production is greater than the total number of planes we produced in the last war . Single-engined biplanes , the 1918 bombers were made of wood , and gen erally carried a pilot , gunner and 40 pounds of bombs . Today bomb loads range between 5000 and 10,000 pounds . The B-17 , four-engined bomber , it is estimated , requires between 35,000 and 40,000 pounds of aluminum per plane . In the last war , machine guns were used to fight off airplanes ; today the airplane has turned whole continents into battle fronts and no country can possibly produce enough antiaircraft guns . In 1918 , tanks lumbered. at three miles an hour and had to be carried into battle . Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is no time for cumbersome hand loading and even guns as big as the 75-mm. cannon have been made automatic . Rates of fire have been accelerated enormously . Machine guns which used to fire 600 rounds a minute now do 1500 rounds , and there are cannons which will fire as rapidly as the old machine guns . A year ago , a tank gun with a muzzle velocity  --  the speed at which a projectile travels after leaving the gun  --  of 1800 feet per second was considered satisfactory . Today tank guns send shells whizzing at half a mile a second . All this speed has compelled a corresponding mobility everywhere . Ammunition and supplies must be brought up quickly ; infantry have to be equipped to keep pace with tanks ; guns must be self-propelled instead of occupying fixed positions , which decreases the recovery of scrap cartridge shells . The result has been such an accumulation of vehicles that one of the major problems in planning any battle today is to provide parking space . The tables of allowances by which the Army measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been disrupted completely . The fire power of some airplanes , for example , has been multiplied more than six times over what it was when the war began . Each plane is now calculated to make more trips per month . Multiply the greater fire power by more trips and you have an idea of the phenomenal increase in bombs and ammunition that must be supplied . In one tank battle between the British and Germans many British guns had to fire so rapidly that they exhausted their ammunition in half a day . Ammunition requirements of antitank guns were raised hastily . After Hitler invaded Russia , and Britain began large-scale bombings of Germany , magnesium requirements spiraled into the stratosphere . Every clipper plane from Britain brought new estimates of how much would be needed . Early in May our Army thought 120,000,000 pounds a year would suffice . less than three months later , it was 400,000,000 pounds . What the devastating naval war launched by the Japanese will cost in raw materials can not even be guessed at yet . There never has been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which airplanes inflicted the damage that they have in the Pacific . The merchant shipbuilding program we had under way before war was declared would have taken more than 4,000,000 tons of steel , 75,000 tons of copper , 20,000 tons of zinc . Navy shipbuilding was chewing up more than .3,000,000 tons of metal a year . Both programs , of course , will be stepped up greatly , with a possibility that ships will be destroyed more rapidly than they can be replaced . As a sort of Frankenstein footnote to the war , thus far mere human beings have been unable to keep pace statistically with the changing requirements . Repeatedly OPM has had to go ahead with plans for the production of airplanes and guns without precise knowledge of the quantities of scarce materials required . Often by the time such bills of materials were drawn up , they already were out of date . Under the victory program this battle of statistics looms more ominously . Up to now , the broad decision confronting defense authorities has been how much of the raw materials to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now , since there can never be sufficient materials for all the munitions we want , a choice must be made between the different weapons of war as well . Every battle won or lost is likely to change the conditions of the war and compel speeding the output of some weapons at the expense of others . If such decisions are to be made intelligently and the entire arms program kept in balance , our Army and Navy planners must be able to weigh just what , say , a 30 per cent increase in ships means in raw materials that must be diverted , how many tanks or antiaircraft guns or howitzers ( Continued from Page 61 ) have to be sacrificed . Adjustments must then be made all through the tables of allowances  --  an impossible statistical tack under ordinary methods . Fortunately this battle of statistics seems about won . Ever since October , Brig . Gen. Leonard P. Ayres , chief statistician of the Joint Army and Navy Munitions Board , has been working on the problem of making our military statistics as automatic as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where he is vice president , Ayres was the chief statistical officer of the War Industries Board . With the assistance of several farmer International Business Machine experts , now in the Army , Ayres has worked up punched-hole cards much like those used for census data . On these cards , for every weapon , he has put how much of each scarce material is needed , the number of weeks before the weapon is finished that the materials must be in the factory , delivery rates , and the cubic feetof space required for shipping or storing each piece of munition . By running the cards through a machine it will be possible to tell at any time how much of each scarce material is required . For any single change in the program , Ayresfigures , in two hours he will be able to run the cards through and say what that change means . The machines that will do this sorting are operated by an electrical switchboard , little bigger than a sheet of typewriting paper , with 900 wire holes . It looks like a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even the phrase " total war " falls short of describing a war of this scale . " Total war " implies there is such a thing as a maximum effort , while this is war without a limit , " more than total . " Literally everything has some military significance . As an example , take quartz crystals . These crystals have the faculty of keeping a radio tuned without deviation to a single wave length , which makes them vital for plane and tank communication . They come from one place in the world  --  interior Brazil . Several organized companies collect the crystals , but in the main they are gathered by natives , who stuff them into bags and bring them in to trading posts . Generally , when they have a couple of dollars ' worth , the natives knock off and the supply of crystals drops . The Price of Delay At the trading posts the crystals are sorted and passed down to the seacoast for more intensive sorting . Only the more perfect crystals are fit for radio use . What was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manufacture of cheap jewelry . For a time , however , the specifications drawn up for our purchasing agents were so rigid that the junk going to Japan contained crystals of military value , some of which were sent to Germany . The war is so total that the wording of a purchase specification in Washington could affect the operation of enemy tanks and planes in Russia and the Philippines . As another instance of how every aspect of economic war is interrelated , take the stock piling of strategic materials which we must import . There is little more disheartening reading than the congressional hearings in the prewar years , during which Army and Navy Munitions Board experts vainly pleaded for funds to build up these reserve stocks . Finally , in the late spring of 1940 , the task was given to Jesse Jones ' RFC . By then it was too late to attain what had been set as a minimum objective  --  a two years ' supply . Those materials may now be cut off . Or , to bring in those materials , ships must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crucial battle fronts . Those merchant vessels must be protected with warships which could be fighting the Japanese fleet . . fin Irony of War Not only was stock piling begun too late but it was further hampered by our civilian boom . When the emergency began in the late spring of 1940 , Government propagandists pointed contemptuously to the Nazis , who had had to choose between guns and butter . We were to have guns and butter , boasted the propagandists . Production of every kind of civilian goods was allowed to boom to record heights  --  automobiles , refrigerators , radios , washing machines , vacuum cleaners , and so on . Huge quantities of materials were consumed , including rubber , chrome , tin and manganese , which today are worth their weight in shipping . As long SS the war lasts , some of our ships are likely to be held as ransom for the stock piles we do not have . One of the ironies of this war is that our very wealth of resources has been a major handicap . The Nazis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor in war materials , built up great stock piles ; this country , complacent in its riches , neglected to do so . Despite our great resources  --  perhaps because of them  --  the race of materials seems likely to be long and grueling . After the Atlantic meeting of Roosevelt and Churchill , a small group of war planners in Britain and the United States set to work estimating what would be needed to defeat Hitler and his Axis partners . As is customary in such planning , they based their calculations on beating the enemy under the worst possible circumstances  --  on the continent of Europe . They arrived at a hypothetical figure for the size of the army that would be required , and then broke down this army into its components of airplanes , tanks , artillery and other munitions . These quantities were plotted on graphs to determine when they could be turned out at the production rates then prevailing . " Some items , " I was told , " ran off the chart . " For one important item , the quantities desired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the victory program is to lop off most of those years . The production objectives of the victory program , it has been estimated , will require us to spend on arms in 1942 about $4,000,000,000 a month  --  twice what was to be spent  --  and perhaps $5,000,000,000 a month next year . More important than the money , it would mean enormous increases in the military consumption of our scarce materials to the point where little would be left civilians but what was needed to meet their minimum essentials . As much as half and more of our national income might have to be diverted to war . As this article is being written , a sharp debate is going on among top defense officials over whether or not the victory program can be taken in two to three years . How many years it will take depends on the extent to which the business of fighting a total war in a piecemeal , nibbling manner is scrapped for a sweeping program of drastic action under which every worker , plant and bit of material is mobilized to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be done rests on the winning of two domestic battles . They might be described as the battle of planning and the battle of the civilian economy . The battle of planning implies a shake-up of the defense organization to bring it under a single , over-all authority with full powers , as there was in the last war in the War Industries Board under Bernard Baruch . Even before Japan 's attack , some top defense officials were urging a joint high command , or general staff , for ourselves and the British to work out an over-all strategy , decide what weapons to produce , and co-ordinate the economies to meet the effort . This general staff would decide where any particular machine tool or quantity of materials would serve best , where the weapons that are produced would go . A shake-up has been rumored for so long that by the time this article appears some reorganization may have been effected . Indicative of the administrative confusion in Washington is the fact that last November there was not even agreement on whether shortages of some key defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , executive director of SPABthe Supply Priorities and Allocations Board ? and he described copper as perhaps the " most critical of all our materials . " The following Friday , Under Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson told me flatly that " there is no copper shortage . " Hide-and-Seek Metal Citing the tremendous production of copper , Patterson insisted vast quantities of the metal were being hoarded . He told of a little statistical job done by General Ayres . For the month of October the top A priority ratings for copper , presumably all defense ratings , represented 110 per cent of the available supply . Ayres checked back to determine just how much copper would actually be used in munitions produced in the month . It was only 37 per cent . Some additional copper would go for indirect defense needs , but where was the rest of the copper going to , Patterson asked . No one in Washington has the answer , and that holds for many other scarce materials . The fault can be traced largely to the priority system , which Nelson and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halfheartedly from the outset , priorities have split materials like a leaky pail . As the record-breaking inventories of manufacturers indicate , there has been a great damming up of materials in protective buying , partly out of fear of price rises , partly out of fear of shortages . The Navy is commonly accused of buying and storing all the materials that will go into the construction of a ship , even though some of the materials may not be needed for a year or more . Yet without such stocks on hand , ships could not be turned out ahead of schedule . An OPM inventory of public warehouses in twenty cities yielded more than 20,000 carloads of all sorts of materials , including 20 , - 000,000 pounds of copper , 27,000,000 64 THE SATURDAY pounds of tin plate , 6000 tons of steel plates . One woman , apparently hedgmg against inflation , had stored away 112,000 pounds of copper . Axis sympathizers had evidently deliberately bought up some materials to keep them from American producers . OPM has taken ateps to seize these hoards as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This last is likely to prove something of a tussle . Anticipating such requisitioning , many manufacturers have put their materials through one process to make them useless for other firms . OPM hopes , at any rate , to prevent further hoarding through the new system of allocations , which is replacing preference ratings . Under allocations , each manufacturer will be allotted a fixed amount of scarce material , geared to his actual production for war or for essential civilian uses . Not only priorities but the whole pattern of mobilization is in evident need of being revamped . After nineteen months of emergency , industry has still to be mobilized . Relatively few firms hold most of the contracts . There is nothing to compare with the regional organization that the War Industries Board had , or with the industry committees of the last war . In a number of instances the stepped-up production that is wanted will require a waiving of normal competition with a pooling of orders and facilities . That can be done only on an industrywide basis , which requires strong and effective industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from divided responsibility and the lack of a single , over-all head to make decisions quickly and to follow them through than the expanding of supplies of materials . Expansions can not be effected overnight . It takes a year to bring almost any mine into production ; fourteen months to construct a brass mill ; six to nine months for a new aluminum plant ; . as much as eighteen months for a synthetic-rubber plant . This time lag , which is unavoidable , has been more than doubled in many instances by long-drawn battles over policy and divided responsibility . Steel expansion , for example , was first urged by Leon Henderson , then a member of the National Defense Advisory Commission and now poohbahing as price administrator and director of civilian supply , in September , 1940 . For a year it was fought over . Finally , on October first , SPAB approved a 10,000,000-ton expansion . The Army and Navy remained opposed , however , and by December eleventh projects for only 6,280,200 tons of ingots and plates had got to the RFC for financing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With aluminum , the tangle of divided responsibility between the various factions in OPM , the Army , Secretary Ickes , the RFC , and so on , is so complicated that it fills a volume in the Truman Committee 's hearings . A shortage began to be talked of in December , 1940 ; by February , 1941 , it was generally agreed a shortage existed ; the last of the expansion contracts were n't signed until October . With synthetic rubber , the proposal to build a government-financed plant was made in the summer of 1940 . Contracts were n't signed until May , 1941 . More recently the question arose of bringing in the copper production of EVENING POST high-cost mines in Michitian by paying a subsidy above the market price . For several weeks the matter kicked around while it was being decided out of which of Uncle Sam 's pockets the money should come  --  the Army , the Navy , the Procurement Division of the Treasury or the RFC . The difficulties in expanding the supply of any raw material are far greater than most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possible postwar aftermath , how long the war is likely to last , against how much in materials , labor , money and effort will have to be diverted to bring in the new supply . Each 1,000,000 tons of additional steel ingots , for example , is said to require two blast furnaces , 1,500,000 tons of ore , plus four ore boats and ore-handling machinery ; 742,000 tons of coke , 1,250,000 tons of coal and 350 coal cars ; 412,000 tons of stone and a stone boat ; a locomotive and seventy-five seventy-ton cars . And then it is likely to be eighteen months before you have your new steel capacity . Or an expansion may involve technological changes in industry which , in themselves , are uncertain . It does little good to stimulate the production of low-grade domestic manganese unless the processes are developed for treating that ore so it will mix well into steel . Naturally , differences of opinion will arise over the wisdom of any proposed expansion . Unless such differences are brought to quick decision , the delay makes the expansion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new supply will make itself felt before the war is over . Too , while there is civilian slack in the economy , it is relatively easy to divert effort . Once the slack has been taken up and arms production demands every bit of labor and materials that can be made available , the diversion hurts the immediate war effort , which automatically vetoes any expansion unless the need is dire . There are indications , in fact , that only a few more months of slack are left in which expansions of appreciable size , other than those already planned , can he undertaken . With only limited increases in supply likely , the materials that our arms factories will need in ever-growing quantities must come from the civilian economy . Most high-ranking defense officials seem agreed that the curtailment of civilian production was put off too long . Yet , what curtailments were ordered by SPAB have met with considerable resistance . When I saw Donald Nelson he was signing a six-inch stack of letters replying to congressional protests . One curtailment order , he remarked , brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six for each senator and representative . The resistance , significantly , has come not from consumers but producers . It is not that people refuse to tighten their belts but that those who have been manufacturing the less essentials do not want to be put out of business . In good part , therefore , the resistance can be traced to the failure to shift those who have been making butter to the making of guns . The general policy has been followed of building new plants rather than converting existing facilities . It was argued  --  as in many cases it undoubtedly was true  --  that it was cheaper and faster to construct new factories designed for specific munitions production than to make over old plants . Nor armoury 1942 were civilian producers too eager to convert . It was expensive and troublesome . They had a ready market for their civilian goods . If they converted and their competitors did not , they might end the war without customers . Back of it all was the Maginot Line belief that our resources were so great that we could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the slack in our economy , without " discomboomerating " anyone . It was to be business as usual . For a time it was better than usual . However , the end effect of this policy of letting the civilian economy run along while new factories turned out the guns is likely to be more drastic curtailment of civilian producers than might have been necessary . When a new plant is built the number of non-war users of scarce materials remains the same . Converting a plant , though , lessens the number of civilian producers , and so there are proportionately more materials left for division among those factories which can not be converted . Mars ' Share Until now the general approach to the dividing of our materials has been first to give the military what it wanted and to leave the rest for civilians . The theory was that as military demands rose , civilian producers would be curtailed proportionately . In that way , it was argued , no workers would be thrown out of jobs and no manufacturers forced to curtail until absolutely necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrated , is that it drags the mobilization of our resources . Manufacturers keep producing civilian goods until the last possible minute ; then , when they face curtailment , they demand the opportunity to have their facilities converted . Every SPAB order becomes a battleground . In a recent speech Henderson pointed out that after fourteen months of our current program we had only 12 to 14 per cent of our national income in arms production . In the last war , after fourteen months , we had diverted one fourth of our income to war . Since the victory program is so huge that it can take our total supply of scarce materials and still not have enough , the ultimate limiting factor is to what extent civilian uses can be curtailed . As a result the whole approach to the dividing of our materials seems likely to be reversed . Instead of leaving the civilian what remains after military demands are met , the new approach would be first to determine what materials are needed to provide civilians with the minimum essentials  --  food , clothing , shelter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . Batt , Nelson , Henderson , his deputy director of supply , Joseph Weiner , and others have been thinking along these lines . Baruch has been pushing it . In a letter to Rep. Albert Gore , of Tennessee , during the price-control debate , Baruch urged utilizing our mass-production methods to guarantee every person these essentials at low cost . In that way , he argued , the morale of the home front can be preserved no matter how long the war lasts and maximum production is maintained . With the minimum civilian needs determined , the problem left would be how to curtail all other users of scarce materials quickly and without destroying too many businesses . About 20 per cent of our national income is being devoted to war . To double that and more , it seems clear , requires the most rigid conservation of all our materials and the conversion of every civilian plant that can make war goods , if necessary , by compulsion . How is it to be done ? How many plants can be converted ? Since no large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contracts by themselves , conversion means subcontracting . There is no stormier controversy in Washington today than that over the possibilities of subcontracting . The Army and Navy are afraid to take chances with untried producers . Ordnance work , they argue , requires the highest degree of precision tooling and considerable skill in management . When the bits-and-pieces example of what Great Britain has accomplished is cited , they answer that British industry had general-purpose machine tools which could he shifted to other uses fairly easily , while our tools are so highly specialized they can not be converted . There is enough truth in this argument that we are overspecialized to present a frightening challenge . War has never been an American business . The Nazis , on the other hand , geared their peacetime industry to military needs . When they designed their Lufthansa plants , they built bombers and let the public ride in them for a while . Similarly , the members of the American mission to Russia were amazed at what the Soviets , supposedly with such inferior workmen , were able to do in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When I was talking to Batt one night soon after his return from Moscow , he remarked , " It is a terrible thing , but so far the two best fighting machines in the world have been built by countries which had scarce material economies . Our Army and Navy have been used to shopping for small quantities in an unlimited market . It was luxury production . They called for tools of infinitesimal precision . Everything had to be the best . It was sought in small quantities and industry filled the orders almost like a stunt . " Batt recalled a conference with the Soviet vice premier , Anastas Mikoyan , at which Mikoyan asked for a few thousand tons of a certain steel item . Batt told him we did n't have it . Mikoyan was incredulous . " But you have such an enormous steel capacity of eighty-five million tons ! " he exclaimed . " That 's true , " Batt had to reply , " but our capacity is highly specialized for peace purposes . We still do not have large quantities of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the history of this war to have it said that the United States was so rich and specialized in its luxuries that it could not win the race against Hitler 's ersatz war economy . The challenge to those who say that you can not subcontract and that you can not convert is that some means must be found . If conversion may not mean the difference between victory and defeat , it is likely to determine how long the war will last . Until now , we have been unable to mobilize enough of our long-run resources to halt the Axis , through conquest after conquest , from rolling up a great potential of resources for a long-drawn-out war . Until that race of materials is won , until our great resources are mobilized , no one can say how long the war may last . For it must never be forgotten that the scale of this war is so huge that a whole continent may fall in a single spring 's campaign , adding five , ten or more years to the duration . 