@@475406

ONCE UPON a time there was a man who , so the story goes , expected the millennium to arrive with the dawn . So he attired himself in a long white robe and climbed to the ridgepole of his barn , there the better to watch for the first signs of a brighter future . We of the Mountain States are not unlike that man . Some of us seem , even as he , to have full confidence that the bright future is just ahead and that we need only to wait calmly for its arrival . But many of us already have reached the stage of doubt and anxiety . Seated astride the ridgepole of the continent , we are looking anxiously at the signs of nascent prosperity all around us ? a future promise in which we do not seem to share . To the west , the Pacific Coast is fairly bursting with optimism and talk of more population , more jobs , and higher postwar incomes . To the south , Texas is hardly less exuberant than California , and even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the states in the Mississippi Valley are quietly confident of their ability to continue their steady progress ; while the Atlantic States , long established and secure in their position , seem destined to maintain their preeminence . Here at home . by contrast , there are very few signs of light ; and we are beginning to wonder uneasily whether economic progress will pass us by as lightlyand indifferently as the transcontinental planes surmount our rugged mountains . " Why these doubts ? " the transient visitor might well ask . " The Mountain States are still new country . ' Vast natural resources lie untapped and yet to be developed . The people of the region are equal in skill and ability and cultural heritage to those of other parts of the country , and the pioneer spirit is by no means dead . Of course , your capital equipment is relatively small and inadequately developed , but this factor is actually a favorable one for postwar growth , since it provides an obvious opportunity for expansion . " With all of this , fortunately , we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mountain States is almost beyond comprehension . Today much of ' the world 's production of copper , vanadium , molybdenum , and other vital metals comes from the Rockies . Large deposits of uranium-bearing ores ? the raw material for atomic bombs and potentially for atomic power ? are found in Colorado . Quantities of petroleum are held in reserve , and billions and billions of tons of coal and oil shale eventually will provide the United States with much of its fuel . There is enough for decades ? even for centuries . Moreover , the hydrogenation of coal and the processing of shale to produce oil will create opportunities for a galaxy of satellite chemical industries . Pyridine , cresylic acid , synthetic rubber , and drugs are examples . The greatest known deposits of life-giving phosphate lie in now economically inaccessible parts of Idaho and Wyoming . When developed , they will enrich the wide grass lands and irrigated valleys of the Mountain States and other regions as well . The huge national forests offer a perpetual " crop " of timber under modern methods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The human resources , too , are of great value . Mountain men are traditionally noted for their resourcefulness and vigor . It is no accident that the big new war plants in the Rockies piled up astonishing records for labor productivity . Among smaller enterprises there arc many examples of the development of new products and new techniques , often against heavy odds . The Mountain States need not apologize when questioned about the potential promise of their people . B UT there is another vital factor to be reckoned with . The natural resources , labor , and capital of a region do not automatically combine to produce jobs and income . They are brought together in creative effort by men , The men in turn do not operate in a vacuum . They perform their managerial and creative functions surrounded by a complex environment of economic , political , and social forces . The sum total of these forces is sometimes called the " economic climate " ; and the importance of having a favorable climate in which to nourish economic activity is well recognized . Unfortunately , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climate in the Mountain States is none too healthy . Westerners perpetually boast of their magnificent natural climate , of long bright days and cool starry nights . But in 1945 the economic climate does not seem equally salubrious . Storm clouds and thunderheads are looming on the horizon . Among the several institutional barriers which stand in the way of economic progress , two stand out like Pikes Peak on a sunny day : the absentee control of our natural resources , and the shortsighted ness and unintelligence of our own business and political leadership . II yk 3SP , NTEEI5M is , of course , an old plaint of the West . During the days of the gold and silver strikes , large fortunes were made by men on the ground , and even today their descendants sometimes live in the region and take an active part in business and social life . But gradually control slipped away . Today nearly all of the West 's largest enterprises are directed in the final analysis by remote control . Climax Molybdenum Co. takes more than 75 per cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continental divide in Colorado . Its managers live in New York . The Colorado Fuel and Iron Co. , until the war the leading steel mill west of Chicago , was a Rockefeller property for many years ; now it is owned by an Eastern group even more foreign to the West than Rockefeller . Eastern control of other minerals and metals is extensive , Anaconda . Kennecott , and Phelps Dodge are important examples in copper . United States Potash is another Eastern firm exploiting a Western resource . Electric power , communications , and railroad facilities are tied in with national systems both physically and financially . Meat packing is largely in the hands of the big packing companies . Such remote control clearly has the tendency to intensify the traditional business policy of emphasis on short-run profits . " Get control of the raw material , get it out as cheaply as possible , and haul it away as fast as possible . We 're here today and gone tomorrow . Never mind what we leave behind . " Such is the common policy of absenteeism . Absentee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the local implications of over-all policy . The interests of the local area are a secondary consideration . The region becomes a colonial dependency of an industrial empire . A 3SENTEE control over local enterprises is bad enough , but the economy of a region fares even worse when established industry elsewhere is successful in thwarting the creation or development of local m ? atnta in States have enterprise . The experience ( ' ale effects of this particular kind of absenteeism . The region was settled and developed late , after industry was well established in the East . The handicap of a late start is difficult to overcome . The difficulties become almost insurmountable when artificial obstacles are added by a corporate overlordship . The dominant enterprises of other regio : =6 have employed many devices to protect their privileged position and to prevent continue local competition . T long d discriminator. ? r .... ight-rate structure is an example it the broad , indirect type of cones ' ' Patent control as a more direct d rice has often been used for preventing the development of local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the numerous restrictive practices of large-scale enterprise have had an unfortunate regional significance too often overlooked and too little understood . It is not easy to cite specific examples of the effects of absenteeism on regional development . Such facts are not readily revealed ; and it usually takes an official government investigation to bring them to light . The recent investigation of the concentration of economic power by the TNEC has yielded some highly significant evidence on this point . Among other things , the TNEC hearings on the glass industry established the fact that the Hartford Empire Glass Company , a patent holding company , used its control over patents to eliminate a small independent milk bottle company established in Santa Anna , Texas . The Texas plant was started by local businessmen and technicians and utilized local natural resources . It supplied a regional market and certainly was not a serious threat to the total national market . Nevertheless , Hartford engaged it in expensive litigation and eventually forced the independent to choose between bankruptcy or selling out to a licensee of the glass combine . It chose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the ground . The full story , with a discussion of its economic implications , may be found in Walter Prescott Webb 's Divided We Stand , one of the few good books on American regionalism . A OTHER important business practice with regional implications is the basing-point system for fixing prices , which is widely used by large-scale enterprise . The nature of this system and how it has worked to prevent the development of the resources of the Mountain States is excellently illustrated in an interchange of views between Senator O'Mahoney of Wyoming , chairman of the TNEC , and the eminent Princeton economist , Frank W. Fetter , during one of the lengthy TNEC hearings . Chairman O'Mahoney is speaking : Well , there is a more exciting instance even than that . It is the case of gasoline . In Wyoming we have the Salt Creek oil field and the Teapot Dome , of which the whole country has heard . We produce a very high grade of natural petroleum , crude petroleum , and we have refineries there ? the Midwest Oil Co. , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Refining Co. , and yet though the crude petroleum is pumped out of the soil , as it were , in Wyoming and refined in Wyoming , and turned into the tanks of the filling station in Wyoming , the Wyoming citizen who rolls up in his automobile to the Standard Oil filling station immediately outside of the Standard Oil refinery pays a price Tulsa plus , not the price of oil as refined in Wyoming from Wyoming crude , but as though that oil had been refined in Oklahoma and transported by railroad all the way from Tulsa to Casper ; and there our people pay this phantom freight . So it is a matter of great interest to the consumer as to whether or not that is a system which should be permitted to exist . PROFESSOR frITER : These illustrations all arc very pertinent to show how the basing-point practice inverts geographical relations . There is something rather offensive to the reason of men that it should do that . .. . CHAIRMAN : Well , have you given any consideration to this phase of the problem ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , what would be the effect upon the development of industry in states which are far distant from the centers of population ? PROFESSOR FETTER : My judgment is that it would tend very largely toward decentralization of physical plants in industry , and would tend to decentralize the control of industry to a considerable extent , and to make industries serve their own communities and neighborhoods to a greater extent , and make collusive prices more difficult , if not impossible . Absentee control , therefore , leads to the underdevelopment of regional resources . Businessmen are denied opportunities for the full profitable development of local resources , workers are denied jobs , and titian toward the blocs has been well expressed by Governor Dempsey of New Mexico . Speaking in Denver a few days after Mr. Truman became our Chief Executive , Governor Dempsey did not hesitate to line up the President on the side of Western conservatism and the special interest blocs . Governor Dempsey is reported by the press to have said : " I think that we can depend on President Truman for a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before . First , I think we can depend on him to protect the resources of the West from foreign importation . I think we can depend on him to protect our cattle and our sheep , our copper and zinc and rare metals . I think this is most important for our postwar prosperity and I know that he does too . " A SECOND example of the shortsightedness and economic naivet ? of Western political leadership is to be seen in the current controversy over the proposal for a Missouri Valley Authority . Taking their cue from the power and irrigation lobbies , and hypnotized by their own oratory about " States ' Rights , " the politicians in power in the Mountain States are almost unanimously opposed to an MVA . The reasons for this opposition have been well detailed by Joseph Kinsey Howard in Harper 's Magazine for June 1945- Mr. Howard wrote too soon , however , to report on the reductio ad absurdum of this opposition ? the ludicrous threat of Governor Vivian of Colorado to spend " every cent " of the state 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a well-integrated and comprehensive program for the development of the natural resources of the large parts of Montana , Wyoming . and Colorado which lie in the Missouri River Basin brings shudders to our governors and state legislators . Indeed , opposition in the Mountain States to the River Valley Authority idea appears to be compounded in about equal parts of ignorance , prejudice , and dog-in-the-mangerism . SHE THIRD example of almost incomprehensible political leadership is to . I ? - Cfreight rate controversy . Economists are almost unanimously agreed that for decades the freight rate structure of the United States has discriminated against the South and West . The recent order of the ICC removing the basis for discrimination has been hailed on all sides as a great victory for these regions . Yet the political and business leaders of the West have actually fought against the removal of this major handicap to their development ? or at best they have shown a colossal indifference to the whole subject . In the recent freight rate war as in the MVA battle , Governor Vivian again distinguished himself as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare . In 1943 the Southern governors promoted a conference of Southern and Western governors in Denver for the purpose of rallying the West to their common cause : the fight against economic colonialism . By a clever maneuver and by virtue of his position as host , Governor Vivian brought forward an unscheduled speaker during the meeting . This " distinguished guest of Denver " turned out to be none other than Big Bill Jeffers , president of the Union Pacific . Mr. Jeffers spoke long and forcefully . He argued that the railroads could and would look after the West and that freight rates should be left alone . His oratory must have been persuasive . At any rate , the Western governors refused to be persuaded by their Southern colleagues . The result was that the South had to carry the fight alone . In Georgia , Governor Arnall took the case to the Supreme Court . In the West , governors and legislators alike have given the entire problem the well-known " silent treatment . " IV Miiasa , then , are three significant ex- amples of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , opposition to the valley authority idea , and indifference to proposals for the removing of barriers to industrial development . In consequence we are forced reluctantly to the conclusion that business and political policy in the Mountain States favors traditional restrictive practices and a.waar-1 to economic expansion . In view of this situation it is pertinent to inquire if hope for the West can be found in the realm of intellectual leadership . A state or region should look to its universities to supply the foundation for its attitudes and ideas . Unfortunately the universities of the Mountain States can not be credited with outstanding performance of this function . Inadequately staffed and inadequately financed , they have played a secondary role . Whenever a promising intellectual leader does appear , he is quickly snatched away by more opulent institutions . J. L. Morrill made an excellent record as president of the University of Wyoming , but after a few years he went on to the presidency of the much more important University of Minnesota . At the University of Colorado , Reuben Gustayson in serving for two years as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a liberal social consciousness that he was invited to become dean of the faculties of the University of Chicago . Who can blame these men , and others like them ? Federal Reserve Chairman Marriner Eccles of Utah and Thurman Arnold of Wyoming for instance ? They have gone on to immediate opportunities for greater leadership . But the Mountain States needed them badly ; and needed them all the more because the dominant complacent and reactionary groups , who have not hesitated on more than one occasion to infringe upon academic freedom , congratulate themselves that the community is rid of " dangerous men . " There is much room for improvement in education , research , and intellectual leadership in the Mountain States . But there is little immediate hope that the universities and colleges will be able to take the lead in planning for an expanding economy and the increased material well-being of the people of the region . HE MAJOR institutional barriers to economic progress described above ? private and federal absenteeism and local conservatism ? offer a serious threat to the economic future of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in the late thirties the Mountain West lagged behind the rest of the country in economic development , and during the war it failed to expand as rapidly as other parts of the country . The recent economic history of the Mountain States in general is not unlike that of Utah . Conditions in that state have been well described by Professor J. R. Mahoney , director of the Bureau of Economic and Business Research of the University of Utah , in the following terms : " In the twenty-year period from 1920 to 1940 there was a whole series of accumulating difficulties and maladjustments in the economy of the state . . . . The population increased by 100,000 from 1920 to 1940 , but the number of employment opportunities was virtually the same at the two census dates . . . During this twenty-year period the productive facilities of the state were not increasing . . The results of the impact of a growing population on basic industries that failed to expand were unemployment , employment under unfavorable circumstances . and under-employment of the population . " Or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Utah 's main export is its children . " As a result , unemployment was a more serious problem in the Rockies before Pearl Harbor than elsewhere in the United States . The 1940 census indicated that 16 per cent of the total labor force in the country was then unemployed or on emergency public works . In Wyoming and Nevada , the two smallest states of the region , unemployment was about equal to the national average ; in the other six states , however , it was well above the national average , ranging from 19,3 per cent in Colorado to 23.9 per cent in New Mexico . It is not surprising , therefore , that in the early stages of the war the Mountain States were looked upon as a labor reservoir area . Emigration was rapid , particularly from the rural areas . It is true that several metropolitan areas in the Mountain States increased in size during the war , notably Denver , Salt Lake City , and Las Vegas , Nevada , but the region as a whole has lost population . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States than there had been in 1940 . Employment , of course , increased during the war ? at least temporarily . But the great bulk of the war-created facilities in the Mountain States can be converted to peacetime use only with great difficulty . The Rockies are dotted with air fields , ammunition depots , and army camps , which offer few postwar jobs . The chemical warfare arsenals and shell-loading plants of the region possess greater conversion potentialities , but problems of products and markets are yet to be solved . Probably the future use of these latter facilities depends largely on the creation of a Western steel industry . Much has been written on this subject . It is perhaps sufficient here to recall Mr. Grattan 's article in Harper 's Magazine for March 1945 , in which he emphasizes the fact that the problem of a Western steel industry is a problem of the entire West ? the Pacific Coast and the Mountain States combined . At present , however , most of the leadership in dealing with this issue is coming from the Pacific Coast , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and iron ore are located.nos wz come again to the crux of the problem . Although the war brought increased employment and new capital equipment to the West and stimulated the region to renewed activity , Western leadership has remained shortsighted and proud of its out-dated conservatism . In recent years the region has been falling behind in the march of economic progress , in spite of its great potentialities in human and natural resources . Potentialities are not enough . For though the Mountain States were awakened by the war from their lethargy , other areas have been stimulated to even greater expansion . The West is now faced with an opportunity to consolidate its wartime gains and is challenged to catch up with greater progress elsewhere . The people of the Mountain States are no less anxious for a healthy development of industry than the people of other regions , they are no less deserving of opportunity , and they are no less capable . But they will be denied the freedom even to strive for economic expansion , unless their leadefship awakens to its responsibilities .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         