@@475619

IN THE EARLY thirties , when so many of us were reading or re-reading Karl Mar ; we learned from him , first of all , that the capitalist system was n't immortal . He carried conviction on that point not only because of his analysis of the contradictions of capitalism but also because of his account of the origins of the system . Capitalism , we perceived , had had a beginning and would presumably have an end . Of course this was a commonplace , but for many Americans , until just that moment in history , it had been a commonplace ? that was persistently ignored . Almost anyone would have admitted that no system of production and distribution could last forever , but before 1929 the question was rarely asked . In the middle forties another commonplace is being driven home by another prophet . Arnold Toynbee in his Study of History is telling us that civilizations seem to follow a recognizable course from birth to death . If this commonplace is now important to us , everyone knows why . In 1930 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just another depression , and capitalism will recover as it always has before . " Today some persons say , " The atom bomb is only another weapon of war , and the end of the world is no more likely than it was when gunpowder was invented . " But though the depression didcome to an end , the economic system has not yet resumed its old shape , and most of us are convinced that it never will . Similarly most of us have the uncomfortable feeling that the difference between the atom bomb and earlier weapons of destruction is not merely quantitative but qualitative . We may not be sure that men will destroy their civilization , but we know that they can . The special relevance of Toynbee 's work for us and our mood lies in his researches into the natural history of civilizations . There have been some twenty-one representatives of the species , he finds , since mankind rose above the primitive level six thousand years ago . Of these twenty-one civilizations , at least twelve , by his reckoning , no longer exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear talk enough nowadays about the doom of Western Civilization , but in our more sober moments we are likely to ask ourselves what it means to say that a civilization is dying . That is a question we can not answer at all if we know only the history of Western Civilization , and our answer will be less than adequate if it rests merely on a layman 's impregsions of the decline of the Roman Empire . If , however , a person had studied a dozen dead civilizations , which is what Toynbee has done , he should have something significant to report . MIIREE VOLUMES of A Study of History appeared in 1934 , and three more in 1939 , and Professor Toynbee is now working on the remaining three or four volumes . The project was subsidized by the Royal Institute of International Affairs , which was in turn aided by the Rockefeller Foundation . Since 1925 , Toynbee has been Director of Studies of the Royal Institute as well as Research Professor of International History in the University of London , both on the Sir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family . His grandfather was a famous aural surgeon , and his father was also a doctor . An uncle , Paget Toynbee , who died in 1932 , wrote voluminously and authoritatively on Dante . Another uncle , Arnold Toynbee , was an economist with a social conscience , and although he died in his thirty-first year , he had made such an impression on his contemporaries that Toynbee Hall , first of the social settlements in London 's East End , was established in his memory . Readers of the earlier Arnold Toynbee 's The Industrial Revolution will find many echoes in the nephew 's Study of History . Arnold Joseph Toynbee was born in 1889 , and was educated at Winchester and Oxford . In 1911 , while studying at the British Archaeological School in Athens , he became interested in contemporary European politics as a result of the talk he heard in cafes . In 1913 , while a fellow and tutor at Balliol College , Oxford , he married Rosalind Murray , daughter of the noted classicist , Gilbert Murray . Two years later he published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was for a time a war correspondent for the Manchester Guardian , and in 1918 he joined the political intelligence department of the British Foreign Office . At Versailles he served the British delegation as an expert on the Middle East . He contributed to a History of the Peace Conference sponsored by the British ( later Royal ) Institute of International Affairs , and he became editor of the Institute's.Surery of International Affairs . The first volume of this series , which appeared in 1925 , covered the years from 1920 to 1923 , and volumes were published annually thereafter until the outbreak ofthe second World War . Although he was assisted by other writers , Toynbee was responsible for these annual surveys , and wrote the greater part of each . Toynbee 's career revives the unhappy reflection that British intellectuals mature more rapidly than their American counterparts . In his early thirties he was ready to assume the editorship of an authoritative and inclusive survey of international affairs ; by the time he was forty he . was ripe for his magnum opus . Service with the Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greece and the Middle East , a visit to China , and lectures in the United States helped to shape his knowledge of the contemporary world , and meanwhile indefatigable industry was extending this awareness of the past . It is evidence of his industry , by the way , that , while finishing his Study of History , he has undertaken to prepare an extensive history of World War II . This project also is sponsored by the Institute of International Affairs , with assistance from the Rockefeller Foundation . If ALTHOUGH the first three volumes were published a dozen years ago , A Study of History is only beginning to have a recognizable effect on Western thought . Unlike Spengler 's Decline of the West , which made a direct appeal to the literati , Toynbee 's work circulated at first only among specialists . From the ordeal by experts Toynbee emerged badly battered but unquestionably triumphant . There was no geographer , no sociologist , no anthropologist , no ancient , medieval , or modern historian who could not find flaws , but the most dogged critic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? aside from errors in the particular field of which the critic was master ? this was a great achievement . Even Pitirim Sorokin of Harvard , whose Social and Cultural Dynamics is a massive exposition of a different theory of history , paid Toynbee a compliment : " Translated into more accurate terms of the real sociocultural systems and of the great rhythms of **28;293;TOOLONG supersystems of culture i.e. into Sorokin 's terms , A Study of History is a most stimulating and illuminating work of a distinguished thinker and scholar . " What disconcerted most of the experts was Toynbee 's boldness in attempting such a task . " Professor Toynbee 's noble plan and method disclose a wider vision for future historians , " wrote a geographer , " but thousands of microscopic studies are essential before the origin , growth , and nature of human society lie open to a telescopic view . " Microscopic studies are necessary , but they can pile up by the thousands and the tens of thousands , and still they will do us no good unless there is someone as diligent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to interpret them for us . Acrnint reason for the expert 's uneasiness in dealing with Toynbee lies in the fact that his approach to history is imaginative , as theirs almost invariably is not , and is therefore , in the good sense , literary . Underlying all his professional erudition is a deep familiarity with classical literature , the English Bible , the mythology and folklore of ancient and modern times , and the poetry of his own land . Historians who pride themselves on being scientific are disturbed when he cites a legend or quotes a poem , not , as they might do , to document a trend , but to suggest a truth . Respect for the imagination is implicit on every page , and if at a crucial point in his argument he quotes from Blake , Goethe , Francis Thompson , and St. John , it is because these are the men who seem to him to have the truest understanding of the question at issue . The very texture of Toynbee 's argumentation is literary . He has , as so many contemporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pseudoscientific jargon that is fashionable , and makes the King 's English serve his purpose by an essentially poetic reliance on suggestion and metaphor . He speaks of " challengeand-response , " " the movement of withdrawal-and-return , " " the time of troubles , " " the failure of self-determination , " " schism in the soul . " Even when his phrases are compounded of unfamiliar elements ? " the mechanicalness of mimesis , " let us say , or , " panmixia and prole-MAGAZINE tarianization " ? they are the phrases of a classical scholar ; and if he borrows a German term --  " Viilkerwanderung , " for example ? it is a term that has overtones of a poetic sort . This way of using language distresses the majority of social scientists , for their aim is to pin a word down to a specific meaning , and they would be completely happy only if they could eschew words altogether and use symbols as the chemists and physicists do . That Toynbee not merely accepts but deliberately makes the most of the connotative functions of language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clue to the character of his achievement . III B ECAUSE of Toynbee 's style , and because of the attitude towards the writing of history that it expresses , the layman can take much pleasure in his volumes , but this does not mean that they are easy reading . Not only is the author 's erudition sometimes overwhelming ; in presenting his arguments he makes no compromises with what Donald Tovey has called " the Age of Inattention . " A Study of History was conceived as a whole , just as Paradise Lost was or the Divine Comedy , and no part can be fully understood by itself . Each stage of the argument takes on new meaning as one progresses to the next , and the final meaning of the work will be revealed only when it is completed . Yet the layman can learn much from A Study of History , and few contemporary works deal with matters so important to him . In view of what has been said about Toynbee 's imaginative approach , it might not be far-fetched to suggest that the structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of civilization is a chronicle play in two acts and innumerable scenes . Since civilizations are never static , since they are either growing or disintegrating , there can be only the two acts , but the movement in each is infinitely varied . Act I , " Growth , " is built upon the theme of conflict ? challenge-and-response , as Toynbee calls it . At the final curtain of Act I comes a challenge to which the civilization fails to respond , and that is the critical moment ? it is no more than a moment ? of breakdown . Act II , " Disintegration , " is usually even longer than Act I , and to Toynbee it is the more interesting part of the play . The movement is not straight downward , for there are encouraging rallies and agreeable interludes , but after the play is over , one can see that the end was inevitable once the climax had been passed . As the layman follows this drama , he is likely to note at once and with surprise that Toynbee places the moment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the early stages of each civilization . Edward Gibbon , from whom many of us derive such ideas as we have of the processes of decay , found the Roman Empire at its apogee in the second century A.D. , in the Age of the Antonines , and traced its decline from the deaths'of Marcus Aurelius and the accession of Commodus in 180 . But to Toynbee the Age of the Antonines was merely an Indian Summer . In his view , Hellenic Civilization began its disintegration not in the heyday of the Roman Empire but four hundred years before that empire was founded . The moment of breakdown he places in 431 a.c. , with the Atheno-Peloponnesian War , which marked a failure to respond to a challenge . This failure Toynbee attributes to " the idolization of an ephemeral institution . " In other words , the Athenians were so pleased with their city-state , an institution that had been a notable achievement in its time , that they did not understand how economic forces had changed the Hellenic world and did not appreciate the necessity for political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of troubles " ? that is , a period in which a civilization is confronted again and again by the same challenge and always fails to measure up to it . For four centuries the various members of Hellenic society struggled among themselves until finally one of them , Rome , established its hegemony over the whole society . Because it ruled the whole of its particular world , Toynbee describes the Roman Empire as " the universal state " of Hellenic Civilization . This universal state was able to impose order by force , but in delivering a " knockout blow " to its rivals , Rome had also knocked out the civilization it hadcome to dominate . The empire could not arrest the progress of disintegration , and its Golden Ages were merely Indian Summers . ROUGHLY the same pattern appears in Toynbee 's treatment of each of the extinct civilizations about which he writes . He looks first for a period in which the whole of a civilization was under one political power ? in other words , for a universal state . A universal state , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems , but these soon recur . There is usually another rally , but the problems come back , and this time the failure to dispose of them is fatal . The universal state begins to fall apart , and successor states appear . There is an interregnum , during which the successor states grow stronger and quarrel among themselves , and then a new civilization may begin to grow on the same ground or part of the same ground as the old . The whole process of growth and disintegration rarely takes less than a thousand years , and may take much longer . Working back from the universal state , Toynbee finds that it is invariably preceded by a time of troubles . A time of troubles might almost be defined as the period that lies between a civilization 's breakdown and the emergence of the universal state . More specifically , it is , as in the case of Hellenic Civilization , a period of repeated failures , and it is because of these failures that a violent solution ? the universal state ? becomes inevitable . Behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and this Toynbee places relatively early . He holds that the civilization of Egypt , for example , reached its zenith at the end of the Fifth Dynasty , about 2424 although it survived for three thousand years after that date , and that Sumeric Civilization had entered its time of troubles by 2677 Lc . Incan and Aztec civilizations , he believes , were disintegrating before the arrival of the Spaniards and otherwise could not have been overrun . So far as the seven extant civilizations are concerned , Toynbee tries to be cautious , saying that one must not venture judgments until all the evidence is in . Yet he points out that six of them have fallen under the domination of the seventh , which is our Western Civilization , and he sees reason to believe that disintegration had begun before the impact of the West was felt . At any rate he is willing to assert that each ? with the exception of Islamic Civilization , which is a special case ? has had its universal state , which is a strong indication , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more it may be observed that he finds the moment of breakdown surprisingly far in the past : for the main body of Orthodox Christian Civilization , 977 A.D. ; for the Russian branch of Orthodox Christian Civilization , 1075 A.D. ; for Far Eastern Civilization , 878 A.D. ; for Far Eastern Civilization in Japan , 1185 A.D. ; for Hindu Civilizadon , 1175 A.D. ; for Islamic Civilization , about 1500 A.D. IV W HAT is the framework in which these assertions about the breakdowns of civilizations are placed ? To begin with , Toynbee uses a characteristic and illuminating metaphor . We are so placed , he suggests , that we can see a ledge on a mountainside , and we can see part of the cliff below and part of the cliff above . On the ledge there are men sleeping , and these are the primitive societies as we now know them . Though we may dismiss them as lazy or paralytic , second thought should convince us that only the most strenuous effort could have brought them to this resting point , and if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we should see that there were many who failed to make this first ascent . Our main interest , however , is in the climbers on the second cliff . We can not see their goal , and certainly we can not tell whether any of them will reach it , but there are dead bodies on the ledge , and we perceive that most of those who have made the attempt have perished . Some who are still climbing seem near the end of their resources , but they can not retreat ; they must go on until they reach security or fall to their doom . The problem of the genesis of civilization is the problem of emergence from the state of primitive society , which was in itself an arduous achievement for mankind . Toynbee thinks of the problem in termsof challenge-and-response . The challenge may lie in hard country or in new ground or in blows , pressures , or penalizations . It must be a challenge severe enough to bring forth all the resources of a society , and yet it must not be excessive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth of civilization has begun . Not all the members of a society are ready to enter upon so exacting an enterprise , but the passive majority will follow the leadership of those who are determined to meet whatever challenge it is that faces them . These leaders are , in Toynbee 's phrase , the " creative minority , " and so long as they are equal to the successive challenges that arise , their civilization is growing . One of the important factors in growth , then , is the relationship between creative individuals and society , and to this subject Toynbee devotes much of his third volume . But in all civilizations , with one possible exception , a time has come when the creative minority has failed to meet a challenge . The breakdown of a civilization , Toynbee believes , is never directly caused by external forces but is always the product of an internal failure . More often than not , it is the result of what he terms the intractability of institutions . Mankind is always putting new wine in old bottles , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bottles perish . " The fact is that creative minorities do not remain eternally creative . They begin to think of the past , idolizing , as Toynbee would say , an ephemeral institution or an ephemeral technique , or else they become intoxicated with victory , turn militarist , and commit suicide . With the moment of breakdown , the long , long period of disintegration begins . Toynbee discusses it first under two broad headings : " Schism in the Body Social " and " Schism in the Soul . " What was once a creative minority becomes a dominant minority , holding by force a position that is no longer willingly accorded it . The mass of the people in the society ? the internal proletariat in Toynbee 's terminology ? is alienated , and the external proletariat ? made up of the barbarians who once came under the influence of the civilization ? drifts away . The divisions in society are reflected in ? or , as Toynbee would have it , are reflections of ? divisions in the individual soul . In a growing society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a disintegrating society they are split apart . A period of disintegration , however , has its creative achievements : the dominant minority creates not only the universal state but also a higher philosophy , and the internal proletariat creates a universal religion . Moreover , there are two ways in which the individual can heal the schism in the soul : one is detachment , the other Toynbee calls transfiguration . V B UT THESE are matters to which we can subsequently return . What concerns us now is Western Civilization . Although this is a subject that Toynbee plans to treat formally at the end of his study , he has not written six volumes without giving some indication of his opinions . Indeed , the reader gets the impression that Toynbee has not been able to suspend judgment , as he has wanted to do , but has formulated definite ideas about the future . More than once Toynbee observes that Western Civilization can not be on the verge of dissolution since it has not yet had its universal state . At the same time he repeatedly suggests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is true , Western Civilization must be nearing the end of its time of troubles , in Toynbee 's sense of that phrase . Then , according to his scheme , the moment of breakdown must be some centuries behind us , and since four hundred years is the usual duration of a time of troubles , the first part of the sixteenth century seems to be indicated . And at the end of Volume VI Toynbee does speak of the Wars of Religion as the turning point , though there is a suggestion in Volume IV that the collapse of the Conciliar Movement a century earlier might be regarded as the crucial failure . Toynbee suggests , however tentatively , that our time of troubles may follow the pattern that he describes as rout-andrally . The first rout came with the breakdown of the unity of Western Christianity and the consequent wars of religion . There was then a rally in the mid-eighteenth century , in the period sometimes called the Age of Tolerance , but eighteenth century tolerance rested on an insufficient foundation , and there soon began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devastating . w HAT Toynbee calls " the parochial sovereign state " is the instrument by which the decline of Western Civilization has been accomplished . In his fourth volume , when he writes of " the intractability of institutions , " he draws some of his most telling examples from our own history . Both industrialism and democracy , he points out , have been perverted by nationalism . " Industrialism , " he writes , " is a co-operative system of work which demands the unification of all the habitable lands and navigable seas on the face of the planet as a common home for the entire living generation of Mankind , " but in a world of parochial states , each striving to improve its economic conditions at the expense of others , industrialism has been a prolific source of wars . As for democracy , Toynbee says that in origin and essence it is " not parochial but universal , not militant but humanitarian . " " But , " he continues , " when this potent spiritual driving-force is diverted into the mechanism of a parochial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes malignantly subversive . " Spengler asserted that we were entering a period of Caesarism and that our decline was inevitable . Toynbee dodges the idea of inevitability , but he issues the most solemn of warnings . If the analogy between our history and that of other civilizations holds , we may well tremble ; " for in other cases the grand finale that has wound up a ' time of troubles ' and ushered in a universal state has been a self-inflicted knockout blow ' from which the self-stricken society has never been able to recover , " " Must we , too , " he asks , " purchase our Pax Ecumenica at this deadly price ? " Both our economic development and our political philosophy demand the abrogation of national sovereignty and the unification of Western Civilization , which has come to dominate the entire world . If we can meet this challenge , if we can establish universal peace by the creation of a world order , doom can be avoided . If , however , peace is brought about only because one nation has succeeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself a universal state , nothing can check the processes of disintegration . DASSIONATE believers in world governr ment may be encouraged by Toynbee 's analysis , but Toynbee himself , though no one has worked more vigorously for international understanding , can not forget our four hundred years of nationalism . Hellenic Civilization had many opportunities of achieving unity between the defeat of Pericles and the victory of Augustus , but its responses to successive challenges grew weaker and weaker . Can we tell ourselves that our responses have grown stronger ? In The Survey of International Affairs for 1933 Toynbee wrote that the Nazis ' seizure of power " marked the consummation ? or the reductio ad extremum ? of a politico-religious movement , the pagan deification and worship of parochial human communities , which had been gradually gaining ground for more than four centuries in the Western World at large . " As the need for international unity has become more and more acute , nationalism has assumed new and more terrifying forms . Yet if Toynbee sees little prospect of our meeting the challenge of nationalism in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a realm that for him is beyond politics . There is still , he believes , a possibility of a revival of Christianity : " we may yet live to see a civilization which has tried and failed to stand alone , being saved , in spite of itself , from a fatal fall by being caught in the arms of an ancestral church which it has vainly striven to push away and keep at arm 's length . " And even if this hope fails , even if religion can not save Western Civilization , it can save the individual member of that society . " We have now , " he says near the end of Volume VI , " gained a glimpse of an alternative way of life . . . and this happy issue out of our afflictions is to be found in enrolling ourselves as citizens of a Civitas Dei of which Christ Crucified is king . . .. The member of a disintegrating society who has taken this road has a surer hope , and therefore a deeper happiness , than the merely ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in growth . ' ! VI W HAT are we to conclude from all this ? Has Toynbee so accurately analyzed the nature of civilization that we can not reject his conclusions ? Is his case so strong that we must abandon hope for Western Civilization and look to religion for individual salvation ? The experts do not think so , and even the layman may find flaws in some of Toynbee 's crucial arguments . It is obvious , for example , that he never says clearly what he means by " civilization , " and yet he talks about " the species " as if he were operating with the precision of a zoologist . It is equally obvious that his facts do not fit his theories quite as neatly as he assumes . When , for instance , he deals with Minoan , Hittite , or Andean civilization , he necessarily relies on guesswork , and his guesses always support his hypotheses . Furthermore , although the number of exceptions steadily mounts as his analysis proceeds ? Egyptiac civilization is this kind of exception , Arabic civilization is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule . Indeed , as several critics have pointed out , Toynbee takes Hellenic civilization , which he knows best , as the paradigm , and tries to make twenty other civilizations conform to that pattern . Spengler did much the same thing , and there is a parallel in Marx 's attempt to embrace all revolutions in a formula that was evolved to describe the bourgeois revolution . The layman is also likely to be troubled by Toynbee 's way of using metaphors and analogies . When he writes as a poet he is rewarding , but when he tries to harden a figure of speech into a scientific formula the reader has to watch out . To take only one of many examples , there is a long and magnificent section called " The Movement of Withdrawal-and-Return . " What Toynbee has to say about the thirty persons and the half-dozen historical actions he treats under this heading is extraordinarily interesting ; but it is difficult to accept his assumption that he has found a significant common denominator for Buddha 's renunciation of the world , Caesar 's Gallic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lenin 's exile , Kant 's retirement to his study , England 's withdrawal from the Continent after the Hundred Years ' War , and the postrevolutionary isolation of the Bolsheviks . His use of analogy is particularly open to question when he is speaking of religion , and although it may legitimately be said that in this realm the oblique approach is often the most successful one , a distinction has to be made between interesting parallels and scientific demonstrations . N SHORT , no one need regard A Study of I History as gospel truth , and yet surely it is one of the great works of our time . For one thing , there is always its incidental richness . In each of the six volumes there are passages whose erudition and insight can not easily be matched . In Volume II , for instance , when Toynbee is talking about the stimulus of hard countries , he sums up in a few superb pages the whole movement of colonization in North America . A little later on , speaking of the stimulus of penalization , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the persecuted Ashkenazim of Eastern Europe through the less penalized Sephardim and the apostate DOnme and Marranos to the products of complete assimilation . In the section on withdrawaland-return that I have already mentioned , there are a few pages on Machiavelli that contribute little enough to Toynbee 's thesis but do discuss with the greatest penetration not only the character of Machiavelli but also the whole problem of balance of power . No one who has read it is likely to forget the passage on the Spartans and their " system against human nature " or the far-ranging discussion of military techniques that bears the characteristic title , " Goliath and David . " There are many , many more episodes that I might mention , but I do not want to give the impression that A Study of History is a congeries of brilliant passages in support of an untenable thesis . Whatever the shortcomings of the study ? and a work of this magnitude without shortcomings is inconceivable ? it has an immediate relevance to our problems . In the first place , . it gives us perspective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory of inevitable cycles as sharply as he does the theory of inevitable progress . Mankind 's daring experiment is neither doomed to defeat nor guaranteed success . " Breakdowns , " Toynbee writes , " are failures in an audacious attempt to ascend from the level of a Primitive Humanity , living the life of a social animal , to the level of some superhuman kind of being in a Communion of Saints . " If we accept this statement , we can not be surprised that there have been many failures , but we have no reason to believe that failure is certain . As Toynbee puts it , " The divine spark of creative power is instinct in ourselves , and if we have the grace to kindle it into flame , then the stars in their courses can not defeat our efforts to attain the goal of human endeavors . " IF , HOWEVER , his conclusions are not in-herently pessimistic , they lend no support to the more fatuous kind of optimism : any civilization , ours included , may collapse . The collapse of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lurid apocalypse ; disintegration is a Long ? and interesting ? process , with certain quite recognizable stages . As Toynbee discusses these stages , drawing upon all his knowledge of past civilizations , the reader may not acquiesce in every part of the analysis , but he would have to be insensitive not to acquire a new feeling about the world in which he lives . Two of Toynbee 's most telling phrases ? " schism in society " and : schism in the soul " ? correspond to realities that most of us have no difficulty in recognizing . The schism in society is both horizontal and vertical ? a division between classes and a division between the nations that make up Western Civilization . When he speaks of " a failure of creative power in the minority " and " an answering withdrawal of mimesis on the part of the majority , " the language seems abstract and unconvincing . But it is a different matter when he discusses mass unemployment : " the cancer of an urban proletariat which has lost its roots in the country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reminded ? every time it draws its dole ? that it is ' in ' but not of ' the society which has to serve as the unwilling ' host ' of this unhappy social parasite . " " An unmanageable abundance " ? a challenge that has not been met ? has split our society . As for the division between nations , I have already spoken of Toynbee 's brilliant discussions of the disease of nationalism , not only in A Study of History but also , year by year , in the Survey of International Affairs . We might look at one more example , his comment on the Soviet Union . Communist and capitalist states , he believes , are tending toward a common goal , that goal being " a totalitarian regime in a parochial socialist national state which commands the religious as well as the political allegiance of its subjects . " ( This was written in 1937 . ) " If we are right in this forecast , " he continues , " it is the destiny of the would-be world-wide movement of Communism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the frontiers of a single parochial state ; next by being degraded into a local variety of Nationalism after having started as a social panacea for all Mankind ; and finally by seeing the particular state that has enslaved it gradually assimilate itself to the other sixty or seventy states of the contemporary world by approximating to a common standard type . " Salms in the soul " is as familiar to us S as " schism in society . " Indeed , psychoanalysts ? Toynbee would not appreciate support from " the callowest of our Western scientific disciplines " ? point to the alarming increase of schizophrenia , the divided mind . Toynbee discusses the phenomenon at length as it manifests itself in art , language , religion , and politics . As is usual with him , he evolves a neat formula : in disintegration we find " a pair of mutually antithetical and antipathetic variations or substitutes , in which the response to a challenge is ' polarized ' into two alternatives ? one passive and the other active , but neither of them creative . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussing it he illuminates phenomena that lie about us . Take , for instance , one pair of alternatives , archaism and futurism . His schemerequires him to make archaism the gentle and futurism the violent response , but he is too acute a historian not to know that an attempt to restore the past can be and usually is quite as violent as an attempt to anticipate the future . In fact , as he is finally forced to admit , archaism is really a form of futurism , since the leader who speaks of reviving ancient greatness ? whether an Augustus or a Mussolini ? is forced by the logic of history to impose innovations as drastic as those any futurist might design . For those of us who have discovered in some agony of spirit how much extreme reactionaries and extreme revolutionaries can have in common , this is no inconsiderable lesson . HERE are many lessons to be learned I from Toynbee . Almost every page holds out a warning to our self-styled progressives , whose cheerful dogmas so persistently cloud their view of mankind and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservatives , especially those business leaders who are guilty of one or another form of idol worship . To nationalists he speaks with a voice of thunder . To workers for the Pax cEcumenica , on the other hand , he is kind , but he will not let them forget the dimensions of their task or put their reliance in easy formulas . Though his faith in religion is strong , there is no organized religious body that can take comfort from his words . A Study of History , however , is not to be summed up as a series of lessons , pertinent as its admonitions are . We might better regard it as we would regard an epic ? as a great imaginative thrust . Here is a man who has attempted to focus all his resources ? not some few that happen to lie conveniently close at hand ? on a single , challenging task . The result is something that transcends the uses to which the work can be put at a given moment , and its value for us does not depend on our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Euclidean demonstration , or on our agreeing with all its conclusions . A Study of History is one of the most erudite and instructive works of our time , but it is also and beyond that the achievement of a poetic imagination .                     