@@470785

acknowledgment of India 's generous help , and it aroused new hopes in India . At that time Wilsonian slogans of selfdetermination were echoing around the globe . India emerged from the war with excitement and anticipation . Then the Amritsar massacre of April 13 , 1919 , inflamed the whole country almost overnight , and sowed the seeds of all that we witness in India to-day . General Dyer opened fire on a peaceful crowd assembled to protest against postwar repressive measures . He killed over five hundred and wounded several thousand . As a schoolboy I was there when the shooting took place ; I had seen the crowd and innocently followed it wondering what was going on ; and I remember my father 's dismay later when General Dyer was retired on full pension from the Indian Treasury and was eulogized by his admirers on his return to England . Gandhi , from a sick bed , begged the Viceroy to right the wrong that had been done his people , but there was silence in official quarters . It was then that Gandhi 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1920 Gandhi launched his famous non-violent non-co-operation movement . The story of that movement has been too often told to be repeated here . What must be emphasized is that , although Gandhi in recent years has been less active politically ? being occupied with the problems of cottage industries and of the Untouchables ? and although Nehru , the aristocratic Brahman who preaches socialism to the half-starved masses , has been the chief active leader of the Nationalists , Gandhi as a single factor still outweighs everything else in India . Gandhi 's simplicity , sincerity , and asceticism have captured the imaginations of the religious millions of India . For them his is the voice of an oracle . He may at times disappear from the headlines of the foreign press , but India always turns to Gandhi in a crisis . His popularity has never waned , because there is none to replace him . Gandhi has become the symbol of India 's revolt . The love of country , as the driving force that one finds in the West , is as yet very mild in India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gandhi has generated a passionate resolve to end the British rule in its present form in India , and that resolve constitutes a phenomenal force to be reckoned with . After many long years of alternating concessions and repressions by the British Government , the deliberations of the three Round Table Conferences in London culminated in the India Constitution of 1935 . This constitution was denounced by all parties in India , and even Winston Churchill characterized it as a product of the pigmies . It gave virtually full control to the elected members in the provinces , widened the franchise , gave the Indians a limited authority at the center . But the Indians objected to the fact that the Constitution left extraordinary powers in the hands of the Viceroy and gave elected members no control over foreign affairs , no control over the army , and limited control over the central finances . It gave excessive representation to the Princes , and retained the division of the electorate on a religious basis . In spite of these objections the Nationalists stood for election in 1936 in the various provinces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initiated many a social and economic reform with little interference from the British Governors . But the Nationalist opposition to the constitution continued unabated . To British eyes the constitution looked like a considerable step forward in India 's political evolution . It provided a basis for a federal government of India , the only suitable form of government for that vast country . It did certainly retain considerable powers in Britain 's hands , but these powers were bound to decrease as they had done in the case of other dominions . As to the Princes , they had to be given adequate safeguards to protect their status . And the division of electorates along religious lines seemed to the British the only one possible under the circumstances in India . The Nationalist and British points of view were thus still absolutely unreconciled when the war came , the constitution collapsed , and India reverted to where she had been in 1914 . These constitutional issues may be resurrected any time . But meanwhile one central issue persists . Is there enough unity among the component parts of the vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the two major communities of India , the Hindus and Moslems , are profoundly hostile to each other . They have indulged in sanguinary riots for years , and in the absence of a third party , the British , they would be at each other 's throats . The Nationalists , on the other hand , while recognizing the existence of differences , suspect Britain of playing a machiavellian game of playing the two groups against each other . They insist that enduring accord between the two communities is possible ? but only after the elimination of the British from the Indian scene . Closer scrutiny , however , would reveal that the claims of both the British and the Nationalists suffer from over-simplification . In a population of three hundred and seventy million the Hindus represent approximately two-thirds and the Moslems one-third . There are religious differences that divide the two , there are remnants of dividing historic memories that persist . The Moslems as a minority once ruled India , and they resent their position under the new dispensation . Hindu orthodoxy raises another barrier by discouraging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dividing the electorate along religious lines has further widened the gulf . Besides all these , there is the ever-present temptation for each community to turn to the British for aid , rather than seek rapprochement with the sister community in a spirit of give and take . The British may not be guilty of playing a machiavellian role , but there is little that they have done to promote harmony . The atmosphere to-day is permeated with mutual suspicions and fears . There is , however , another side to the picture . The two communities for centuries in the past lived , on the whole , peacefully side by side . Each contributed its share in evolving a culture that now is the common heritage of both . They both hail predominantly from the same racial stock . The Indian dress , language , art , music , philosophy , architecture , and even religion , bear full mark of both the Hindus and the Moslems . The Moslems arc not a national minority in the European sense . In the villages that represent over ninety per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riots . The growing secular education is imperceptibly undermining religious fanaticism , and industrialism is creating new and different economic alignments . The tension appears serious now as the new awakening has had the effect of making each community conscious of its entity , but Nationalism in the long run seems to have in it the promise of promoting a common unity . The Indian National Congress has in its ranks members of all the communities . The Hindus are naturally predominant in the National Congress since they represent two-thirds of the population of the country . But the policies of Congress are inspired by a concept of India for all , not only for the Hindus . It has had Moslems as its presidents in the past , and the president this year is a Moslem theologian . It stands for the full protection of minority rights , religious , linguistic , and cultural . In its contemplated constituent assembly the minorities will have a chance to send their own representatives . All issues affecting a minority will be settled by mutual agreement and not by majority vote . Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So evenly distributed is the entire population that persecution of a minority in one place would central assembly . Then on September 3 , 1939 , in a radio broadcast , Lord Linlithgow informed India that she was at war . India had accepted such a procedure as normal and natural in 1914 . Her Emperor was at war , and she was automatically at war . The India of 1939 , however , resented the idea that a mere cable from London could turn her into a belligerent country without even the formality of a consultation . But even consultation this time would not have made much difference , for now Congress was raising more disturbing issues . Gandhi had expected some spontaneous gesture from Britain toward India as the war began , but nothing came forth ; and thereupon the Congress Working Committee ( the inner cabinet of the Congress ) , on September 15 , 1939 , issued a statement prepared by Nehru . It denounced Naziism and fascism and German aggression in Poland , deferred its final decision , but invited the British Government to declare its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were to apply to India in the present and the future . It reminded the Princes that their first concern should be the introduction of democracy in their own states , and it declared finally that fascism and imperialism were the root causes of war , and called upon Britain to relinquish her hold upon India to prove her bona fides . This declaration found little approval in England . Lord Zetland , Secretary of State for India , during a debate on India in the House of Lords on September 27th , characterized the Nationalist stand as ill-advised , and expressed the fear that the British people would resent this stand during their life-and-death struggle . He admired the burning patriotism of the Indian leaders , but observed that while lifting their eyes to the stars the Nationalists often lost sight of the practical difficulties at their feet . The Congress took this as a rebuke , and answered by passing a stronger resolution on October 10th by a vote of 188 to 58 . This endorsed the previous standwith two additions : India must be declared an independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status to the largest possible extent ; Indian freedom must be based on democracy and unity , and the full recognition and protection of the rights of all minorities , for which the Congress had always pleaded . Then on October 17 , 1939 , Lord Linlithgow spoke for the Government . He assured the Indian leaders that Britain was not aiming only at victory , but was envisaging a new international system in which war would not be the inevitable lot of the succeeding generations . He reaffirmed that dominion status was the goal of India 's political progress , noted the serious differences among the communities of India , and expressed the willingness of his government to consult Indian representatives at the end of the war for the necessary constitutional changes . He offered to establish a consultative group for the purpose of associating Indian opinion hi the prosecution of the war , and ended his statement with the fervent hope that in this grave juncture India would go forward as a united country in support of a common cause . This historic pronouncement evoked varying responses . Jinnah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress 's claim to speak for the whole of India . The Congress considered the statement an unequivocal reiteration of the old imperialist policy . " Congress , in asking for bread , has got stones . " That was Gandhi 's reaction . British Labor and Liberal opinion too was critical of the statement . H. N. Brailsford remarked that by provoking a rebellion in India England might lose the war and deserve to lose it . " Our only hope of success , " said he , " and even of survival , lies in our ability to conceive our cause as a battle for freedom . " To the conservatives , on the other hand , both in India and England , the Viceroy 's statement appeared to be the only one that could have been made under the circumstances . The statement was expected to clarify the situation , but instead it widened the gulf between the Congress and the Government . The Congress ministers in the provinces resigned as a protest , and in the absence of any other party to form a government , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governors , who have been ruling the areas by ordinance since then . Prolonged discussions between the Viceroy and the various Indian leaders have meanwhile brought no satisfaction . The Viceroy advised the leaders that they must recompose their differences before further progress could be made . The Nationalists , Gandhi , Nehru , and others , stood firm on their familiar retort that the settling of the minority problem is India 's domestic affair , which can not be exploited to evade Britain 's declaration toward India . They further protested that the method of according recognition to every interest in India while showing no preference to a party comprising numerous groups , will permanently jeopardize prospects of unity . And on that crucial issue the negotiations seem to have broken down for the time being . After years of absence from the Congress sessions Gandhi appeared before the assembled delegates at Ramgarh on March 21 , 1940 . " I shall march forward , " he proclaimed , " when you are ready . I have never acknowledged defeat throughout all these years . " At his inspiration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war was for imperialist ends and that India would be satisfied with nothing Jess than complete independence ; and it envisaged civil disobedience in the near future . Congress committees were asked on April 18th to prepare for this contingency . Gandhi , to be sure , declared that he was asking merely for moral independence at this moment . How could he ask for statutory independence , he said , when Britain 's " own fate hangs in the balance " ? What he wants , apparently , is an unequivocal declaration of policy and immediate action in so far as this is possible . He is reported to have said that he will think a thousand times before embarrassing Britain in her hour of trial . But more belligerent elements in the Congress , led by Subhas Chandra Bose , are clamoring for immediate civil disobedience . As I write ( in May ) , numerous arrests under the Government of India Defense Act have already been made . A strike , involving 160,000 textile workers as a protest against rising prices and low wages , has created a serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibilities . The recent pronouncements of the British spokesmen that they are utterly sincere in their professions toward India have failed to induce any change of heart among the Nationalists . They argue that while England may be a democracy at home and fighting for one abroad , in India she has always appeared in imperialist garb . The promise of dominion status to be redeemed after the war also has for them a familiar ring . In the current talk of a new world order after the war they note that the European statesmen foresee at best an equitable system in Europe . Colonial people are expected to help settle these European feuds , and then wait for democracy for themselves , if there is enough left to go round . Nationalist India is intensely interested in the new world order , but to her that means first and foremost the end of the imperial system , and it is for that end that she is striving in her own way . The utmost one can expect of India now is that she may suspend her activities against Britain during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this much Gandhi seems willing to do . What if Hitler wins ? The Nationalist rejoinder is : Would Britain face even that possibility rather than have a free India on her side ? The possibility that India might fall victim to Russia or Japan does not seem to have the expected chastening effect upon the Indian Nationalists . They do not suspect Russia of any designs upon India , and they believe that Japan is fully engaged with her next-door neighbor . However , the Nationalists have no false illusions , and seem prepared to take their chances . They might discover , however , that the gentle weapon of non-violence would not be so potent against possible new aggressors . Britain feels that she has too many more pressing problems on her hands to go into the Indian problem now . She is also convinced that convening a constituent assembly at this time would only result in a prolonged deadlock . She can not accept the proposition that she should merely sanction any agreement arrived at by the Indians . She has enormous interests to protect , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , historically , a constituent assembly has usually come about when one of the contesting parties has triumphed , and of course the Indian National Congress at this time can not claim this position . Thus it seems the struggle will proceed and may be sharply intensified ? if the fortunes of war do not alter the picture . All possible choices of action at this juncture for both Britain and the Nationalists are very hazardous , and it will need statesmanship of the highest order on both sides to steer through . Should the Nationalist leaders choose to reverse their position with respect to war without obtaining an unequivocal pledge of a dominion status of their own choice , it would constitute a betrayal , not only of all they have stood for throughout the years , but also of the trust of their own rank and file . If they continue withholding their help to Britain , those elements who are standing by Britain now would , in the event of Allied victory , gain the upper hand in India . For it would then be only natural for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disobedience during the war it would meet with terrific severity in view of the new war emergency powers ; acts of repression that would be condemned in normal times would appear justified . Moreover , despite all protests to the contrary , civil disobedience would be regard-MAGAZINE ed by many as blackmail . Finally , inaction on the part of the present leadership in the Congress would generate unrest and play into the hands of the radicals . Should Britain continue to refuse Indian Nationalist demands at a time when she claims to be fighting for democracy and freedom , her moral position in the world at large would suffer . ( This fact has not escaped the attention of Hitler . ) To meet the demand for complete independence means an act of self-effacement unprecedented in history , and the virtual end of the Empire . in case civil disobedience is resumed , any further repression would easily shatter what little chance still remains for compromise in India . There is also the possibility that in case a settlement were indefinitely postponed Britain might have to deal , not with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the struggle would then take on a grimmer character . The Indian problem in essence represents a clash between growing nationalism and decaying imperialism . The struggle that began in the first World War may find its turning point in this second one . It is a problem of colossal magnitude , but there are mitigating features that may yet help in its solution . The Indian Nationalism is not the menacing , jingoistic nationalism we find elsewhere in the world to-day . It is not nurtured on fantastic notions of national missions and racial purity . Its claims are legitimate , and it is international in its outlook . Its leaders are committed to the idea of settling disputes by civilized methods . British imperialism too , as an English Liberal observed recently , is not the conscienceless brute that fell on Poland . It will err , but it will do what it has done from Burke 's time to this : it will freely discuss its own wrongdoings . Association of Britain and India on a basis of equality would mean a link between the East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Far East . It would also mean winning the 370,000 , - 000 people of India for the democratic forces . And it is not yet too late .                     