@@487793

AS THE clock struck three in Saigon on Sunday mom-ing , September 23 , a grim and silent army of 300 men padded along the deserted streets . On their heads were berets , on their shoulders crosses of Lorraine roughly cut out of cloth , in their hands a fierce assortment of Bren guns . grenades , pistols , and rifles . The French had come back to Indo-China . By morning they had seized the chief public buildings , captured Dr. Thach , the Annamite Foreign Minister , and mopped up the ill-armed Annamite guards . Machine-guns were set up on street corners , and the banners proclaiming " Death Before French Oppression " were torn down . This seizure of Saigon by a small band of British-armed French soldiers was the first major blow directed at the Republic of Viet Nam ( Indo-China ) , which had been so proudly proclaimed by Indo-Chinese nationalists less than a month before . Within another month a large part of the French navy steamed into Indo-Chinese ports bringing crack French army units to prop up  --  with British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Pacific . " Indo-China is worth a struggle . Its 275,000 square miles , more than a third larger than France , support 23,000,000 inhabitants . It is one of the world 's leading rice granaries , a rich source of partially exploited raw materials , and an important market and outlet for capital . In 1939 Indo-China exported almost 25 per cent of the world 's rice shipments , was the largest coal exporter in the Far East , and was the third largest producer of natural rubber . The late President Roosevelt considered Indo-China the worst-governed colony in the Far East . He felt so strongly about the callousness , despotism , and incredible shortsightedness of French colonial policies that he wanted French rule to be superseded by an international mandate . There was plenty of evidence to support President Roosevelt 's opinion . After severity years of French rule only 11 per cent of the inhabitants are literate . Despite the colony 's rich natural resources the people are compelled to work as indentured plantation laborers for 30 to 40 cents a day , plus primitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are expected to furnish a market for French goods ; colonial policy bars both the importation of cheap competitive goods and the establishment of local industries . Incredible as it may seem , the colonial government controls both the opium and the alcohol monopoly and profits by its encouragement of the natives to poison themselves . The people of Indo-China have no say in these policies , for the government Is entirely in the hands of the French and a handful of Indo-Chinese notables and men of wealth who have profited greatly by French rule . Over all hovers the monopolistic control of the Bank of Indo-China , whose directors have tried to sabotage every liberal measure and who proved to be the most ardent pro-German collaborationists in France . RISE OF INSURGENT NATIONALISM This head-on clash between French imperialism and the authentic political and economic needs of Indo-China has produced successive waves of insurgent nationalism . The decade preceding World War I became known as the " era of plots " because a new anti-French conspiracy was announced almost daily , and the Poulu Condore Penitentiary bulged with young Annamite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement was considerably stepped up . A hundred thousand Annamites had served in France as soldiers and workers during the war , and they returned to demand the political and economic conditions they had found there The Indo-Chinese drew further inspiration from the Chinese nationalist revolution , which was marshaling its forces in nearby Canton . Young nationalists flocked to Canton to enrol in the Whampoa Academy , which under Chiang Kai-shek and the Communist Chou En-lai was training Kuomintang officers for the " northern expedition " that was to bring China under Kuomintang rule . In Canton many young Indo-Chinese came under the influence of Nguyen Ai Quoc , who twenty years later  --  with his name changed to Ho Chin Minh  --  was to become the first Premier of the provisional Republic of Viet Nam . Nguyen Ai Quoc was born in 1892 , the son of an Annamite official . Resenting the servility of the native officialdom to the French , he left home at the age of seventeen and worked his way around the world on a French ship , winding up in France . There , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he spent all of his spare time planning and working for Indo-Chinese independence . At the Paris Peace Conference he was a one-man lobby for Indo-China . Having accomplished nothing , he organized the Intercolonial Union of Colored Peoples and later founded a newspaper in which he denounced the abuses of French imperialism . Nguyen discovered great sympathy for Indo-China among French leftists , especially among the Communists , whose strategy at the time emphasized the possibility of overthrowing capitalism in Europe through nationalist uprisings in the colonies . He attended the French Communist Congress at Tours in 1920 and in 1923 was sent to Moscow to study colonial problems . In 1926 he turned up in Canton , where he founded the Association of Revolutionary Annamite Youth and worked feverishly to turn out agitators and revolutionary literature to be smuggled back into Indo-China . In 1927 the decision of Chiang Kai-shek and the right wing of the Kuomintang to discard their Russian advisers and suppress their Communist collaborators forced Nguyen Ai Quoc to abandon his convenient Cantonese base and with Michael Borodin and prominent Chinese leftists to seek refuge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fervent nationalists . In February , 1930 , French colonial authorities and the October 27 , 1945 French public were startled to learn that two companies of Tonkinese troops had mutinied at Yenbay and killed six of their officers . Simultaneously with the Yenbay uprising , groups of natives , most of them unarmed , gathered in widely separated regions to present grievances , and were shot down when they refused to disperse . Sporadic uprisings continued in every part of Indo-China all through the year . The terrorist Nationalist Annamite Party , made up largely of intellectuals , which led this premature and poorly organized outbreak , was virtually destroyed by the brutally repressive measures of the frightened colonial officials . The victory of the French Popular Front in 1936 raised Indo-Chinese hopes . On assuming office in June , 1936 , the Socialist Minister of Colonies , Marius Moutet , said : " The black peasants of the millet and peanut country , the yellow men of the rice fields , we place all of them on the same level of moral equality , social justice , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At first it looked as if he meant what he said . An authoritarian Governor General was replaced by a more liberal one ; the sentences of 1,300 political prisoners were commuted ; the publication of La Lutte , a native newspaper with Communist leanings , was permitted in Saigon . But this did not satisfy the Indo-Chinese . A wave of strikes affecting coal mines , rubber plantations , and bus companies underlined the demand for better wages . When the French government sent a special delegate to investigate labor and social conditions , he was greeted at the dock by a crowd of Annamites cheering for the Popular Front but demanding freedom to organize trade unions , freedom of speech and assembly , and other basic reforms . These demands were ignored . Freedom of assembly and organization was never granted . And when agitation continued , Moutet wired the ultra-conservative colonial administrators he had left in office : " Persistent agitation under the pretext of organizing the masses . . . will compromise the liberal policy which the government has decided to inaugurate in a legal way and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order must reign in Indo-China , as elsewhere . " Six months after this promise of a more liberal policy a native was sentenced to three years of prison and three more of surveillance for reading an Annamite translation of a pamphlet by Leon Blum , then Premier of France ! IMPERIALISM VERSUS DEFENSE As the tide of Japanese aggression neared Indo-China 's shores after 1937 , the question of the colony 's defense came to the fore . Again a sharp cleavage developed between the interests of the people of the colony and the shortsighted imperialism of the French government . Indo-Chinese nationalists and a few enlightened French leaders like Georges Mandel , later murdered by the Nazis , and Alexander Varenne argued that because France was so far away and so taken up with problems of its own defense Indo-China would have to rely primarily on its own resources They urged an industrialization program for the colony , the recruiting of a substantial Annamite army under Annamite officers , and a liberalization of French rule to counter Japan 's " Asia for the Asiatics " propaganda and give the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently more afraid423 of losing their colonial privileges than of losing their colony . Their obdurately blind policies made it a foregone conclusion that Indo-China should fall like a ripe plum into Japanese hands . When Governor General Catroux tried to resist the Japanese , the Vichy government replaced him with Admiral Decoux . Admiral Decoux 's instructions were to maintain the colonial structure at all costs . This suited the Japanese , and for five years Admiral Decoux and the French colonial administrators were Japanese tools , using force to keep the Indo-Chinese in line as they converted the colony 's resources to the needs of the Japanese . Anti-fascist Frenchmen , unwilling to serve the Japanese , slipped out of the country to join De Gaulle 's forces . During the entire period of Japanese occupation there was a nationalist anti-Japanese movement which actively aided the cause of the United Nations , despite continual harassing by the colonial authorities . The first upsurge of resistance was in October-December , 1940 , as the Japanese were tightening their grip . Twenty serious uprisings occurred in one week , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Vichy communique , the suppression of this anti-Japanese movement required the use of French soldiers and sailors as well as the Indo-Chinese police . More than a thousand persons were arrested in the Saigon area alone . FOR AN INDEPENDENT REPUBLIC Out of this resistance grew the League for the Independence of Indo-China , formed in 1941 , which included the Annam Nationalist Party , the New Annam Party , the Indo-Chinese Communist Party , the Association of Young Revolutionaries , and national associations of peasants , workers , women , youth , officers , and soldiers . In 1943 the league was broadened to take in anti-fascist French and Chinese-500,000 Chinese live in the colony . Its political program called for the election of a national assembly to draw up a constitution ' for a free Indo-China on the basis of adult suffrage , restoration of democratic liberties and rights , equal rights for women , the right of minorities to self-determination , the organization of a national army , the nationalization of banks belonging to fascists ( meaning the Bank of Indo-China in particular ) , the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an adequate educational system . In January , 1944 , the League announced that it believed " in the sanctity of the principles for which the world has shed and is shedding so much blood " and called for guerrilla activity on a large scale . Its peasant adherents , in increasing numbers , refused to pay taxes and withheld rice from the market . The Japanese and their Vichyite colonial assistants retaliated with massacres and mass arrests . In March , 1945 , the Japanese established direct rule in Indo-China , working through Emperor Bao Dai , they feared that Admiral Decoux would doublecross them after France had been liberated and it was plain that the Axis was on the defensive Decoux 's regime surrendered without a struggle or ' rock to flight , but not before they had murdered a number of political prisoners in Yonpai and Caobang . The league attempted to take advantage of this period of confusion to seize power but was prevented by the Japanese . It was more successful in August , when the Japanese capitulated to the Allies . The nationalist groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrations , and secured the abdication of the very willing Emperor Bao Dai . On August 25 the independent Republic of Viet Nam was proclaimed , with none other than the Communist Ho Chin Minh , or Nguyen Ai Quoc , as Premier . At this point the Japanese were more tolerant of a movement certain to cause acute embarrassment to the victorious Allies . In recent weeks the nationalists have reeled back before British and French machine-guns , but the legitimate aspirations of the people of Indo-China can not be permanently kept down by superior force . Unless the fires of nationalism are banked by substantial reforms , they may consume the rickety structure of the Far Eastern peace .                     