@@475066

NO ONE in America can still have any illusion that this country can escape playing a larger and more active part in world politics after the war . The internationalist may rejoice and the isolationist deplore ; the fact is so nevertheless and without regard to whether America elects to revert to isolation as it did in 1919 or enters into whatever international system comes out of the war . America will be " entangled " with the world in either case : directly and formally if it joins a permanent United Nations or a new League of Nations or an international organization by any other name ; indirectly but just as effectively if it chooses to play a lone hand ; for then it will be engaged in all the power politics of the time in proportion to its power and interests , using all the weapons of diplomacy or armament as required , after the fashion of all great Powers in modern times , and with all the risks that carries . It will not be able to help itself . In Europe probably , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can no longer be retrieved . It will have too big a stake in the territorial and economic dispositions made as a result of the war . Two wars in a generation are sufficient proof that America no longer is a free agent . America is in world politics , then , to stay , whatever the nature of world politics may be ? whether in accordance with law internationally agreed upon and impartially executed , or by the law of the jungle as heretofore . But if America is to be effective in that role , if it is to serve its own legitimate interests properly , if for the first time in its history foreign affairs are to come within the order of its being , then two questions must be thought out and answered . First : Is there any way whereby the main tenet of democracy , which is government with consent of the governed , can operate in foreign affairs at least to the extent that it does in domestic affairs ? It does not so operate now . For practical purposes the American people have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most intimately , most vitally , and perhaps most tragically ? whether their sons shall or shall not die prematurely on distant battlefields . They have never had much , if anything , to say in that aspect of the national life , but it mattered less when foreign affairs were remote and wars elsewhere touched them tangentially only . Now , however , nothing matters more . Second : Is there any way whereby other countries can deal with America with any definiteness and , finality ? Can they have any assurance that agreements duly armed at in negotiations with the official representatives of this country will stand ? They have no such assurance now . On the contrary , they have every reason to fear that agreements concluded with those charged with conducting foreign relations for this country will later be rejected in the United States Senate re-jected on arguments already gone over in the negotiations or for reasons having little to do with the merits of the subject of agreement . The conspicuous example of course is the Treaty of Versailles and the . Covenant of the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , is whether the end of the present war will witness another illustration . These two questions are fundamental to any consideration of America 's future relation to the world . All else is subordinate to them or affected by the way in which they are answered and acted upon . Let us begin with the second , since it is simpler . One need not be in the confidence of the political leaders of the United Nations to know that in all they say or do or plan now with reference to the postwar world there is an unuttered mental reservation . They do not know what to count on America fur and they have no means of finding out . They do not know to whom to go to find out . To the American government ? They have no access to the American government . They have access to part of it which acts as if it had power of decisionbut does not have it ; they have no means of communication with that part which in the end will decide . They can only guess what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Officially they must deal with the President or with the Secretary of State and ambassadors who act for the President . And when the war is over and the time comes for making peace and deliberating on postwar organization they will deal with delegates appointed by the President and responsible to him . But that advances them little . Suppose that now or in one or more conferences after the war they do thresh out with the President or his representatives all the issues raised by the postwar settlement , canvass all the possibilities , come to a decision on the principles and methods of reconstruction , even acceding against their will to proposals made by the American delegates , and then embody the decision in formal agreements accepted by all parties , America included . Even then nothing will have been settled . The whole process will have to start over again in the United States Senate . But this time representatives of other countries will not be present to support their point of view and to submit the evidence on which it is based or the arguments on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to urge the fact that they made certain concessions on the assumption that America would be bound by the agreement and help put it into effect as , for example , France did in 1919 when it waived its claim to the left bank of the Rhine after Great Britain and America had joined in a tripartite guarantee of western Europe ? a guarantee from which the United States subsequently withdrew . The same sort of thing might happen again . Great Britain , France , and Russia might agree to one kind of peace if America were to share in its enforcement but insist on another if America withdrew . That is , they might make lenient terms to Germany and Italy if America were to share in the obligation of preserving order in Europe but , if America could not be counted on , they might deal stringently with Germany and Italy now so that they could have some assurance of safety at least for a long period . But the understanding on which they make peace , with the assent of the American representatives , will carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor will those who accepted American assent as a condition of the agreement have any opportunity to plead their case . In the Senate the whole question will be reopened as if something new . Into its examination on the floor of the Senate may enter considerations irrelevant to the merits of the question ? as , for example , hate of Roosevelt and the New Deal , in the manner of Henry Cabot Lodge 's personal vendetta against Woodrow Wilson , or reluctance to see a Democratic Administration get credit for a diplomatic success . And then after the subject is argued out , with or without relevance to the issue , one-third of the Senate plus one-33 out of 96 ? can prevent acceptance of the treaty . They may be animated by disinterested and patriotic motives or the meanest of personal motives or the most parochial and unenlightened prejudices ; whichever it may be , a minority can negate all that has gone before , nullify what official representatives of the United States have agreed to on full deliberation , and leave the world in a state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harsh fact is that to-day American policy on peace terms and postwar arrangements is an insoluble riddle to our Allies ? and to ourselves , for that matter . In fact , no other country 's policy is so impossible of discernment by others . Nor is there any way of going about the formulation of it . This is not only a source of confusion to our Allies ; it inhibits them in their turn from thinking out their course . Or , if they do think out a course on which they are prepared to stand , there is nobody in the United States with whom they can negotiate to find out whether it is satisfactory to us and on whose answer they could rely as final and binding . II T HE . cause is simple and in present cir-cumstances ineradicable . It is the famous two-thirds rule , Constitutionally provided : the President " shall have powerby and with the advice and consent of the Senate to make treaties , provided two-thirds of the Senators present concur . " This is the specter that haunts every President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every other country in its relations with America . It has probably been reviled more than any other provision of the Constitution , especially since the rejection of the Treaty of Versailles and particularly by embittered pro-Leaguers . So fiercely has it been attacked , in fact , that not only the two-thirds clause but the whole question of America 's relation to the rest of the world has become oversimplified . There is more involved than the two-thirds rule , but it is true that any discussion of the two-thirds rule ramifies into every aspect of America 's place in the world , how it should be determined and by whom and how managed . The Constitution is exceptionally reticent and indefinite on the subject of the control of foreign relations . This is not altogether surprising . It was the hope and intention of the founders of the Republic that if possible there be no foreign relations or that those that were unavoidable be as distant as possible . That was almost a first principle in the formation of the new nation . Of Europe it had had enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nonparticipation in European politics is an authentic American note . Furthermore , in the political thought and practice of the time control of a nation 's foreign relations by its executive ( a monarch , in every other instance ) was taken for granted ; it was in the nature of things . And one of the revolutionary departures of the organic act of the American Republic was precisely that it did seek to put some trammels on the Executive in this respect . Judged in the spirit of the time , it was a remarkable assertion of democratic rights , the first of its kind . Seen in perspective , it was a contribution to the development of modern political theory and practice and an enhancement of the dignity of man . Indeed , in this respect other nations have followed in America 's footsteps ? a fact lost sight of in all recent beratings of the Senate for its part in curbing the President . The founders of the Republic wanted the Senate to curb him ; and on the whole , judged over the history of the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the intention was salutary . There is little in the Constitution of direct bearing on the conduct of foreign relations . The President appoints and receives ambassadors ( the first with the consent of the Senate ) , is Commander-inChief of the Army and Navy , and can make treaties . But only Congress can declare war and vote appropriations for war purposes , and treaties when concluded must be submitted to the Senate and approved by two-thirds of those present . That is all ; all else must be inferred . It is little enough considering the part that foreign affairs have come to play in the life of a nation . But for all practical purposes it gives the President full power in foreign relations ? up to the point where war must be declared or a treaty ratified . The Supreme Court has construed his power thus , and constitutional lawyers have agreed with it . The only real checks formally prescribed are the two-thirds rule and the right of Congress to declare war . The two-thirds rule has assumed importance only in recent years . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejection of any treaty by the Senate before 1860 and it has caused the rejection of few since then . A compilation made by the Department of State in 1935 shows that of 969 treaties submitted to the Senate from 1789 to 1935 only 15 were rejected . Amendments were made to 173 , but analysis by other students shows that only in a small proportion of those amended were the amendments of serious importance . Actually it was the fate of the Treaty of Versailles that focussed attention on the two-thirds clause . No doubt , however , the clause has been responsible also for the pre-natal death of other treaties , since some Presidents may have been restrained from contracting agreements by the knowledge that they would be rejected in the Senate . Of course it does not necessarily follow that the nation suffered thereby . it may be that those treaties would have deserved rejection . A potential curb on an Executive if he be headstrong is not necessarily an evil . There have been American Presidents whom it was healthy to curb . For that matter it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President carte blanche to contract alliances and permanent commitments to other countries as he sees fit , to plight the fate of a nation purely on his own judgment , preconceived ideas , or whims . This would be complete political retrogression renunciation of democratic forms in that which , as has been said , is of first importance in the life of the American people . Some right of review of his acts in foreign affairs , some accountability by him to the chosen representatives of the nation is indispensable . AlI that is required is that those to whom he is accountable be on their part genuinely representative , that their right of review be democratically exercised , and that it be so managed as not to obstruct efficient intercourse with other countries . The practical questions raised , then , are these : Shall treaties be submitted to the Senate only or to both the Senate and House of Representatives ? Shall a two-thirds vote be required for approval of treaties or only a simple majority ? And is it possible to reconcile these safeguards with the efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it possible to avoid the present situation , in which other countries can negotiate with only half of those who make decisions for America and therefore can have no sense of definiteness or finality in dealing with America ? III F-TTHE first two questions offer no insuper- abledifficulty . They are questions of procedure only , and what is involved in them is neither important nor profound . There is nothing sacred in the practice of restricting the submission of treaties to the Senate . The Senators were to compose a small , really deliberative body , an Upper House in the real sense . But the Senate is no longer that . It differs now from the House chiefly in that it is smaller and its members serve for longer terms . Its deliberations are not particularly of a higher order than those of the House , except in so far as its smaller membership gives an opportunity for more sustained and detailed debate . Certainly there is no evidence in recent years to support the conclusion that the judgment of the Senate is any sounder or more farsighted than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in result on foreign relations , therefore , if treaties were submitted to the whole Congress . There might be an advantage in that purely personal considerations or individual prejudices or sectional bloc influences , which now can register so large an effect in the Senate , in that only 33 votes can obstruct action , would be diluted in the larger vote of the two IIouses . It must be remembered that the allotment of two votes per State gives certain States and sections of the country an influence far greater than their proportion of the population . In that sense the House really is more representative of the country . While it would probably make little difference in the end , there might be greater assurance of objective consideration and representative action if treaties had to be submitted to both Houses for approval . Nothing would be lost ; something might be gained . On balance it would be a wise measure to adopt . It would require a Constitutional amendment , and while amendments are difficult to put through , they have been put through in the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaties by two-thirds or a majority also offers few complexities and is not endowed with sanctity . The two-thirds rule arose out of the fear of foreign entanglements and the distrust of European balance-of-power and alliance politics common to the men who founded the Republic . It was designed to serve as an extra brake , to hold back a President who might have inclinations for high politics . Thus , only in demonstrated emergencies would the country enter into international engagements . Also it may be construed as a compromise between acceptance of the fact that foreign relations lay within the province of the Executive and the right of sanction by a representative body : the principle of checks and balances that runs through the philosophy of the Constitution . As the record of treaties submitted to the Senate shows , the difference between two-thirds or a majority for confirmation has not been crucial in many instances . It has been crucial in no important issue , in fact , except that of the Treaty of Versailles . It is a difference between 49 out of 96 votes for confirmation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only 15 out of 96 . But clearly the two-thirds rule does interpose serious obstacles , and it may be argued that the original reason for extra obstacles no longer exists with the same force . The wide dissemination of knowledge and opinion on foreign affairs through modern means of communication has given us at least a moderately informed public opinion . The electorate has at least some basis for judgment and can make its judgment felt . Acceptance of a treaty or decision on high policy by a simple majority is less likely to run counter to the desire and belief of the country than it was in the early nineteenth century . The extra safeguard of approval by two-thirds is therefore less necessary . In other matters also crucial to the welfare of the nation decision by a simple majority is accepted . While the significance of a change from approval by two-thirds to approval by a majority should not be exaggerated , the advantages seem to outweigh the disadvantages . The change should be made ? again requiring a Constitutional amendment . Neither of these changes however would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ split personality of the American government in its foreign relations . It would still be true that one part of the government negotiated with other governments and decided , and then another part of the government redecided and perhaps decided otherwise . This problem must be met . America is so strong that by its acts of omission as well as commission it can not help exerting a decisive influence in world affairs . But it can not exercise its influence effectively as its foreign relations are now conducted . Some way must be found whereby the American government in its relations with other governments is at all stages a single and indisseverable personality . This is to say that alI those who participate in decisions must share at all stages in arriving at decisions . All those who exercise judgment must have full responsibility for the beginning as well as the end of transactions . In other words , the legislative , which has the right of sanction , must be represented in the negotiation of agreements as well as in final decision on them . An this takes us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this article : whether there can be democratic government , government by consent , in the foreign affairs of a nation ? of this nation in particular . For what is required as between the American government and other governments is required also as between the American government and the American people . It has been said that democracy does not function in this country in whatever concerns its relations with other countries . It does not function in those relations anywhere . No political mechanism has yet been devised by which the people of a country , however democratic its form of government , can have any effective voice in the acts of government that determine peace or war . The evidence of the past few years is clear enough that they have no such voice in this country . Not only is their opinion not decisive , but there is no formal way in which it might be exercised . In the scheme of government as laid down in the Constitution the President is all but omnipotent with respect to foreign affairs , except for the two restrictions already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusive right of Congress to declare war . These are effectual after the fact , more than before . The Senate 's power over treaties can prevent alliances and restrict agreements on extradition and other technical matters , but it can not prevent that which requires a treaty to be made ? a war , for example . And a further limitation has developed in what is known as the executive agreement which needs no Senatorial confirmation . The dividing line between a treaty and an executive agreement has never been drawn or even defined , but the executive agreement has steadily encroached on the boundaries ofthe treaty . For example , two important accords have been made between the United States and Japan over the Far East which were not embodied in treaties that had to be sent to the Senate ? the Root-Takahira agreement in 1908 and the Lansing-Ishii agreement in 1917 . The Open Door notes in 1899 and the whole policy of the Open Door in China on which we have finally come to war with Japan never received Senatorial sanction . In the same way the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate , but he also has unofficial or quasi-official representatives ? Colonel House in the first World War , Harry Hopkins , Joseph E. Davies , and others in the second ? on whose designation and acts the Senate has nothing to say . The exclusive right of Congress to declare war also is of little consequence . It comes into play when situations have been created that make it superfluous or supererogatory . What is essential to the control of foreign relations is not the right to decide for or against going to war but the right to decide on the acts or policies that carry the danger of war . The day after Pearl Harbor Congress had little choice . In 1917 , after relations with Germany had been broken and submarines were sinking American ships , Congress had little choice . In both cases it could only register a fact in being . The right of decision on peace or war can be exercised only at the point at which certain policies that bring the nation into conflict with other nations are to be adopted or not . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President has . When , for example , the United States traded to Great Britain destroyers for bases , it was for all practical purposes entering the European war . Congress had no voice in that . It was notified later by the President , but then the fact was accomplished . Similarly , when the President ordered the freezing of Japanese assets in this country in July , 1941 , he was decreeing a state of war with Japan . And with respect to that act the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations had no more to say than a similar number of North Dakota wheat farmers . I do not intend here to criticize or even to discuss the wisdom of those acts or of any other acts of President Roosevelt . It happens to be my belief that the two that have been cited , and the President 's foreign policy as a whole , will be vindicated in the judgment of history . But those acts could also have been committed and the policy adopted and put into effect , without any possibility of check or veto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organ , if they had been unsound , reckless , and dangerous . And when this is so , then democracy ceases to operate at the border of the most dangerous area of politics ? where wars are made . Now , some qualification is in order here . While there is no governmental check on an American President with reference to policies that create situations that lead to war , there is an indirect , informal check in the form of public opinion . This has operated at times , as we know . it worked , for example , against President Roosevelt 's " quarantine speech " in 1937 , when he proposed ostracism for aggressors ? when , as a matter of fact , its working was unfortunate . And it can operate indirectly or negatively : not until public opinion had moved to a certain point did President Roosevelt give the destroyers for bases or propose Lend-Lease . Until then the latent unwillingness or reluctance of public opinion did act as a restraint . But this is intangible , indirect , and too long in registering . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it is most needed , when it should have effect if the people of this country are to have final decision on whether to make a nation 's ultimate sacrifice . The fact is that an Arnericarn President has the power to take positions that make war probable , if not inevitable , and in a democratic system this ought not to be so . The safeguard both in this respect and in respect to a better system of negotiating with other countries is more direct official participation of the legislative branch in all stages of foreign relations ? in formulation of policies as well as in dealing with other countries . This can be brought about by a Constitutional amendment with reference to treaties and unofficial arrangements with reference to decisions on foreign policy ? the kind of unwritten rule that hasmodified the Constitution in many ways . Concretely , the power and functioning of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs should be expanded . Now , manifestly they can not participate as a whole . For one thing , secrecy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . Besides , too large a number is too unwieldy for results . But there is no reason why there should not be a standing committee ? with or without name , with or without a codified position in the frame of government ? composed of the President , the Secretary of State , the Secretary or War , the Secretary of the Navy , the chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and the ranking minority member , and the chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the ranking minority member . This committee , under the chairmanship of the President , meeting regularly , would survey the whole state of world polities and its bearing on America 's interests , take up specific issues that have arisen and demand decision , thresh out a decision with the President , and sponsor it thereafter . If , for example , something arose analogous to the Japanese invasion of China . it would plot a course with respect to continuing the sale of war materials to Japan or , later , with respect to sanctions against violation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war threatened in Europe it would decide on what steps to take to make American influence felt in time and not too late , as in the present instance . In this instance , for example , the President would not have been compelled to fight a guerrilla action to get the Neutrality Law modified or repealed ; with the approval of such a committee he would have had open support . And then , if a peace was to be negotiated or agreement of any other kind made with some other country with or without a treaty , the Committee would take part in the negotiation . It would help choose the peace delegates or some of its members would serve . Then there would not be a repetition of the feud between Wilson and the Senate , in part attributable to Wilson 's snub in failing to include even one member of the Senate in the delegation at Paris . Constitutional amendments , as has been said , take time . It is hardly practical to attempt to change the prescribed method of dealing with treaties before the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign relations such as has been suggested could be organized without formalities at once . It could begin at once to deliberate on running political problems in the course of the war ? relations with French factions , for example , or with the interim government set up on Italy 's surrender , or with Polish groups or with Russia ? and on the program to be striven for in the postwar settlement . Then the President could go into the peace conference with the knowledge that that which he pressed for represented the considered view of those who would subsequently have to sanction it . He would not have to conduct a campaign in Europe first and then in the Senate later . Something of the sort has been proposed before but never acted on , partly because the exigencies were not so demanding . It is not ideal . It is not a perfect solution . The Congress could still reject treaties if its party composition should be changed between negotiation and submission . There would be danger of information leaking out . Partisanship would be reflected in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these are unimportant compared to what is lacking now . Certainly there would be less chance of deadlock between Congress and the President if the representatives of both Houses of Congress already stood committed , especially those having behind them the prestige of the two committees dealing with foreign affairs . They would at least be obliged to fight on the floor of their respective Houses for that which they had helped bring about . Each House would hesitate to repudiate its own representatives on the joint higher committee . At any rate they could at least argue more persuasively . Under the present governmental system the President really has no direct voice or even spokesman in each House . He is dependent on the party organization , which may or may not be loyal or in sympathy . On its part , the role of Congress in foreign affairs would not be diminished , but made more clear-cut and effective . Most of all , there would be a broader base to foreign policy . It would represent more than one man 's judgment , however farsighted and of high intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high or low degree , do have a more sensitive ear to the inner voices of the whole country than anyone in the White House can have . If the foreign policy thus worked out , if the decisions thus taken on matters involving life or death for the nation 's young manhood , would not necessarily be more faithfully representative of what the country wanted or for which it was willing to sacrifice , there would at least be less danger that one man , if impulsive , reckless , prejudiced , or of messianic inclinations , could decree life or death for millions . Full , doctrinaire town-meeting democracy in foreign relations is never possible ; but there can be a closer approximation to the will of the majority in that which most concerns the nation . What we have now is not even an approximation . Without any profound or revolutionary changes in the American system of government we can come much nearer . Then in the dread business of war and peace too we can have the sanction by a majority of the people , without which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   