@@493006

THE WEEK as THIS ISSUE was going to press , a bright young lady " checker " from one of Henry Luce 's magazines telephoned to ask , " Is it true that in the last eight weeks the New Republic has not been supporting the idea of a third party ? " We suggested that if the lady checker would check the files of the New Republic , she would find that through its editor , Henry Wallace , the New Republic has been saying for a long time that if the Democratic Party held to the course set by the Truman Doctrine , independent action would be necessary in order to give Americans an opportunity to vote for peace . Henry Wallace 's own views on the subject of the 1948 presidential elections and the part he will play in them *ill be fully reported in next week 's tisane . The New Republic 's editor is negotiating for time on the radio around the first of the year to discuss , the same subject : 113 ' VITOSURIES KARAT 0 AVM Pal . " Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pauley . The millionaire California oil man is beginning to look like a oneinan wrecking crew to Democratic chances in 1948 . Top Democratic party leaders were aware three months ago of the facts about Pauley 's speculating on the commodity markets which Republican candidate Harold Stassen recently revealed . At that time , they confronted parley with the records on his holdings , explained to him that they would furnish the Republicans damaging campaign material in ' 48 and insisted that he liquidate his holdings for the sake of the party . Pauley refused . The President kept silent on the matter then , but recent visitors have found that mention of Pauley 's name brings flushes to the presidential brow , and angry bursts of silence . Democratic party leaders report that the initial Pauley expose has already caused costly trouble in the party organization , which the publication of Secretary Anderson 's list of other prominent traders will do nothing to diminish . MARTIN DIES REVIVES IL The Un-American granddaddy of them all , it seems , wants to return to Washington now that times are for such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Temple a Communist , told reporters in Houston , Texas , that he may run for the Senate in 1948 . The founder and first chairman of the Un-American Activities Committee is accepting speaking engagements for the first time since he was booed off the stage at the 1944 Democratic convention at Dallas . He says his itinerary carries him through February . Then he will decide to run if the race appears to be a " dignified and decent campaign . " KNUTSON TRIES AGAIN GOP enthusiasm . The Republican Congress , halfhearted about inflation control and social legislation , showed remarkable enthusiasm for cutting taxes , especially for those who need it least . Representative Harold Knutson ( R , Minn. ) , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , could barely be restrained from introducing a new relief-for-the-greedy tax bill the minute the special session was called to order . Knutson is a stubborn man . No one can say he does not fight hard for the NAM . In the bill he presented before the close of the session , the only concessions are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than he was in the bill President Truman vetoed last session . In fact , he has tried to make almost every tax group happy , but not at the expense of any other group . He has simply cut in everyone , thereby producing a bill that would reduce the federal income a whopping $5.3 billion . As the new provisions would apply after January 1 , 1948 , about $2 billion of the cut would come in this fiscal year . Knutson 's new offering has a good chance of passage and a fair chance of getting White House approval . Its a canny document . Liberals and Democrats are appeased by upping the personal exemption from $500 to $600 . This would drop six million people from the tax rolls , at a cost of $2 billion . Persons over 65 ( politically potent as Townsendites and other oldage groups ) and the blind would get a personal exemption of $1,200 . This would take 1.4 million persons off the tax rolls . 