@@475209

Paul Schrecker , philosopher of history , is one of the most eminent scholars yet rescued from Nazi Europe . Brought to this country by the Rockefeller Foundation , he has joined the faculty of the New School for Social Research in New York City . Last summer , under Rockefeller Foundation sponsorship , he toured the United States , visiting universities and museums to acquaint himself with the regional historical material collected in those places . On his tour he kept a notebook , recording his impressions of American civilization as seen outside as well as inside the museums . This month we print the first of three selections from this notebook. ? The Editors MADISON is a small town , but it is by no means provincial . I rather had the impression ? and am eager to check it with other places ? that it is a potential , but unfinished , big town . As if people had not yet had time enough to carry out the blueprints . Amid big and well-built houses in the main arteries you see empty lots of ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the state administration , of business , and the university campus to the beautiful residential districts , and on your way have to pass through unbuilt areas or slums which break the continuity of the town . To a certain extent the motor car may be the cause of this strange aspect , which Americans do not even notice , since they are so accustomed to it , but which strikes a European . If a man owns a Iot of ground in a town and can draw profit from it by making it a parking place , he will not be prevented from doing so by aesthetic considerations ; the less so since it requires less capital and involves less risk to run a parking place for motor cars than to build a house . The motor car also easily bridges the gap between residential and working districts . One could say that American towns compared with European towns of the same number of inhabitants are spread over so wide an area because practically everybody can afford a motor car . In all the countries of Europe I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towns . In the provinces of France , or Austria , or Germany you notice the difference in every shop window , in every coffee house , in the universities themselves . When , for instance , you go from Paris to Lille or to Orleans or to Bordeaux the dresses , the books , the furniture you see in the windows will lag some months if not years behind those you were used to seeing in Paris . The hotels and restaurants will be more modest , uncomfortable , and rather shabby . Universities will lack the stimulating elan of the Sorbonne . Nothing of this kind distinguishes Madison from , let us say , New York or Chicago . Here you see just the same merchandise in the windows as in New York , the same neon lights , the same pictures in the same movie theaters , you read the same columns and comics in the local papers as in those of New York , and the university with its splendid installations , its rich library , its almost luxurious Students ' Union certainly does not fall behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smaller . Limo discussion with several historians , philosophers , and sociologists of the university about the structure of American civilization . I noticed with surprise how much their approach is influenced by Marxian theories , even without themselves being conscious of this influence . We talked about regionalism . One of the historians went so far as to deny that it exists at all in America . He thinks that regionalistic theories are only designed to call attention away from the class struggle ; that is , to maintain reactionary politics . I objected , first , that compared with European conditions there are no economic classes in America ; in Europe you are born into a class without any chance to get out of it by your own efforts . The whole economic history of America proves that nothing of this quasi-natural determination of your life by the economic conditions under which you are born exists here . Secondly , I objected that even in European history , the notion of a class may perhaps be a useful instrument for economists and sociologists , but certainly not for historians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , indeed , just as mythological as the old one which considered history as a struggle between ideas . It is a sort of economic Manichaeism ? history as a fight between the good and the evil principle . Classes as well as ideas can only act and struggle through individuals who are united under a common norm of conduct . Classes are integrations of traditions and conventions , just as nations or religions or styles of art are . The historian who would stop at those ready-made integrations , and not investigate the elements constituting them , would be behaving as unscientifically as would a physicist who would stop at the sensorial qualities of heat or color without investigating the objective processes which create the subjective sensations . In other words , he would not be a modern physicist at all . The theory invented to back the doctrine of history as a class struggle is that classes are always united by a community of economic interests . This assumption is an entirely unwarranted dogma rather than a scientific theory or even a working hypothesis . Maybe classes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it is absolutely gratuitous and contrary to historical experience to assume that this was always the case everywhere , in ancient Egypt or Athens as well as in the Catholic Middle Ages . I referred as an example to the religious wars of the seventeenth century ; the people who actually fought them sacrificed their lives for or against the belief in predestination , for or against the material presence of the body of Christ in the sacrament , for or against liberty of religion , not for any more or less sublimated business interests . Of course , some princes or big business men may have used those religious passions for their economic interests , just as they are wont to do now . But most of the people who actually fought those wars did not even know anything or understand anything about economic matters ; and the historian of that epoch should not pretend to know better what they fought for than they did themselves . To this argument one of the historians replied that psychoanalysis has made us realize that our consciousness reveals only a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the religious fighters of the seventeenth century may well have believed they fought for or against predestination , and yet , subconsciously , have fought for economic class interests . I replied that , if psychoanalysis were to become the method of history , we had only to close our shops or surrender them to surrealistic literature , because in that case , the actors of historical processes being dead , psychoanalysis could no longer be applied to them . When I came home I tried to find out the reason for this Marxist approach to history , which seems to be much more widespread here than in any country of Europe except official Russia . The main reason may be that within the relatively short time in which an independent American civilization has been developing , economic concerns , interests , and problems have stood in the foreground of almost everybody 's preoccupations . Within a few generations ? frequently within a lifetime ? wilderness has been transformed here into big towns , gigantic industries , extensive agriculture , and all the other institutions which make the United States the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observation does not yet account adequately for the strange , almost religious intensity with which some historians who certainly are not predestined to Marxism by their own social background stick to this doctrine . Q HOWN through the campus and some of its institutes , I was amazed at the splendid opportunities students are given here . I almost envied them . The Continental universities abroad , even the biggest ones , can not in any respect match the facilities this university affords . In Paris , Berlin , Vienna , Rome , the universities are just places where the student attends his lectures or works in laboratories . All the rest of his life is unconnected with that of the university . Nobody cares where he studies or where he spends his leisure time . If he is poor , he may be compelled to spend all his spare time in a coffee house with the classical caf ? crime , because the attic where he lives is not heated . Here , most students spend almost all of their time on the campus ; studying is a form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours a day . The students find everything for work and leisure in their Union , which provides all the attractions of a good club . Most Continental students have never seen ? let alone used ? an institution offering so much comfort . I wonder how the results of studies being made so easy will influence the intellectual future of this country . In so far as the natural sciences are concerned the question may already be answered . The perfect equipment of university institutes has already given the sciences in America a big advance over Europe . But I think it will be some generations before the general intellectual standard in this country can possibly profit from the excellent conditions under which students are educated . The European in this country forgets too easily when he walks through these splendid campuses that they date practically from yesterday and that hardlyenough time has elapsed for the formation of a scientific tradition . On the other hand , I wonder whether the sacrifices which studies require in continental Europe are unproductive ; and whether the student who takes for granted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly any sacrifices , gets from it the ardent inspiration , the deep desire for knowledge which produce great results . Goethe once stated that " only the insufficient is productive . " Pasteur made his great discovery under conditions for which a modern American scientist would only have a sympathetic smile . Monsieur and Madame Curie discovered radium with the most primitive equipment installed in a sort of barn . Yet , to my mind , these experiences do not prove anything against the way universities are organized in this country . It may be European prejudice that universities must at the same time be research institutes for an elite . American universities , and chiefly state universities , are right , I think , to aim in the first place at educating good average citizens , useful specialists , not creative geniuses . And I do think that the better the average is , the more chance there will be of really great individuals emerging from the crowd . From my talks with many professors of the humanities I got the impression that sciences which are not immediately practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unwillingness of state authorities to spend money raised by taxes for research that does not directly further local interests . The only means of changing this state of affairs would be , I think , to enlighten public opinion about the close relation between the abstract humanistic sciences and immediately practical research . In a talk with two younger and very intelligent and learned philosophers of this university I argued that , as a matter of fact , the achievements of experimental science and technology in this country were possible only because the capital accumulated by humanistic studies in Europe throughout the centuries had proved up to now sufficient to fertilize practical studies . But once the credit on which this productivity is based is exhausted ? and the symptoms of near-exhaustion are manifest ? practical science will certainly lose its productivity , if humanistic culture is slighted in the meantime . I referred to very concrete examples drawn from the history of science which show that the roots of modern science are to be found in scholastic religion and theology , and that even in the nineteenth century the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Technology by itself invents means for ends . It never can settle anything about the ends to be pursued ; it is the aim of humanistic science to deal with ends worthy of being pursued . It is very fortunate , I think , that private initiative in this country has taken over the function which in Europe was fulfilled by governments . As things are now , nobody would be willing here to pay taxes for the promotion of philosophic or even historical studies . So the Rockefeller Foundation and other endowments , which realize the necessity of providing American civilization with an adequate humanistic background , are , indeed , fulfilling a historic mission . O NE of the symptoms of the compre-hensive role the university plays here in a student 's life is the relation I noticed between professors and their students . In European universities this relation is limited to the classrooms , the laboratories , and perhaps now and then to a professional talk in the professor 's office . Hardly any personal and social relation exists between the professor and his students , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak , hovers above the crowd of students as inaccessible as a demigod . I observed just the contrary here : professors call students by their first names , invite them to their homes , give them their advice in adversity , and play , to a great extent , the part a father plays in Europe . This familiarity between professors and students no doubt also influences the relation between students and the science which is represented by the professor . From the height which in Europe endows it with an almost religious awe , science here has descended into everyday life andlost the majesty which an object gains through standing on a pedestal . There is no real difference between studying philosophy and studying bookkeeping . At a luncheon with some philosophers of this university I remarked that the danger for modern American civilization seems to be the cult of efficiency without any hierarchical order among the aims to be reached by this efficiency . This order can be established neither by technology nor by the natural sciences but exclusively , in so far as general civilization is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mere " pursuit of happiness " will not do the thing as long as no hierarchy of happinesses is established . If no such hierarchy is accepted the danger will always be that " pursuit of happiness " becomes the only happiness people know , that is , that the means becomes the end . I referred to a specific point in the theory of civilization I am working on , which is that the very essence of religion is to indicate the revealed way toward genuine and lasting happiness . This happiness may , but must not necessarily , be conceived as transcendent . It may as well be conceived under the form of democratic ideals . Historically the idea of democracy originated in religious thought . Anyway , without such a religious background technological civilization tends necessarily to degenerate into the automatism of a beehive . It is , indeed , a historical experience that all anti-religious civilizations are at the same time antidemocratic . This relation , however , can not be reversed . Religious civilizations are not always democratic . I have the impression that the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware of this danger . An immense amount of sincere effort is spent toward putting the amazing achievements of American civilization on a sound intellectual basis , toward integrating the various elements which produced this civilization into a consistent and well-poised whole . American historians should play a momentous part in this process of self-realization . The best of them have already broken away from the patterns of European historiography , and are well aware of the fact that the more American civilization becomes a civilization of its own , the more its history needs a particular approach , particular methods , and must not be worked upon with the special tools developed by two thousand years of European historiography . In this respect a prominent historian of this university pointed to the revival of historical novels with American topics , which is no ephemeral fashion , but shows that America is becoming conscious of her past and endeavors to get from its study directive principles for the particular role she will have to play in future world civilization . I found out that the telephone directory is just as good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town , at least superficially , as any reference book . Here , for instance , the fact that Wisconsin was one of the first states to favor immigration , and the nationality of her immigrants , may be deduced from the enormous number of typical German and Scandinavian names in the telephone directory . The drug store seems to be still more popular here than it is in New York . The big and elegant one near the campus is filled at almost any time of the day with students , boys and girls , reading , writing , talking , meeting each other without flirtation or coquetry . In Europe one would always notice a sort of electric tension between student boys and girls . One does not notice it here at all . Have they more self-discipline or is the sex problem so perfectly solved that it does not obsess their minds ? I was struck by the incredible number of music boxes everywhere : before every seat in the drug stores , on every table in restaurants . People seem not only not to mind the noise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music as it is with science : it has stepped down from its pedestal and lost its solemnity . This is an almost unavoidable effect of its mechanization through phonographs , radio , and the horrible juke boxes . On the other hand , this profanation of music may well turn out to be a necessary transition to its reconsecration . Only very good works stand the test of being heard an indefinite number of times , and people will soon get fed up with listening to bad or even to average music and return to the dignity of the great works of art . Yet there is something in this enjoyment of noise which must have deeper reasons ? some desire to escape from meditation or contemplation ; in short , some kind of very deep unhappiness which people try to repress by this means . II St. Louis , Missouri TN MY hotel room I found a copy of the 1 Gideon Bible . Every American probably knows this edition , but I had not seen it before . It is published by a society of Christian commercial travelers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to live . What made it strange to me was the sort of directions for use printed on the first page . It gives such advice as , for instance , " If trade is poor , read Psalm XXXVII ; or , " If you desire peace , power , plenty , read John IV . " . I wonder what makes this appear impious , even sacrilegious , to me . In Europe , too , every prayer book contains special prayers for all sorts of dangers and emergencies ? for illness , for sea voyages , etc . I think it is the kind of danger against which the Gideons give advice which seems so odd to me . Still more than anywhere else I notice here the unfinished character of the town . Between the downtown business district and the uptown residential streets along Forest Park , there is nothing but slums . In the business district itself , one sees wasteland or parking places between skyscrapers , department stores , and the typical symbiosis of movies , drug stores , and fiveand-ten-cent stores . The metropolitan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and aesthetically shocking . Forest Park is very beautiful , in the English style . The Art Museum in its center is extremely well kept and rich in old and modern paintings ; much more important than most of the provincial muscums in Europe , except , of course , in Italy . Yet I had the feeling that it is a bit too hygienic , just as if it were a clinic where the pictures are being taken care of . Some excellent old paintings , a Giovanni da Paolo , a Greco , a Cranach , look as if they felt very uneasy , almost unhappy in their rationalized rooms . In the department of modern painting and chiefly of French impressionists and surrealists , I again had the impression which had haunted me in the Art Institute of Chicago ? namely , that even modern painting does not escape the influence of standardization and mass production , an impression which perhaps becomes the more evident since works of the same painter are here put up together in one room , so that you can not but become aware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only reason : you never will get the same impression before the many square yards of Michelangelo in the Sistine Chapel or of Tin toretto in San Rocco in Venice . Even the murals of Hans von Mares in Naples will never provoke the impression of standardization and mass production you get in a room with a score of Renoirs or Monets . To my mind the deeper reason is that the old artists created their works not for the open market but , if one may say so , for the individual art lover and patron . The art dealer of today replaces the patron and operates just as a producer operates on script-writers and movie stories , standardizing and typifying the product . Anyway , in their modern departments , museums are in danger of becoming just as standardized as Woolworth stores . The only escape would be for each museum to lay stress on regional art . And I saw hesitant beginnings of such a trend . They are not very encouraging and involve a vicious circle : if the museums , the instruments for art education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This vicious circle , I think , does not only threaten American painting : it threatens American spiritual civilization as a whole . Political and economic unification entails almost inevitably the suppression of regional achievements in the spiritual fields . This makes the question of regionalism a momentous one . III Columbia , Missouri ff NOTICED how intimately the universities are connected with the agricultural concerns of the states . Many professors are farmers ' sons or own farms themselves near the town . A professor of philosophy who drove me in his car through the country proved to be an expert on agricultural matters . He knew the quality of the soil , the breed of the cattle we saw , the yield per acre , the methods of exploitation , just as if he were a professor of agriculture and not of philosophy . Yet he is a good and inspired philosopher . What a difference from Europe . In Germany and in France I happened to know scholars who , too , came from farms . Not only would they never have mentioned it but they seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their nonacademic background as a personal offense . Not surprising , therefore , that in this country the agricultural departments of the universities play big parts in academic life . This is a trend which I think should be welcomed as an antidote against the disintegration of civilization . American universities are different from the European ones just because they justify the name of universitas , which for the European institutions became merely conventional long ago . Here at the university you can study agriculture , bookkeeping , business management , dramatic art , technology , just as well as the humanities , science , law , and medicine , which are the only fields cultivated at universities abroad . I even remarked that the professor of bookkeeping enjoys just as much consideration as the professor of philosophy or of surgery , if not more . Maybe because he attracts more students . But in the long run this union in one institution of all the branches of human knowledge and skill may lead towards an interpenetration and reintegration of the various branches of knowledge which in the course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It must be admitted that a historian who knows something about agriculture will get a better understanding of American history than one who can not distinguish wheat from rye . The very fact that in this country and particularly outside the Atlantic region big universities are mostly not located in big towns may contribute to this evolution , UNDAY morning I attended service in 1 ... ) a small Methodist church in the poor north section of the town . The church , a wooden building , looks from the outside just like any other house . About eighty people attended , mostly middle-aged women of the lower middle class with children who behaved noisily all the time . The service is simple and lacks any solemnity , and it seems as if all were arranged in order to assimilate the ceremony to everyday life . After the final hymn the minister hurries to the exit , shakes hands with everybody . To me : " How do you feel this morning , we were so glad to have you with us , come again , " just like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say something in connection with his sacerdotal mission , something like " God bless you " ; but nothing of the kind happens . This and similar experiences are an exact analogy to what I observed before about science and art . Religion , too , has stepped down from its pedestal and joined the earth-born achievements . Of course , in Europe too religion a long time ago gave up , in fact if not in right , the claim of dominating all the spheres of human life and submitting them to its own law believed to derive from revelation . Yet , and especially in Latin countries , the claim to be something higher than the other provinces of civilization , something that has to be kept apart from everyday lift , something that acts through aesthetic suggestion and not through the common means of mass propaganda , is still being upheld . In this leveling and mixing up of the provinces of civilization there is a certain historical ambivalence whose future effects can hardly be anticipated . However , the fact is so characteristic of American life that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its future development must take it into account . On the one hand , the often observed disintegration of civilization abroad that is , the emancipation of each province of civilization from the links which bound it to the other ones , the confinement of art or science or religion in an ivory tower ? deprived civilization of its natural structure , which is that of an organic unity . In every epoch of the past , one of its provinces played a leading and unifying part : science and art in Athens , the Christian religion in the Middle Ages , politics and law in Rome , rational knowledge in the Age of Enlightenment . There is no such leading and unifying power in present-day civilization , either here or abroad . For I do not think the common opinion that economics is this power today is more than a practical and easy working hypothesis of politicians and pragmatist historians . Of course , on the frontier , economic needs were the most obtrusive and all work available had to be devoted to their satisfaction . Roughly speaking , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not care for art or science , just because they have neither any time nor any strength left for it Yet in this very situation America created her original religious achievements : Puritanism and Mormonism . And the simple and functional styles of houses and furniture people produced then are certainly superior to those they manufactured later when they could afford to care for " beauty . " On the other hand , the lack of a leading power in civilization manifests itself in very different ways here and abroad . In Europe each province of civilization claimed independence and got it . Thus not only were the life lines of the various branches of civilization not organically interrelated but in general there was a tendency towards avoiding interrelation and co-operation . This led to the effect that finally brutal force came to suppress all of them . In this country the disintegration of civilization has the opposite result . All the various impulses of civilization have been collected in one and the same caldron and coagulated into one amorphous and unstructured thick liquid . The process of distillation from this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the end of the eighteenth century and is going on very intensely .                     