@@485697

with its emphasis on containing Cuba and its at-tendant anti-Communism , counterinsurgency and covert action . Policies associated with the alliance spelled tragedy for many countries of Latin America . The United States ' attempts over the past twenty years to prevent another Cuban-style revolution have left a bloody trail , beginning with Lyndon Johnson 's intervention in the Dominican Republic in 1965 , through the covert involvement in Chile that culminated in the overthrow of Salvador Allende in 1973 . The present Administration 's new strategy toward the Caribbean basin  --  the islands of the Caribbean Sea and Central America  --  is directly descended from those danger ous policies of the 1960s . Like the alliance , the new policy has counterrevolutionary , interventionist muscle clothed in reformist garb . Now , however , the aim is to prevent another Nicaragua , as well as another Cuba . U.S. policy makers pay lip service to the inevitability of change in the many nations of the Caribbean basin , where conditions of life are among the poorest in the world , but their hearts belong to the status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Internews , has reported on Latin American affairs for more than fifteen years . There are well-intentioned people in the Administration who have lobbied for a more enlightened policy , Sometimes Secretary of State Cyrus Vance reflects their views , as he did in a talk September 27 before the New York City Foreign Policy Association , when he stressed the reformist aspects of current polipy : continuing support for human rights , economic aid for Nicaragua and a recognition that " disruption within nations does not necessarily mean there is an outside hand . " But the new Caribbean policy 's true coloration is deeply conservative . This is partly due to the lack of alternatives . ? Many of the moderates the United States would prefer to support in the region , rather than more radical groups , have been killed off or neutralized by the military regimes previous Administrations supported . Further , the mind set of Washington officialdom instinctively perceives the instability and unrest in the Caribbean basin as dangerous , rather than potentially liberating . After a fact-finding trip to the Caribbean in August , Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important conclusion : economic and social instability in the region is creating " targets of opportunity " for Cuba . The new policy for the Caribbean has been in the works since early this year , when it became clear the Sandinists could win in Nicaragua and a coup in Grenada led to an increased Cuban aid program there . But the full depth and breadth of the policy , its bite and aggressiveness , have only become visible since the fortuitous " discovery ? ' of what the ' Administration charges are Soviet combat troops in Cuba . This pseudocrisis led to , among other things , the ascendancy of the policies of national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski , freeing him to pursue a long-desired " get tough " policy in the Caribbean region . President Carter 's televised October 1 speech on the Soviet troops carried implicit warnings to radical groups in the Caribbean region and laid down the broad aspects of the 1 new policy . To offset the presence of the troops , he said , the United States would increase surveillance of Cuba ; establish a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Key West , Florida ; expand military maneuvers in the area , and increase economic assistance . In addition , he said , the Administration would beef up U.S. Rapid Deployment Forces , " to protect our interest and act in response to requests for help from our allies and friends . " Most important , Carter portrayed Cuba as a surrogate of the Soviet Union and implied that Cuban aid to revolutionaries  --  and it does exist ; the Cubans perceive it as a duty  --  would be deemed as threatening to American interests as Soviet aid . Since that television address , a series of official documents leaked to the press have further clarified the new policy . A Presidential directive drawn up after the talk , as described by reporter Richard Burt in The New York Times of October 17 , mandated specific actions to undercut Cuban influence in the Caribbean and discourage Cuban military involvement elsewhere in the Third World . The directive called for increased economic aid and sales of military equipment to friendly governments in the Caribbean and Central America to enable them to compete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a result of the directive , is the option of selling " nonlethal " items , such as aircraft engines and jeeps , to the Guatemalan GovernmerA , in spite of Administration charges of human rights abuses there . . The President 's policy directive echoed a memorandum drawn up at about the same time by Brzezinski and leaked in late October to Jack Anderson . As described by Anderson , the memorandum called for , among other things , propping up anti-Communist governments in this hemisphere and stepping up what Anderson called a " worldwide campaign of propaganda and political pressure " against the Russians and the- Cubans . Since early October , the Administration has acted on the new policy guidelines in a series of controversial moves clearly aiming to intimidate Cuba and radical groups challenging the status quo in the region . Specifically , the Administration has : ? Renewed flights over Cuba by the SR-71 Blackbird spy plane . ? Increased the U.S. military presence in the Caribbean with the new Caribbean Task Force headquarters at Key West and the muscle-flexing exercises of 1,800 Marines at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is only the beginning of a higher-profile U.S. defense presence in the Caribbean . ? Begun to consult with Latin American nations on the creation of Some kind of " peacekeeping force " in Latin Ainerica . More specifically , Habib , in his role as troubleshooter for the region , has been consulting with the Governments of Britain and Canada on the feasibility of forming a multinational Caribbean seaborne patrol force  --  a special Coast Guard-like force  --  to combat Cuban infiltration into Caribbean islands , which often have minimal security forces . ? Pursued its oft-stated intention to increase aid for the area in order to , as President . Carter said in his October 1 speech , " further insure the ability of troubled peoples to resist social turmoil and possible Communist domination . " Last month , ' the Administration presented Congress with a request for approximately $100 million in aid for Central America and the Caribbean . The bulk of the funds ? , $75 million , is slated for . Nicaragua , if a recalcitrant Congress worried over the Sandinists ' radicalismcan be brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on NOvember 27 , Viron Vaky , Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs , warned that Congress must authorize the aid to offset the " strong flux from the Cuban and Marxist side to move the country toward MarXist rule . " The aid is aimed partly at wooing the Sandinists  --  encouraging them to look toward Washington and not Cuba for much-needed reconstruction funds . But most of the aid is slated for the private sector , and the Administration 's principal aim here is clear : to keep the business sector alive so it can serve as a power base for non-Sandinist " moderates " in Nicaragua . The aid for Nicaragua is part of a larger request for the entire Caribbean basin , including : $5 million in new funds for Honduras and " possibly Guatemala " ; $10 million to $20 million in military credit sales and military training , aid for the region , and 2.4 million ' for development projects in the Caribbean ( on top of $7.6 million already approved ) . In addition , the Administration wants $5 million for the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the civilian-military junta which took power there in a coup October 15 . But the junta 's apparent inability even to govern , let alone initiate reforms , indicates the problems in implementing a policy based on finding " moderate " alternatives to leftist groups and guerrilla forces . The junta members , who have virtually no political base , have not been able to gain control over the various security forces in El Salvador , which continue to murder people at an ever-increasing rate . Years of military dictatorship there have left a polarized situation where the " moderates " the Administration favors seem to have little popular support . This was also true in Nicaragua , and it is probably true in Guatemala . This means that in the next few years there is a great likelihood of " more Nicaraguas , " with revolutionary groups , aided to some extent by Cuba , fighting to take power . There will be a compelling temptation , then , for this Administration and for its successor to act tough , perhaps even to intervene militarily , as in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Latin America . But while the Administration 's new Caribbean basin policy is reminiscent of the Latin American policy of the 1960s , the world , and especially Latin Atherica , has changed greatly since then . It is difficult to envision another Dominican Republic-type invasion . It would be almost impossible to get a consensus in Latin America for such an invasion , as the Administration discovered when it tried to get Organization of American States votes for a peacekeeping force for Nicaragua . No Venezuelan Government , for example , is likely to support , U.S. interventions in the Caribbean basin , which it increasingly views as a Venezuelan bailiwick . A Mexican Government would also have to publicly oppose intervention in the hemisphere if only for domestic political reasons . Also , the groups opposing U.S.-backed regimes have gained in sophistication and may , like the Sandinists , be able to forestall U.S. intervention by building ties with social democratic governments and political parties in Europe and in other Latin American countries . Still , the temptation to intervene will be there . Many policy makers seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A combination of this perspective with unrest in the Caribbean and Central America could be explosive , leading  --  as it has in the past  --  to policy disasters and the reaffirmation of the old U.S. role as defender of the status quo in this hemisphere , however repressive and inequitable that status quo might be . ? - III THE HOSPITAL CHAINS Skimming the Profits Off Health Care PETER KOENIG A merica 's center-city hospitals are going broke . Mayor Edward Koch 's bitterly contested plan to close four of seventeen municipally owned institutions in New York City is the most prominent example of an accelerating though long-standing trend . Charting the fates of 326 hospitals in eighteen Northeastern central cities , Dr. Alan Sagar , assistant professor of urban and health planning at Brandeis University , discovered that ninety-five of them had closed or relocated between 1937 and 1977 . But the hard times the inner-city hospitals arc suffering as a result of depleted public resources represent one dark corner of the current hospital picture . The situation is much brighter in the private sector for a new breedzof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for-profit chains , which did not even exist fifteen years ago , grossed $10 billion last year . The investor-owned chains do not directly benefit at the expense of inner-city hospitals . In the main , they are concentrated in suburbs and regions of the country where cities are growing . But they do profit by skimming off the " cream " of patients who are fully insured , leaying the nonprofit hospitals the rest . They thus benefit indirectly from policies that have contributed to the straitened ! fiscal conditions in which the inner-city hospitals now find themselves . In the prosperous 1960s , hospitals performed a dual function : treating the seriously ill covered by health insurance , while keeping open emergency rooms and outpatient clinics for , the poor who had no family doctors . Singe the 1974-75 recession , however , hospitals have cut down op emergency-room and , outpatient services . In the Northeastern and North Central states , these cutbacks have been forced by tightened Medicare and Medicaid eligibility requirements . Hospitals in these states have also suffered because reimbursement from state and private insurers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in contrast to the reimbursement formulas in other parts of the country , which are based on what hospitals charge patients . Thus , the chains have both taken care to make acquisitions in parts of the country where the hospital business is still profitable and promoted a sideline for themselves managing nonprofit hospitals , which , fearing the contagion of bankruptcy , are turning to the chains for contract-management services that supposedly will cut costs and install business-style efficiency . Actually , the chains ' contract-management sideline is also part of a broader trend in medicine . In the 1960s , when times were gobel , doctors-and manufacturers of medical technology prospered by selling care without regard to cost. - Now , with times hard , operations like the investor-owned chains that purvey cut-rate care in the guise of efficiency are prospering . Since Big Business is most experienced in using economies of scale and other , even harder-nosed techniques to cut costs , the public can look for more private corporate control of health care in the 1980s . Already , for example , Big Business is buying up for-profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep doctors ' fees down .                     