@@487502

THE Radical Party Congress which closed on December 5 revealed the Radical Party as it is today  --  a heterogeneous grouping that has shed its former left-of-center principles in an all-out drive to regain the political influence it wielded before Munich . The Radicals believe they will gain strength steadily as they retreat from their old Ideology . Thus despite the acclamations for him , and his almost unanimous reelection as chairman of the party , Edouard Herriot was the real loser December 18 , 1948 at the Salle Wagram . He was politely but firmly defeated in the battle against what he called the " bigamy " of those who claim membership in both the Radical Party and De Gaulle 's R. P. F. , for the delegates approved their present dual relationship by a large majority . This divided allegiance has proved most profitable , giving to a party which came out of the war broken and discredited the presidency of the government and of the two parliamentary houses . But in the end it can only work to the advantage of De Gaulle . Herriot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the bulk of the party will react to the increasingly poor job he is making of his partnership in the Third Force by , going over to De Gaulle . Obviously , the basic idea behind this Janus policy of the Radicals is that by continuing the collaboration with the Gaullists , begun two years ago , they will in the long run wear down the General 's following and finally dominate it . What they apparently forget is that Gaullism has grown in the last two years from an amorphous , vaguely Catholic grouping of some hundred thousand Frenchmen around a symbolic military leader into a regular party with an organizational apparatus far more effective than that of the Radicals themselves . Today De Gaulle has a real party , with neighborhood clubs , regional boards , and a national executive committee . Gaullist cells have spread into the factories , the trade unions , and private enterprise ; more significant still , the party boasts of having a large number of sympathizers and camouflaged members in civil-service jobs and ministry posts . It is active and vocal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposing group of writers , painters , and scientists who consider Stalinism a threat to the free development of culture and De Gaulle as its new liberator . Thus Gaullism is at once an adventure for romantic souls and a powerful instrument of political action far more apt to dominate than to re dominated by the Radicals . The Radicals are relying on their ability to win in the rural districts  --  where they have always been strong , by using the old tricks and ruses which French farmers understand and admire . But tricks alone will not solve the problem of high prices , or the enormous budget deficit for 1949 , or an unstable currency which has boosted the dollar to 500 francs in the black market . While paying lip-service to leaders like Herriot and Mendes-France , the congress finally adopted a series of resolutions which oppose all the measures of planned economy advocated by the latter and in reality open the road to De Gaulle and his " free-enterprise " demagogy . By vigorously championing free enterprise the Radical congress opened a new breach in the Third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wing of the M. R. P. favor a mild form of socialized planning . In short , it established the objective conditions which may687 permit De Gaulle to come to power with the help of the liberals , the Socialists , and , in general , the anti-Communist elements of the present government coalition . A s A Socialist I particularly dislike having to report the present weakness of the French Socialist Party . That the party which was once the rallying point of the Popular Front , and may again be called upon to play a similar role , should lose its influence is a disaster not only for the Socialists themselves but for the entire French left . I do not attach too much importance to the fact that Le Populaire , the party organ , was replaced on December 6 by a tiny tabloid half its former size , though this is symptomatic and serious enough . Much more important is the withdrawal from the party of a young leader like Jean Rous . When M. Rous 's action was officially announced last week , I heard from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not a single attack . Jean Rous is not a demagogue ; he is certainly not a fellow-traveler --  -- he recently rejected an invitation to join the Bataille Socialiste group , which stands for collaboration with the Communists but opposes a merger with them ; he is undoubtedly one of the most brilliant men the party-has had since its reorganization after the war . He left , he said , because he could not " stand it any longer " ( " Je ne peut plus " ) . He could not bear to see the Socialist Party of France become the object of eulogies in extreme rightist papers like L'Aurore because the Socialists had mobilized troops against striking workers ; he could not bear to see Le Populaire 's foreign policy influenced by a group of pseudo-leftists like Marceau Pivert , who would be only too happy to see the Soviet Union destroyed . Jean Rous is very critical of many aspects of Russia 's foreign policy and is attacked by the Communists for his attitude , but he does not believe a Socialist should accept a man like John Foster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a French Socialist to accept certain compromises than it is for a member of the British Labor Party to do so . British Laborites do not have behind them the French Revolution , the Commune , jaures , Guesde and Vaillant . In France in the twenties it would have been impossible for a Socialist to behave as Ramsay MacDonald did . Of course there were fugitives from the party ? Millerand , Briand , and even Pierre Laval  --  but in order to be free to follow their rightist inclinations they had to leave the party . That is why the present malaise of the party is so profound , and why it counts so heavily in the crisis of French politics . THESE various tensions naturally aid De Gaulle . Torn - I-  by the internal contradictions which I have briefly described , the Third Force has reached the point where its member parties will unite only against the left . It is difficult to say whether the Communists have lost 688 strength since their ministers were ousted from the Ramadier government in 1947 . They were , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republic , but this was done under an indirect-voting system . It will take a general election to tell the real story . However , let us assume that the Third Force is right in stating that the Communist Party is fast losing ground . That does not help the Third Force to build up a defense against an eventual Gaullist drive for power ; on the contrary , it strengthens the General 's position by further splintering the forces hostile to him . Throughout the past year of bitter name-calling the Socialists have frequently accused the Communists of wanting De Gaulle to win . Blum has developed this thesis in several of his editorials . One would be inclined to despair of human intelligence if , after the German experience , the French Communists were to adopt the disastrous theory of " better a Hindenburg than a Max  --  better a De Gaulle than a Queuille " as a means of arousing the people to action . Such a course would be incredibly stupid and dangerous . On the other hand , the Socialists are little wiser in concentrating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party whose collaboration they may need if De Gaulle ever becomes Premier . The General has never made any secret of his hostility to Socialist ideas . Surely the Socialists do not believe that by themselves , plus perhaps Jean-Paul Sartre 's existenThe NATION tialist group , they could successfully battle against a Gaullist government backed by the United States . When the Croix de Feu went into the streets in February , 1934 , to attempt a fascist putsch , the parties of the left forgot their differences and rallied to the defense of the Republic . They must do it again . Only this time their task will prove more difficult , for De Gaulle in power will have the full backing of the United States , just as De Gasperi has in Italy . To have any chance of success a Popular Front strategy must be accomplished before De Gaulle gets ? into office . The paradox of France 's foreign policy shifting from an alliance with Russia against Germany to an alliance with Germany against Russia , the paradox of two workers ' parties intent upon destroying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production , shortages due to maldistribution , bureaucracy , and widespread corruption  --  all these are ammunition for De Gaulle . Until last autumn I dismissed the idea of a Gaullist government as highly improbable . Today I am far less certain . For I can not now discount the most tragic paradox of all  --  that De Gaulle may one day ride to power not on his own efforts but on the errors of the French left . CORRECTION : In the first part of this article , printed last week , Mr. del Vayo wrote of a conversation with M. Schuman in 1947 . Through a misprint the date appeared as 1927.                     