@@494212

democratic and anti-democratic elements , and the stresses of their conflict are reflected within the Church In America where there are also liberal and illiberal wings . The illiberal wing sometimes seems to exercise an influence in the American State Department out of all proportion to its real strength either in the Church or in the nation . Too many people still for special reasons of their own resist the profound and growing truth that this is a people 's war for worldwide democ ? racy . But on the whole , that concept is gaining ground . Overzealous censorship is doing its best , but is not en ? tirely succeeding , to keep from us the news of this rising recognition of human solidarity and common human aims , throughout the world . We are permitted to hear Churchill 's angry repudiation of freedom for India ; we are not permitted to hear of the many thou ? sands of solid British citizens who do not agree with Mr. Churchill on this subject . Some liberals of long standing and good credentials have become faint-hearted because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when the battle is as crucial as it now is , we must stand by the President at any cost . It is better , they say , to keep silent about small things that seem to us wrong , than to run the risk of losing everything in 1944 . I respect the sincerity of these men but I am sure that their tactics are unwise . The Presi ? dent , I am confident , welcomes criticism from the Left when it is just and reasonable in tone . He welcomes it , for one thing , as a counterweight to criticism from the Right . His best proof that he is not yielding unduly to our side is the demand from our side that he should yield still more . Moreover , it is a well known prin ? ciple of his not to try to go faster than public opinion will follow him . If we ask him to go in our direction , It is only fair that we should create the public opinion to approve such action . It is nonsense . to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truth ? ful criticism like ours is no help to the tories ; they have never used k in the past and it is unlikely they Would use it in the future ; they much prefer their own brand of poisonous venom . But finally , the liberals could not keep silent , or express a false enthusiasm even if they wanted to . The device would be too trans-Parent . The liberal 's main equipment is his dedication to telling the truth ; if he dropped it he would simply atop being a liberal . A worse calamity than a conserva ? tive victory in 1944 would be for the country to lose one of its most important internal centers of self-criti ? %Ism and of impetus toward progress . Pearl Buck , in her striking adddress the other night the dinner for the Nobel Prize Winners , which is *reprinted in part on pages 824 and 825 of this issue , suggested that the war for democracy has already been t , or turned into a mere war between two sets of na tions . Her final paragraph expresses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel her statement that we the already lost should not be taken too seriously . At any rate , I for one do not believe that this or any other aspect of the war for liberation has been permanently lost . We lose a battle now and then ; a salient is ironed out on one side or the other , but the battle itself is never lost until you acknowledge defeat ; and I do not be ? lieve those who are fighting for the century of the common man are in any such mood . What we have to do seems to me fairly dear . We must identify ourselves as closely as possible with labor , at the same time helping labor to clean its own house . We should get rid of the " summer soldiers " in our ranks , who want to fight only as long as the going is easy , and who stop shooting when they see the whites of their enemies ' eyes . In so far as the radicals seek to cooperate with us , we have the right to demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all suspicion of being manipulated by strings pilled in any foreign capital . We should refrain from announcing grandiose and far-distant objectives which will only serve to frighten the innocent bystanders and will not advance our cause . Instead , we should , while thinking in long-range terms , do most of our fighting for short-range and immediate objectives . We should try neither to exaggerate nor belittle our own importance in the scheme of things . If we propose objectives and these are finally brought into being by others who claim all the credit , we should not be concerned . There is lots of hard fighting ahead ; there is always lots of hard fighting ahead . But we have a record that justifies us in continuing to fight with full energy and full con fidence.                     