@@487503

THE selection of the United States , France , and Turkey as members of the United Nations commission to settle the differences between the Arabs and the Israelis is a guaranty that the struggle of the big powers for supremacy in the Middle East will continue for some time . In that struggle there will be no hesitancy , about using and appeasing the Arabs even if it means sacrificing the Jews . That is why Britain and the United States maneuvered for almost a week to get a commission from which should be barred any member of the Slav bloc or any other power which has shown friendliness to the state of Israel . It explains why Australia , a logical candidate for a place on the commission , was pushed into the discard . Initially the Anglo-American alliance favored duplication of the present truce commission , on which the United States , France , and Belgium are represented ; when Belgium for reasons of its own declined to serve , it became necessary to find a new combination  --  one that would win Arab support . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicly and privately . The contribution of the United States was to propose Turkey , which has been consistent in its opposition to partition and a supporter of the Arab bloc on all Palestine issues . France made its bid for Arab favor with an open attack on the Jews by Foreign Minister Schuman , who in announcing that France would be glad to serve on the commission declared : " We do not desire that the atrocities that have been committed during the war against Jewish populations of Europe should be reproduced in Palestine on the Arab population . " Britain 's offering was a pledge by Hector McNeil that his government would support any action by the conciliation commission " to prevent whichever party is inferior in military strength from being driven into direct negotiations under duress . " What do France , Britain , and the United States hope to achieve through the conciliation commission ? France hopes to regain a toehold in the Middle East . Since Jerusalem will be the headquarters of the commission France gets a remarkable opportunity to reopen negotiations with the Arab world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perial interests . Britain continues to hope that the commission will make the kind of territorial adjustments which will enable the British , through Transjordan , to regain access to the Mediterranean , Red Sea , and Indian Ocean , opening a whole series of inland communications to strategic bases . The United States , on the other hand , would like to emerge as the supreme power in the whole Middle East , superseding , and at the same time using , Britain . T HIS explains why all three powers , throughout the - I- session , have concentrated on wooing the Arabs . Neither Britain nor the United States was eager to have France on the commission , but they were outwitted by the French , whose strenuous efforts to be included culminated yesterday morning in Schuman 's outrageous bid for Arab support . Moreover , it was France which pro. , posed the procedure by which the General Assembly , gave a cover of democratic choice to a completely autocratic act  --  namely , the nomination by the Big Five of candidates for the commission , a procedure insuring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Israel to a conciliation commission weighted against it , particularly by the inclusion of Turkey . The proposal that at least Australia be included was dismissed with the remark that the Arabs were against Australia . About an hour before the actual commission slate was brought in , Mr. Dulles is supposed to have said privately that the Americans were not opposed to the inclusion of Australia , but they could not guarantee its selection , and in that case Norway was a possibility rather than Turkey . Whether or not Dulles was contravened by his representatives in the committee is not known , but he has had that experience before . Twenty-four hours before the plenary session the Americans and British were so fearful of the outcome that the former , rather than risk defeat , were ready to propose that no decision be reached . It was then that the bright idea of Turkey was conceived , which intensive British lobbying helped to put over to insure passage of the resolution . Its passage was helped along , too , by the deletion from the version adopted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution or the state of Israel and any remaining allusions to the Bernadotte plan . By agreement with the Anglo-American alliance the Arab states voted against the resolution , but Greece , Turkey , and Ethiopia , which had voted against it in the Political Committee , voted for it in the plenary session , while the three previously negative votes of Iran , Burma , and India became abstentions . When the slate of candidates for the conciliation commission was submitted , every single Arab and pro-Arab country voted for it . Only the Slav bloc and Guatemala voted against the slate . 689 T SRAEL came to the General Assembly with three obi. jectives : ( 1 ) to defeat the Bernadotte plan , ( 2 ) to secure membership in the United Nations , ( 3 ) to obtain an Assembly order for direct negotiations between Arabs and Israelis with a view to a formal peace and a final settlement . The Bernadotte plan was defeated in its basic premises . the Assembly adopted no proposal to detach the Negev from the Jewish state , nor did it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the record the partition plan of November 29 remains intact . The resolution as adopted does call for direct negotiations between the interested parties with the help of a conciliation commission . To be sure , Israel has not been admitted to membership in the United Nations , but it would still be possible for the Security Council to meet next week , approve Israel 's admission , and then leave it to the General Assembly in April to complete the process if it chooses . This development could be held up by two things  --  the continued illness of Mr. Jessup , technically the only American authorized by Congress to cast the vote of the United States in the Security Council , and British pressure on the Americans to allow the matter to ride in order to give the conciliation commission a chance , in turn , to push the Israelis into compromises . Although the Bernadotte plan has been defeated , its basic purposes could easily be revived under British pressure with American concurrence . The composition of the commission and its terms of reference , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be anticipated . It is true that the conciliation commission has no instructions from the General Assembly except to assist the governments and authorities concerned to achieve a final settlement , but in the same resolution the commission is called upon " to undertake , upon the request of the Security Council , any of the functions now assigned to - the United Nations mediator and to the United Nations truce commission . " And it is almost certain that if Israel proves recalcitrant , the commission will be granted the very broad authority now exercised by the Mediator . Hector McNeil yesterday made it clear that the British have not given up the idea of territorial revision when he said , " In the whole course of the debate nobody produced a convincing reply against the Bernadotte proposals as a whole , nor did anyone bring alternative proposals to the attention of our committee as just or as workable . Moreover , it will be the duty of the commissioners to interpose the influence of the United Nations with the object of establishing a settlement which reflects not the immediate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but rather the more lasting interests of the peoples concerned . " The British have two levers  --  the Security Council and Abdullah . It is certain that until they receive a slice of the Negev or are completely defeated , their efforts will 690 continue in the Security Council . Their greatest weapon is the continued validity of the Council 's resolution of November 4 , with its threat of sanctions against Israel and its subcommittee on sanctions . In the past ten days two meetings of that subcommittee have been called on British insistence with a view to securing the adherence of Israel to all the terms of the November 4 resolution , including the evacuation of Beersheba to an Arab governor under pain of sanctions . As for Abdullah , whether or not the conciliation commission agrees , he is preparing to take over Arab Palestine . C OULD the Anglo-American maneuvers have been defeated ? There were three definite opportunities in this session to defeat them , two in the Political Committee . After the British had produced their resolution calling for indorsement of the Bernadotte plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submitted a resolution which was honest , clear , and more expressive of the real attitude of President Truman than the American delegation 's views . Other resolutions and amendments were offered by Guatemala , Poland , the Soviet Union , and Colombia , which at various stages worked in an informal alliance . Had a subcommittee been formed of the initiators of these resolutions and amendments , friends of Israel would have had a majority and could have forced through a decent resolution . Both the British and the Americans were aware of this and fought the idea the whole way . When a motion in this sense was introduced by Australia , it was defeated by a vote of sixteen to fifteen with seventeen abstentions . In the abstention column were the Soviet Union and the Ukraine ; had these two voted in favor , a completely different resolution could have emerged . A second opportunity offered itself on Saturday , December 4 , when the resolution as a whole came up for a vote in the Political Committee . It was adopted by a vote of twenty-five to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were in the abstention column , while Uruguay and Costa Rica were absent . The votes of these four , among Israel 's most ardent friends , cast against the resolution would have defeated it . Had the resolution been defeated , it would then have been possible to introduce a simple conciliation proposal not couched in terms of British Interests . The third opportunity was lost in the plenary session . After the vote in the Political Committee , both British and Americans believed the necessary two-thirds ' majority could not be found in the plenary session . Bold leadership could even then have produced a new , decent resolution , or , failing that , could have insured defeat of the resolution itself . Defeat would at least have avoided a stacked commission and allowed the situation to rest , with the Mediator acting as conciliator . Bold leadership was unavailable because the repreThe NATION sentatives of Israel were caught in a vise and subjected throughout the session to the same blackmailing processes current in September-November , 1947 . This was made possible by Israel 's application for U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought , would have been a major short cut to American recognition and other developments helpful to the Jewish state . The Americans held the key to Israel 's admission , and the Americans were sold on the idea that Britain had to be " accommodated " despite the President 's directive that Israel should be admitted at this session . Accommodating the British meant , in the view of the American delegation , first , the equating of the resolution of November 29 with the Bernadotte report , and , second , the joining of Arab Palestine to Transjordan . When these were defeated , the appointment of a handpicked conciliation commission became the instrument which might achieve those objectives without benefit of resolution . They could not , however , get the conciliation commission without a resolution . It was an open secret that the Canadians would not consent to the admission of Israel to the United Nations until after the adoption of the resolution , that France was also withholding its approval , that Belgium was opposed , and that the seven votes necessary to pass Israel through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not is due of course to design ; there was no time when the United States could not have commanded the necessary majority had it chosen to exercise in behalf of Israel the same efforts it did to appease the Arabs . This is why the Israeli delegation , after the defeat of references to the Bernadotte plan , felt it could not actively oppose a resolution which still had many dangerous aspects ; and that is why Israel 's friends did not cast negative votes when the opportunity offered . T N SPITE of everything , the British have suffered a real - I- defeat and with them their State Department collaborators . Until the very last moment the department played Britain 's game , telling the White House it was bringing the British into line . There were points at which it had to appear at odds with the British , notably on the issue of recognition . It was amusing to watch the same American representatives who were responsible for the sanctions resolution in the Security Council rebut British charges against Israel and defend the Jewish state as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations . But the British did succeed in holding up Israel 's admission , and in this they certainly had the help of the American delegation . The new " try " at a Palestine settlement will cost the United Nations a minimum of $4,500,000 . To me it is clear that the best way of ending the current maneuvers is for the Israelis to show the same intransigence in the field of political negotiations as they have in the military field .                     