@@487520

THE United Nations today acknowledged the Vatican as its sixtieth member with the power to dictate its action regardless of reality , practicality , or justice . This is the meaning of the decision of the General Assembly , which turned the dock back two years by ruling that a permanent international regime should be established in Jerusalem on the basis of the 1947 resolution . Twelve Latin American countries , together with the Arab states , the Soviet bloc , and European countries with large Catholic populations , combined on a roll-call vote to create a triumph for the Vatican steam-roller . The count was thirty-eight to four , teen with seven abstentions . Had the vote been by secret ballot , the outcome would have been different . This was the view of the chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee , whose country , Iran , voted in the affirmative . The Vatican 's interest in internationalization is based on its determination to make Jerusalem a second Rome . It sees in Jerusalem a gateway to the promotion of its interests in the Middle East and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Holy Places sought only international guaranties for the Holy Places and assured access to them , Rome 's attitude has changed . Two papal encyclicals issued in 1948 and 1949 called for internationalization . Roman Catholic pressure on the United States government has been insistent . On November 18 of this year Catholic cardinals and bishops published a statement demanding internationalization and opposing both the Conciliation Commission 's plan and the proposal for an international curatorship under the United Nations , to provide supervision and protection of the Holy Places throughout Palestine . For months the Vatican has pressed Israel to agree to complete internationalization . Its agents have intimated that Israeli resistance would produce two penalties : ( 1 ) deterioration of Catholic-Jewish relations throughout the world ; ( 2 ) Catholic influence to retard an early settlement between Israel and the Arab world . The overtones of this threat were audible even in the Assembly debate . Charles Malik , Lebanon 's delegate and the Vatican 's principal representative , warned the United Nations many times that failure to act would mean that the whole of Jerusalem would shortly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he suggested a squeeze play to the Christian world , declaring that Islam was now offering to share Jerusalem with the Christians , as it had not done for a thousand years . It was short-sighted , he implied , to think that Israel would indefinitely be the dominant factor in this situation . ' LIVEN those who voted for it admit that the deci- , // sion to internationalize Jerusalem can not be imple-mented , that any attempt to do so would touch off a new conflict which might destroy the Holy Places instead of protecting them . On Tuesday the Trusteeship Council begins a series of meetings to draft a statute . It remains to be seen whether by using the Coue method suggested by Malik  --  namely , to will it  --  the Trusteeship Council can carry out the decision , lacking both the force and the funds to run a city-state against the will of its populations . What is expected to happen is the speedy drafting of a statute , an effort to get the acceptance of both parties , and if this meets with failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort will fail is clearly indicated . Mayor Auster of Jewish Jerusalem has announced that the community will ignore the decision and embark upon civil disobedience if internationalization is attempted . King Abdullah of Trans-Jordan has reiterated that the Old City will be taken from him over his dead body . There is no reason to believe either position will be abandoned , especially since neither authority is a member of the United Nations . Israel , having been divested of authority , will not take part in the discussions of the Trusteeship Council even if invited to do so . In the end a special session of the Assembly will probably be held  --  a session which may meet with a more decisive fait accompli either in the form of an agreement between Israel and Jordan or of stiffening resistance to the U. N. by two communities whose proffered pledges to safeguard the Holy Places through agreements with the U. N. have been ignored . The stage for the empty triumph of the Vatican was set by an alliance , based on interests quite unrelated to the protection of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union . Lebanon and the Arab states were motivated by their hatred of Israel and their jealousy lest Jordan alone reap the fruits of the Palestine war . The Soviet attitude was dictated by a desire to prevent Britain from regaining a permanent foothold in the area through its puppet , Jordan , even if it meant creating continuous turmoil there . Australia , leader in the effort to establish partition , hoped by its insistence on the 1947 resolution to assure victory for the Labor government from an electorate which is 25 per cent Roman Catholic , a hope which proved to be vain . F ROM the first it was clear in the Ad Hoc Committee that there was a basic conflict between two opposing principles  --  that of territorial internationalization and that of curatorship or functional internationalization , a name coined to describe U. N. supervision limited to the Holy Places . When the session opened , the Ad Hoc Committee had before it the following proposals : ( 1 ) that of the Conciliation Commission , ( 2 ) that of Israel , offering an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holy Places and free access to them , ( 3 ) an Australian plan calling for the enlargement of the Conciliation Commission from three to seven members , with a year in which to report a plan which would more nearly meet the conditions of the 1947 Jerusalem resolution . The Soviet Union proposed a series of amendments to the Australian plan the effect of which was to restore the draft statute drawn up in 1947 by the Trusteeship Council . In a twelve-page series of amendments the Lebanese proposed a new draft statute based on the trusteeship version which the Arab states had opposed and the Trusteeship Council had abandoned as obsolete in July , 1948 . None of these resolutions or amendments commanded a majority . Nor did any of them offer a rallying point to the Vatican . This was the situation when a subcommittee of seventeen was established which should try to reconcile the proposals and report back to the Ad Hoc body in three days . No majority for any of the proposals was considered possible , and it was expected that a new plan would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited to supervision of the Holy Places . The Soviet Union had announced that it considered the Australian proposal a halfway measure which it could not support . There was reason to believe that If the Soviet amendments were lost in the subcommittee , Russia would vote against the Australian proposal . But a surprising development occurred . The Lebanese and the Australians capitulated to the Russian point of view . All the Soviet amendments were defeated . But the Lebanese dropped their own proposals and submitted an amendment based on the Russian proposals with the addition of a single sentence . The Soviet Union accepted the Lebanese The NATION amendment as a substitute for its own . The Australian delegation also accepted this amendment , which called for the Trusteeship Council to complete a statute based on the 1947 text . The result was that the subcommittee voted for what was called an Australian resolution but was actually a Russian concept cloaked in the language of Lebanon . This was the most important victory won by the U. S. S. R. in the history of the United Nations . Small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Australia gave respectability to a resolution which had been voted down when proposed by the Soviet Union . But even more important , the union of Russia , Lebanon , and Australia- produced a resolution tailored to the Vatican design . It is a fact that neither in the subcommittee nor in the Ad Hoc Committee nor in the plenary session itself was any resolution discuss.ed- other than one which sought to - restore in 1950 a situation which had existed in 1947 . This failure was due to the procedural stranglehold won by the proponents of the successful plan . An attempt by the delegations of the Netherlands and Peru to bring about a free discussion of the principles which should forth the basis of ' a practical " solution was defeated in the subcommittee by a tie vote . In the Ad Hoc Committee the sponsors of the socalled Australian resolution realized that victory de- , pended upon having their proposal voted upon first . They succeeded in this , even though the Ad Hoc Committee , as the master of its own procedure , could by vote have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ad Hoc Committee , a few days earlier , would have returned a majority for the Swedish-Netherlands proposal , based on the curatorship idea , had it been put to a vote first , since a majority of the delegates were eager not to have to vote eigainil internationalization but would have felt free to vote for a practical plan . But no one moved a reversal of this procedure , even though the delegations of the Netherlands and Canada suggested it informally . THE victory for the so-called Australian resolution by the vote of thirty-five to thirteen with eleven abstentions was an overwhelming surprise to both its backers and its opponents . It was brought about as a result of the direct intervention of the Vatican . Shortly before the afternoon session on December 7 the delegates of all the Catholic countries received virtually identical instructions to vote for it . Papal Nuncios in every capital made vigorous representations and received assurances of support . The Bolivian and Cuban delegates , who had proposed resolutions diametrically opposed to the Australian plan , were compelled to vote for the latter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intending to vote " no , " were instructed to vote " yes . " Mexico , Venezuela , the Dominican Republic , Panama , and the Philippines , whose delegates saw the absurdity December 17 , 1949 of the Australian resolution , were in the abstention column , as were Canada , the Netherlands , New Zealand , and India . A shift of six votes could have prevented the Australian resolution from achieving the necessary two-thirds ' majority in the plenary session . The Vatican steam-roller prevented this . Learning that the Philippines was about to shift from abstention to " no , " Cardinal Spellman wired the President of the Philippines requesting an affirmative vote . Cardinal Spellman won . The delegate of one of the Benelux countries , seeking ' a change of instructions , was informed : " Sorry , the Cardinal insists you vote ' yes . ' " Chile , under the same pressure , changed its negative vote to an abstention . Haiti , which had voted " no " in the Ad Hoc Committee , was pushed into the " yes " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mexico , instructed to vote - affirmatively , abstained on all the para-. graph votes , but when it was clear that the resolution would pass , followed its instructions . Countries like the Netherlands and New Zealand with large Catholic electorates , though opposed to the resolution , abstained . Other delegates voted in favor of the resolution for a variety of reasons : China , in retaliation against Israel for voting with the United States on the Chinese question ( ! ) , Greece because Israel , had abstained in the vote calling for sanctions on Albania . New Delhi , in deference to India 's large Moslem population , instructed its delegation , which was itself opposed to the resolution , to vote for it . One of the most cynical acts was that of France . France repudiated the report it had signed as a member of the Conciliation Commission by casting its vote for the Australian proposal . It was lured by the hope of a return to power in the Middle East held before it by Ambassador Malik . Had France given up its historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Were the government and people of France willing to answer the charge before history that they had failed to seize a , unique opportunity to gain peacefully what had been the goal of a thousand years of fighting ? France took the bait . Privately Ambassador Chauvel admitted that the resolution was very bad , that the Trusteeship Council could not possibly implement it , and that in the end a special session would have to be called . The fight against the Australian resolution was carried by the delegations of Sweden and the Netherlands , with sporadic assistance from Uruguay , Guatemala , he United States , and Britain , and with tentative gestures by Bolivia and Cuba . But the chief burden rested on the shoulders of Israel . It was virtually alone in reminding the U. N. of the impossibility of turning the clock back , in pointing out that the men who were offering themselves as the protectors of the Holy Places were the same who had led the attack on them . Even the presence591 of Jordan as a recognized spokesman , only because its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to arouse the delegates to the absurdity of their plan . And certainly they paid no attention to the thrice iterated declarations of Jordan that it would not accept internationalization . The Conciliation Commission staff , on whose work $850,000 was spent , and which strongly opposed the plan , was never consulted , nor was its proposal considered . Neither was General Riley , chief of the U. N. Armistice Commission , asked to give any advice , although he had been recalled to be on hand for this purpose . TARGE responsibility for the final decision must be borne by the United States . To be sure , John Ross , the American representative , expressed vigorous opposition to the Australian proposal . But American action did not go beyond this . The delegation failed to offer a constructive proposal acceptable to both parties which could be a rallying point for votes . Although it twice expressed " satisfaction " with the Swedish proposal , it never accepted it as a substitute for the Conciliation Commission plan , to which the United States firmly adhered even when no chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time hi a full session of the Assembly , can be forgiven for not realizing that procedures can determine the outcome of a discussion . But the American delegation can not be excused . The lack of leadership by the United States was made more evident when in the Ad Hoc Committee , having heard what had gone on in the subcommittee , it failed to move for a decision which would have allowed , consideration of other proposals . Had a proposal been madN , ron December 5 assuring a different order of precedence in the voting , the Swedish-Netherlands proposal could have won a majority , since the Vatican steam-roller had not yet gone into action . Although the Australians insist- that the American delegation worked hard to defeat their proposal both in the Ad Hoc Committee and in the plenary session , this is difficult to credit . Nor is it easy to understand how , in a real test of influence as between the Vatican and the United States , countries like Liberia , Burma , Haiti , Ecuador , Nicaragua , and Greece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Friday , December 9 , an important member of the United States government told the writer that after a discussion with the State Department he was convinced the department was making no real effort to influence a single vote . Behind this attitude is the personal animus against Israel harbored by the left-overs of the Loy Henderson-Lovett period , whose machinations in every previous debate had been circumvented by the President . Secondly , there is the 1n the budget k. , ommittee the American delegate , John Sherman Cooper , asked pertinent questions . Had the committee taken into account that its appropriations might not be sufficient in the event of opposition by Jordan and Israel ? Had the Conciliation Commission been consulted ? Answers to both questions were in the negative . Yet Cooper voted to recommend the figure of $8,150,000 , which was based on a so-called " normal " situation . This was explained as purely a technical vote , having no political significance . In the plenary session John Ross , opposing internationalization , referred to its probably enormous cost and to the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be allocated by the U. N. Yet when the appropriations came to a vote in the final session , the United States delegation was the only one opposed to the : vote . kiad it openly sponsored it , taken the floor to seex support , the outcome might have been different . Voting for the ? resolution in silence was not enough to secure its passage . If a special session of the United Nations is held , the most that will emerge is a plan for protection of and freedom of access to the Holy Places . The present decision strikes hard at the prestige of the United Nations . It raises questions far exceeding in importance the ultimate solution of the Jerusalem question . Having once acknowledged the dominance of the Vatican , what assurance is there of freedom of discussion and decision by the international body on other issues in which the Vatican has an interest ? The immediate problem the U. N. faces is to destroy the Vatican 's power of coercion . 