@@494198

Lewis Loses the CIO BACK IN the dear , dead days , never quite so far beyond recall as now , when all federated labor met together in convention , delegates from the coal miners and their assorted bodyguards , friends and hangers-on could always be distinguished from the rest of the convention . This was not because they did not take part in the formal and extra-curricular activities of the annual AFL get-together . On the contrary , the miners often made the best speeches , introduced the most important resolutions , did the hardest drinking and played the most serious poker at Federation conclaves in various cities . But they always kept to themselves . Their poker tables , their corner at the bar , their section on the meeting floor were always occupied early and were always exclusive . Someone going by might get a friendly hail , but practically never an invitation to pull up a chair . Though all the men at an AFL convention were king pins in their respective organizations , only the miners refused to acknowledge that they were among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John L. Lewis became the line of United Mine Workers ' officialdom , the miners participated wholeheartedly in joint action only when they could lead it to a Lewis objective . As time and brooding served Lewis to fill out the concepts of his own destiny , his union 's disconnection from therest of organized labor became more apparent . Restive , but impotent to move onto a larger stage in the twenties , he devoted the decade to consolidating his power , making himself impregnable and stamping out opposition within the United Mine Workers . These were the years of the Jacksonville Agreement , of decisions to withdraw automony from local , districts , of Brophy , Hapgood and Germer . And though the union 's strength declined in its industry , the one-man control of John Lewis over the UMW became complete . Roosevelt and the NRA gave Lewis his chance to rebuild his union . He met it with a vigor and determination that attested to his great talents . By 1934 , with the United Mine Workers stronger than at any other previous time , Lewis was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in the chairmanship of the CIO . What the CIO has done is writ so large that all who run must read , and heed . Even the AFL 's Executive Council , made up of the most astigmatic men ever called on to make a contribution to progressive causes , have not failed to see in that record a sign of the times . But to Lewis , the great social upsurge of which he was the symbol never represented anything more than an extension of his personal power . Sensitive and astute enough to cast his ambitions , as well as his speeches , in a mold that would win him the greatest DECEMBER I , 1941 support from the people he sought to lead , he had five years of unchallenged supremacy .. During those five years , miners came to CIO meetings as comrades . They displayed a gregariousness and a spirit of cooperation that were truly remarkable . They were taking their cue from Big John . Lewis , with the reins firmly in his hands , was driving a team through a footnote and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every account of this century incomplete if it is not described . So Lewis , and his UMW officials , were hearty , affable and almost , but never quite , magnanimous . Then , through his hate for Roosevelt , which fed on what Lewis regarded as the President 's competition for leadership of the country 's underprivileged , came the endorsement of Willkie and the miscalculated promise to resign if the electorate did not follow . Lewis went to the CIO convention last year with nothing to lose but his reins . The great movement with which he identified himself had its base and its future . With any interest in it save a personal one , he could have stepped not down but aside into an elder-statesman position in which his contribution would have been priceless . But , with his sole interest in power for himself , he chose last year to try to wreck the CIO , to split it by driving out Sidney Hillman and the right-wing unions in clothing , textiles , the distributive trades and other industries which were determined to see him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist-led delegations , he was unable to purge Hillman and his followers . The big centrist unions in autos , rubber , aluminum , glass and other mass-production industries were beginning to see that their future lay in government collaboration , that their lives depended on national defense . It was Hillman 's leadership on both of these fronts that generated the Lewis attack . And though there was plenty of ground on which legitimately to criticize Hillman , the Lewis operation was so frenzied , and the conduct of the mine workers ' delegation so gauche , that even the Steel Workers ' Organizing Committee was alienated . As national defense became more and more important and Lewis ' hate for Roosevelt and Hillman drove him deeper and deeper into opposition of the defense program , it became clear that unless the Communist-controlled and UMW-controlled unions decided to pull out of the CIO and start a rival labor federation , John Lewis would never again attend a joint convention , and his bully-boys would never cooperate at one . World events of June took the Communists out of the Lewis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the prologue to the 1941 convention of the CIO in Detroit last week . Without such an assaying , what happened there is grossly deceptive . For on the surface , and in the minutes of its proceedings , the Detroit meeting bore an uncomfortably dose resemblance to the AFL convention stereotype . On 723 the floor , speeches seemed to differ only in emphasis and length ; all voting was viva-voce ; anything displeasing to the chair was dismissed on parliamentary pretexts ; there were no debates worthy of the name ; officers were reelected without opposition ; and there were scuffles and fist-fights among the delegates a la AFL . To the uninitiated , only the conduct of the Mine Workers ' and the Construction Workers ' delegations , the latter captained by Denny Lewis , John 's brother , seemed puzzling . In the convention hall , and outside of it , they sat together in a tight huddle . They participated in no ovations , no applause , no revelries . In the Statler Hotel bar , when closing time came at two o'clock each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lewis Is Our Leader ; We Shall Not Be Moved . But what they wanted was obscure . Lewis ' name was never mentioned on the convention floor except in a context of praise . Much as most of the delegates hated to do it , they voted him , unanimously , support for the captive-mine strike . Such endorsement gave all the impassioned utterances in favor of national defense and in favor of Roosevelt 's foreign policir a hollow sound , as Lewis knew it would . The captive-mine strike sat like Banquo 's ghost at the head of the labor table . To be sure , Denny and Kathryn Lewis fought in committee meetings for resolutions demanding Hillman 's ouster from the OPM , and for a less forthright statement in support of aid to the Allies . But they knew they had no chance to prevail , and they never expressed their opposition on the convention floor . What the Lewis men awaited , was word from their chief to put his name in nomination for CIO president . That it would have come if the mine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of officers everyone knew . If Lewis ' strike had stampeded Roosevelt into putting pressure on the steel companies to give the UMW a union shop , he would have demonstrated that the direct actionism for which he stood was effective . Tom Kennedy would have nominated Lewis instead of Murray , and nominations would have been closed . Similarly , if Roosevelt had been unable to stand against the demand that he send the troops into the coal towns , Lewis would have been labor 's Joan of Arc and as such would have been nominated and elected president of the CIO . But Roosevelt , with Hillman at his side , knew what was at stake , and outsat Lewis . Now , Roosevelt can get the union shop for the UMW or sanction new labor legislation without worrying about delivering the CIO to his bitterest political enemy . So the Lewis men at Detroit heard Big John praised , but saw him buried . Left , right and center drew together to leave him with only the men who are employees of the UMW . In moving away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it has never had before . Its present oppositional minority , the miners , is smaller and less influential than any opposi72 4 Lion it has ever sheltered . And there are a few old-timers who are predicting that , for better or for worse , it will be gone by the next convention , for UMW delegates will ignore the next convention call . But until then , the miners ' opposition is apt to be very troublesome . Lewis has loyal payrollers in important CIO jobs . He has his District 5o , a section of the UMW which has an elastic jurisdiction that enables it to raid the membership , as it is already doing , of such organizations as the International Ladies ' Garment Workers , the Toy and Novelty Workers , and the Mine , Mill and Smelter Workers . To build a labor movement under his control he is moving such seasoned organizers as Timko , Widman and Fontecchio out of other CIO jobs into District 50 . He orders them about because he pays their wages . Brother Denny 's construction workers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of restaurant workers suggests that it will not interpret its charter narrowly . The march of events which began the emancipation of the CIO from Lewis ' domination delivered it into the hands of his co-worker of thirty years standing , Phil Murray . Elected to the CIO presidency in 1940 , Murray did nothing for a year , with the exception of offering the Murray Industrial Council Plan , which would distinguish his policies from those of his predecessor . THE NEW REPUBLIC Silent on national defense and foreign affairs because , as he told the Detroit convention , he had had no mandate from the CIO , he could have been following the Lewis line . But he was not . Ill and overworked though he was , he found the time and had the integrity to decide for himself where the future of American labor lay . To say he broke with Lewis would be to suggest a drama that never was acted out . But surely and irretrievably he moved in a direction which , the Detroit convention revealed , had him poles away from Lewis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not for long be overshadowed by a marplot . Big though the UMW is , it is not big enough for Lewis and an able man who opposes him . Murray 's vice-presidency in the Lewis organization makes both men uncomfortable . Next May , when the Steel Workers ' Organizing Committee becomes an international union on its own , its presidency will be offered to Murray . Unless he can win Lewis over by then , he will , take the job and , for the first time in his long life as a union official , be completely independent of John L. When he takes that step , the last vestigial remains of the umbilical cord which led from the miners to the new unions will be cut away and the CIO will take on a character and a destiny of its own . 