@@485419

AS THE defeat of Germany draws nearer , pressure is developing in this country , and also in Great Britain , to spare the German people the consequences of defeat . The demand is heard ' in many different quarters . A " Save Germany " camp is clearly in formation . Roughly , this camp can be said to be composed of three groups . The first consists of those former isolationists whose opposition to aiding Great Britain and Russia was based on the idea that Nazi Germany was useful as a bulwark against " bolshevism . " The anti-Soviet basis of the pro-German sympathies of these people is quite clear . Another group consists of pacifists and moralists who believe that justice and order in international relations can be maintained by the mere assertion of abstract principles , without the sanction of power or the use of organized force . The attitude of these two groups could be expected . But a third is made up of liberals and progressives who have shown in the past an excellent understanding of the realities of fascism and Nazi-German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany " camp by their sincere concern for a durable peace and ' a just and stable international . order . They advocate a " soft " peace as a means of effecting the democratic regeneration of the German people . Behind this attitude there is the lingering idea that the Nazi regime is merely the product of the " injustices " of Versailles . The German people are considered unwilling prisoners of the Nazi machine , not responsible for or participating in its crimes . With the removal of the Nazi dictatorship , they are expected to accept the values of a democratic way of life , provided a " hard " peace does not drive them again into the arms of an anti-democratic leadership . The argument of the liberal wing of the " Save Germany " camp is based on a misconception of the real attitude of the German people and on a faulty analysis of the social and historical bases of Nazi imperialism . Unlike fascism in other countries , the Nazi regime and its aggressive foreign policy have received the support of the overwhelming majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were in power , when legal opposition parties were still in existence , these parties  --  the Social Democrats and the Catholic Center  --  used the tribune of the Reichstag to declare their support of the government 's foreign policy . That , unlike the anti-fascists in Italys Austria , and Spain , they let themselves be destroyed without putting up a fight , showed not only the weakness of their leadership but also the masses ' acceptance of the Nazi " revolution . " All the famed efficiency of the Gestapo could not destroy underground resistance movements in Poland , Czechoslovakia , France , the Low Countries , and Norway . Even in Austria there was secret unrest . But no significant opposition was ever found in Germany proper . The invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941 brought an upsurge of Communist activity in all occupied countries . In France this upsurge revitalized the whole underground movement . Germany remained quite unaffected . Such resistance to the Nazi regime as has recently appeared in military circles is entirely due to the realization , that Germany is losing the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World conquest but to his inability to implement his plan successfully . THE PEOPLE SHARE THE GUILT Moreover , there is evidence that the Nazi idea of the " master race " ruling the world has won the positive approval of the German people , and particularly of those age groups which are now fighting the war and which during the next twenty years will be decisive for the future of Germany . In the first place , only a people giving full support to the government and its objectives could fight with such tenacity and self-sacrifice . A comparison of the fighting morale of the German and Italian armies makes this point clear . And secondly the unprecedented atrocities in the occupied countries  --  the mass murders , the cold-blooded extermination of the Jews  --  were not the work of " a handful of Nazi criminals . " They required the direct cooperation of hundreds of thousands of men . Facts uncovered in the liberated areas of Eastern Europe , as well as reports of the underground in Poland , Yugoslavia , - and Czechoslovakia , show that the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lowliest civil servants . They all treated the people of the occupied countries as " sub-humans , " especially in Eastern Europe . The prevalence of this attitude receives further confirmation from German war prisoners , most of whom do not see any wrong in the atrocities committed in the conquered countries . The killing of Jews , Poles , and Ukrainians appears to them as natural as the extermination of rats or insects . These crimes must have been known to the German people at home . And yet no voice was ever raised in protest . The churches did some grumbling about certain acts of the Nazis in Germany . They opposed the " mercy " murders of Germans and the sexual libertinism encouraged by the Nazis among the German youth . But they uttered no word of condemnation of the systematic extermination of the Jews or the mass murders of Poles and Ukrainians . One may plead in their defense that the ruthlessness of the Gestapo kept them silent . Gestapo threats , however , did not prevent the Catholic and Protestant churches in occupied France from protesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to save Jews from being sent to extermination camps in Poland . The conscience of Germany was silent . - Of course , after Germany is defeated , plenty of " anti-Nazism " will appear in Germany . But until the fundamental outlook of the German people changes , this anti-Nazism will not be a rejection of world coaqueit and domination by the " master race . " It will represent , rather , a technical criticism of the Nazis ' failure to attain the objectives of their policy and a search for a better method . Such " anti-Nazism " can not serve as the foundation of a secure peace . 794 NAZI IMPERIALISM-A " PEOPLE 'S " EVIPEEtIALISM The peculiar attitude of the German people is explained by the specific social content of Nazi imperialism . Most of us think of imperialism as a policy of the ruling classes imposed upon the people through deception and propaganda . Imperialism , according to this view , is fostered by industrial and financial interests which use their governments to secure for them monopolistic control over markets and resources . Such , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the nineteenth and in the first quarter of the twentieth century . If Nazi imperialism were of the same type , the German people might be expected to discover that they had been made to fight for their rulers against their own best interests . Nazi imperialism , however , has different social roots . It is a policy pursued not for the benefit of a single class or a few classes  --  monopoly capital and the Junkers  --  but for the - benefit of all strata of German society . Sociologically , we may describe it as a people 's imperialism . It gives everyone a stake in imperialist expansion and conquest . And the re -- wards of conquest were actually distributed among all classes in Germany . German capitalists acquired capital assets in the conquered countries ; military and civil officials got opportunities for advancement as a result of the extension of German a'aministration . Business men were rewarded by expansion of their sheltered markets ; managers obtained key positions in Europe 's industries . German peasants , or their sons , were given land taken from its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , shared in the fruits of Nazi imperialism . At first the expanding war economy provided it with employment . Later the importation of foreign slave labor brought about a general upgrading of German workers ; theirs became the positions of skilled workers , foremen , and supervisors . If Germany had won the war , the German working class would have become the " master proletariat " of the world . Its relations to the workers of other countries would have been like those of white to colored laborers in South Africa . In the Kaiser 's Germany imperialism was supported by the heavy industries and the Junkers . The working class , reared in Mandan traditions , opposed it in the name of democracy and the international cooperation of all working people . Now , however , the German working class has traded its earlier socialist ideology for the promise of becoming the " master proletariat . " Of all the successes of the Nazis , this was the greatest . This " people 's imperialism " is a basic feature of fascism general . It was prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming a world power and of carrying through its program successfully . Consequently , Italian fas-cism. was unable to get the approval of the whole nation . Germany , however , had a real chance of becoming the master of the world . Germany can not become a , useful member of the community of nations unless the idea of a people 's imperialism is driven out of the minds of the German people . Our policy toward Germany must be designed to accomplish this purpose . It will not be served by a " soft " peace which saves the German people from the hard consequences of their imperialist ambitions . If the United States and Great Britain piotect Germany from the wrath of the nations it has enThe NATION slaved , starved , and murdered , the German people will believe that they can try the same thing again . They must be allowed to bear fully the vengeance and wrath of those nations they invaded ; they must also be made to repair , to the utmost of their capacity , the damage they have done . PUNISHMENT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partial -- lady Poland , Yugoslavia , Greece , and the western republics of the Soviet Union , have been ravaged to such an extent that even a defeated Germany may emerge from the war in a relatively improved economic position . It may turn out that Germany is the most prosperous country in Europe . This would be very dangerous because the German people would believe that the tenacity with which they supported the Nazi regime and carried on the war was worth while after all . The reparations exacted must therefore be sufficiently great to prevent the Germans from enjoying a higher standard of living than the peoples they have ruined . Moreover , international investment and development plans should give priority to the ravaged countries . Nothing but the psychological shock of a very severe peace will induce the German people to give up their imperialist ideas and accept civilized standards of international cooperation . The problem may be compared to that of reforming a criminal who has consistently violated the standards of the society in which he lives . The first step is to convince him that crime does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which affect his well-being adversely , not by preaching . After that , it may be useful to call upon the chaplain or the Sunday-school teacher . Similarly , before we start to " reeducate " Germans , we must convince them that the fruits of aggression are bitter . Even so , the reeducation of the German people in a new set of values will be very slow . A part of German youth will have to be considered " incurable " and deported from Germany . Many individuals , however , will escape detection . And until the new values of a democratic and peaceful way of life have been accepted by a sufficiently large majority of the German people , there will be danger that the " incurable " minority will take advantage of the political inexperience of the masses to - win influence over them and start a new international adventure . Against such a possibility the world must be well guarded . Whatever the ultimate chances of " regenerating " Germany , it must be deprived of the means of starting a new war . We may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of recovery is al slow one , we must take precautions that he does no fresh harm . Depriving Germany of the means of starting a new war implies the diminution of its strength as a nation . This will be effected partly through the territorial changes and consequent demographic readjustments demanded by Germany 's neighbors . In addition , however , it is necessary to strike directly at the sources of the nation 's military potential . Its internal economy must be revised under Allied supervision , and all industries which might serve war purposes must be removed . By means of an internationally financed investment program , it is possible to raise the industrial capacity , and hence the military potential , of the countries of Eastern and Southeastern Europe , such as Poland , Czechoslovakia , and Yugoslavia . Such a development , together with the inDecember 30 , 1944 dustrial and demographic growth of the Soviet Union and the restoration of the power of France , will reduce Germany 's relative position to that of a third-rate European power . The peace of the world will then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reeducation . No contradiction exists between the two , objectives of " reeducating Germany " and of providing security during the interim period . The measures needed to make Germany harmless will in the long run further its reeducation . The 795. price the German nation must pay is of course enormous . But only persons indifferent to moral values will pity the criminal who expiates his crimes . When Germany finally " reforms , " it will find itself in an entirely different world . It will be a relatiVely small nation , with no chance of ever becoming a great power . But great powers have been reduced permanently to the status of minor nations before now . Spain and Sweden are instances . Germany will have to adjust itself to a new situation . Historical changes are irreversible .                     