@@494269

The Riddle for the Germans Slowly , but also remorselessly , Allied armies on the Western Front have ground through elaborate German defensive positions . In some cases they have penetrated only outpost lines . This is true principally in the south , where the American Seventh and French First Armies have gained mileage out of proportion to their strength . Since the Germans arc not yet , unfortunately , entirely deprived of reserves , their yielding in the area from Metz to the Swiss border can only mean that they place a lower valuation on the annexed provinces of Alsace and Lorraine , which lie west of the Rhine , than upon their own historic territory . Elsewhere , the Allied armies have advanced into the Siegfried Line itself , and here the progress has been slower ; the resistance has been on the same order as that at Aachen . The Germans have been unwilling to yield a foot of ground in the Saar and Rocr areas , not only because this region is historically theirs , but because it serves as a buffer for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication lines radiating from Cologne and Duisburg . With the whole front in motion , the Germans have been compelled to consider which sector presented the main threat ? which was the one where the Allies were seeking to effect a major break-through . Field Marshal von Rundstedt and his able Chief of Staff , General Westphal , have shown extraordinary skill in facing this problem . While they had to try to outguess their opponents , they did not make the mistake of assuming that they had to make a guess and then stick to it . Skillful Handling of Reserves If they had done this , they would have been obliged to rush reinforcements to that part of the line which they had chosen as the Allies ' main target . Actually , they have used their reserves sparingly , and somewhat impartially along the more northerly sectors of the front ( from the Saar to the Maas ) . They have resisted the temptation to throw reserves into the Alsatian sector , which they were prepared to yield under moderate pressure ; indeed , there is evidence that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combat troops before the swift French-American advance in this area . However , the front is so long that the admittedly limited German reserves must be used with great skill and selectivity as between the several northern sectors . To avoid any possibility of making a mistake , the cautious von Rundstedt ( now freed , it would seem , of interference from the intuitive Hitler ) has simply refrained from making commitments . He has avoided , in other words , the strategic trap prepared for him by the nature of the Allied Supreme Command 's offensive . The Trap for War Commentators Allied newspapermen and German commentators have fallen into the trap in fair numbers . In the case 780 of the latter , it may be part of a skillful propaganda design , but that ircertainly not the case with Allied newspapermen . Fascinated by memories of the rapid advance by some armies after the break-through in France , they have been trying to foreshadow a similar break-through at the borders of the Reich , and to pick the place where it would occur . They would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly , and had emphasized , the possibility that General Eisenhower is not seeking a breakthrough in that sense . It would avail him little to occupy German territory , after a quick break-through , and to leave behind him a powerful German army . There is not the same advantage to be derived from the speedy occupation of enemy territory as there was from the speedy liberation of French soil . It is still true , no matter how bromidic it may be , that the only real goal of the armies now is the destruction-of the German armed force . Occupation then will follow automatically . The Facts About the Shell Shortage There can be no doubt that General Eisenhower is fully justified in his appeals for a higher rate of ammunition supply . His armies may be compelled to halt soon for shortage of shells unless the unexpectedly rapid rate of consumption is made up , and quickly . But there are fine and important distinctions to be observed in assigning the causes for the urgency of this situation . A hasty reading of the daily press would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being imperiled by the dilatoriness of their fathers and . uncles , brothers and cousins , sisters and sweethearts on the home front . Nothing could be farther from the truth . As War Secretary Stimson made clear , in an admirably lucid statement of the problem which received too little attention , the armies were halted at the gates of Germany because they had outrun their supplies . There were plenty of shells reaching the beaches of Normandy ; the trouble was that they could not be moved by road and rail to the front . There were plenty more in Britain ; the trouble was that they could not be unloaded in France with the limited - facilities then available , and moved from the coast to the front . There were plenty on the high seas . But when the build-up was completed , and the bulk of these supplies had been moved to the front , through Cherbourg , Le Havre , Rouen and emergency ports , and finally through Antwerp ? then , and not until then , did the tightness appear . And that was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower 's own officers of what they would need , and the promptness with which shell production in this country was cut back to the High Command 's estimates . It is important that the record on this matter be kept straight . What the Russians Are Doing Much attention has been given to the comparative lull on all fronts ( except the Hungarian ) on which the Red Army is engaged . The New York Times has conducted a decorous debate with itself , using its military cditor and managing editor as protagonists , the former rebuking the Russians , the latter defending them . No doubt the Russian autumn offensive through the Balkan states was motivated as much by politico-military as by purely military considerations ; that does not detract from it , provided only that the advantage thus gained by the Russians be not Misused . And so far there is no evidence of any intention to misuse it . While it is true that the same expenditure of effort on the central sectors of the front might have produced an advance into East Prussia and western Poland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more likely to succeed when the ground is hard , in midsummer or in midwinter , than in the muddy seasons . QECEMBER z z , 1944 By the time these lines are printed , the ground will be hardening along most of the front in Poland , creating the conditions in which the Russians may be expected to launch another great offensive . Just as it was oseemly for the Russians to prod the Western Allies savagely , from 1941 to early 1944 , ft:it a " second front " which would have been disastrously premature , it is unseemly for any among the Western Allies today to expect the Russians to launch an offensive until it can be carried through to its conclusion with every , hope of success . The Russians would be doing their lilies , as well as themselves , a disservice if they struck prematurely . The Aviation Agreement with Franco The more one considers the new aviation agreement between the United States and Franco 's Spain , the worse it looks . In the first place , it is certainly intended . sblackmail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aviation conference at Chicago . ' While on the whole we prefer the Canadian-American position to the British , the latter is not so bad that it should be attacked by such dangerous strong-arm methods as this . In the second place , this agreement has heavy and undesirable political repercussions . It will OTC to bolster Franco at the very moment when his regime is tottering . Even the British , and the Vatican , were about ready to let Franco go when we took this new action . It will seem a blow in the face to our Rusaim allies , who say that Franco is the loyal ally of Hitler , and charge that his aid to Germany has int:eased 3o percent in the past year , despite pledges to the Allies to the contrary . There was no need to hurry with this agreement with Spain . Our air routes already bypass that country . There is good reason to fear that we rushed into the agreement for the precise reason that Britain and the Vatican were cooling toward Franco . Congress should investigate , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We ought to give Franco the air , instead of sharing it with him . Anglo-American Disharmony Uncle Sam and John Bull are getting in each other 's hair again . The aviation conference in Chicago is deadlocked between these two countries , chiefly because the British insist on compelling Americans , in the postwar world , to ride in British planes whether they want to or not , in order to divide the traffic equally between the two countries . In Washington , several Senators have announced that the proposed oil agreement is dead . Private American oil interests have managed to tighten the screws on the Senate and to persuade its members that we ought to use up American oil as fast U possible , without importing any , thus putting ourselves eventually at the mercy of other powers who will still be oil-rich when we are oil-poor . The new 78 Lend-Lease plan , which is designed to let Britain get back on her feet after the war just as fast as we do , is being handled gingerly for fear intransigent American nationalists in Congress shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be prosperous again . We of course regret these evidences of international lack of harmony , and hope that all of them will be ironed out . At the same time , it is well to remember that they are signs the war is going well , and not the contrary . If we did n't all believe we were moving toward victory , we should n't feel we could afford the luxury of being so disagreeable to one another . Russia and France Everyone takes it for granted that General de Gaulle 's purpose in visiting Moscow is to make an alliance between France and the Soviet Union . We see no reason why this should not be done . Nothing could be more dangerous than for Europe to be divided into two hostile blocs , one clustered around Russia and the other around Great Britain . Germany would be sure to use such a situation for her own advantage and try thus to come back and start the third world war . There is no reason why France , Great Britain and Russia should not have a system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incompatible with Dumbarton Oaks . It all depends on the spirit which lies behind it . The greatest danger to be found in any of these threl powers at the present time , in our judgment , is the implacable toryism displayed by the British government in seeking to support a rightist minority against a leftist majority in every one of the liberated countries of Europe . Public-Works Planning President Roosevelt has asked Congress to approve a request for $75 million to pay for blueprinting public-works projects for states , counties and local communities after the war . This is a necessary first step in national preparations to meet possible wide-scale unemployment when war production stops . It is hoped that there will be speedy approval of this comparatively small request so that we shall be prepared with a first backlog of work when and if the need arises . In making this basic request , the President did not spell out further details of postwar government employment policy . But Washington planners are unanimous in recommending that the old-fashioned WPA principle be ruled out at the start . Subsistence wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prevailing-wage system in any new public-works program . It is important that the Congress approve this first step toward preparedness for reconversion without delay , so that the more difficult and detailed phases of the planning can begin . Good Sense by Mr. Wilson At the time of the First World War , most of the increase in prices took place after the Armistice , not before it . This increase led to the depression in 1920 , when $15 billion was cut off the national income , payrolls went down 44 percent and there were 100,000 bankruptcies . It is important that we should not let this happen again . In this connection there is economic statesmanship in the announcement by C. E. Wilson , president of General Electric , that when this firm goes back to civilian production , its goods will sell at prewar prices . Other manufacturers of comparable goods have been talking about increases of from IO to 35 percent . Mr. Wilson recently called off a conference on postwar plans at the request of the government , because of its bad psychological effect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Electric proposes to keep wages at their present high level and to plan for maximum production . If private enterprise can ever be made to work at all , it will in large part be through plans of this character . Beveridge Plan No. 2 When Sir William Beveridge came out with his plan for enlarged social security , he said that no such plan could be a substitute for measures to produce full employment . He now has issued in Britain a book embodying his ideas on this subject ( to be published by Norton in the United States in February ) . It is simply an extension of the policy already endorsed in general terms by the Woolton White Paper ? that the government shall guarantee a high level of employment by spending and investing enough to assure it , in so far as private enterprise does not do so . But Beveridge Plan No. 2 is far more specific than is the government concerning the means by which this is to be done . He would not wait to see what private enterprise would accomplish , but would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which spending from all sources would be estimated , and government spending stepped up enough to employ any left in the lurch by private spending . This he calls " the socialization of demand . " Of course it does not ply government ownership or control of all business ; what it does imply is that business will be assured of markets for all it can produce with all the labor power available . Racism in the Hood River Valley Nominated as the most un-American action of the week : the deed of the Hood River , Oregon , Post of the American Legion , which has just erased from its county war memorial the names of sixteen local Americans of Japanese ancestry , now serving in the United States Army .                     