@@475049

SCHOLARS Confess They Are Confused , " The New York Times announced in headlines last Septcrnber . A hundred scholars at the third annual Conference on Science , Philosophy , and Religion had adjourned with a declaration that next year they would bring " men of affairs " into consultation to help clear up the confusion . That the headline was no exaggeration of the facts can be seen readily from a perusal of the report of the conference , including its formal statement . Other groups are less aware of their confusion , or less frank about it , and declare that they not only have a diagnosis but , in part at least , the remedy . Thus historians recesitly have contended that more and " better " history is a partial solution . Other groups , representing one or more of the humanities , have expressed their concern at the neglect of their subjects in the Army and Navy training programs . In addition to these special cases there is the permanent din of the educators lamenting the lack of coherence , unity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a symptom of an underlying tension in our social structure ; like totalitarianism , and the war itself , it is evidence of the lack of a generally accredited method of approach to the adjustments which must from time to time be made in the lives of nations as in the lives of individuals , As Hutchins of Chicagohas frequently pointed out , theology once constituted such a method , and priests were recognized as competent authorities on the application of this method to the ever-changing social scene . We need not review here the course of events which has resulted in a decline of the priestly authority . On questions involving our adjustments to the physical universe , it is true , a new priesthood has arisen which has been conspicuously successful in reaching unified and demonstrably valid conclusions . These are the physical scientists . But we have signally failed to develop a similarly unified method of attack upon social problems . Instead of turning either to science or to theology under these circumstances , we have relied on an amorphous body of lore , the chief ingredients of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined . Taken together , these materials generally are called " the humanities . " I submit that we can no longer rely upon the humanities to serve in their historic roles , but must in our social as in our physical adjustments turn to science as our principal rod and staff . As will appear later , I do not contemplate the abandonment of the humanities or even necessarily any retrenchment in man 's pursuit of these fields of knowledge . On the contrary I shall defend them for what they are and for the functions which they unquestionably fulfill . I merely contend that we must cease to rely upon the humanities for guidance of a type which they can not possibly provide . That guidance must be supplied by a positive social science ? a kind of science which must not for a moment be confused with the semi-philosophical , journalistic social " sciences " that to-day are classified among the humanities . It is not necessary in this connection to defend or exalt science and scientific methods to the disparagement of other approaches . I simply take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theological , the metaphysical , and the positive approaches ? said : " Any one of these might alone secure some sort of social order ; but while the three co-exist , it is impossible for us to understand one another upon any essential point whatever . " Of course there are many who find in our present predicament merely further evidence of the futility of the scientific approach in human affairs and who consequently advocate a return to theology , either in one of its historic forms or in a new version in which they personally can play the role of major prophets . If I could see any chance of bringing about such a return to theology I would give it serious consideration . But I see no such possibility in the long run . The commitments we have already made to science , chiefly in our material culture , are of such character that we can neither go back nor stand still . The commitments we have made in our technological developments and our methods of communication , and the resulting interdependence which governs our lives require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic pattern of our material culture , rather than vice versa . This basic technological pattern unquestionably rests upon natural science . On this ground , rather than on any assumption of absolute or intrinsic superiority of science as such , I think the following conclusion is inescapable : In our time and for some centuries to come , for better or for worse , the sciences , physical and social , must be to an increasing degree the accepted point of reference with respect to which the validity ( Truth ) of all knowledge is gaged . If we accept this conclusion , then it follows that a certain minimum of training in the scientific point of view , in the orientation , language , and methods of science , is a primary requirement of all liberal education , and must be given especially in homes and in the lower schools , as well as in the colleges , very much more widely and more effectively than it is being given at present . II P ' - ' 11-IAT the scientific approach has not permeated our ways of thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree required by the situation in which we find ourselves , probably requires no argument . It is true that scientific information about many subjects , particularly about the physical world , is more widely diffused than ever before . It is true that the term " scientific " carries with it a prestige which makes it a much desired and a much misused label . But the scientific habit of thought , especially about social problems , has not penetrated very far . We still prefer to deal with these problems in the " good " old manner of our primitive ancestors . That is , we like to ascribe social problems to the malevolence of some persons and the solution of difficulties to the benignity of others . Political conflicts , including wars , are thought of almost entirely in this primitive framework . The uncongeniality of scientific ways of thinking doubtless springs from our long habituation to thinking about human affairs in terms of devils , gods , evil , sin , and other such concepts . This mode of thought unquestionably has given through the ages a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the universe and the promise of the ultimate achievement of our desires . The course of events by which this type of orientation toward the physical world has been superseded gradually by the scientific type of thinking is familiar to everyone . Regarding the social world , however , our emancipation from our remote ancestors ' ways of thinking is quite superficial . Having divested ourselves of a few individual examples of our Sunday-school superstitions , many of us , including some social scientists , feel very much liberated , sophisticated , and " scientific . " The superficiality of our emancipation from the fundamental ways of thinking , of which belief in ghosts , belief in hell-fire , etc. , are merely illustrations , becomes painfully evident , however , even among the scientifically trained , in any period of social crisis . The best index of how slightly scientific habits of thought , as distinguished from a lot of facts about science , have penetrated is the gullibility of vast numbers of otherwise apparently intelligent people when exposed to the propaganda , quackery , and improbabilities of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pronouncements of distinguished physical scientists , especially at a time like the present . These men are fully conversant with the coldly unbiased attitudes of mind and the rigorous adherence to fact and to objective reasoning which have achieved results in their approach to physical problems . But they frequently find that social problems are " too complex " and that here we had better rely on " common sense , " " judgment , " " experience , " " intuition , " " morality , " and " decency . " No one contemplates dispensing with these guides in any science . It is a gross oversight , however , not to recognize that it is only as science has subjected these elementary modes of adjustment to its own rigorous discipline that modern medicine and technology , for instance , have supplanted the practices and the advice of wise old women , sages , and seers , heavily fortified by morality and decency . Copious illustrations of the failure of a scientific attitude of mind to penetrate into social matters are furnished by the large and popular field of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art are the journalists , including a considerable number mistakenly classified as social scientists . They are on the bandwagon during the parade . They are the first to condemn the show after it is over . Contrast the journalistic evaluation of Russia before , during , and after the RussoGerman pact . We can expect more somersaults when the current honeymoon ( or is it the courtship period ? ) is over . The debunkers made a virtue of this instability , supporting it with clich &; to the effect that " wise men change their minds , fools never . " Actually the phenomenon betrays only intellectual immaturity and a lack of that scientific perspective which would compel the recognition of nonsense and contradictions although they occur in slightly novel forms . This state of mind is unfortunately not confined to journalists . Statesmen and " men of affairs " provide even more disturbing examples . Consider , for example , current proposals to defend the right of every people to Jive under whatever form of government they prefer , but at the same time to destroy those forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of self-determination and national autonomy , but to supervise the school systems of nations whose type of education we deplore ; and to establish in our own country a middleclass society , but at the same time preserve the opportunities of the Horatio Alger stories . These are suggestions from " men of affairs , " from whom some scholars have decided to seek guidance . Perhaps the blind will lead the confused out of the ditch , but I doubt it . To correct these contradictory ways of thinking about men and social events , rather than merely to diffuse information , is undoubtedly the principal task of scientific education . At present enormous energy reserves , in the form of undisciplined emotions of hate and love , are generated and dissipated through primitive instruments of social organization . Brotherly love , on the one hand , and hatred of " evil " on the other are invoked in the face of problems that will yield , if at all , only to instruments of precision like " those of the surgeon and the engineer in hands that do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The reluctance to discipline these satisfying and " virtuous " emotions in our dealing with social questions is undoubtedly one reason for the slow permeation of the scientific method into the field of social relations . III Y REASONING thus far has been as follows : ( 1 ) The course of events has forced upon us a situation which can be understood and controlled , if at all , only through that particular set of assumptions , reasonings , and methods of procedure which is called the scientific method . ( 2 ) We have been slow and reluctant , even in the universities , to adopt this point of view as regards our social life . ( 3 ) The result is not only considerable chaos in our social adjustments but a schizoid cleavage in the outlook and point of view of our people which threatens internal unity and effectiveness in our adjustments toward both outside nations and our own national problems . In the long run we expect our schools to mold people 's points of view . We like to believe also that the schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than merely reflect folk beliefs . We like to believe that our high schools and colleges provide youth with guides for the future as well as acquaintance with the past . Whether the confusion which now exists among scholars and men of affairs is merely a reflection of the chaos which exists in our educational system , or rice versa , is sometimes a subject for debate . Actually these disorders interact . Since the school system is a relatively well-defined entity as compared with the multitude of nonschool influences that make up the bulk of our " education , " and since the school is therefore perhaps relatively susceptible to change if we want change , I shall here take the view that if we modify the curriculum of our schools we arc making the most hopeful approach to correcting the schizoid character of our culture . This is a subject which has recently received much public attention in Harper 's and elsewhere on account of the battle waged on the one hand by President Hutchins and his disciples , representing the New Order as advocated at Chicago and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them are ranged a large assortment of dissenters who , like the gentlemen of the Supreme Court , frequently agree in their disagreement with the majorityopinion , but arrive at their conclusion in different ways . I find myself in full agreement with Mr. Hutchins ' diagnosis of the situation and differ with him only about the remedy . I agree with him that modern education suffers from the lack of a unifying discipline , such as theology provided in the Middle Ages . I contend , however , that this unifying discipline today can not be , as some feel , an amorphous mass of one hundred or any other stated number of books , called classics , dealing primarily with the ancient and medieval gropings of mankind to find its way about . The unifying discipline of modern education lies in modern science , which is simply the distilled essence of the classics of all time . It is the positive residue of the sifting and winnowing of all the ages , and its methods are the generally recognized and acknowlledged instruments of reaching valid conclusions . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried , science has superseded theology as the acknowledged authority . Our reluctance to accept a similar transition of ways of thinking regarding social phenomena is at the root of the confusions , the conflicts , and the disunity which we find even among the highly educated . What are the implications of this state of affairs for our educational system ? IV E121-1APS most people would agree that j the purpose of a general education is to develop a general ability to cope with the world to the maximum satisfaction of the student himself and of his community . ( We are dealing in this paper with the lower schools , the high schools , and perhaps the first two years of college , rather than with higher , specialized education for the few . ) It still remains a question what part of this assignment should be undertaken by the schools and what part should be left to other institutions such as the home , industry , and the various recreational institutions . Here I agree again with Hutchins that teaching vocational subjects is not the primary function of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vital in a person 's adjustment in the social order . What is to be taught in school and what is to be taught through other community agencies should be decided on the basis of what yields the most satisfactory results . Here we may use as a guide the relative consensus with which certain subject matter is most generally included in the curriculum of the lower schools . Curricula vary greatly in their detailed offerings , but there is very wide consensus regarding such elements as reading , writing , arithmetic , and the rudiments of physical and social science in the curricula of elementary schools . From this I conclude that we are warranted in establishing a curriculum requiring proficiency in the arts of verbal communication ( including mathematics ) and in science ( for which additional reasons were stated above ) . Further , I think there would be wide agreement that an education should include some familiarity with those subjects and behaviors to which men have always looked for refreshment and pleasure , namely , the arts . A general educational curriculum in our culture , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and art . On logical grounds I think it would he easier to classify the present subject matter of most college instruction into these two categories than into the more detailed and conventional classes such as art , science , literature , humanities , etc . For administrative purposes , however , and in order to avoid shock in the educational world , I think it would be expedient , although fundamentally absurd , to maintain a division of " humanities " in addition to science and art . There are at least three reasons for this practical concession : ( l ) The word " humanities " has a warm and pleasant sound to which large numbers of people are deeply attached . ( 2 ) The overwhelming majority of people , academic and educated as well as others , are still in the preDarwinian age as regards the doctrine that man and all his works are a part of the natural world , and can be adequately studied , without residue , within the framework of natural science . ( 3 ) It is convenient to have a blanket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boondoggling demanded by local conditions and temporary pressure groups can be allocated . Why not deposit on a heap labeled " humanities " everything that does not fit ( according to present speech conventions ) into the categories of science or art ? At first glance this suggestion may create a dreadful furor , because it will appear that I have relegated to a sort of junk heap some enormously important things , including perhaps history , philosophy , andthat part of literature which is not at present primarily regarded as art While I have no desire to avoid either the practical or the theoretical implications of the above-mentioned sinister-sounding proposal , I hasten to make some explanations which should mollify all honest dependents on those fig trees which I seem to have cursed . In the first place , the finest fragments of everything are sometimes to be found in the relatively unclassified kitchen middens of human achievements . In the second place , history , philosophy , and literature in their recognized forms are amply provided for in the categories of science and art . Traditional philosophy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including metaphysics , and is therefore classifiable as history . Logic belongs with mathematics , grammar , semantics , etc. , some of which are already well recognized as essential scientific tools , and as such are logically a part of science , if not sciences in their own right , just as mathematics is everywhere recognized as a tool of science . A new science of semiosis , dealing with the nature of symbolic behavior , is in process of emerging and will be as important , I think , to the social sciences as mathematics has been in the evolution of the physical sciences . All of these tool subjects represent no problem of classification in the curriculum of a general education , because they should be learned like reading ? i.e. , as required in mastering either science or art . History represents a peculiar monstrosity in the academic museum . Its principal subject matter is already largely included in , and is in any event logically part of , cultural anthropology , which is indistinguishable from sociology ( both of which perform more adequately the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unique contribution of history ) . It is taught by everyone , since all scientific and artistic data are necessarily historical . The history of music , of art , of physics , of culture , of ideas , of politics , of institutions , are all taught by the people in these respective fields . There is no residue of " History , " as such . History will doubtless continue as a separate discipline for a long time , as a valuable adjunct to , and finally as a necessary part of , the respective social sciences . In the long-overdue separation of these sciences from journalism , literature , propagandist oratory , and drama , substantial parts of history will of course be classified as literature . Objective historical fact , being the raw material of all science , will continue as a major part of the curriculum . The collection and interpretation of this material is the concern of all the sciences . The present discussion , therefore , casts no aspersion upon historical data . I am discussing here only the logic of the present organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those types of historical writing in which mythology and literary style are the dominant considerations clearly belong with literature , which , in turn , will increasingly accept its role as an art . This will be to its own great advantage . Music and other arts have prospered much and are on a securer foundation for abandoning all pretense at rain-making , producing fertility of the soil , or depicting current events . Literature likewise will find it advisable , I think , to pose less and less as an authentic spokesman on psychology , sociology , economics , and foreign policy , and concern itself chiefly with the creation of and conformity to artistic standards . As this type of sorting out of the heap of humanities takes place , that heap will tend to disappear to everybody 's satisfaction and to the vast clarification of the acaddmie scene . But this will not take place for a long time . For this reason and for the ones previously stated , humanities had better be maintained as an administrative and curricular division in even the most progressive colleges . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most popular divisions . Nowhere will comparatively shallow burrowing yield such a reward in curious fragments that can be used in " Information , Please " programs and other such intellectual scavenger hunts . The humanities are the great repository of Lore . When treated in one way they become Art ( literature ) . When subjected to a different process the humanities provide hypotheses and data and techniques for science . Until the humanities are processed one way or the other they remain a source of vast confusion , frustration , and misunderstanding . Yet familiarity with this unclassified lore comes nearer to being accepted as a sign of education than any other test . It is Culture with a capital C. It has an aura which identifies its bearer on Park Avenue and at the Harvard Club . Above all , this collection of esoteric fragments of knowledge , superstition , and quackery advertises that most of its possessors have not been disturbed by any wolf at or near their door . Clearly a division of humanities must be maintained . V 1 F SCIENCE ( including the non-artistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , grammar , and semantics ) should be the core of the curriculum in modern general education , some minimum attention should be paid to it by all students . What would be absolutely required under this view of education ? In the first place I would require a demonstrated knowledge of the nature of symbols and signs and the nature of the rules governing the use of symbols in human communication , including the ability to write coherently and unambiguously , especially in the forms of exposition and argument . This I take to be what Hutchins means by his emphasis on grammar , logic , rhetoric , and mathematics . I thoroughly agree with him , provided it is clearly understood that I mean not dead languages , primitive logic , or obsolete mathematics , but modern linguistics- , semantics , and the mathematics and logic of the past fifty years . The evolution of all of these may be studied properly and profitably as history , mythology , magic , numerology , and superstition . But first , and as necessary equipment for the study of this background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on these subjects . To contend that this is excessive preoccupation with the contemporary world , that we are " forgetting human culture has traditional roots , " etc. , is the height of absurdity . Contemporary science is simply the tested residue of the groping of all the ages . Its roots lie in remotest antiquity . But why lead the student into all the fantastic blind alleys of man 's history before he has achieved standards by which he can at least recognize a blind alley when he secs it ? We recognize the absurdity of this in some fields . We do not teach the chemistry , physics , and biology of ancient Greece or the Middle Ages before students are acquainted with present knowledge of these subjects ; anyone who seriously proceeds to talk and reason about these subjects in the manner of the Middle Ages simply gets laughed at . But in other fields the same obsolete type of discussion is seriously considered , and is even supposed to be somehow more respectable than contemporary positive knowledge . A widespread social psychopathology is the result . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind can maintain its judicial disbelief in what is demonstrably false when a subtly fallacious argument is developed with all the superb skill of the old masters , who did not know they were lying , but who nevertheless lied with incomparable genius . " I consider that a basic knowledge of linguistic tools is even more important than science , because language and logic are basic to an understanding of scientific methods in their broader meaning as contrasted with mere laboratory techniques and scientific information . Adequate instruction in the fields of linguistics and semantics would contribute much to the resolution of the thoroughly obsolete cleavage between the " mental " and the " physical , " between the " material " and the so-called " non-material , " " social , " etc. , which is to-day perhaps the chief obstacle to the unity of all the sciences , including the social . The second requirement of the curriculum for general education is that it should provide a familiarity with the theory of the scientific method and with its applications to both physical and social problems . This would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as well as the concrete contents of such physical and social sciences as may be decided upon . Among these contents would be a broad survey of the history of human culture and especially of the student 's own culture from the anthropological point of view . If this seems to leave out important areas of extremely useful knowledge it should be pointed out ( a ) that I am dealing here only with the common core of education that would be imparted to all , and ( b ) that perhaps not more than half the student 's time would be devoted to fulfilling this requirement . I should certainly expect and hope that a substantial part of the other half would be devoted to art ( in which I include literature ) . If so , I am apportioning equal parts of the student 's time to art and to science , both of them broadly defined . This division of time probably represents in part my own bias in favor of the arts . Perhaps a more defensible division of time would be : onethird to science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and onethird to art , including literature . There would be minimum requirements for all students in the first two groups . If such a program were adopted , the trend would probably be in the direction of increasing emphasis on the first division , namely science , and its auxiliaries , logic , mathematics , and linguistics . I think John Dewey is right when he says , " Without ignoring in the least the consolation that has come to men from their literary education , I would even go so far as to say that only the gradual replacing of a literary by a scientific education can assure to man the progressive amelioration of his lot . " TO SUMMARIZE In the modern world science , and especially social science , must be the core of the curriculum ? the reference point for all approaches to the world . The reason why we have been reluctant to accept this view is that the social sciences are not yet thought of as disciplines which must gradually assume the same authority in the social world as the physical sciences already enjoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for social guidance on the vague and amorphous bodies of lore variously called humanities , literature , etc . Hence the social sciences must develop those characteristics which it is claimed distinguish them from literature , journalism , and other arts . The line between this lore and social science must become increasingly clear as the social sciences attain their maturity . The recognition that there is a line , while temporarily disturbing to those who feel that it reduces literature and art to inferior status , will in the long run be to the advantage of these arts . Their role in life and their capacity to satisfy cravings quite as deep-seated as those to which science ministers have not been questioned . There is nothing in science which will prevent man from continuing to find solace in religion , in contemplation , in literature , poetry , and the other arts . Indeed these arts are likely to prosper as they divest themselves of functions which they can not fulfill . Artists should cease pretending that they are reliable guides on economic , political , and social issues , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the novelists and poets . Finally , science can not and should not attempt to tell people what they ought to want . What science can do and has done , in the fields where it dominates , is to acquaint people reliably with ( 1 ) the possible alternate courses of action , and ( 2 ) the costs and consequences of each course . Whatever people do under these circumstances will constitute their " valuing " ? their Values . Values represent no special or unique problem in the social sciences , as is sometimes assumed . All behavior , human and sub-human , may be regarded as evaluative , and it is as regular and predictable as the behavior of the inanimate world . It is not true therefore that science can not deal practically with human values . By providing reliable estimates of the near and remote consequences of alternative courses of action , science conditions the choices ? the values ? of seen . Only by subjecting the artist 's and the seer 's visions to this evaluation can we avoid the frustration and neuroses which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fantastic aspirations , and the pursuit of mutually exclusive goals . It will still be the privilege of philosophers , poets , and seers to conjure up their own visions of the good life and to invite others to join them in quest of it . It is gratuitous to assume , however , that there is any such thing as the good life for all times , places , and conditions of men . Perhaps only the totalitarian-minded have the conceit necessary to so grandiose a presumption . These aspirations do not spring full-blown from the mind of seer or saint , nor are they deduced by sheer logic from divinely revealed premises . Visions of the good life spring from man 's experience through the ages . Social science is the most effective instrument for determining reliably what that experience has been and what it means in terms of attainable present goals . Science not only frees , stimulates , and disciplines the imagination of men , but it provides the means of telling us what we most want to know regarding our visions : Which of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are mutually incompatible ? It is the lack of a reliable method of answering such questions that results in the confusion which our scholars lament .                     