@@471145

Eworld 's most important fact is ot that we are in a war , but that we are in a revolution , ( No , Mr. Dies , I am not a Communist ; nor have I any intention of overthrowing the Government of the United States by violence ! ) It is perhaps a pity that the word revolution has two senses ? one an insurrection , a bloody uprising against constituted authority , the other a drastic and major change in the ideas and institutions which constitute the framework of human existence ; yet so it is . If we like , we can use rebellion for the first , historical transformation for the second ; but I prefer the word revolution , and shall continue to use it in what follows , with the express warning that I do not thereby mean merely barricades or bolshevism . If we once accept that statement and all its implications we find ourselves committed to the most far-reaching conclusions concerning both immediate action and future policy . From a combination of brute fact and human reason an argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposition of Euclid . Let me anticipate my detailed discussion by setting down the proposition as baldly as possible . This is the sequence of its steps : First , The war is the symptom of a world revolution , which , in some form or another , is inescapable . Second , There are certain trends of the revolution which are inevitable . Within nations , they arc toward the subordination of economic to noneconomic motives ; toward more planning and central control ; and toward greater social integration and cultural unity and a more conscious social purpose . Between nations , they are toward a higher degree of international organization and a fuller utilization of the resources of backward countries . Third , During the present war both military efficiency and national morale are positively correlated with the degree to which the inevitable trends of the revolution have been carried through . Fourth , There are alternative forms which the revolution may assume . The chief alternatives depend on whether the revolution is effected in a democratic way or a totalitarian way . Fifth , The democratic alternative of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanent ; the purely totalitarian method is self-defeating in the long run . Sixth , The only universal criterion of democracy and the democratic method is the satisfaction of the needs of human individuals , their welfare , development , and active participation in social processes . A further democratic criterion , applicable in the immediate future , is equal co-operation in international organization , including the treatment of backward peoples as potential equals . Seventh , The revolution , like the war , must be consciously accepted and deliberately entered upon . Formally , this can be accomplished by proclaiming war aims which include the achieving of the revolution . This releases the latent dynamism of the nation and the social system . Eighth and last , This again can be done on a democratic basis . By deliberately entering on the revolution in a fully democratic way it is possible to arrive at satisfactory and detailed war aims which will release the powerful forces latent in the democracies , shorten the war , and , if implemented , produce a stable peace . There is our proposition of political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bare bones and clothe them with convincing flesh and blood . II Point Number One was that the war is a symptom of a world revolution . Clearly the first thing to do about a revolution is to recognize it as a fact . Surprisingly enough however , it is quite possible to ignore its existence . Just as Monsieur Jourdain in Moli ? re 's Bourgeois Gentilhomme discovered that he hadbeen speaking prose all his life without knowing it , so many people to-day are beginning to discover that they have been living in a revolution without knowing it , and many others have still to discover this surprising fact . This is possible , partly because a world revolution is so vast in scope and , even though it proceeds at a rate far faster than that of history in its more normal phases , so gradual compared with the happenings of everyday life . The ordinary man sees his taxes raised , or unemployment go up , or banks crash down , or the central government extend its control , or war break out in some remote part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incident as an event in itself , not as a symptom of a larger process . It is also partly because most of us dislike radical change ; after all , it is a somewhat dubious privilege to be living in anything so drastic as a revolution . Because we dislike it , we unconsciously push it away from us , begin to treat the danger as if we were ostriches , and are temporarily enabled to believe that the nasty revolution does n't really exist . It is worth remembering that it took us democracies a long time to recognize the existence of this war . It is and always has been a world war , ever since its first beginnings in Manchukuo . But we refused , most of us , to admit the fact . German rearmament and the occupation of the Ruhr ; Italy 's attack on Abyssinia ; the fighting in Spain ; Munich : though some were bloodless , all were parts of a rapidly ripening world conflict . Both the fact that a world war existed and the ostrichism of our reactions to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we had Franco 's revolution , aided and abetted by the Axis ; then Italy and Germany actively intervening , partly to secure the triumph of their side and partly to enjoy a little practice for the major struggle that they knew was to come ; the Axis intervention providing counterintervention by the Russians and the Volunteer Brigades , and undercover help from France ; and yet the democratic Great Powers persisted in building up the fiction that it was nothing but a local civil war . I remember a cartoon in a left-wing French paper ? an official of the Non-Intervention Committee saving to an attendant , " Put the non-carafe on the non-table . " Nonintervention was England and France saying to each other , " Let us take nonsides in the non-war . " It was the political expression of a psychological refusal to recognize an unpleasant fact ? the fact that a world conflict existed . Hitler 's marching into Czechoslovakia at last made Britain as a nation realize that the world war existed . I suppose it was not till his invasion of Poland that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even later that the democracies began to recognize the existence of a world revolution . This is a surprising fact , considering that it had been going on for much longer than the war . The old tribal and feudal Japan had always been totalitarian in the sense that the individual was entirely subordinated to society . The new Japan merely translated this into modern terms , with the addition of an aggressive foreign policy ( in the process anticipating many of the ideas of the Nazis ) ; but the transformation was drastic and had obvious immediate consequences . The Russian Revolution of 1917 , the Turkish Revolution , the Fascist Revolution in Italy , the social and industrial transformation in Britain and other western European democracies , the New Deal in America , the Nazi Revolution in Germany , the establishment of a dictatorship in Portugal , the revolution and counter-revolution in Spain ? these , among other events , were all manifestations , sometimes total and drastic , sometimes partial and hesitant , of the world transformation in progress . The Russians Icing ago recognized its existence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Nazis , and the Japanese expansionists . Britain as a nation did not recognize it until much later , butwhen it came the recognition was explicit enough . A distinguished Swedish woman economist who spent some weeks in England in 1941 on her way to the U. S. A. told me how one night in the Savoy Hotel she found herself sitting next to a young officer in one of the Guards regiments , a typical English aristocrat . " You know , " he said , " we 're living in a Social Revolution here : very interesting , what ? " Very interesting indeed to a representative of a class which was likely to suffer considerably as a result ! The remark was a symptom . Toward the end of 1940 the adjustments of people and Government alike to the threat of invasion and to the Nazi air bombardment , together with the writings and radio talks of men like Priestley , had brought an acceptance of the fact which was both general and , on the whole , remarkably good-natured . France has had to accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imitation of Fascism . The United States is the only great Power which has not generally recognized its existence as an inescapable fact . The proportion of its people who still imagine that after the war they can go back to the old social and international system ? with a few minor differences no doubt , but essentially the same ? is still a high majority . I would say at least eighty per cent ; many American friends to whom I have talked have said ninety or more . The most important single thing for the Americans to do now is to recognize that they , like the rest of the world , are living in a revolution , and that in some form or other it will achieve itself inevitably , whether they like it or not . III The next step after recognizing the existence of the revolution is to understand its nature and probable results . This can best be done by studying the trends already manifested by the revolution as it has operated in various countries , discovering what they have in common , and projecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let us be quite clear in our minds that the revolution can achieve itself in a democratic or a totalitarian way ( or a mixture of the two ) , but that in all cases it manifests certain common tendencies . We thus can and must distinguish sharply between the inevitable aspects of the revolution , and its aiternative possibilities . The inevitable aspects of the revoludon are those trends which are being produced by economic and social forces entirely beyond our control . It is they that constitute the " wave of the future . " But it is a plain error to equate this revolutionary " wave of the future " with Nazism or any other brand of totalitarianism . The character of the wave depends on which of the alternative methods we adopt to achieve the revolution ? or , perhaps we had better say , to guide the revolution as it inevitably achieves itself . Thus dictatorship and forcible regimentation are not inevitable aspects of the revolution . Neither , we may add , is greater concern for the common man . The revolution is a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of economic laisser-faire and political nationalism . Peter Drucker documented this in an exciting and stimulating book called The End of Economic Mon . But he made no attempt to characterize the new system that is destined to emerge from the transformation of the old . If one must have a summary phrase , I would say that the new phase of history should be styled the Age of Social Man . Let us consider the trends of the revolution so far as it has taken place , to justify this assertion . Within nations , in the first place , purely economic motives , though naturally they continue to be important , are being relegated to second place in favor of non-economic motives which may broadly be called social , since they concern the national society as a whole , or else the welfare of the individual considered in his relation to the society of which he forms a part . In Nazi Germany the primary motive has been national power and prestige , to be realized through war . The complete subordination of purely economic motives can be measured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted by Dr. Schacht . Since then the democratic countries have had to do the same sort of thing . The extent of the change can be realized when we find the May Committee reporting , only eight years before the outbreak of the War , that " democracy was in danger of suffering shipwreck on the hard rock of finance , " because Britain was confronted with a budget deficit of 120 million pounds ? not much more than a week of its war expenditure in 1942 . To-day finance has come to be generally regarded merely as a necessary part of the machinery for realizing our aims . People are no longer asking , " How shall we pay for the war ? " Instead , they are beginning to say , " If we can finance the war in this way why ca n't we apply similar methods on a similar scale to realizing social and cultural aims in peace ? " In Russia the subordination of the ordinary profit motive to social ends has been even more obvious . The deliberate encouragement of heavy industry under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinds of enterprise which would have flourished in a laisser-faire economy , is the most clear-cut example . In general , though economic efficiency is naturally insisted upon , the primary criterion for an enterprise is not whether it shall show a profit in its balance sheet , but whether it is desirable from the broad national point of view summed up in the current plan . A particular example of some interest is the expenditure on scientific research . As Bernal has pointed out in his book The Social Function of Science , the U.S.S.R. , in spite of its low per capita wealth , was already before the war expending one per cent of its national income on scientific research . Under the system of competitive private enterprise this does not " pay " ; and we find that Britain ( before the war ) expended only one-tenth of 1 per cent of its national income on science , and even the U. S. A. only six-tenths of l per cent . In many other aspects of life in totalitarian countries the economic motive has been relegated to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Italy the Dopo Lavoro organization and in Germany the Kraft Durch Freude or " Strength through Enjoyment " did give the common man an outlet and a sense that the community was interested in him and his personal needs for a richer life : economic considerations were entirely subordinated to this . In Russia the elaborate system of rest houses and holiday centers and the equally elaborate arrangements for holiday transport achieved the same end . It is especially significant that similar trends have been at work in democratic countries , even when there has been no recognition of the existence of a revolution . One of the most telling examples is that of housing in Britain . It is impossible to provide the lower-income group with decent housing which shall give an economic return . Accordingly , the State has stepped in , and has given subsidies toward the building of no fewer than one and a quarter million houses or apartments in England and Wales alone during the inter-war period . The economic motive of profit has been overridden by the social motive of providing adequate living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting example because of the progressive change to be seen . In the nineteenth century charity did its best to alleviate obvious distress . The new outlook was first expressed in Britain by the recognition that badly undernourished children could not possibly profit by education , and the consequent provision of cheap or free school meals for them . To-day the provision of free meals has been considerably extendedand has been combined with the scheme for providing cheap dinners to a steadily increasing proportion of all children in State-aided schools . Free or undercost milk for children and for all expectant and nursing mothers is also being provided on a much more generous scale than before the war . In general , the motives that have become dominant or are tending to do so are those of social security , health and housing , education and culture , recreation and amenity , and national prestige and military power ; in special cases economic considerations have been overridden for almost mythological considerations , as in the Nazi persecution of the Jews as an inferior and enemy race , and the expulsion from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interests of uncritical acceptance of orthodox Nazi doctrine . Other apparently inevitable trends are those toward more planning and toward a greater degree of social unity or selfconsciousness . The trend toward planning is so universal and obvious that little need be said on the subject . It is inevitable because , with the end of the era of industrial expansion , laisser-faire was defeating. itself and unregulated private and sectional interests were coming into disastrous conflict with one another and with the common good . The trend is not merely toward more extensive planning in more fields ; it is also toward a greater initiative and authority at the center . Here again the totalitarian countries have gone farther ; but the U. S. A. contains some remarkably developed examples of planning , such as the Tennessee Valley Authority , and the war has forced a planned economy on every belligerent country . Social unity and self-consciousness perhaps demand a little more discussion . The Nazi doctrine of Aryan and Germanic superiority and Jewish inferiority and evil is a myth encouraging permanent and super-patriotic unity . In all totalitarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the government has encouraged art and other cultural activities on a large scale until they provide a much fuller and more intensive expression of society 's awareness of itself and its ideals than in other countries . In the U.S.S.R. the subsidiary nationalities have been deliberately encouraged to develop their own traditional cultures . The organized youth and health movements of the totalitarian countries and of prewar Czechoslovakia , the fostering of the belief in a peculiar " German science , " the great prestige and publicity given in Russia to scientific and geographical achievement are also symptoms of the same trend , as is the tendency to see in education not merely an intellectual , a moral , or a practical function , but a social one ? the function of projecting the character , the ideals , the needs , and , in general , the social consciousness of the nation into the next generation . In international affairs one inevitable trend is toward a higher degree of international organization . This has gone much farther in totalitarian countries ? theoretically in Japan 's " East Asian Co-Prosperity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler 's iron " New Order . " In the democratic countries it is beginning to appear under the stress of war . Lend-Lease , the leasing and sharing of strategic bases , organizations like the Middle East Supply Council , the various organizations for unified strategy and supply ? these are important beginnings . The second international trend is the greater concern with the organized exploitation of the resources , both material and human , of backward areas . This , like the first , is an inevitable outcome of that shrinking of the world to which Mr. H. G. Wells has so forcibly drawn attention . The world has become a unit , its frontiers and empty spaces are filling up . The exploitation may be exploitation in the bad sense , like that of occupied and dominated Europe by Germany at the present moment , or like that of the mineral resources of helpless or dependent peoples by powerful foreign financial interests . Or it may be exploitation in the good sense , like the encouragement given by the United States to the political development of the Filipinos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Uganda or the Gold Coast . Another symptom of the trend is the widespread talk about the need for investing very large sums in the development of backward regions , even if this be uneconomic in the shortrange terms of private finance . The logical conclusion of these various inevitable trends is a world where nations or federations have put noneconomic aims into first place , and exhibit a high degree of central planning , extending to every main activity of life , and a high degree of social integration in education , cultural expression , and social self-consciousness ; but also a world where nations are getting tied together more closely in international organizations , and where the resources of backward areas are being more consciously exploited and developed . Iv The third step in our proposition was that the degree to which the revolution had been achieved was in some way related to military efficiency in the war . The correlation is striking though by no means complete , and the relation appears to be a causal one , in the sense that planning , social integration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are all essential to the successful waging of modern total war . Here again the totalitarian countries provide the most obvious examples . Germany and Japan have been able to score their spectacular military successes because they have for years been planning for war , and because they have carried out the most drastic revolutions of their economy and social structure in the interests of that plan . The same is true of Russia : the military and technical efficiency which has surprised the world is the fruit of a deliberate and truly revolutionary plan . The lesser military efficiency of Italy has many reasons ; but it is a fact that the Fascist revolution was not so thorough-going or so wholehearted as the Nazi revolution in Germany or the Communist revolution in Russia , and this fact is undoubtedly one of the causes for Italy 's military failure in this war . In other countries failure to embark upon the revolution has demonstrably impeded military efficiency . The most conspicuous example was France , where conflict as to the form the revolution should take was so acute that no agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disintegration of morale and national feeling , unpreparedness , and inefficiency . The inadequacy of British production and planning during the Chamberlain " phony war " period is another illustration . So is the unfortunate effect of Britain 's slowness in changing her official attitude toward so-called inferior races , whether subject peoples or allies . American readers will be able to provide plenty of examples from their own country during the months since Pearl Harbor . From an earlier period , the shipment of oil and scrap iron to Japan , the behavior of Standard Oil and other big companies with regard to synthetic rubber and other new technical advances , and the huge output of pleasure automobiles during 1941 provide further examples of how failure to abandon the ideas of an earlier age may interfere with military efficiency when the revolutionary war eventually blasts its way in . There will be more to say on this subject in relation to war aims . Meanwhile the fact that there is a definite connection between the extent to which a country has progressed in achieving the inevitable trends of the revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a solemn warning to those who persist in proclaiming that the war is no timefor social experiments . On the contrary , the war calls for the most drastic social experimentation , so drastic as to merit the term revolutionary . The only question at issue is the form which the social experiment is to take . V This brings us to the most interesting step in the argument , for it is here that alternatives present themselves and that the outcome may be determined by our conscious choice and deliberate effort . The revolution itself is inescapable . Even if we struggle against it we merely make the inevitable process longer , more painful , perhaps more bloody . But its form and character are not : it can be achieved in different ways , of which the alternative extremes may be described as the democratic way and the totalitarian way . Our fifth point concerned the desirability and the efficiency of the two alternatives . We in the democracies know the undesirability of the totalitarian way . It is the way of force and domination . Inside the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gang . It operates by means of armed force , secret police , concentration camps , the building up of irrational mass enthusiasm , the suppression of freedom of discussion , thought , and inquiry , and the persecution of contrary opinion and of scapegoat minorities . It demands disciplined uniformity and regimentation . Internationally , it imposes the domination of a chosen people or a master race , who will shoulder the burden of directing the international organization required ; in return , other peoples are expected to acquiesce in remaining at a lower level of development and prosperity . In both cases , power is the primary aim , force is the primary method , and domination of the less powerful by the more powerful is the avowed object . The totalitarian method of achieving the revolution may be undesirable , but it is certainly capable of producing extreme efficiency , as the enemies of Nazi Germany have found to their cost . However , there is every reason to believe that this advantage is not a lasting one , and that the method is essentially a self-defeating one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by sheer force and can maintain itself only by constantly extending that power . But the more it extends its power the more resistance it generates both from the inside and from the outside . The question is thus not whether it will fail in the long run , but how long that run will be , and how much of civilization it will destroy in the process . What of the democratic way ? To be clear on this , the sixth step in our proposition of political Euclid , requires some hard mental effort . We may be sure in principle that it is preferable , and that it does not contain the necessary seeds of its own defeat within itself . But we must be quite sure of what we mean by democracy , sure that we are not misapplying the term or merely talking platitudes . Democracy requires rethinking in relation to the changing world . A great deal of what we have taken for granted as being of the essence of democracy turns out to be applicable only to a partial aspect of democracy or only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus it is entirely wrong to equate democracy with a system of free individual enterprise . That was the form taken by democracy , in its economic aspects , during the period initiated by the industrial revolution . In those conditions that aspect of democratic freedom worked efficiently in many ways , but also generated contradictions , for instance , by creating economic unfreedom for large masses of the lower-paid workers . For a different reason , it is entirely wrong to equate democracy with representative government . That is one aspect only of democracy , the political aspect : democracy must extend into the economic and social and all other aspects of life if it is to be complete . Our first problem is then to find a criterion or a principle of democracy which is universal and is applicable in every period of history , under any conceivable set of conditions . So far as I can see , there is only one such criterion ? the individual human being , his needs and his development . The yardstick by which we can measure democratic achievement is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yardstick by which we can measure democratic method is their active and voluntary participation in all kinds of activities . The two are in reality not separate , for participation is itself a human need to be satisfied , but for some purposes the distinction is useful . Under the satisfaction of needs there is to be included not merely the provision of a reasonable standard of security and welfare , including adequate nutrition and health , but also equal opportunity for education , for recreation , for freedom , and for self-development and self-expression . Looked at from another angle , every human being born into the world has in the eyes of true democracy a certain individual birthright ? a birthright of health , strength , intelligence , varied enjoyment , and free interest , which must not be denied or stunted if the society into which he is born lays claim to being democratic . Under participation there is to be included participation in national politics and in local government and community affairs , by discussion , through the ballot box , and by actual service ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether to protect particular interests like trades unions , or to give outlet to a shared enthusiasm , like choral societies or natural history clubs ; and there is also the opportunity of participation in cultural life and in organizations for service . The technique adopted in planning schemes like the TVA or the Columbia Basin projects is demonstrating how the general public can participate in a bold central plan . Throughout , the basic criterion is that the individual and his ultimate welfare and fullest development shall be paramount ; not the State , nor national power or wealth , nor maximum profits , nor even the cultural achievements of a society in art or science or literature . And this implies the maximum amount of freedom , the fullest equality of opportunity for development , and the maximum degree of co-operation . The freedom must not be freedom at the expense of others , the opportunity must not impair the possibilities of co-operation . The individual is the ultimate yardstick ; but he can not develop fully or freely except in an organized society . Nor is any one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be limited by the need for guaranteeing freedom from interference to his fellow-individuals . VI So much for the universal criterion of democracy . What remains is to find those special applications of democracy which will he necessary in the new phase upon which the world is now entering . Liberty , Equality , Fraternity ? these will always constitute democracy 's triple crown ; but , to change the metaphor , their edges have grown blunted by use , so that they need redefining in new terms ; and their particular expressions must be to a large extent determined by the social and economic conditions of the time . The outstanding characteristic of the early nineteenth century was that it was an expanding and an industrial world . In that world democratic freedom was inevitably concerned with throwing off the shackles of the semi-feudal past , and with the rights and duties of free individual enterprise to exploit the resources of nature to the fullest possible degree ; democratic equality was largely limited to political equality for the middle classes ; and democratic fraternity was still largely confined to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world we are now entering upon is that it is a closed world , still organized in the form of independent nation-states , but with those states brought into constant contact and constant friction . What application of democratic principle will these conditions bring out and em-phasize ? Nationalist self-determination leads , in this closed world , to competition and war ; but cultural self-determination ( as practiced , for instance , to a notable extent in the U.S.S.R. , where regional cultures are encouraged to develop fully and freely ) is perhaps the best expression of Liberty in to-morrow 's internationalism . The principle of fraternity may be broadly translated as co-operation : co-operation for defense , for trade , for increased general consumption . This at once rules out punitive tariffs , purely national armies , and imperialist domination , and suggests the lines for new worldscale economic and political organizations , both international , transnational , and supern ation al . In the new international sphere the most difficult of the three democratic principles to translate into the relevant concrete terms is Equality , since at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifestly unequal levels of cultural and economic development . However , we find a general principle to hand in that of Potential Equality . Our aim with backward peoples will then be to raise them to a position where they can take their international place on a footing of actual equality . This does not imply that all peoples arc potentially identical culturally or that there may not be real differences in innate temperament or capacity . Cultural diversity is as desirable as individual diversity . As with individuals , peoples and nations contain vast reservoirs of untapped potentiality , and the democratic approach demands in both cases that they should be provided with equality of opportunity to develop that potentiality . We are beginning to realize the implications of these ideas in relation to China : the Chinese people must be treated on a footing of equality if the war is to be won and if we are to have a stable peace in the Far East . The same realization is dawning with regard to India . In the case of politically dependent peoples , the United States adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Filipino 's development toward independence . This was in strong contrast with the British attitude in Malaya ? with appropriate results in the military sphere . The main implications of this principle are twofold . First , a redefinition of the status of colonies and dependent peoples , with a formal pronouncement to the effect that the goal of colonial administration is preparation for self-government . And second , a policy of largescale development for all peoples or regions who are backward in the sense of being below standard in any aspect of life . This would not " pay " in the short-range terms of laisser-faire finance , but will certainly do so in the long run if our other two principles of co-operation and of freedom for cultural development are borne in mind . VII The final step in our argument remains ? the need for entering upon our revolution consciously and of set purpose , deliberately guiding its course instead of allowing its blind forces to push and buffet our unplanned lives . The war is not merely a symptom of the world revolution ; it is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are bound up together . Our best method for achieving the revolution deliberately is through the proclamation of comprehensive war aims which include the achieving of the revolution . Our enemies have long ago done this . Hitler , for instance , has included in his aims the establishment of a " New Order " in Europe , with the establishment of Germany in a dominantposition as a " Master Race , " and with the crushing both of bolshevism and democracy in favor of National Socialism . Japan has done the same with its slogan of Asia for the Asiatics , and its project of the " East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere , " with Japan in a similar dominant position as divinelyappointed leader . The war aims of the United Nations are beginning to take more definite shape , through recent pronouncements such as those of Sir Stafford Cripps , Mr. Eden , and Mr. Lyttelton in Britain and those of Mr. Wallace and Mr. Milo Perkins in the U. S. A. But they could become both more comprehensive and more precise . For this it is not necessary that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete fulfilment . But it is necessary that we take it and its implications into account . If the revolution in some form is inevitable , if we agree that the democratic way of carrying it out is the better way , that is the first step . The next is to make sure that we understand the inevitable trends of the revolution , and also learn how to translate the standards and methods of democracy into the new terms that the changing world demands . Then we shall have not only a body of principles to act as a touchstone , but a set of general aims to give us our direction . Our concrete schemes can then be framed in relation to those aims and checked in detail against that touchstone . It is surprising how much assistance such a coherent body of aims and principles can give ? on social security , on our treatment of subject peoples , on the role of art in the community , on international trade , and a hundred other subjects . They can also be important in warning us against possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , against every kind of undemocratic short cut to apparent efficiency , against the possible imposition of plans , however admirable , without the interest and the participation of the plannees ( if I may coin a term ) , against every kind of narrow exploitation and racial arrogance . It may be suggested that the best method of setting about this business is to draw up and proclaim a series of Charters , extending the general principles of the Atlantic Charter into greater detail and into various special fields . Once these were formally proclaimed by as many as possible of the United Nacions there could be no going back on them ; and meanwhile the experts behind the scenes could be charged with working out the practical schemes through which they would take effect . There has already been considerable talk in Britain of a Colonial Charter . A Pacific Charter might be useful to formulate the democratic point of view on the relations between the Asiatic and the white nations . A Charter of Welfare and Service would formulate the rights and duties of the individual and be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charter of Security would be the banner under which nations would be invited to cooperate in the prevention of war and aggression ; and one might add a Charter of Prosperity to cover international economic co-operation , and a Charter of Peaceful Change as the first step toward the setting up of new international machinery for political adjustment . Meanwhile it is imperative that we should be clear in our own minds as to the inescapable nature of our proposition of political Euclid . Only when we have accepted the logic of its earlier steps and fearlessly worked out their implications ; can we hope to write Q.E.D. at its close by drawing the final conclusion of a set of war aims which shall shorten the war , revivify the democratic nations , and lay solid foundations for peace .                     