@@494209

The Truth about MacArthur NY who discusses the question of a unified Pacific or far Pacific command with army and navy spokesmen in Washington will discover that they agree completely on one proposition : The Pacific area is an oceanic hemisphere in which the overall strategy of the war is naval and the fighting is amphibious ; therefore if the command is centered in one man it must be given to a master of naval-air strategy . The army , as its own high officers are the first to declare , plays a supporting role in a long war of island-hopping and naval attrition and maneuver . The actual call for unification comes chiefly from admirers of General Douglas MacArthur , hero of Bataan , who is visualized for any post that comes to the fore , regardless of whether it fits his special talents . Many believe that he has been deprived of a more extensive command in the Southwest Pacific because of the discussion of him as a possible Republican nominee for President . The political aspect came to a head late in October when Joseph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political Washington " caused two commands to be set up in the far Pacific " partly because of the conservative opposition which launched a MacArthur-for-President campaign . " General MacArthur thereupon issued a statement in Australia denying that he had any thought of running for President . The charge repeated by Mr. Harsch is incompatible with the facts . The presidential boom originated while MacArthur was still in the Philippines . The original form of the political canard was that supplies and reinforcements were withheld from Bataan to prevent MacArthur from reaping the political rewards of a military victory there . This Goebbels-like slander was sufficiently answered when the President , instead of leaving MacArthur to become a prisoner of Japanalong with " Slim " Wainwright , ordered him to make his way to Australia and prepare to take supreme command there . He arrived March 17 . The second form of the political canard took shape from a dispute ( discussed later in this article ) over the extent of MacArthur 's command . The charge went that some time after March /8 , when President Roosevelt announced that MacArthur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces in the Southwest Pacific , the Australia-New Zealand area was split for political reasons into the Southwest and South Pacific corn-mands , one going to MacArthur , the other to Vice Admiral Ghormley . The falsity of this accusation is evident from the fact that as early as March 9 , the newspapers an-nounced that Ghormley , home from London , had been " assigned to a post at sea . " The wording of the March 9 order , not then disclosed , was that he take command of " the South Pacific area and the South Pacific force . " In other words , Ghormley received notice of his South Pacific command ( the New Zealand area ) before MacArthur even reached Australia . It was quite impossible , therefore , for President Roosevelt to have subtracted the South Pacific from the Southwest Pacific command , some weeks later , for political reasons . The slander continued to flourish , even among people who bore no malice to the President , because the status of New Zealand was suppressed at first for " operational reasons , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about General Mac-Arthur 's attitude . This was due to something for which American correspondents are responsible ? the frlegitimate use of the dateline " General MacArthur 's Headquarters " over stories written in all parts of Australia ( often rehashed from Australian newspapers ) , on subjects ranging from strategic pipe dreams to invasion-jittery criticism of the conduct of the war in the Pacific . Consider , for example , two Associated Press and United Press dispatches dated , " General MacArthur 's Headquarters , Australia , August 7 , " one quoting " an authoritative source " and the other " an informed source " on the meagerness of American supplies and paucity of American troops in Australia . This authoritative , informed source at General MacArthur 's headquarters ( any reader would assume it was MacArthur himself ) declared that " American equipment which has been sent to Australia is a trickle which could be replaced by three days of United States war production . " This story did not come from General Mac-Arthur 's headquarters at all . The AP and UP correspondents had rewritten a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " authoritative source " was an Argus reporter , George H. Johnston , who was agitated over the recent Japanese landings at Buna and Gona and the unopposed development of the Japanese air base at Guadalcanal . ( The Marines took it two days later . ) This story gave the " political Washington " canard a new lease of life . The Australian tabloid magazine , Smith 's Weekly , took up Johnston 's statements and editorialized : " Is MacArthur to be let down ? Is he sold short as he was in the Philippines ? " The United Press cabled the attack across the Pacific , saying that " the tabloid weekly Smith implied in an editorial that political forces opposed to Gen. Douglas MacArthur as presidential timber ... are deliberately letting him down by not giving him enough supplies in the Australian war theatre to win important successes . " With political rumors bouncing back and forth across the Pacific , and with newspaper critics in Australia giving the impression , by false datelines , that they were writing with their feet on General MacArthur 's table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a slander about the defense of Bataan should flourish with Protean change and Gargantuan growth . These political rumors and complaints about supplies , given verisimilitude by the false dateline " General MacArthur 's Headquarters , " have tangled the thinking of thousands of Americans . They caused almost universal misinterpretation of the remark which spokesman for General MacArthur made at the outset of the Solomon Islands campaign : " This is a navy show . " The effect may be found in the writings of so fair-minded a person as Walter Lippmann , who recently described the Solomons campaign as " a navy show only loosely and inadequately ' connected with MacArthur 's campaign in Australia , " and went on to say : " But , if the object of the campaign was to defend Australia , what are we to make of the fact that General MacArthur , who is generalissimo for the defense of Australia , is not in commands " Take a globe and a piece of string , and you will find that from Melbourne , General MacArthur 's original headquarters ( he afterwards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Guinea ) , the distance to Guadalcanal is about the same as from England to Persia , or from San Francisco to the Hawaiian Islands . Port Moresby , New Guinea , MacArthur 's nearest air base , is as far from the scene of the Solomons aircraft carrier battle as England is from Bulgaria . The Solo ' mons , in truth , bear the same relation to the defense of Australia that Pearl Harbor and Midway do to our Pacific Coast . One could paraphrase Mr. Lippmann by , saying about the Battle of Midway : " But , if the object was to defend our West Coast : what are we to make of the fact that General DeWitt ; who is charged with the defense of the West Coast ) is not in command ? " When MacArthur 's spokesman said " This is a navy show , " he was not complaining about the fact that the navy was commanding a naval action . He was explain ' ing to newspapermen why General MacArthur was not going to issue any communiques about the sea fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Battle of the Coral Sea , which was also a " navy show " ( Vice Admiral Fletcher and Rear Admiral Brown in command under Admiral Nimite ) , practically all of the communiqu ? s about it were issued by General MacArthur , within whose territorial water ' it was fought , his bombers aiding . Nearly everybody ' indeed , supposed that MacArthur was in command. , Considering the reticence of Navy Commander : a ' Chief King on the news of sea battles while they are in progress , it is quite possible that he requested the change in General MacArthur 's press policy . The point is that a casual remark which related to publicity was mistakenly construed in the United States as a criticism " of the strategic direction of the war . Tactical command in the Pacific has to be divided and coordinated in the field , but in over-all strategy distance means nothing . The bombing of Pearl Barbor was known in Washington , D. C. , in less than s minute after it began . The time required to send orders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Guadalcanal , is measured by split seconds for the rate of transmission , and , if the most secret code Is used , perhaps three hours for coding and decoding ' For the direction of strategy , the whole world is $ ed schoolroom . It is just as easy to establish a unifi strategic command in Washington as in the Pacific , an that is what we have in the joint chiefs of staff . The Solomons campaign was planned and ordered jointly by Admiral King , the naval-air man who COrri ; mands the navy ; General Marshall , chief of staff the army ; General Arnold , head of the army air force " and Admiral Leahy , personal chief of staff to t11e President . General MacArthur was invited to oto ' suggestions before he received orders regarding the cooperation of his bombers . On the navy side , the orders went from King to Nimitz to Ghormley , and from Ghormley to Major General Harmon , whose army bombers operated from Espiritu Santo . Ghormley , at MacArthur 's invitation , sent a naval officer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed to this system is to unite the territorial jurisdictions of General MacArthur and Admiral Halsey ( Ghormley 's successor ) and give MacArthur full control of land , sea and air forces in the entire South Pacific , with authority to plan his own campaign and forces sufficient to carry it out . Regardless of whether MacArthur is a better naval-air-land strategist than King , Marshall , Arnold and Leahy combined , such a move would force the splitting of the Pacific fleet into two immobile units , each too weak to face the united Japanese . To have both a Pacific and a South Pacific policy , one must be inside the other . United Nations authority was divided last January between General Wave11 , commanding India , Burma , Malaya , Hong Kong , the Philippines and the East Indies , and Admiral Nimitz , who was given the entire Pacific . Australia and New Zealand were left out of both jurisdictions , but it was planned early in February to put that naval area under Admiral Hart , then under Wavell . On March 2 , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Dutch Admiral Helfrich . General MacArthur 's command was built up from : I. The Helfrich territory , mostly in Japanese hands , and the Philippines , entirely so . z . Australia . 3 . That part of Admiral Nimitz ' command lying west of the r58th meridian and south of the equator ( a line governed by the effective range of army bombers ) . With this went a naval command consisting chiefly of the Australian cruisers , the Australia and the Canberra , and the surviving units of the American Asiatic fleet , under Vice Admiral Leary . The jurisdiction given to MacArthur undoubtedly was a disappointment to him , as to territory , naval strength and strategic autonomy . Melbourne dispatches of April 9 quoted one of his aides as saying that revenge for Bataan " has been uppermost in MacArthur 's mind in planning his grand strategy for war in the Pacific . " MacArthur 's directive was sent following its approval by the Pacific War Council on April 7 , four days after its formal acceptance by Australia and the Netherlands . MacArthur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfied . Then , for a week , news stories came out of Australia saying that General MacArthur was unable to complete his command for lack of a directive regarding New Zealand . The President , Secretary Stimson and Foreign Minister Evatt of Australia ( in Washington ) all said everything was understood , but the President said he would let the Japanese guess about New Zealand and853 other island groups . ' Unlike the later stories improps erly dated " General MacArthur 's Headquarters , " these came specifically from his spokesmen . A United Press dispatch from Melbourne , April 15 , said : " A three-way controversy developed out of an army spokesman 's assertion that MacArthur still did not have the necessary orders from Washington . " The story quoted the " army spokesman " repeatedly . The President and everybody else in Washington were on a spot , because if they admitted that MacArthur was dissatisfied it would be the same as announcing that New Zealand was under Ghormley . The controversy was sidetracked by blaming it on faulty communications . The most particular reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Zealand-SamoaNew Caledonia naval-air triangle was in the making , she might strike instantly at the Fiji Islands , which at that time had no fighting airplanes and almost no antiaircraft guns , or at New Caledonia . The pounding taken in silence by President Roosevelt , in the barrage from Australia and criticism from the American press , had the same purpose as his silence concerning the invasion of North Africa . It has given life and endurance to the myth about " political Washington " holding down General MacArthur because of the 1944 election . Army and navy men agree that General MacArthur has done an excellent job in Australia under difficult conditions , building the Australian army , uniting and retraining the numerous " refugee armies " that filtered in ahead of the Japanese march . He has been a skilled diplomat , a successful military leader in New Guinea , and has cooperated to the utmost with the navy and Marine Corps . The fundamental difficulty is that he is too ambitious a general for the subordinate work that lies ahead of the army he has trained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes it impossible to give him the naval command and strategic independence needed to match his desire for leadership in the offensive against Japan . Piled on top of this , the political charges and journalistic misunderstandings make it difficult either to unify the Pacific command in accordance with the established strategy of the war ( that is , under Nimitz under the joint chiefs of staff ) , or to transfer General MacArthur to a post actually more important than the one he now holds but less important than the prevailing conception of it . The first necessity , before any of these steps can be taken , is to clear up the misconceptions of the past twelve months . 