@@475497

BRITAIN is in for a tough time . How long it will last is anybody 's guess . I have been offered estimates running from five to thirty years . There are those who feel that Britain has seen her best days and has entered a long phase of decline . For these people , Britain has in fact been in decline since the end of World War I , and will follow the downward trend until she stabilizes , if luck holds , somewhere about the level of , say , Sweden . There are others who , by contrast , feel that Britain is about to experience a striking renaissance . These are not all Labor people by any manner of means ; I 've heard the idea expounded by people well known not to be Labor . At this moment , I would take up a position between the two extremes . Britain has a chance to make an excellent record in the future if she keeps her eye on the ball ? and the ball is productivity . I can not believe that she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet whether it is dismal decline or vigorous upswing in the long run that is anticipated , there is general agreement that a tough time is the immediate prospect . The differences of opinion arise over what will issue from the period of immense difficulty just ahead . The idea of a tough time undercuts political differences . Americans should not jump to the conclusion that it springs from the fact that the Labor Party rules the country , though Conservatives sometimes pretend so . The Conservatives can allege that Labor 's way of meeting the difficulties accentuates rather than relieves them ; but really this is all mere by-play . Everyone knows that if the Conservatives had won the election , times would still be tough , and their schemes would be condemned by Labor as not sufficiently far-reaching . The toughness of the times is the inescapable reality , not the alternative political views of how to deal with the problems posed . Politics in Britain is still a vastly important matter ? I shall have something to say about this later on ? but a curiously distorted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of the ins versus the outs . PV0 GRASP why Britain is in for a tough I time one must go beyond the harsh effects of the war , dramatized by the shortage of dollars which it is proposed to relieve by borrowing from the United States . The dollar-shortage crisis is symptomatic rather than basic . Whether it is met by borrowing as the proponents of the great loan think would be best ? and as Parliament rather reluctantly agreed ? or by other means not yet fully revealed , is not , to my mind , the really fundamental question . I should regard it as a hopeful sign if Congress should accept the loan , as I think it will after a lot of skirmishing and " cheap talk , " but whether it does or does n't the cure for the ills of Britain must be sought elsewhere . The borrowed dollars at most can only buy time for getting the real cure under way . And so fundamental are the ills that some Britons of a rather puritanic disposition feel that it would be best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without benefit of the respite that the loan will allow . They would like to see a sharp crisis now which would pose the nation 's problem in all its nakedness for all Britons to see . ( These people , of course , have nothing whatever in common with Lord Beaverbrook and his phony talk about Britain 's not needing the loan because of unexplaited strength . Rather they sec the weakness of Britain very clearly and want to get immediately to the job of correcting it , for they fear that the country may coast along on the loan to a really devastating crisis later on ? say sometime between the end of 1948 and the end of 1951 ? when the task of rehabilitating will be far more difficult . ) Basically , Britain 's fundamental troubles stem from the fact that Britain was the pioneer of the industrial revolution . However beguiling the antiquities of Britain may be to historians , tourists , and pious worshippers of the past , these antiquities are a tremendous drag on the national welfarewhen lodged in industrial organization and processes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like coal and cotton textiles , rather than in the newer ones like chemicals and electrical manufactures . But wherever they are found they add up to the conclusion that British industrial productivity per man is too low for comfort , especially when it is compared with the level characteristic among her actual and potential competitors . The causes for this appear to ramify into every phase of British life , involving not only industry but also education , social values , the whole complex which is the British way of life . It may seem odd to talk like this about the home of the industrial revolution . The justification for doing so is that Britain has but imperfectly ridden the successive waves of that revolution . The consequence is that large areas of British industry suffer today from obsolescence and unacknowledged bankruptcy . Obsolescence and bankruptcy are unpleasant ideas to the British ; they postpone acceptance of the one ? here is the seat of the national habit of " making do " ? and they contrive ways of avoiding the other , even when demonstrable obsolescence is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned preservation of inefficient management and plant . The line of escape from both evils has all too frequently been into schemes for fixing prices and allocating production quotas , thereby avoiding , rather than facing and solving , the problems involved . This was the way British industry too often sought to meet its difficulties during the great depression ? for example in coal and steel . It did so with the collaboration of the Conservative governments of those days . At the same time it resolutely resisted any pressure to reorganize . This was considered the right and proper thing to do . You may say that exactly similar things were done in other countries . But it seems to me that there was one crucial difference which has acted to the special detriment of Britain . In other countries these things were done in a context of constantly rising productivity . The rate of production per man hour was on the up grade . In Britain this was not happening . The evidence is convincing that the productivity of the British worker has made shockingly little progress in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what has happened in the centrally important coal industry , whose ability to produce efficiently and at low cost is vital not only to steel and steelprocessing plants but to many other British industries . Taking the year 1913 as 100 , output per man shift in British mines had only reached 113 in 1938 , whereas in the Ruhr mines it had advanced to 164 and in the Netherlands mines it had reached 201 ! Or let us put it another way . In 1913 the British miner produced 1.016 tons of coal per man shift , the Ruhr miner only 0.93 , and the Dutch miner only 0.807 . But by 1938 the British miner had increased his output hardly at all ? to 1.148 , while the Ruhr miner had pushed his up to 1.523 and the Dutch miner had reached 1.619 . The British were in last place . ( The Ruhr and Dutch mines are considered most nearly comparable to the British . There is no objective reason why the Dutch and Germans should have left the British behind . ) The Technical Advisory Committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported in March 1945 , showed that the British mines did make some progress in mechanization between 1913 and 1938 . Since then , as shown in the report on mechanization which G. M. Gullick submitted early this year to the Ministry of Fuel and Power , there has been further progress under the stress of wartime manpower shortages . But the fact that the Coal Nationalization Bill provides $600 million for mechanization shows bluntly enough that there is still a long way to go in modernizing the mines , and both the Reid and Gullick reports indicate that anything like an adequate program of mechanization will inevitably encounter difficulties which are deeply rooted in British life . Consider the following : ( 1 ) Because under British law mineral rights belonged to the landowner , not the state , there was a strong tendency in the early days to lease out on a royalty basis numerous small tracts , often awkwardly shaped , to the coal digging companies . This was done with a view to speeding up royalty returns . But in time it preventedthe development of really large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British government bought out all rights in coal still underground , the faults of the leasing system were not corrected . The only change was that the royalties on coal went to a different recipient . This was simply another example of the recurring British effort to abolish some of the more untidy aspects of their inheritance from preindustrial times . ( 2 ) For many years the coal operators have been beset with the idea that low wages for coal miners were a fundamental necessity ? that the only adequate incentive for the miners was the fear of imminent starvation . So the operators inevitably worked themselves into the habit of trying to get their profits through cheap manpower rather than through high machine productivity . This line was made relatively easy to follow by the chronic surplus of miners during the great depression . Actually this managerial foible put the British mines at a disadvantage in competition with German and also Polish mines for the international trade in coal . ( 3 ) The attitude of the working miners became increasingly difficult , reaching the point where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ran them . This made it hard to enlist their co-operation in any forward-looking changes , even in wartime . The miners got into angry snarls with the owners over even such mechanization as was carried through . ( 4 ) The owners and directors of the mines were almost never men with technical understanding of mining , and hence they judged results not at all in terms of productivity but in terms of profits alone . And when profits slipped , they sought relief not so much in technical reorganization as in price-fixing and production control . ( 5 ) In such a regime the mine managers , potentially the progressive technicians needed in every industry , increasingly became the agents of the owners in a struggle with the miners to keep wages down ? until the managers lost their technological skills to a significant degree . ( The Reid report , which of course outlines a program for modernizing British coal mines , declares that " unfortunately , there is a serious dearth of mining engineers who possess the knowledge and experience necessary to undertake the far-reaching schemes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal industry 's predicament is not I unique . The same sort of difficulties are to be found elsewhere . In cotton textiles , for instance , there was little change in the productivity of labor between 1900 and 1937 . Let us look at the five points I have made about the coal industry in a somewhat wider context . ( 1 ) Inherited customs . Allowing for differences of time and character , ancient customs influence conditions in almost all the older British industries ; for example on such points as the organizational relations of the several stages of production , or processes of production , as in cotton . " Within the cotton industry , " says the Platt report on cotton , " conservative forces of restraint rather than of freedom and development have prevailed . " The very character of the industrial inheritance has imposed disabilities on British industry . This became vividly obvious when other countries began to industrialize . Since these other countries had no inheritance of equipment or of working customs , they tended to come into production at the highest level current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a marked willingness to scrap equipment , even if it was n't worn out , in order to achieve still higher productivity ? as for example in the United States . Britain 's headstart in the industrial revolution was progressively reduced and , in some instances , slowly transformed into a decided handicap . This was true even though British industries did modernize to a degree , for the pace of their modernization was not sufficiently brisk . The very fact that industrial equipment was actually in place became a difficulty ; people paid too little attention to measuring its efficiency against later designs , and were reluctant to scrap it as obsolescent . An inheritance of industrial machines can become a handicap as well as a help . Moreover , the lag became constantly greater and in industries like coal , cottontextiles , and steel , the point was reached where the cost of thoroughgoing modernization was quite beyond the reach of the owners , save with special outside assistance . Here then is the final crisis induced by progressive obsolescence ( or too slow a rate of modernization ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of replacement of old machines and methods of management by new and more productive ones . This crisis confronts large segments of British industry today . ( 2 ) Manpower vs. machine power . What originally made Britain the leader of the industrial revolution was the fact that Englishmen early perceived that machines could out-produce handicrafts . All the odder , then , that in their older industries the British should have lost sight of the point . But the fact is that low wages , kept low by policy and at the cost of normally human industrial relations , became a reason and an excuse for not investing in new machines . Thus today both coal and cotton are overmanned by American standards , as the Reid and Platt reports point out . It takes too many workpeople to attain even the production levels characteristic in Britain . Manpower ? at low wages ? is being substituted for machine power . The British carried their original perception about the machine a certain distance and then came to ignore its significance while the world went on to develop the principle to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not apply in the newer industries to the same degree . They tended to come into production at about the levels characteristic throughout the world . But still they have not kept pace with their rivals 100 per cent . ( 3 ) Labor attitudes . The very bad labor relations in British coal mining , with the workers hating the job , are of course not typical of British industry in general . But British experts say that American workers more clearly perceive the connection between productivity and wages , and therefore are better prepared to accommodate themselves to changes which may be needed to raise productivity . ( 4 ) ( Juntas , directors , and efficiency . We here enter on a rather delicate subject and one where evidence is not of the best . Yet there is surprising unanimity among competent witnesses in Britain that the owning and policy-making class must bear a heavy share of the responsibility for allowing productivity to fall , in the older British industries especially . It is insistently pointed out that the owners and directors have all too often lacked any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put it over a year ago : . . . British business management is still dominated by the amateur . It is only in this country that the curious profession of the " director of companies " still exists . There are thousands of men in this country who make a handsome living by sitting on a large number of boards and directing the affairs of companies to no one of which they can give more than a small fraction of their time and attention . . . . That a sprinkling of such men would be an asset to any board is beyond doubt . But that so many boards should consist entirely of such men can not be other than a handicap to wise , energetic , and far-sighted management . To this generalized picture , Harold Wilson added a particular variation in his book New Deal for Coal . He said of the amateur in the coal industry that " the greater part of his or her time is given not to companies in other industries , but to the varied social and sporting pursuits of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the picture very succinctly when it returned to the fray with this observation : " What business , which may be interpreted as industry , commerce , and ' the City , ' needs is a better supply of brains in managerial and high administrative jobs . " DERHAPS , however , that is being rather r too hard on British business brains . The trouble may not be lack of brains , but lack of a reasonably good training for business . It has been suggested to me that the whole emphasis of British education has been unfortunate for British industry . The efficiency with which the old landed aristocracy assimilated the sons and daughters of the parvenu industrial entrepreneurs has often been discussed , usually with admiration . But what has escaped notice is that the terms and conditions imposed upon these descendants ( chiefly through " public " school and university education ) in considerable measure conspired progressively to unfit them for business careers under modern English conditions . Contrary to American practice , it should be noted , these rather miseducated men retained not only ownership but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they continued to dominate both their managers and their technicians , thus preventing these important servants of industry from doing their jobs to the best of their ability . It is perhaps an inevitable result that there is an undersupply of both managers and technicians of the higher types in England today , since such careers have never been made particularly attractive to brilliant and forceful men . ( 5 ) Shortage of technological skill . This last point can be supported to the hilt by some quotations from the Report on Higher Technological Education , prepared by a committee headed by Lord Eustace Percy : The evidence submitted to us concurs in the general view : first , that the position of Great Britain as a leading industrial nation is being endangered by a failure to secure the fullest possible application of science to industry ; and second , that this failure is partly due to deficiencies in education . The annual intake into the industries of the country of men trained by universities and technical colleges has been , and still is , insufficient both in quantity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war has shown that the greatest deficiency in British industry is the shortage of scientists and technologists who can also administer and organize , and can apply the results of research to development , . . . In a word , industry , and educational institutions training for industry , are not getting their fair share of the national ability . It was pointed out to me that much of the university-trained ability that might have gone into industry in Britain , once the Church lost its appeal , went instead into the civil service . ( It is here that we find the impelling reason for the constant movement of men of ability into the English civil service . ) Now that the nub of the British problem is to increase productivity ? best handled by skilled managers and technologists ? the need for getting brains into these occupations today is very urgent . We may even see an effort to establish in Britain the equivalents of M.I.T. and California Institute of Technology . III mo THE outside view the crux of the 1 British production problem is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will enable British concerns to meet foreign competition . An increase of commodity exports of 50 to 75 per cent over 1938 is urgently needed . This has been said over and over again and it is unquestionably true . But what is not so generally realized in the United States is that rising productivity is needed for strictly domestic reasons as welt . The essence of the British social reform program in recent decades has been to redistribute the national income . Much has been done along these lines through the income tax , but without abolishing poverty in Britain . Social reform might , if carried far enough , abolish that lack of the most meager means of subsistence which we call want . But not poverty . It was the strong British desire to abolish want that caused the outburst of excitement over the Beveridge plan for the social services and has now put the National Insurance Bill on the law books . Poverty remains , as is demonstrated in cold statistics and restrained prose in Mark Abrams ' The Condition of the British People , 1911-1945 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance the living standards of those above the poverty line is sharply to increase the total national income , and the road to that end is to higher productivity . A bigger pie , even more sensibly divided , is what Britain now needs . RITISH domestic progress is therefore as D closely tied up with rising productivity as is the British future in the export trade . The two are , of course , inextricably joined together , but the double reason for emphasizing productivity makes it all the more compelling . Productivity must therefore rise sharply enough to give Britain more commodity exports and also a larger national product for home distribution . In fact , there is practically no public issue in Britain today which is not somehow related to productivity . Here are several which illustrate how central it is : 1 . Nationalization . Will nationalization increase social efficiency ? Will more coal be produced more cheaply under this system than under private enterprise ? Differently put , could private enterprise have carried out the recommendations of the Reid report ? Will they be carried out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is imaginable that under the old system coal production would have failed very shortly to meet domestic demand even at high prices . Nationalization must reverse this trend . It must do so not only to save the coal industry from chaos and collapse but also to ease the pressure on the steel industry ? to which high-priced coal is a deadly handicap ? and , in turn , to guarantee the competitive position in the international market of the steel-processing industries by giving them cheaper steel . If nationalization can not do these things it will have failed , no matter how successfully it may tidy up an unusually disorderly industry . Productive efficiency is the fundamental criterion of judgment . 2 . Full employment . Britain is committed to a full employment program . But it is one thing to achieve full employment when manpower takes precedence over machine power , and quite another when there is a heavy emphasis on adding constantly to machine power . Under the latter condition , the problem of transferring manpower out of industries obviously over-manned will be constant . Insofar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like cotton and coal , she must , to guarantee full employment , constantly provide new ranges of employment for the displaced personnel . 3 . Wages and hours . To better domestic conditions , British real wages must rise . In the final analysis this can be accomplished only by increasing productivity . Similarly , hours can be decreased only in that same fashion . Otherwise industry will get into the situation mentioned in the Platt report on cotton : " Over a period of 25 years , from 1914 to 1939 , the working time per week has been reduced from 553/ hours to 48 hours , and production has declined accordingly . Production methods have shown little if any change and the same applies also to the productivity of labor . The trend within the industry , therefore , has been toward a reduction of productivity . " Such developments can no longer be tolerated in Britain . 4 . Capital supply . The demand for capital in Britain is developing at a furious rate . It appears that capital formation before the war tended to fall in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money which they might have invested . To get over the hump that separates their present condition from one of high social efficiency , the British may be forced to reverse this trend , at least temporarily . A responsible financial journalist told me that Britain needs a " Stalinist " policy on this point ? that is , a deliberate damping down of consumption in favor of savings for capital investment . There is , therefore , an emerging struggle between the demand for capital in order to improve productivity and the natural and human desire to enjoy consumption goods freely once more after being so long deprived of them . ( This is , of course , quite apart from the problem of how to allocate production between the export trade and the home market. ) 5 . Private enterprise . It must not be forgotten that Labor Britain , like conservative America , is and will remain basically dependent upon the dynamic powers of private enterprise for much of the economic health it will experience in the immediate Future . Even in a Britain where professed Socialists rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private enterprise is given every incentive to do its very best . The bulk of the economic plant will remain in the possession of private capitalists . But it must not only be operated full blast ; it must also be operated efficiently . The reason why such vital sectors of industry as the making of electrical goods , chemicals , artificial textiles , food processing , etc. , are not now under the shadow of nationalization is that they are believed to be reasonably efficient , or suffering from nothing that can not readily be put right . Under these heads come such famous concerns as General Electric Company , Ltd. , Lever Brothers , Ltd. , Imperial Chemical Industries , Ltd. , Courtaulds , Ltd. , British Celanese , Ltd. , British Aluminum Co. , and so on . It appears unlikely that the government will trouble the allegedly efficient concerns , but what about the inefficient ones ? Well , thus far the only striking move is the institution by the Board of Trade under Sir Stafford Cripps of what are called working parties , composed of representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose duty will be : To examine and inquire into the various schemes and suggestions put forward for improvements of organization , production , and distribution methods and processes in the industry , and to report as to the steps which should be taken in the national interest to strengthen the industry and render it more stable and more capable of meeting competition in the home and foreign markets . Among the industries being studied are cotton , pottery , furniture , hosiery , and boots and shoes . Of course the final significance of the working parties will depend on the quality of the recommendations they make and the vigor with which the good suggestions are carried into effect . But for our present purposes it is enough to note that apparently the direct relations of private enterprise and the government will be largely governed by the degree of efficiency that private enterprise attains . Incidentally , I do not think much is to be gained by dwelling on the contrast between British and American productivity , although American figures have a target value and American methods may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Britain should today aim to win a place between Continental and American productivity levels , with a clear trend in the American direction . IV mitts Britain where increased economic I efficiency is so greatly needed is under a Labor government . Is there a fundamental contradiction here ? First , what does the Labor government represent ? Up to 1945 , the Labor Party never captured as much as 30 per cent of the electorate ( i.e. , persons eligible to vote ) . Suddenly in 1945 the figure jumped to 40 per cent ; and Labor won nearer to 50 per cent of all the votes actually cast . ( It won 11,991,660 votes , the Conservatives took 9,983,906 , and the Liberals 2,213,191 . ) The distribution of seats in the House of Commons became Labor 394 , Conservatives 216 , Liberals 11 . The increase in the Labor vote , according to Margaret Cole 's admirable pamphlet analyzing the situation , represented Labor 's conquest " of the dormitory and the suburban areas peopled largely by electors of middle and lower-middle standard of living . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mast remarkable features of the election . " To this must be added the conquest of some rural constituencies . These were added to the solid core of Labor seats found in some urban areas and in the coal-mining districts throughout Britain . The total effect of the election has been not only to expand the support of Labor but to modify its character . This is reflected to a degree in the character of the Labor members of the House of Commons . The proportion of trade union or " other paid officials " has dropped from 50 to 20 per cent and there has been a large addition of members of the intelligentsia-44 lawyers , 49 university and school teachers , 26 journalists , 15 doctors and dentists , and so on . It is also extremely significant , as Mrs. Cole points out , that " 229 of the new M.P . ' s and 45 members of the new government are members of the Fabian Society , which has always laid extreme stress upon the need for educational and social work . " This gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Parliament . I T is as impossible to give a definitive in-terpretationn of a British election as of an American election . But it seems to me likely , after balancing all the views I have been able to collect , that British Labor now represents something of the same reformist outlook that gave the Roosevelt New Deal its original impulse . As it starts from a very different social base and operates in a very different environment , it stands a good bit to the left of the New Deal ; nevertheless it is not , at its right and center ? where the bulk of the members are probably found ? an all-out Socialist party . The official stand is in favor of a mixed economy , with state enterprise playing a larger part in the mixture than would be palatable to most Americans as a prescription for their own country . Thus it is correct to say that while Labor is more anti-capitalist than ever the New Deal became , it has not by any manner of means finally abandoned capitalism . But whereas the New Deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of capitalism , allegedly in order to rehabilitate it and set it going again , British Labor takes the line that only through state enterprise can the economic system be set going again in a truly efficient fashion . Therefore it proposes to take over from the capitalists certain key industries like coal , transport , and probably steel , to make sure that they are efficiently run . It is for this reason that an American in Britain frequently falls into an Alice-in-Wonderland mood . The Laborites condemn the capitalists for inefficiency in production and put state enterprise forward as absolutely required to achieve efficiency . Few Americans would argue the case against capitalism in these odd terms . For among Americans the productive efficiency of private enterprise is usually rated quite high ; the indictment , if it comes , is in quite other terms . But it is obvious that Labor 's line is the Fabian line , as developed by the Webbs and others since the 1880 's . It should be recalled , therefore , that Fabianism derives not from Karl Marx , but from Jeremy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and from the later John Stuart Mill who came out for a vague something he called socialism ( cf , his Autobiography ) . Thus it seems to me that in Britain today capitalism exists , as far as Labor is ? concerned , on a curious kind of tolerant sufferance. / f it can do a good production job , it can go on indefinitely . If those capitalist industries which are in bad shape but not immediately scheduled for nationalization can , with the aid of Cripps ' working parties , pull themselves together , well and good . But it appears likely that if there should be a sharp crisis in the British economy , there would be a battle royal within the Labor Party over the issue of all-out socialism versus a continuation of the present mixed economy . It should be kept in mind that the Labor Party is not a monolithic party . The degree of discipline enforceable within the Labor Party appears to depend upon whether or not the official opposition ? i.e. , the Conservative Party ? threatens to return to power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the position of the Republicans in 1933 . They have been soundly and fairly defeated but there is no absolute proof that they will not one day come back . In fact there are Conservatives who will tell you that Labor is bound to " throw in its hand " before 1950 , when the normal life of the present Parliament expires , because of discouragement about solving the problems of Britain . This appears to me to be wishful thinking . Again , Quintin Hogg , writing in the Daily Mail under the title , " The Tory Rout Is Ending , " takes great comfort in the points scored by the Conservatives in the debates over civil aviation and the coal nationalization bill ; if this keeps up , he reasons , the people will return to the Conservative fold . I wonder . It is hard to win confidence by scoring points in debates , however good the points may be , when on the voting you are hopelessly defeated . Therefore it seems to me that while the verdict on the alleged death of the Conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will probably not recover enough vitality and prestige to be a real menace to Labor 's power within the next decade . As recent American history shows , once people have made the plunge , they will put up with a lot of fumbling , bumbling , and downright idiocy from the reformers they have elected without being alienated to the point of voting the opposition into power . I think this will turn out to be true in England also . If this is the case , then the Conservative menace to Labor will be at a heavy discount for some time . This will , as I have implied , encourage the dissidents in the Labor Party to express themselves ; and their noise will vary in volume in proportion as things in general go well or ill for the nation . It is even imaginable ? some Laborites advance this idea -- that there will be a split of the party into right and left wings which it will be increasingly difficult to reconcile in the absence of any strong Tory menace to the general Labor security . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wing , still trying to hew to the mixed economy line , and the left wing would be the so-called " back benchers " calling loudly for all-out socialism . or as of this moment the great question El which underlies all surface movements is how the job of modernizing British industry is going to go . I should say that anyone interested in guessing the future of Britain should watch very closely what happens in the coal industry , where the government will demonstrate the truth or falsity of its basic dogma that stateowned enterprises can be more efficient producers than privately owned enterprises ; and at the same time he would also want to watch what the private capitalists manage to do with the production of cotton textiles . If the government turns the trick in coal , while private capitalists fail in cotton , the Socialist position will be enormously strengthened , for the appeal of an actual demonstration of the truth of what is now largely a theoretical dogma would be politically overwhelming . If the government fails in coal , however , and private business succeeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If both succeed , then the next great and enduring British compromise will be precisely that policy to which the predominant group in the Labor Party is today dedicated : a mixed economy strongly flavored with the vanilla of state-owned enterprises .                     