@@485570

The Shape of Things AT LEAST THE GUNS ARE SILENT . AT LEAST THE sudden terrible thought that at this moment a son or a brother , a husband or a friend may be dying on a far Pacific island or sinking in a strange sea need no longer be faced . At least on these counts it is a happier New Year than the last or the one before the last or the one before that . But the silence of- ? the guns only makes more audible the sad insistent sound of human suffering that rises from the continents , rings the world , and beats against the walls of that warm , safe , well-provisioned house , the U. S. A. You hear it every time you open the door of the refrigerator to take out the butter or the Grade A milk . You hear it every time you put the extra blanket on your bed or open the window that still has its quota of panes , or , as a matter of course , give a child all it wants to eat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning newspaper and look at the advertisement in which the lovely lady says , " Now you see why I just had to ? have mink , " the sound becomes so loud that you go ' beserk for a moment and dream of seizing mink coats , piling a ship high with mink coats , and distributing mink coats on the first street corner in Europe . Have a Happy New Year ! Perhaps.you deserve it . But do n't forget the million neediest cases . And before you sally forth in your Christmas finery make sure that you have taken out of your closets and dispatched to the nearest relief station all the warm clothes that you can spare ; make sure that you have sent or financed as many food packages as you can afford ; and , do n't fail to send a New Year 's card to your Congressman and Senator reminding them that an appropriation for UNRRA is not just another appropriation but a gauge of the ordinary human decency , the gratitude and sympathy , of the luckiest people on earth , who escaped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HERBERT LEHMAN 'S 1946 FORECAST OF UNRRA 'S requirements outlines a program of relief whicih , though unparalled in history , barely meets the most elemental of human needs and alleviates only the most intolerable of human suffering . Take this paragraph from the Director ' General 's report on Byelorussia and the Ukraine : " The enemy took virtually all the agricultural machinery away ; the livestock herds were terribly depleted . All movable stocks ' of food and even of seeds were removed . Millions were left homeless . City after city was totally destroyed , and countless cities and villages were heavily damaged . More than 25,000,000 are without shelter save such as they can get in caves and dragouts and ruined dwellings . Whatever assistance UNRRA 722 will be able to provide to these brave people will be infinitesimal in proportion to the need . " And so the story goes for Italy ? " the utter destitution of Italy is well known and does not - require recounting here " ? for Austria ? Finland , Korea , Formosa , China , where new programs are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Poland , and Yugoslavia where relief programs are well established . Reinforcing Mr. Lehman 's estimates is the careful survey just completed by the National Planning Association . This survey stressed the fact that UNRRA- did not reach many of the countries , either Allied or enemy , which had suffered severely during the war . It recommended that the United States make a gift of one billion dollars in food and feed over and above the UNRRA appropriations " to keep the peoples of the liberated countries of Western Europe , the United Kingdom , and the ex-enemy countries from hunger or starvation this winter . " If we could forget for the moment the practices of power , the sharp bargains of the market-place , the mechanical safeguards of national integrity , we would see that a billion dollars in food was a slight enough gesture in the direction of -a world community and the peace that must ultimately be based thereon . MACKENZIE KING OF CANADA IS THE FIRST HEAD of a great or middle power to urge the necessity of some form of world government as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is patently absurd , said Mr. King in a speech to the Canadian Parliament , to suggest that the problems created by the bomb have a mechanistic solution . Atomic energy can not be controlled " as if it were -a new and dangerous drug . " A solution must be sought in the realm of world politics and in the terrible light of the implications of the uses to which atomic energy may be pUt . What is clearly called for is some surrender of national sovereignty . " With a limited surrender of national sovereignty , there must be instituted some form of world government restricted , at least at the outset , to matters pertaining to the prevention of war and the maintenance of international security . . . . The United Nations Organization is not a sufficient answer to the problems of peace , and security which the world is now seeking . It is the first step , and an all-important step . . . . It is not , however , the only , much less the final , step . . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impressive because of his reputation as a cautious statesman with deep political wisdom and sensitive ear for the currents of popular opinion in his own country and throughout the world . THE NOMINATION OF ELEANOR ROOSEVELT AS one of our representatives in the UNO General Assembly will be widely approved in this country and throughout the world . It is good to have the name " Roosevelt " associated with this new effort to lay the foundations of peace . Apart from this consideration , Mrs. Roosevelt has earned by her own efforts the right to be a spokesman for the country . To millions of Americans she is a friend who can be relied upon to voice their deepest aspirations for a better world ; to millions in other lands she is a symbol of the most generous aspects of our nation . Mrs. Roosevelt is the one independent The NATION member of the American delegation ; the others were necessadly chosen ex officio . Secretary of State Byrnes has , quite properly , been asked to attend the inaug-uril session of the Assembly , and Edward R. Stettinius had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Senators Connally and Vandenburg take their places as the ranking Democratic and Republican members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . There will be more criticism of the alternates named by the President . The choice of Representatives , . Bloom and Eaton of the House Foreign Affairs Committee can be justified both by their positions and by their record on international questions . But we regret the inclusion of John Foster Dulles , who because of his reputation as an " expert " on foreign affairs may be able to exercise a disproportionate and pernicious influence on his fellow-delegates . The last two alternates , former Postmaster General Frank Walker and former Senator John G. Townsend , are apparently being included a a reward for political services . We are glad to note that their selection was sharply challenged by Senator Fulbright of Arkansas , who pointed out that even though they may- be fine upstanding citizens they have no particular qualifications for representing the United States on so important a mission . HOPES ARE HIGH IN CHINA AS GENERAL Marshall begins the complicated and difficult task of carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communists are reported to be vying with each other - in concessions designed to impress our new ambassador . At Chungking the Communist delegation to the forthcoming Political Consultative Council has gone so far as to propose an immediate truce in China 's undeclared civil war . The presence in Moscow of one of the State Department 's leading China experts has encouraged the idea that a Soviet-American understanding on China may result from the Big Three conference . Although the effect of our repudiation of the Hurley policy is evident in these developments , it would be wise to avoid extreme optimism . The record of previous Kuomintang-Communist conferences makes it evident that both factions will seek to drive hard bargains . The Kuomintang will be reluctant to yield any power to the Communist or democratic groups , and the Communists will not surrender their military autonomy unless wide democratic reforms are assured . The real test of American policy will come if negotiations bog down . How then will President Truman 's directive be carried out ? The State Department 's action authorizing General Wedemeyer to assist in moving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervention in behalf of the Kuomintang is still a possibility . The temptation to try to settle the issues by force will remain strong as long as our marines stay in China . A PREMATURE JAPANESE ELECTION WOULD UND many of the favorable results of our occupation policy . While Germany  --  defeated months earlier  --  is restricted to local elections , Japan is on the verge of national elections which will have a marked influence on the character and extent of its reform . Although Japanese political life , which is disDecember 29 , 1945 cussed elsewhere in this issue by Andrew Roth , has shown encouraging vigor , more time is needed to give forward-looking elements an opportunity to educate and organize the newly unshackled and greatly enlarged electorate . Reactionary politicians who have monopolized public life for two decades , retain the advantages of strong political machines and considerable finances . On the other hand , democratic and leftist groups have barely begun to reach the people . Furthermore , the elections would show a greater swing from the past if they were held after , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan 's war criminals . AMERICAN , PRESTIGE ALL OVER THE COLONIAL world has been raised by the State Department 's demand for negotiations between the Dutch and Indonesian leaders " in harmony with the principles and ideals " of the UNO charter . The statement was a diplomatic- but unmistakable slap at Britain 's anti-nationalist activities , for it also distinguished sharply between the repressive functions which the British have arrogated to themselves and the legitimate activities indorsed by the Allies  --  disarming and removing Japanese troops , rescuing Allied prisoners and refugees , and so on . Added support was given the statement when the Export-Import Bank held up a , Dutch request for a $100,000,000 credit for the reconstruction of the East Indies . This new attitude represents a defeat for the ultra-conservative policies of Assistant Secretary of State Dunn , and a victory for the liberal director of the Office of Far Eastern Affairs , John Carter Vincent . Progressive and experienced men in Vincent 's division had previously made several proposals for an enlightened policy in Southeast Asia , but because the colonies are governed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these proposals went to the Office of European Affairs . There they were promptly killed at the " French desk , " the " Dutch desk , " or the " British desk " by officials in tune with Mr. Dun.n 's desire to strengthen the Western European countries as a counter to Russia . It is certainly significant that it was John Carter Vincent and not his superior , Mr. Dunn , who accompanied Secretary of State Byrnes to Moscow . ITALY 'S NEW PREMIER , ALCIDE . DE GASPERI , IS doing his best to look as if he were following in the footsteps of his predecessor , Ferruccio Parri . His first statement of policy , calling for revision of the armistice and an improved interim status for Italy , echoes the demands of the previous regime . The six parties of the Committee of National Liberation are represented in the new government , and all but three of the ministers held posts in the Parri Cabinet . But political tension has not abated , and Parri himself , one of the most promising leaders to emerge from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Italian liberals are alarmed by the growing popularity of the newly formed L'Uorno Qualunque ( Everyman 's Front ) . In the present atmosphere of misery and despair L'Uomo Qualunque gives the superficial impression of an exciting intellectual adventure , aggressive , witty , , and ultra-modern . But it evokes uncomfortable memories of the Marinetti vogue that preceded the rise of Mussolini or of the Spanish literary movement of 723 the late twenties that led to the creation of the Falange . Although its founders disclaim any relationship with fascism , the new " front " is imbued with the same spirit of political nihilism that has animated fascist parties everywhere . Of more immediate gravity is Parri 's revelation that the Allies have refused the government 's request for police arms , perhaps because the police are controlled by the Minister of the Interior , who happens to be a Socialist . As a result the only armed force in the country on election day , April 30 , will be the army , which retains its reactionary leadership and swears allegiance to the House of Savoy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy is still largely geared to the preservation of the monarchy . THE PRESIDENT 'S PLAN TO ADMIT TO THE United States displaced persons up to quota limits is humane and necessary . Even though it offers relatively small-scale relief and can not really get under way until spring , it will enable thousands of suffering Europeans to face the winter with better heart . And it may well provide a wedge to pry open other national gateways which war and prejudice have dosed . We hope the plan will not be seized upon as an argument against the admission of European Jews to Palestine . Logically it should have the contrary effect , for as long as this country maintains war-time barriers against immigration , we are in a weak position to demand-relaxation of restrictions elsewhere . It would be easy to criticize the President 's proposal as timid and niggardly . He could have urged that quotas unused during the war years be added to those now available . Instead , he made a point of the fact that this was not being suggested ; admissions , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He also emphasized that welfare organizations or relatives would be held responsible for the costs of transporting refugees and for any subsequent expenditures ; in short , this act of mercy would not cost the taxpayer a penny . But if these precautions seem to damage the generous spirit of the document , they none the less conceal the wisdom of the serpent . For by holding his plan within the limits of the existing law , the President can carry it into effect through an executive order , avoiding a showdown with a Congress badly infected with anti-alien virus . At the same time his careful explanations and his assurance that " this directive will not deprive a single American soldier . . . of a berth on a vessel homeward bound . . : " should largely disarm public criticism . We are glad he included in his order provisions for accepting as residents the men and women in the relocation camp at Oswego . This news will be the best Christmas present they have had in many years . THE STORY OF JOHN AMERY , WHO WAS HANGED @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reminder of the appeal of fascism to the social misfit as well as to the plain thug . In the striking portrait drawn by Rebecca West in the New Yorker of December 15 , we see him as one of the boys who never reach maturity , who remain infantile exhibitionists throughout adult life . Son of a highly respected conservative political leader , Amery grew up with what is called " every advantage . " At fifteen he was already showing a mixture of 724 mental precocity and moral irresponsibility by dabbling in company promotion and selling " blue-sky " to innocent investors . At twenty-four the effort to cut a dash as a financial genius , coupled with a penchant for expensive living on credit , landed him in the bankruptcy court . Equally irresponsible management of shiny , fast automobiles  --  adolescent symbols of power  --  led to seventy-four convictions for motoring offenses . He left England for his country 's good , a failure with a persecution complex , and characteristically settled in Spain , Franco 's Spain . After the fall of France he moved to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deat . Another step and he was broadcasting for Goebbels and seeking to subvert British internees to serve in an anti-Bolshevik Free Corps . So he achieved a mission and a sense of importance . He had found in the amoral Nazi world freedom from frustration and fulfilment of his fantasies . The real world caught up with him again when he was captured by Italian partisans at the end of the war . He-probably died feeling a martyr , and no doubt he will be numbered among the " saints and heroes " of the British fascist movement . In death as in life , neurotics of his type are all too easily " exploited by megalomaniacs like Hitler and his numerous would be successors . Truman and Labor M R. TRUMAN 'S statement last week that earnings are always relevant to a trade dispute was a welcome declaration for Walter Reuther but hardly a gift . For Reuther had already won his fight after battling against unparalleled opposition ever since V-J Day . The logic of his arguments and the support they had gained ruled out any other decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was merely to end an argument , at least before government tribunals , which General Motors and the rest of American industry were prepared to carry on for months without end . Mr. Truman asserted , first , that " since wages are paid out of earnings , the question of earnings is relevant " to a wage dispute ; second , that a fact-finding panel investigating such a dispute must therefore take into account earnings , or ability to pay ; third , that in order to perform this task effectively it must have the right to examine a company 's books . Any other conclusion would have been ridiculous , General Motors ' vehement protestations notwithstanding . For to argue that a fact-finding board could pass on the reasonableness of a wage claim without considering profits was comparable to saying that the skipper of a lifeboat could prescribe the optimum ration of drinking water without taking account of the amount in his casks and the probable duration of the voyage . As Reuther has put it , " You ca n't talk about wages in an economic vacuum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a statement of the obvious does not detract from its importance . The relevancy of company earnings to wages , together with the corollary proposition that wage increases must not be rendered meaningless by concurrent and co-equal price increases , has been and still is the big issue in labor relations . That the dispute between General Motors and the Union of Automobile Workers goes far beyond the question of what wages art The NATION paid by an individual company is about the only point on which union and management agree . Thus the fact-finding panel headed by Lloyd Garrison had no option but to allow this larger issue to be debated on the first day of hearings . The argument proved most revealing . Reuther admitted that he was fighting for an economic theory of adequate national purchasing power , for a precedent in making wage decisions on the basis of " the arithmetic of the future . " On the other side of the table , as counsel for General Motors , was Walter Gordon Merritt , who almost forty years ago in the Danbury Hatters ' case won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of labor . He complimented Reuther on his frankness and was equally frank himself in insisting that he was fighting against a " revolutionary approach " in wage negotiations . Almost naively he pointed out that " this is not the normal collective-bargaining situation , " and he protested that the union has raised a barrier to settlement by its " obsessions . " C. E. Wilson , president of General Motors , facing Reuther for the first time in the four months ' negotiations , pressed the same point when he said pathetically , " If you could pull this thing down to your union , - Walter , and to our company , I could help in a settlement ; but I ca n't handle it on this big issue . " He was simply saying , of course , that the decision rested with big industry as a whole , which is fighting the Reuther heresy with a united front . Clear proof of this fact was provided by the behavior of the oil-industry representatives when they faced the same question before another government fact-finding board earlier in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had already reached an agreement on wages with the C. I. 0 . oil workers ' union and thereby set the pace for the rest . Knowing they were going to settle out of court  --  as they are now doing ? the oil companies had no longer an economic interest in the fact-finding proceedings . But their hearings were on a Monday , while the General Motors panel was not due to convene until the following Thursday . Someone felt it necessary , therefore , for the oil boys to stall , to keep a foot in the door lest an unfavorable precedent on the scope of fact-finding be created before the other team took over the field . Then , when the General Motors hearings began , the oil companies told their panel that its services could be dispensed with and went home to work out settlements on the Sinclair formula . With its plea for a blindfold decision by the fact-finders blocked by the President 's declaration , General Motors is left with three choices . It can settle with the union directly , it can open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or it can defy the President by standing pat . The great press barrage that has opened against the thesis that profits , prices , and wages are inseparably intertwined suggests an attempt to prepare public opinion for the third course . Typical of this outburst of propaganda is an article in the New York TIMOS of December 23 which reports that business men view Mr. Truman 's ruling as a " threat to capitalism . " If wage rates in any industry , it is argued , are to be determined by the profit-making capacity of the most prosperous companies , then smaller and less efficient concerns will be bankrupted . We wonder whether those who employ this argument are prepared publicly to follow it to its logical conclusion  --  that wage levels should be established on the basis of what the least efficient unit in any industry can pay . 