@@475276

peace can be lost , as the last one was , by failure to understand the real nature of Germany 's strength . Those elements of German power which will remain after unconditional surrender are sufficient to continue Germany 's power superiority over her neighbors . The well-spring of German aggression will not be found in any peculiar German psychological or political characteristics . National aggression in Germany , as in other nations , is nearly always an effort to make explicit in political institutions a rel-ative power superiority already in existence . Germany after defeat will present such an abject picture that it will be easy to underestimate the power that remains and the obstacles that lie in the path of further reducing that power . Plans for stripping Germany of all industry and returning her to a peasant status arc dangerous because they can not be carried out . Among the effects of such a program would be the starvation of at least half the German population and the ruin of Europe , of which Germany is the economic hub . On the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to world peace is ended merely by the destruction of the Nazi party or by the creation of a world organization to enforce the peace . It is the purpose of this article to suggest that in addition to the elimination of the Nazi party and the creation of a world peace organization , it will be necessary to reduce Germany 's relative strength . This can best be accomplished by building up , at Germany 's expense , in other European countries heavy industrial capacity such as steel , chemicals , electric power and equipment , and transportation . HE fate of any world organization to maintain peace depends on co-operation among the United States , Russia , and Great Britain . Obviously Germany can not hope to attain sufficient power to overcome a coalition of these three nations . The real test is whether Germany , after enforcement of the peace terms , will retain sufficient strength to disrupt the coalition . After unconditional surrender , Germany will still be among the five strongest world powers . Occupation , demobilization , and disarmament will not automatically set in motion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrender merely presents the opportunity for a redistribution of the elements of national power in Europe . If such a redistribution is not achieved we may look forward to these alternatives : either an independent Germany will again predominate in Europe west of Russia , or Russia will feel forced to step in and control Germany . Either eventuality would destroy the coalition of the United States , Russia , and Britain , and probably would be considered a threat to the safety of the United States . Why and how Germany distur ? the peace of the world is usually disci : .1. s.d in political and psychological terr such as " Kaiserism , " " militarism , " " T ussianism , " " Nazism , " " fanaticism , " " inferiority complex , " " guilt comp z , " and " paranoia . " These colorful cl. noses ignore a more fundamental c . se of disorder : Germany 's war poter al is much greater than that of any of r European country west of Russia an , of any practicable combination of F . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even a Europ n coalition including Russia , Great B . ain , and France will not clearly exc 4 Germany in strength . In order clearly teliarpass Germany in strength a eoalitio must contain the United States . Blithe military pressure which this county . exerts on Europe is very uneven beer e it requires an all-out American effor ' i place major forces on the Continent . 3 . September , 1944 , Gen-eral Marshall . . nounced that the United States had s ; y divisions " in combat " after nearly cee years . Germany once maintained .. Ye times that number " in combat " o ' he Eastern Front alone . Arnerie ; power is crushing when fully applied 1 , it is not readily maneuverable over a 1- ig peace period . It does not lend itself to quick shifts and limited application . It can not be exerted at its full force without strong allies on the Continent as well as in Britain . These characteristics of American influence in Europe create a special United States interest in a relatively stable Continent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military forces to bear . N EITIIER the United States nor Britain nor Russia nor France will have anything to gain in the foreseeable future by disrupting the European peace . Germany will . German policy is certain to be directed toward domination of her weaker neighbors if Germany retains her present relative strength as compared with them . The interest of the United States therefore calls for a reduction in German strength that cuts deeper than demobilization , disarmament , and superficial economic penalties . For if Germany , although disarmed , is still potentially the foremost nation of Europe it may have a strong enough bargaining position to achieve rearmament . That was how Germany rose between 1918 and 1939 . Such an explanation fits the facts much more closely than those which attribute the rebirth of German power to British stupidity , or French corruption , or Russian duplicity , or American indifference . Whether , in political terms , the Versailles Treaty was too soft or too harsh , it was clear even in the early nineteen-twenties that the treaty had left essentially unimpaired the main base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was recognized both by Germans and by the rest of the world . The smaller nations of Europe recognized it when they began to break away from the system of alliances which France attempted to construct . The French and the Russians recognized it in 1933 when they dared not intervene , without the support of Britain and the United States , to halt an announced German resurgence . Russia and France at that time had the first and second armies of the world and German rearmament was only slightly advanced . Even so the latent German strength that lay beneath the small German army was enough to deter Russian-French action . The British likewise recognized Germany 's pre-eminent strength in Europe in the nineteen-twenties when they looked to a disarmed Germany rather than to an armed France as the main Continental buckler against Russia . And Germany 's power was recognized in the United States , too , in the nineteen-twenties by a loan policy which considered Germany a better risk than other European countries . II VHA T is which existed before the last German rearmament and which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again after the coming German disarmament ? The elements that make up continuing German strength may be summarized as follows : 1 . The heavy industry of Germany towers above the heavy industries of other European countries west of Russia . It is twice as large as that of Great Britain and larger than that of Russia . German heavy industry is supported by the best transportation system in Europe , a level of scientific training and industrial technology easily the first in Europe , and the largest pool of skilled labor in Europe . 2 . The German language group is twice as large as any other in Europe , except the Russian . The overwhelming majority of the people in this language group feel a high degree of national and " racial " solidarity . Most of the fissures which formerly divided it on regional lines have closed rapidly in recent years . 3 . Germany 's geographical position is highly advantageous for both commercial and military purposes . 4 . The German military tradition is unexcelled in Europe . After surrender there will be about five million veterans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time to carry on this tradition even though military organization and military exercises should be forbidden by the peace terms . 5 . German administrative and organizational skills are unequaled in Continental Europe . None of these factors is affected by unconditional surrender and none of them can be eliminated directly and immediately by the terms of peace . MHE relative size of the German lan- guage group can scarcely be reduced within a generation by any action the United Nations will take . It is suggested that political dismemberment will offset Germany 's numerical superiority , but this seems to be debatable . Germany has been welded together by the victories and disasters of two great wars . It is worth noting that separatist tendencies within Germany between 1918 and 1933 were less strong than many observers had expected . The popular picture of Bavarians and Saxons herded or tricked into war by Prussian masters is belied by the war morale record of non-Prussian German soldiers and civilians , by the conspicuously non-Prussian leadership ofthe Nazi party , and by the party 's sharp ideological departures from traditional " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany today are probably not much more important than they are in the United States . Proposals to dismember Germany into three or more states are politically feasible in the sense that the victor nations have the power to set up such states and , so long as the victors can maintain direct pressure , to prevent their political reunion . The moment , however , that such enforcement should cease or falter the German states would be capable of coalescing almost overnight . What we seek are changes to be made during the period of occupation which Germany can not quickly erase when the direct pressure ends . Germany 's geographical advantages can be diminished but will not be harmed essentially by boundary changes . Germany lies in the center of the northern , more militarily important part of Europe . An alliance of any majority of Germany 's immediate neighbors is hampered because main communication lines between them run through Germany . The assets of military tradition and administrative skill can not , short of mass executions , be affected within this generation . HAT leaves the relative strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the peace terms and policies of the United Nations . Lack of understanding of the paramount importance of German industrial predominance in Europe is a serious handicap to any action along this line . Equally serious is the fact that policies designed to end the pre-eminence of German industry run counter to other policies and tendencies in the United Nations . Because many students of the European economy place undue emphasis on raw materials , comparisons of German economic war potential with that of other nations are often misleading . Germany 's position in essential raw materials , except coal , is rather weak . But this weakness has been much less important in World War II than in World War I. The difference is accounted for partly by stockpiles , partly by the greater area of Europe controlled by Germany in World War II , and partly by a planned German effort toward autarchy , especially in foodstuffs . All of these factors together , however , are not as significant as the role of science in compensating Germany 's raw material weaknesses . Chemistry , " the science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that gives us every reason to believe that flaws in national strength based on lack of raw materials will continue to decline in importance . The one kind of object a contemporary soldier does n't use is a " raw material . " His weapons , his clothes , even his food arc processed . Obviously , war industry today still needs a tremendous range of raw materials , but processing capacity is a better measure of a nation 's ability to support war . Prim two most convenient indices of industrial capacity are steel and electric power . Germany has a steel ingot capacity of 25 million tons a year ; the U.S.S.R. has 20 million ; Great Britain , 13 million ; and France , 10 million . Postwar Germany will probably have nine immediate neighbors , Denmark , Holland , Belgium , Luxembourg , France , Switzerland , Austria , Czechoslovakia , and Poland . Germany 's steel capacity exceeds the total Capacity of these nine . In installed electric power , Germany 's capacity is double that of Britain and much larger than that of France . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany 's nine future neighbors . Nor do even these rough comparisons as a measure of Germany 's industrial strength tell the whole story . There are other facts to be borne in mind . For instance , the French steel position is not , for war purposes , as good as it looks because almost half of French capacity is basic Bessemer , which is not armament steel . The heavy industries of Germany 's other eight neighbors are not severally large enough to form the bases of complete war industries . Since they are not integrated with each other , their actual total of industrial strength is much less than the sum of the parts . When we examine the net production available for war in various nations , Germany 's position appears even , stronger . A country can use for war what remains after the essential needs of its essential inhabitants and of its productive plant are satisfied . These needs differ very sharply from country to country . The Russians obviously have succeeded in using for direct war purposes an unprecedented proportion of their total production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large-scale advance in the U.S.S.R. 's heavy industrial capacity will require a large investment of steel and other products in replacement or new plant construction , especially in transportation . The position of the British Empire vis-a-vis Germany shows why it is necessary to deal in terms of net productive capacity available for war . Britain draws upon the resources of her Empire , but in payment for those resources the products of British industry are spread thin . The Empire adds an additional 3 million tons of steel capacity to the United Kingdom 's 13 million . These 16 million tons must serve the economies of countries and colonies containing 500 million people . The per capita requirements of the Empire for heavy industrial products do not , of course , equal Germany 's per capita requirements ; yet out of the British Empire 's 16 million tons of annual steel capacity must come the shipping to maintain the essential trade of the Empire , and the steel needed for the ports and railways not only of the United Kingdom but also of the Dominions. the colonies , and India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany of the basic industrial products available in order to maintain the basic economy itself . With what remains of the Empire 's 16 million tons of steel a year Britain must maintain the navy that holds the Empire together . Britain 's steel is distributed over the seven seas and over the maintenance and defense of a land area 75 times as large as Germany . Thus a much higher proportion of Germany 's industrial product than Britain 's is available for war in Europe . Expressed in terms of annual steel capacity available for war in Europe , the industrial potentials of the British Empire and Germany are related more nearly as 8 to 25 than as 16 to 25 . Sixty years ago the British Empire had nearly half the industrial war potential of the world . Today it has less than 10 per cent . That is a rapid decline ? and it took place in the face of increased British commitments outside Europe . Slowly rising power and rapidly rising nationalism among the peoples of Asia are almost certain to tie down a greater and greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of this war much less strong than in 1918 . Her empire will have a hard task to restore the prestige lost through defeat , occupation , and subsequent confusion . During the four years of German occupation the French industrial plant has undoubtedly suffered heavily . Although it is probable that not many plants were actually moved to Germany , there is no chance that the Germans kept the French production plant up to date . Such modernization and expansion as the Germans undertook was in Germany and Austria rather than in France , the Low Countries , or the Balkans . Moreover France , which entered the last period of peace with the world 's largest army , will enter this one almost as disarmed as Germany . The decline of Britain and France in the European power equation weighs heavily against certain inferences concerning Germany which have been drawn from the rise of Russia . The U.S.S.R. 's industrial capacity and military power have risen so rapidly that many people believe G ermany 's relative power after this war will be much less than in 1918 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Russia is balanced largely by the decline in the power of Britain and France . The combined superiority of Britain , France , Russia , and their reliable European allies over Germany will not be much , if at all , greater than it was in the early years of the last armistice . HERE is in some quarters a tendency to assume that bombing and other war damage will have destroyed such a large proportion of German industry that Germany will no longer be the dominant industrial power in Europe . Only a post-war survey can determine the bomb damage to Germany , but any careful newspaper reader knows that it has not been as great as extremist airpower enthusiasts had hoped . Much of it has been concentrated on plants making aircraft and other finished weapons . Although there is no doubt that very extensive damage has been done to such plants , the rate of recuperation seems to have been amazingly rapid . In the post-hostilities period recuperation from war damage to plants making finished products might be at least as rapid as under the strained conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants making finished products , there has been serious damage to some German basic industries , including steel . The rate of recovery in such industries will be much slower . At the end of the war German ( and Russian ) actual steel capacity will be less than the figures given above . It is almost certain , however , that Germany 's losses through war damage will be less than Germany 's losses under the Versailles Treaty , which gave to France areas containing a third of Germany 's steel industry and neutralized the Saar for fifteen years . Germany quickly made up its industrial losses of the last peace by rationalizing remaining German industry , and a similar and perhaps greater opportunity awaits Germany in the coming peace period . German production methods before 1941 were inefficient by American standards . Under stress of an acute manpower shortage Germany seems to have learned deskilling of industrial processes and other mass production techniques without which she could not have maintained her production through 1943 in spite of bombing and the repeated comb-out of skilled workers from her factories . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long way toward compensating for all the physical damage wrought by bombing . In any case , the fate of German industry will be decided by the peace , not by the war . NUMBER of economic measures have been proposed in relation to German peace terms . These include : 1 . Abolition of German " war industry " 2 . Surveillance and temporary control of certain other industries 3 . Reparations 4 . Stimulation of German prosperity to encourage and support a peaceful , democratic Germany . There are many standards by which these proposals can be judged . The following comments are confined to only one standard ? the effect of the measures proposed on Germany 's relative strength . DEANS for the abolition of German " war industry " boil down to prohibitions against the manufacture of weapons and aircraft . It is easy to exaggerate the effect of such restrictions on a nation 's ability to prepare for war . War industry is not a separate activity with its own machinery , its own technology , and its own skilled labor pool . The ability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal combustion engines . The ordnance industry is the steel industry plus the chemicals industry ; a tank factory may be a locomotive works ; a submarine assembly plant is any shipyard. , This point ought to be clear enough to Americans , who developed between 1939 and 1943 an output of arms overshadowing that of the rest of the world . American arms production was brought about by the conversion of American peacetime industry , not by the expansion of the American armaments industry which existed in 1939 . During the occupation period and perhaps even for some time thereafter it would be possible to enforce a prohibition against the manufacture of weapons , including aircraft , in Germany . But whenever such direct surveillance and enforcement ceased , Germany would be in a position to organize the construction of weapons , including aircraft , as rapidly as America converted to arms production . To develop a large steel or chemicals or machine tools industry is a matter of years or decades for a country which lacks these basic industries . To a country that has the basic industries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be a mere matter of months . Arms in being at the beginning of hostilities arc of much less importance than the ability to manufacture arms during hostilities . Germany 's neighbors will notjudge Germany 's strength by the inventories of German arsenals but by the potential output of German industries . It was on that basis that they appraised Germany 's strength in the nineteen-thirties . Prewar stocks of weapons , and weapons acquired by the conquest of other countries , have made only minor contributions to meeting Germany 's huge arms requirements since the invasion of Russia . Published United Nations estimates of German aircraft losses , reserves , and output for the past two years , for instance , make it plain that the Luftwaffe has been largely dependent on current production . These considerations do not , of course , weigh in favor of permitting Germany to manufacture weapons and aircraft . They merely cast doubt on the long-range efficacy of restrictions in crippling Germany 's power . r HE chances for more fundamental measures for controlling Germany 's economic war potential have been carefully examined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Germany and Japan . They recognize that controls must reach deeper than arms production , but they find insuperable difficulties in the way of enforcing controls in all but a few industries , such as alloy steels , aluminum , and electric power . The difficulties of " policing " German industry can scarcely be exaggerated , but their nature can be misunderstood . It would be relatively easy to detect major violations of restrictions upon German " peace " industries , and this would not involve impracticable numbers of industrial control officers . The bulk of raw materials and products , the widespread ramifications of industrial processes , the virtual impossibility of concealing plants , the large number of workers required , expose to scrutiny all major industrial activities . Detection , however , is only one phase of police work . The " influence " of the criminal with authorities ultimately responsible for law enforcement is a method of evasion as familiar as concealment . Police controls in all fields are designed to operate against individuals and groups whose power is in no way comparable to that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or numbers or support remotely approaching that of the enforcing authority , paralysis descends on the latter , and persists until the power of the criminal group is broken by means almost invariably outside the normal course of police work . No matter how cohesive the coalition of the victor powers may be , Germany is too strong to be handled within concepts of police " control . " The German power must be broken or else the " police " will be called off as the French were called off from the Ruhr . If Germany remains the production center of Europe it will have very effective levers for exercising influence . Non-German producers of raw materials for German industry and consumers who depend on German production are influential with their own and other governments . They will be at the mercy of production stoppages or other pressure techniques within the power of Germany . Surveillance and attempted control of key German " peace " industries may be useful and necessary as part of a general plan to decentralize German heavy industry , but such methods can not by themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P AR ? MONS offer a direct and obvious method of decentralization . Reparations can , however , have the opposite effect . Everything depends on what the reparations are intended to accomplish . A large part of the public of the United Nations believes that " Germany must pay for everything that has been destroyed . " Others , including most economists and political leaders , reply that this is impossible because it would involve the economic and political enslavement of Germany for generations . They will propose that reparations be compressed into a brief period , say five years , and that the rate of reparations during that period be not too high to prevent Germany from having a tolerable standard of living . Recognition of the force of this argument will probably result in a compromise , which will seek the maximum reparationsthat can be extracted in a brief period without destroying German standards of living . But such a policy may affect the kind of reparations imposed . The way in which Germany could give its victims the maximum value at minimum cost to German living standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced by German industry and in semi-finished industrial products which could be fabricated into consumers ' goods by the light industries of other countries . This is unquestionably the most " efficient " form of reparations . It would not , however , reduce the German economic predominance in Europe . At the end of the five-year period under such a plan the French would have more automobiles , the Yugo-slays more shoes , and the Norwegians more radios . But the Germans would still have the superiority in heavy industrial capacity which they now possess and the power of Germany in comparison with that of its neighbors would be about what it was in the nineteen-thirties . A NOTHER form of reparations has been proposed : the export of German labor to victim countries . German workers would be moved physically to Russia , Poland , France , etc. , and would rebuild the roads , bridges , and houses they had destroyed . This is the least efficient form of reparations , as it makes no use whatever of the German industrial plant and very little of German technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would resume , presumably somewhat the worse for wear , their more productive jobs in what would still be the center of European industry . A third form of reparations might be in raw materials . In practice most of such payments would be in coal . They would have an immediate effect of limiting German output , but they would not necessarily affect Germany 's relative productive capacity , unless extended over a ten- to twenty-year period and used to subsidize new or expanded heavy industries , especially steel , in other European countries . There would be a certain poetic justice in forcing Germany to pay reparations by exporting consumers ' goods , labor , and raw materials , because these arc , in the main , what Germany exacted from the conquered countries . Poetic justice , however , will not alter power relations . Reparations , if they are to aid in redistributing power in Europe , must take from Germany precisely what Germany did not take from its victims ? basic industrial capacity . UT reparations might take still another form which would have a profound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of her neighbors . They might be paid mainly in capital goods , such as metallurgical plants , chemical manufacturing facilities and patents , machine tools , heavy electrical and transportation equipment . Such a plan , if firmly enforced and correlated with other measures to stimulate industrial production outside Germany , would increase the war potential of non-German Europe . It would require a fifteen-year rather than a five-year reparations period . In fifteen years Germany , without cutting living standards down to subsistence levels , could produce for reparations export much more capital equipment than all Russia was able to produce in the two decades between wars . Many industrial installations can be physically moved out of Germany . Emphasis , however , should be placed on reparations export of new machinery able to compete with the best German equipment . Sharp restrictions on new plant and equipment in Germany for a fifteen-year period , without reference to superficial distinctions between " war " and " peace " industries , would logically complement such a reparations policy . N o DOUBT such a reparations policy runs counter to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe . More goods will be produced in Europe in the next decade if the center of European industry is left where it is and expanded as rapidly as possible . This concept of the most " efficient " international distribution of processing capacity seems to be somewhat deeply embedded in some American official thinking . The extra distance which German coal and Swedish iron would have to travel to reach French mills rather than German is considered a barrier to any fundamental redistribution of the European steel industry . But without " artificial " measures , Germany 's present advantages can not be offset . Such " artificial " measures are well within the power of the United Nations to impose ; and if they are enforced over a period of years , the resulting growth of non-German industry in Europe may be depended on to minimize Germany 's relative power for a long time . As to the argument that Europe can achieve maximum total production only by centering it in Germany , it is worth noting that the mere retention by Germany of predominant processing capacity is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced at a rate near capacity , except for war . Germany , starting in 1939 with little " fat , " has for five years devoted more than half its productive capacity to war purposes and still maintained a tolerable living standard for its people . A more realistic " efficient " economic organization of Europe would underwrite , by reparations and other " artificial " measures , higher-cost heavy industries in the non-German nations which would be more likely to produce for peace and which would then be better able to restrain Germany . R PARAT1ONS alone will not be sufficient to decentralize European industry . Certain sacrifices on the part of the principal United Nations will also be required . If Russia , for instance , manifests an unduly expansionist attitude in the post-hostilities period , the forces in Britain and the United States most sensitive to the Soviet " threat " will demand a strong Germany . If Britain pushes for European markets at the expense of the initially weak industries of non-German states , Britain 's own future political security will be thereby undermined . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present British markets , Britain , in order to live , may feel bound to take the political risk involved in a Continental trade drive that may stifle the growth of industry in non-German countries . The positive assistance of the great powers , especially the United States , will be required to support a program of building up non-German European industry . Europe 's requirements for outside postwar relief , for instance , will be larger if Germany pays reparations in capital goods than if Germany supplies consumers ' goods to victim countries . If we make the reduction of German power our chief objective in the peace terms , then the additional relief cost will fall on us . United States government loans and perhaps other indirect subsidies will be needed to foster and protect non-German industries in their " uneconomic " effort to compete with German producers . The price of such support will be high , unless it is considered in terms of the cost of another war , which we risk by leaving Germany 's neighbors at her mercy . We have a choice between spreading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of peace ; or else of intervening , once a generation or oftener , to thwart by all-out war the political organization of Europe under German leadership . V C UTTING German power down to manageable size will be , in spite of two wars , an undertaking unpopular in many quarters . The German public can be expected to resist and oppose such a program . Acquiescence in it would undermine the popular support of any German government . For that reason it will be repugnant to those Americans and Britons who place their chief reliance for a peaceful Europe upon a Germany that is prosperous , democratic , self-respecting , freed from guilt and inferiority , content to walk peacefully forward with its neighbors in abiding friendship . The Americans and Britons who make this psychological approach to the German problem make much of the fact that the Peace of Versailles presented German ultra-nationalists with arguments against the " harsh " Allied terms , and that these arguments were strikingly effective with the German masses who were suffering from the effects of economic depression . From this they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all else , avoidpresenting the same or similar arguments to future demagogues , and that happy , prosperous Germans will not listen to fanatic appeals leading toward aggression . But it was , of course , a happy , prosperous Germany that went to war in 1914 , with the support of democratic Socialists and moderate Centrists . In the period between wars , every indigenous German political party supported an expansionist policy . The party with the most aggressive policy obtained the most popular support . German aggression in international relations is not a creature of the Nazi party . The party rather is an expression of a deep-seated , though not necessarily ineradicable , national will toward dominance of Europe . It is probably incorrect and certainly useless to think of this German power drive as " mass insanity . " It is even less possible to psychoanalyze a whole people than it is to indict it . Instead of groping about for ways of changing existing German political character , outlook , and desires , either by kind treatment or by spectacular punishment , we might start by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to disrupt the European peace is a more practical question than whether it will want to do so . A PEACEFUL , democratic Germany is not an unattainable objective . Some of today 's most conspicuously law-abiding nations are former aggressors . None of them , however , was cured by the application of psychiatric methods to international politics . Some were tamed by attaining positions in the world commensurate with their underlying strength . Others lost their underlying strength . There is no firmer law of national behavior than the one which induces a nation to seek to make its position in the world equal its real power . When the power basis for conquest goes , the psychological drive for conquest goes with it . Few Swedes today would take seriously any suggestions that Sweden 's former position be restored . That millions of Germans are receptive to comparable appeals does not mean that Germans are inherently more bloodthirsty or more gullible . It means that they have a better basis for hope of conquest than Swedes have . If Germany is placed in a power position comparable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morality will progress very rapidly , without the necessity of changing teachers or textbooks . Germany 's real power , resting upon pre-eminence over its neighbors in heavy industry , population , geographical position , military skill , and administrative ability , seems to a German to entitle his country to exercise a commensurate political dominance . The Americans , the Russians , and the British , for perfectly valid reasons of their own security , do not intend to permit Germany to register its real power by occupying a dominant political position in Europe . Germany will keep trying , however , just as long as the gap remains between her underlying power and her political position . The stakes are high and the risks will not be too great as long as Germany retains , as she did in 1918 , the ability to try again .                     