@@258072

Hers to Hold ( Universal ) is another example of the high artfulness whereby Universal has inched its best-paying property , Diva Deanna Durbin , from girlish charm to full-blown love interest . This installment concerns Miss Durbin 's fruitless infatuation for a gay , non-marrying Flying Tiger ( Joseph Gotten ) , and it has the profitable merit of leaving Deanna still single , her fans still breathlessly awaiting their singing star 's cinemarriage . Petter managed than usual are Miss Durbin 's opportunities to break into song . As noon-hour entertainment for workers in an effectively photographed West Coast airplane factory , she sings the Kashmiri Song , the Seguidilla from Carmen , and the topical , not very catchy Say a Pray'r for the Boys Over There . <P> We 've Never Been Licked ( Universal ) plants a bright new thumbtack on Hollywood 's regional map of collegiate cinemilieus . To football-famed Texas A. &; M. from the faraway Philippines comes one Brad Craig ( Richard Quine ) . He finds hazing a dreadful ordeal , but finally decides to stick it out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret formula ; it is mysteriously stolen and he is bounced out on his ear . By way of Tokyo he eventually gets to Midway and wins the Congressional Medal of Honor for helping to destroy a Japanese aircraft carrier . Death finally comes to Brad in a spectacularly heroic manner-none too soon either . <P> Let 's Face It ( Paramount ) is an anemic version of the successful Broadway musical in which Danny Kaye 's double-talk singing and double-jointed posturings brought down the house two years ago . Although Bob Hope is in the driver 's seat , the only house likely to be brought down by the movie is an Army canteen which suffers a direct hit by a Hope-driven jeep . Other antics center around a country weekend crisis when three cutie-accompanied husbands meet up with their three draftee-accompanied wives . Throaty Betty Hutton provides a diversion with a machine-gun-speed offering of Let 's Not Talk About Love .                     