@@487459

IT IS time for us to engage in some cool , realistic thinking about the problem of financing British purchases in this country , and to do that we must grasp the meaning to Britain of American planes , steel , and other war supplies . These goods do not represent merely an addition to a margin of safety : they are the one hope of establishing that material superiority over Germany without which British courage and will to win can not produce victory . The question has become urgent , not because British dollar resources are now exhausted , but because they are largely pledged to meet contracts already signed for deliveries stretching well into 1942 . To offset losses through air and submarine raids and to keep pace with increased German production in the occupied territories , Britain must be able to expand vastly its purchases in America , and it can not go ahead making commitments unless it is able to insure payment . For instance , it has become essential for Britain to supplement its shipbuilding capacity in order to offset the dent which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is buying , at inflated prices , all the serviceable American ships it can get , but it also needs hundreds of new vessels , and our yards are already booked nearly to capacity . Plans are thereforebeing drawn up for the construction of new yards to be financed by the British government at a tentative total cost of $750,000,000 . This illustrates the enormous sums involved in keeping Britain supplied with the absolute essentials of victory . In recent days British representatives have been meeting with Administration officials , and there have been many hints that something is going to be done . It has been suggested that a way may be found of getting around the provisions of the Johnson and Neutrality acts through the instrumentality of the Export-Import Bank or the Stabilization Fund . We sincerely hope there will be no resort to such hole-in-the-corner tactics . The time has come to face the issues , and we look to the President to present a concrete program to Congress and to explain his reasons to the people at large by means of the radio . The first item @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson and Neutrality acts , which are doing nothing to keep us out of war but are acting as a pair of self-imposed handcuffs hindering our declared policy of " all aid short of war . " But do not let us think that repeal , by itself , would solve Britain 's financial problem . It would enable a private loan to be floated if terms could be arranged with the bankers . In the last war a bond issue was floated with British-owned American securities pledged as collateral . British holdings of United States stocks and bonds in September , 1939 , were estimated at around $1,000,000,000 , but subsequent sales have reduced this total by something like a fifth . The remainder would cover a loan of perhaps $600,000,000 . But obviously this would add nothing to existing British resources ; it would only assist their quick mobilization and prevent losses through forced liquidation in a poor market . At best , therefore , it only means postponing for a short time the problem of finding new financial resources . One proposal which is meeting with a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress is that the United States should buy from Britain its Atlantic and Caribbean colonies . It is suggested that the value of this " real estate " for defense purposes would make it worth while to pay a really generous price . The promoters of this idea , however , fail to take into account the fact that the inhabitants of these colonies do not want to be sold and would rather be British subjects than American wards . Nor has any consideration been given to how such acquisitions would be fitted into the American economy . Are they to be brought within our customs boundaries , or are we to use them simply as fortresses without taking any responsibility for the welfare of their inhabitants ? We trust that further discussion of this plan will expose it for what it is  --  a piece of half-baked imperialism . We should also like to enter a caveat against a government loan to Britain unless the contract is so drawn as to 592 prevent a new war-debts controversy . Such a loan would , in effect , be a loan of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rate of repayment after the war would depend on our willingness to facilitate the entry of British merchandise . But even if this safeguard could be introduced , we should prefer outright gifts or subsidies to loans . Either the interests of this country are vitally affected by the outcome of Britain 's struggle or they are not . If we have only a sentimental stake in the war , if it is a matter of indifference to our future whether Britain goes down to total defeat or , faced by hopeless odds , buys peace by adopting totalitarian government and agreeing to further Hitler 's world empire , then we should neither give nor lend money . But the whole " short-of-war " policy , which has been indorsed by the vast majority of Americans , is premised on the belief that the defeat of Hitler is our vital concern . This being so , is our aid to Britain to be confined to the filling of profitable contracts and the granting of loans on a strictly business basis ? Britain is not sparing itself in this fight . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tears . Surely if their victory means to us what we say it does , we are prepared to see that they do not fail for lack of dollars . Food for Nazi Victims ? E LSEWHERE in this issue of The Nation will be found two articles presenting opposing views on the question of feeding the populations of the German-occupied areas of Europe . Both are persuasive ; both are humanitarian in the truest sense of the word . In this country we have large surpluses of wheat , corn , and other foods , much of which may soon go to waste . In Europe there are millions of persons who , if not actually faced with starvation , are threatened with undernourishment , illness , and an abnormal death-rate if they do not receive aid . The ones who will suffer most are the wholly innocent  --  mothers , children , and invalids in the occupied countries . Yet any aid given will , in some degree , weaken England 's one reliable weapon  --  the blockade  --  and thereby play into Hitler 's hands . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we still lack the information that is necessary to a final decision . We have , for instance , widely varying stories as to the extent of the food shortage in Europe . Mr. Possony is inclined , on the basis of careful study , to minimize the deficiency . Dr. Hamilton gives no figures , but assumes a condition comparable to that which existed in Germany in 1919 after more than four years of war . Equally unknown is the extent to which American food , if sent , would make it possible for Germany to drain supplies from the conquered territories . We know that Germany has already confiscated large amounts of food The NATION in Denmark , Norway , Holland , and France . We know that within recent weeks substantial amounts have been shipped from Spain to Germany , despite an unquestioned shortage of food in Spain . We do not know to what degree American food distributed to the occupied areas could be kept from Germany by careful supervision . Obviously , any distribution of food will lighten Hitler 's burden and increase the productive value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a difference between the effects of a distribution of food by , say , the Quakers , and the effects of its distribution by an organization functioning under the politically ambitious Mr. Hoover , who has set up a committee composed largely of persons known for their anti-British bias to supply food to the " five small democracies . " Before deciding whether we should or should not use our influence to induce the British to weaken their blockade , even to a limited extent , it seems imperative that we first obtain authentic information on these points . The actual food situation in the occupied areas can be determined with fair accuracy if Germany is willing to allow the facts to be known . It should also be possible to find out to what degree Germany is prepared to cooperate in allowing an efficient , neutral supervision of the distribution of food . Such information can be had only by sending an able , responsible investigating commission to Europe . We have scattered information  --  from the Quakers regarding France and from Jewish organizations regarding Poland ; but the type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German and British governments by an official or semi-official delegation . Even if one feels in advance , as Mr. Roosevelt apparently does , that food should not be sent , such a conclusion would be far more convincing if it were based on the investigation of an impartial commission . But even if general relief can not be given without endangering England 's , and therefore Europe 's , one hope of victory , there may be ways of extending limited aid under adequate safeguards . It might be possible , for instance , to feed the children and the sick under some such supervision as the Quakers could provide . Neither children nor the infirm can be transformed into productive workers for the Reich . For this reason they are unlikely to be cared for if the food situation becomes as desperate as some observers have predicted that it will . Furthermore , it should be possible to work out some provision for feeding the refugees and political prisoners in the concentration camps . Reports indicate that these unfortunate victims have been getting little to eat under ordinary circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly starve without outside aid . Food for special groups such as these would hardly make a dent in the British blockade . It may be , of course , that Great Britain would oppose even such restricted aid to the victims of Nazi aggresDecember 14 , 1940 sion . But the real obstacles are likely to be interposed by Germany . Hitler may feel that it is unwise to allow any neutral group to know the true conditions in the occupied areas . He may be afraid to permit the democracies to gain the prestige that would accrue from feeding hungry children , the ill , and the oppressed . If the Third Reich is determined to starve its subject populations rather than allow assistance from abroad under rigid political safeguards , the sooner that fact is known the better . Before committing ourselves let us have the full facts so that we can judge the issue on its merits . Watch Joe Kennedy ! BY FREDA KIRCHWEY T HE appeasement forces in the United States begin to coalesce , to harden into organized bodies , to find leaders and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or , if their names have value , are attached as camp followers . The tough ones remain . Two of the toughest , who may well emerge as leaders in a movement which must draw influence and financing from the right and members from the left , are John L. Lewis and Joseph P. Kennedy . Follow the course of these two men from today on . Both are strong and determined and devious , and they know what they want . Ostensibly they want peace for their country  --  even if that peace rests finally on the sword-point of triumphant fascism . In practice this means that they will prevent by all the means in their power the continued increase of American aid to Britain . They will try to spread a mood of defeat , contempt both for Britain 's chances and the cause for which it is battling . They will try to make us lose faith in ourselves , in the vitality of our institutions and our power to defend them . In short , whether deliberately or by accident , they will work for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will work will probably be the America First Committee . As far as I know , neither man is now a member , but the committee is well organized , well backed , and staffed with a collection of expert big-time appeasers , including William R. Castle , Jr. , Henry Ford , and Charles A. Lindbergh . Kathryn Lewis is also on the national advisory board of the committee and may be assumed to represent her father 's views , since they coincide to the last detail with the America First program . As for Kennedy , he can hardly become an active member until his resignation as ambassador to Great Britain has been accepted . Why the President failed to accept it the day it was submitted is a mystery . Perhaps he hoped the title would serve as a partial curb on Mr. Kennedy 's infinite capacity for indiscretion . If so , he should have known better . The Ambassador 's outspoken nature is as notorious in London593 as it is in the United States , and not even his equal facility in denying his quoted remarks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office . Surely it would be better to allow Kennedy to spread defeatist propaganda as a member of the America First Committee than as ambassador . Watch these three ? the committee , the ex-envoy , the ex-labor leader . They are all dangerous , and it takes no prescience to assert that they will soon be found working together . The probable role of John L. Lewis will be discussed in a later issue . This week I want to review very briefly the record of Joseph P. Kennedy . He was , to start with , nor has he ceased to be , essentially a Wall Street man with a flair for successful stock manipulation . His record prior to his selection by President Roosevelt for head of the SEC was as innocent of any taint of public service as that of Wendell L. Willkie . He is able and energetic , a personal friend of the President 's , and was a large contributor to the Roosevelt campaign in 1932 . Those were his qualifications for high office . He served as SEC chairman for a year or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was obviously qualified by conviction and temperament . Then he went to the Maritime Commission , where he tackled a well-nigh hopeless job realistically and without any marked success He got on badly with labor , well with the industry , and at least demonstrated an unusual degree of frankness in publicly reporting on the true state of maritime affairs . His appointment as ambassador to the Court of St. James 's was greeted with good-humored tolerance even by liberals , including The Nation . Among rich men of no diplomatic experience  --  the type traditionally chosen for the most important diplomatic post in the service  --  he seemed more human and independent than most . One could not foresee what effect the impact of fascism and war would have on the mind of a Boston Irish-American turned big business man The full facts were revealed by Munich . Whether it was by Kennedy 's advice that Mr. Roosevelt made his well-intentioned and ill-fated attempts to bring the dictators to reason I do not know . The New York Times , in an editorial laboriously whitewashing the Ambassador , insists that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that effort . It is certain , in any case , that at the time of Munich he stood solidly with the appeasement elements in the British government , it is certain that he took the same view when the showdown finally came in 1939 . His close associates in England were the arch-capitulators , Montagu Norman and Sir Horace Wilson and Sir John Simon , and , of course , Chamberlain himself . It will not be forgotten that soon after his appointment Kennedy told a friend with disarming candor , " I 'm just like that with Chamberlain . Why , Franklin himself is n't as confidential with me as the Prime Minister . " 594 Kennedy 's recent record has been definitively set down by Joseph Alsop and Robert Kintner in the New York Herald Tribune . I 'll quote a few paragraphs which sum it up perfectly : After the war began he bombarded the State Department with repeated expressions of almost unalloyed defeatism . Sometimes these were too extreme to suit Kennedy himself and he would then telephone the department and ask that his previous day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But unless his former associates are wilfully misrepresenting him Kennedy 's warning to the President that Britain was utterly worthless as an ally , sent a few weeks before his return , was fairly typical of his regular output . Since Kennedy 's return to this country his course has been pretty difficult to follow For example , at a luncheon with a number of extremely influential men in New York just after he landed he was understood to say that " Britain is busted . " Yet unless the President misheard him , or misquoted him to the Treasury , he warned the President while he was in Washington against being deceived into extending financial aid to Britain by any false British pleas of exhausted resources . Again , although the Kennedy pattern appears to be a leading business man , politician , or publisher frightened into something approaching a fit , he has flatly denied being a defeatist . Fortunately , however , there is Kennedy 's Boston interview to throw light on the situation . It was in this remarkable interview , first printed in the Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his secret mind , covering Norman with grease , denouncing such British leaders as Ernest Bevin as the precursors of " National Socialism , " and declaring frankly that Lindbergh " is not so crazy either . " The interview was written by Louis Lyons , a highly reputable reporter and one of Kennedy 's oldest journalistic friends . It was read to Kennedy on the morning it was printed , when one of the Globe editors telephoned him for comment on the death of Neville Chamberlain . Kennedy offered no objection . It was again read to him the same afternoon when British newspapers and news services requested permission to quote it . On this occasion Kennedy was specifically asked to approve the quotations appearing in the interview and willingly consented to do so . Yet a day or so later , after he found himself in trouble , he blandly repudiated the same interview he had twice heard and passed on , declaring it was not authorized and tended to misrepresent him Under the circumstances , one wonders what weight to attach to Kennedy 's subsequent loud disclaimers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporters , Drew Pearson and Robert S. Allen , have added a few items of Kennediana in their own syndicated column . They say that the Ambassador at a private gathering in Hollywood repeated his conviction that Britain was as good as defeated and that the United States should help Britain The NATION only to gain time for its oun rearmament . And he said that Hollywood should stop making films offensive to the dictators . The column also reported that Mr. Kennedy had visited California in order to call on William Randolph Hearst , " to consider a proposal by banking interests that he Join the Hearst newspaper enterprises . " ( It may be noted , incidentally , that this item was omitted from the column as it appeared in the New York Mirror , a Hearst tabloid . ) The basic motive behind Joseph P. Kennedy 's peacethrough-appeasement program emerges clearly from his record and from all the reports . It is evident that his passion for peace is rooted in a contempt for democracy , that his desire to appease the dictators is linked with a strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants no truck with an England that is moving along the lines described by Ralph Bates in this issue . He prefers a policy of surrender in the interests of reaction . He may well become the most effective American agent of the appeasement elements that were determined to use Willkie as their leader . Mr. Kennedy will go along without even threatening to kick over the traces .                     