@@431210

IN A toy department this last Christmas season , you may have seen a glistening metal airplane swerving and swooping after a wand waved by a demonstrator . If you did , you were gazing at a toyland application of one of the results of a new and booming development in the ages-old craft of working in metals . Powder metallurgy is its name . For the wand was an alnico magnet which is made by compressing aluminum , nickel , cobalt , iron and sometimes copper powders under tremendous pressure and then subjecting the compact , or briquette , to heat below melting point to complete the adhesion . Similarly , if you marvel at the nearly noiseless operation of your automobile engine , or if you admire the toughness of cemented carbide cutting tools , or the hardness of the new types of diamond-impregnated grinding wheels or diamond-drill core bits ? all these advances are intimately related to powder metallurgy . Powder metallurgy is a lusty and growing competitor of products made by casting and machining , die casting , casting-on , and other conventional methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is going , or how far ? and yet , paradoxically , it is very old . The Incas in Ecuador cemented grains of platinum with an alloy of gold and silver , which drew the platinum particles together by surface tension to form a strong lump for further working . Thus they were able to work in platinum , which to them was infusible . H. A. Wollaston in England in 1828 described a method of grinding platinum to powder , compressing it in a mold , and heating it . Sir Henry Bessemer became so enraged as a young man at the high cost of " gold powder " that he developed a method of making a bronze powder which was the basis of his fortune . For 40 years Sir Henry and three brothers-in-law kept their process a secret , working in a factory without windows . Many of the men engaged in the craft today do not bubble over with information to a lay inquirer , but the in- industry has begun to open up as more of its applications and implications become known . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? or combining them with nonmetal powders ? pouring the mixture into a die , and subjecting it to a pressure which varies according to the type of product desired . The pressure may be as little as a thousand pounds to the square inch or as much as 140,000 pounds . Precisely what goes on under the pressure is a mystery and the subject of a number of intriguing theories , such as cold melding , adhesion caused by friction , atomic fusion . But the point is that the stuff which went into the die a powder comes out a solidly compacted shape . It is then sintered , which means that it is baked in a heat below melting point but high enough to complete or supplement the adhesion . There are several variations of this general process . For a new process to succeed , it must have demonstrable advantages over the methods with which it seeks to compete . Eric C. Gordon , president of Powder Metallurgy , Inc. , who came into the powdermetallurgy field through happenstance , remained in it through interest , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of advantages which may be grouped under nine general headings : 1 . The products desired are pressed to tolerance , that is to the shape and size desired , and thus expensive machining afterwards is eliminated . 2 . Metals of exceptionally high melting point , such as tantalum , tungsten , molybdenum , columbium , and platinum can be processed by powder metallurgy. 3 . Controlled and uniform porosity can be obtained in such parts as self-lubricating bearings and other pieces where porosity is desired . 4 . Metals and nonmetals , such as copper and graphite , can be combined in intimate contact . 5 . Eccentric shapes which are difficult and costly to machine , particularly in small parts , can be made with ease by powder metallurgy. 6 . Different metals may be uniformly bonded into parts with unusual mechanical , chemical , electrical , or magnetic properties . 7 . Materials widely different in specific gravity can be combined without segregation . 8 . Density may be varied where weight is a factor . 9 . Time is saved in the manufacture of small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or the  | quantity may be limited to 500 pieces , with economy and advantage both in high and limited production . The reducing of metals to powder goes back to antiquity . The Egyptians knew of it , and in medieval times those who wished could indulge the whim of writing with gold and silver inks . Modern methods used for making powder include milling or grinding , machining , electrolytic deposition , condensation of metal vapors , chemical precipitation , embrittling with hydrogen followed by impact pulverizing , shotting ( pouring liquid metal into water through air and gas ) , atomizing ( disintegrating by ? steam and compressed air ) , and granulation ( stirring a molten metal at a point where it is beginning to solidify . ) The shape and size of the powder depends upon the method used . The particles may be spherical , dendritic ( shaped like snowflakes ) , flat , cubic , or tubular . The particles may range in size from three to 250 microns one micron equals .00003937 inches , or one millionth of a meter . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes by the catchy name of Metals Disintegrating Company , at Elizabeth , N. J. The first consideration in pressing the powders is in estimating the amount necessary for a particular piece . Either hydraulic or mechanical presses are used , the amount of pressure varying according to the structure of the product . Two general types of furnaces are used , the batch type , in which the compressed powders are introduced in batches , like loaves of bread , and the beltconveyor type . Within the sintering furnace the product must be inclosed in a protective atmosphere , usually hydrogen or  | burned gas , to prevent oxidation . Sometimes dimensional changes , shrinkage or growth , take place during the sintering and for this reason the amount of heat and the degree with which it is applied must be controlled exactly . For one great advantage powder metallurgy has over casting is in the exact size to which parts can be formed without machining and this advantage can be lost by incorrect heating . Dr. William D. Coolidge , of General Electric Company , is considered by many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago when he found a way of making ductile tungsten filaments for incandescent light . Osmium was first used for filaments , the wire being produced by mixing osmium powder with binders , such as sugar sirup , and squirting the mixture through fine dies . Later tantalum and tungsten were substituted for osmium in the same general process . One great fault of the filaments was lack of ductility and the fault remained until Dr. Coolidge found the answer . In the Coolidge process , tungsten powder was pressed into briquettes which then were worked to produce rods . From these rods wire was drawn of .001-inch diameter and yet with a tensile strength up to 590,000 pounds per square inch . According to E. H. Hall , of Metals Disintegrating Company , if a tungsten wire were to be drawn down to one atom in diameter , its tensile strength , measured as the cohesive forces between the atoms , would be almost 12,000,000 pounds to the square inch . The Coolidge process opened the way for the fabricating of other refractory metals . The principal uses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metals , such as tungsten , tantalum , molybdenum , etc. ; in combining metal and nonmetallic powders ; in the development of structures not practical by other methods , such as the self-lubricating bearing ; to provide a more economical means for fabrication of products than can to made by other methods , such as small eccentric shapes and alnico magnets ; and to combine two or more metals without appreciable alloying so that their individual characteristics are maintained . Cemented carbide tools , porous self-lubricating bearings , current-collector brushes , diamond-impregnated grinding wheels , electrical contacts and welding electrodes , and automotive pump gears are among the best known of powder-metallurgy products . Cemented carbides were invented to take the place of the very expensive diamond dies . Tungsten carbide was found not only hard enough , but when cemented together with cobalt was found also to be tough enough to be used as a cutting tool . The briquettes of carbide and matrix metal are sintered above the melting point of the cobalt which holds the hard carbides together . There are a number of large companies now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of General Electric , Fansteel Metallurgical Corporation , and Firth-Sterling Steel Company , of Pittsburgh . The field of self-lubricating bearings is considered so important that General Motors has established the Moraine Products Division for this purpose and Chrysler has its Amplex Division . Other bearings are made by the Bound Brook Oil-less Bearing Company , and the Johnson Bronze Company . Some idea of the importance of this  | branch of powder metallurgy can be gained by reflecting that there are as many as 76 porous bearings in a modern automobile . The bearings are pressed from copper and tin powders , to which varying percentages of graphite are added . The degree of porosity may be controlled from a fraction of one percent to about 40 percent by volume . The oil with which these bearings are impregnated is frequently sufficient to last for the life of the machine in which they are installed . Besides in automobiles they are used in washing machines , electric clocks , refrigerators , many small electric motors , and farm equipment . Current-collector brushes were created to meet the demand resulting from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not abrasive to the commutators or rings and at the same time fulfilled the requirements for good electrical conductivity . A recent development in powder metallurgy has been a method of producing briquetted and sintered parts from iron powder , which in turn grew out of the manufacture of porous bronze bearings . This has led to the manufacture of an oil-pump gear by powder metallurgy . During the 1940 car year the entire needs of one large automobile manufacturer for oil-pump gears were made from molded iron powder , mixed with graphite powder , which acts as a lubricant in molding . There is not only a great saving in raw materials in the powder-metallurgy operation , but the gear functions much more quietly , by reason of the oil-filled pores at its surface .  |                     