@@492592

When Michigan Woke Up He Was Governor By RICHARD THR UELSEN w HEN , during April of last year , a thirty-seven-year-old Detroit lawyer named Gerhard Mennen Williams decided he 'd like to run for governor of Michigan , the public announcement of his candidacy was received-with a sensational , state-wide wave of apathy . The average Michigander was n't even interested enough to be amused at the effrontery of the political unknown who had to face the bored opposition of the regular Democratic machine before he could start scratching for votes in a nominally Republican state . A canvass of Michigan voters last summer  --  had any pollster been whimsical enough to make one ? would have undoubtedly reported the general opinion that young " Mr. **29;3400;TOOLONG " had less chance of being elected governor than Mr. Truman had of winning the presidency . That , during most of 1948 , was about as thin as you could slice the law of probability . G. Mennen Williams won the governorship of Michigan , and President Truman has four more years in which to enjoy his balcony  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one but the candidates themselves , their immediate families and a few million voters . Though the political experts , whatever their hue , have by now just about shaken their heads off at the waywardness of a national electorate which refused to be predictable , there has to date been a remarkable dearth of speculation about what might be called the miracle in Michigan . This is passing strange , for the young governor 's victorious campaign not only has all the makings of a first-rate piece of romantic fiction , it may also prove to be the first faint turn of a tide that will wash out the political pattern which has characterized this nation since the Civil War . It has long been an accepted convention among the pluck-and-luck school of light-fiction writers that a foolproof plot formula is to set up a likable and ingenuous hero , stack all the cards against himand then have the young stalwart triumph against the forces of evil with his ready smile , quick wit , pure heart and the help of a little miss who turns out to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against a political background , the young hero is generally a liberal-minded refugee from a fortune-haunted family in the Union League set , the villains are the tough old city politicians , and the little miss is the banker 's daughter who loves a good deed more than breakfast in bed . They 're going to have to stop writing this one for a while , unless they want to be accused of plagiarism . This , with a few variations , is Governor G. Mennen Williams ' story , and he 's stuck with it . It would be difficult to conceive of a candidate for public office with more apparent political liabilities than those claimed for G. Mennen Williams by the Michigan public prints during both the primary and regular campaigns . The composite portrait brushed in by an indifferent but not notably antagonistic press presented young Williams as a socialite , an heir to industrial millions , a consecrated New Dealer , a former Washington bureaucrat , a fervid liberal who had never held elective office , a Frank Murphy prot  --  g ? , an Ivy League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As Michigan , like Gaul , is divided into three political parts  --  the New Dealish Democratic vote of industrial Wayne County and its Detroit core , the rock-ribbed Republicanism of its rural areas , and the country-style Democratic majority in the upper peninsula  --  this gave practically every citizen of the state one or more good reasons for not voting for young Mr. Williams . Though the boyish grin had a certain ballot-box potential , it could hardly be expected to get its owner past the primaries  --  working leaders of a political organization facing almost certain defeat are notoriously immune to charm . If this compendium of his assets had been all there was to the story , the young governor would probably still be enjoying the anonymity of a small Detroit law office . Fortunately for Williams , there were a number of other spokes in his political wheel . Some were personal and apparent , others were gifts of political fortune , and at least one was a strategic innovation which may yet change the complexion of American politics . Though there is some difference of opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the " Williams-for-governor " movement actually got under way , the young man himself likes to trace it back to the early ' 30 's , when he was studying in Princeton University 's School of Public and International Affairs . A tall ( six feet and three inches ) , shy and serious young man , Williams had a Detroit background of wealth and a comfortable social position . His father owned a prosperous pickle business .. His mother is one of the two heirs of the family-owned Mennen 's soap-and-toiletries enterprise  --  a circumstance responsible for young Williams ' nickname , Soapy . Though he was no crown prince of economic royalty , as he has sometimes been pictured , Soapy knew his way around the fashionable circles of Detroit 's automobile dynasty and , in college , he surely never needed to worry where his next pair of gray flannels was coming from . From the Ivy League to New Dealisin I T is one of the phenomena of our times that backgrounds of inherited wealth  --  or the promise thereof ? and social stability have produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deal and its fringes was spangled with them . It is probably the result of some sort of a compulsive protest  --  the same nagging rebellion against a familial status quo which so often makes preachers ' sons such enthusiastic samplers of sin . Soapy Williams , whether through an inner conviction or some less conscious and more subtle motivation , emerged from Princeton arrayed in the shining armor of liberalism . He also graduated with several more Conventional attainments  --  two varsity letters as stroke of the crew and a Phi Beta Kappa key . " I was then , in 1933 , and I am now an out-and-out New Dealer . By the time I left Princeton I knew I wanted to enter public life . But first there was the matter of law school . I graduated from Michigan Law School in 1936 . " During his three years in law school , Williams met the two people who were to shape and direct the course of his career . In 1936 , Soapy 's father took him to a political reception in a Detroit hotel and introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The candidate 's name was Frank Murphy . Apparently it was a case of love at first sight , for Soapy has been cruising in and out of Murphy 's sphere of influence ever since . Williams freely acknowledges that his intellectual and political debt to the present Supreme Court justice is large enough to qualify him as a Murphy protege . Williams ' second critical meeting during his law-school years occurred when he substituted for an absent fianc ? and filled in as a blind date at a University of Michigan undergraduate dance . The Young lady involved was the tall , attractive daughter of Dan L. Quirk  --  a banker , industrialist and Yeoman Republican , of Ypsilanti . Nancy Quirk , having graduated from an Eastern finishing school , was studying at the university 's School of Social Service Work and practicing her good deeds at the Detroit Children 's Aid . An energetic , outspoken young woman with an active social conscience , Nancy was delighted to discover , in Soapy , another refugee from Republicanism . The absent fianc ? became lost In the shuffle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following Soapy 's graduation from law school . OPA . The first of the Williamses ' three children was born in 1941 . Justice Frank Murphy was named as godfather . Williams joined the Navy as a lieutenant ( j. g. ) in 1942 , served in the Pacific for two and a half years as a carrier-borne intelligence officer and was finally mustered out as a lieutenant commander in 1946 . His peacetime return to Government service found him a deputy director of the Michigan OPA . In 1947 he joined the small law firm of Griffiths and Griffiths in Detroit , and several months later Governor Sigler appointed him the Democratic member of Michigan 's three-man Liquor-Control Commission  --  a post generally considered a political graveyard . Strictly a light-wines-and-beer man as far as his personal tastes are concerned , Williams ' main job was to supervise the commission 's purchasing operations . This gave him a chance to make frequent handshaking trips around the state and an opportunity to sample opinion on both bonded rye and the political situation . What . Williams learned in small-town Michigan encouraged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his intent ion to resign from the commission . He had , he informed the astounded Republican incumbent , decided to enter the Democratic race for governor . The identity of the initial organizational push to boost Williams onto the Democratic ballot is a matter of several opinions in Michigan . The election being what it was , a number of innocent bystanders would like to get in the act . Actually , it was a slow case of internal combustion . The Michigan Democratic Club  --  a group of young Democrats organized a year before in an effort to liberalize the party in Michigan  --  did a good deal of amateur drum beating . Both Williams and his law partner , Hicks Griffiths , were founding members of the movement . Then a group of upper-peninsula Democrats , who had perhaps heard the drums from afar , sent in a resolution demanding Soapy . By far the most effective fuse , however , was the PAC , which came into the picture about this time . With the help of the CIO and his young Democratic clubs , Williams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Kalamazoo lawyer who had been backed by the regular Democratic organization and the AFL Teamsters Union . The Williams primary victory was as much a surprise to old-line Democrats as was his later win to the state at large . Soapy and his supporters awaited the primary returns in his comfortable home ( which he had mortgaged to meet his expenditures during the campaign ) in Grosse Pointe . The faithful waited up till eleven o'clock the following morning to get the final tabulation . That afternoon Soapy was out making his first regular campaign appearances . Williams ' campaign as Democratic nominee turned out to be a triple-threat affair . The CIO , with some AFL help , called the shots and did the passing . Soapy and Nancy and their immediate associates of the young Democratic fringe did the running  --  and did it in a manner which left everybody gasping for breath . The Michigan citizenry did the kicking , most of which was aimed directly at Governor Sigler . The flamboyant ex-cowboy from Nebraska , whose official costume included nose glasses , piped vests and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or his opponent seriously , Proved to be Williams ' best vote-getter . Kim Sigler , a fighting prosecutor who had swept into office in 1946 on the strength of a racket-busting record which had torn ? the state wide open , had spent his two years as Republican governor in what was apparently a determined effort to lose votes and alienate his political supporters . Feuding with the almost solidly Republican legislature and bickering with his own appointees , Sigler had displayed an astounding disregard for the political amenities . By the time the campaign rolled around , his enemies  --  and he had as many in his own party as he had in the Democratic ranks  --  were numerous enough to form a sizable resistance movement . Equally damaging were the governor 's widely publicized flying junkets  --  he had become an enthusias-tic amateur pilot while in office and it was bruited about that he spent more time at the controls of his private plane than he did at the governor 's desk . By November , 1948 , the governor had little in either his legislative or executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his opponents had plenty they could view with alarm . The PAC 's strategists , brooding over the governor 's propensity for wowing his constituents by dropping out of the Skies like a Bobby Clark dream of the Perfect politician , figured that if Sigler campaigned at all , it would probably lie on a jet-propelled basis . They also anticipated the " wealthy-socialite " tag -- -a damaging phrase which is hard to refute . So they advised their man to Play it straight and simple  --  with the crossroads visit , the town-hall talk and the warming handshake proving that both Grosse Pointe and less fashionable Michigan were a part of one big mismanaged state . To Soapy , a young man of genuinely simple tastes who favors the personal approach , this was welCorrle advice . With Williams embarked on his personal-appearance tour , the CIO set about its own part of the campaign . This with some help from the AFL , entailed the union vote into a solid Democratic vote and squeezing the last New Deal ballot out of Wayne County and the other industrial oases . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and newspaper advertising , public appeals and all the usual channels of proselytizing . This time they changed their tact1C8 -- -E1 vigorous and persistent campaign was conducted within the unions by means of fight talks at a series of attendance-required meetings . August Scholle , the frosty-eyed realist who heads up the Michigan CIO Council , figures that he averaged three of these intraorganizational appeals every day during the campaign . " We made only one mistake , " he declares now ; " we overplayed Wil-bWilliamsand underplayed the rest of the ticket . With a little more emphasis on the other candidates , I think we could have put in some more Democrats . Of course , now they 're saying that the CIO has captured the Democratic Party in this state  --  well , they 've been SaYIng that every couple of years for the last dozen elections . So I guess we keep on capturing ourselves . Me , I 've been a Democrat since 1932 . " This all-out , new-style union campaign was undoubtedly largely responsible for the whopping quarter-of-a-milhon-vote lead ( out of a total of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Flint factory area . To face this , Sigler could count a majority of less than 100,000 votes in what were supposed to be the solidly Republican upstate sections . How much of this Republican faintheartedness was due to the protest vote against Sigler and how much due to the turncoat vote for Williams is a matter of anyone 's opinion . The Williamses surely believe that getting out and meeting the common man turned the trick . The Michigan press , which had to do a quick double-take when it found Williams on the political horizon after the smoke of the primary had cleared , was happy to discover that the young nominee and his wife were both tall , handsome and photogenic , that they liked square dancing , that the lady of the couple had jumped into the campaign up to her neck and that the Williamses ' three attractive children were going to be under the nominal care of a neighborly Republican state legislator and his wife while Nancy and Soapy were hitting the Democratic campaign trail . The papers also revealed that the young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a fortune of $12,000,000 when he was forty . Nancy Williams , an earnest and articulate young woman who feels that the press placed too much emphasis on the dancing and bow ties and too little on the issues during the campaign , likes to have it understood that the fortune angle was , to put it mildly , slightly exaggerated . Actually , Soapy is one of seven heirs to the Mennen business now owned jointly by his mother and uncle , which means that the wealth in the family will be hard at work for some time to come . When Williams and his two brothers receive their mother 's share they will inherit an interest in the concern , not cash in hand . Soapy now is a director of the Mennen Company . " We mortgaged our Grosse Pointe house , " states Nancy , " because we had to have money for the primary expenses and something to live on during the campaign . The **26;3431;TOOLONG income you 've probably read about actually comes from Soapy 's mother to defray the costs of our country-club @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had to borrow money from my father to tide us over . " The Williams campaign , a joint husband-and-wife tour which started the day after the primaries , was a hectic junket which covered every one of Michigan 's eighty-three counties and something less than the 12,000 miles with which the couple were publicly credited . The trip was strenuous enough to wear out the engine in the Williams 1946 convertible and a couple of the working members of the press who tried to keep up with the party . Viewing their Michigan grand tour in retrospect , the Williamses consider it a great success . Some of the press regard the whole affair as a dubious ex-penditure. of a great deal of energy . Whatever the facts , the Williamses did a lot of talking and handshaking and met a lot of interested people . Nancy did much of the driving , while Soapy often napped between stops . Both of the young people talked wherever they coull get half a dozen or more listeners together to form an audience . Nancy figures that , together , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Day . " The heart-warming thing was that we often attracted crowds of several hundred in towns where there were only half a dozen registered Democrats . When t he schedule was tight I someTHE SATURDAY EVENING POST February 12 , 1949 times substituted for Soapy , talking to one group while he was addressing another . For part of the trip we had a loud-speaker in a second car , and then we 'd just park along the main street and start talking . Then I 'd canvass each side of the street , passing out our campaign cards . " Williams ' campaign technique  --  which for the most part eschewed personalities and in the small towns was often limited to a " here-I-am-meetthe-wife " routine  --  was based on a simon-pure New Deal platform with a few local modifications . The nine points he emphasized included recommendations on housing , an increase in the state unemployment compensation and repeal of the Bonine-Tripp Act ( the state 's little Taft-Hartley measure ) , . educational improvements , civil rights , road betterment , a veterans ' service program , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficient administration . The audiences at Williams ' formal addresses found him a sincere speaker with well-documented arguments , but no spellbinder . Governor Sigler , after getting the that reports of his opponent 's upstate activities , evidently decided he had nothing to worry about ; he allowed his campaign to languish until the twelfth hour , when he made a few air-borne sorties in the interests of the rest of his ticket . He was , it turned out , too late with too little . In Wayne County , where the average voter did n't need convincing , the Williamses spread their charm generously . In Detroit proper , in Hamtramck and in Flint , where there are large segments of foreign-born and first-generation Hungarians and Poles , the couple turned out to be a huge social success when they joined in the folk dancing at the neighborhood clubs . This was not only good political medicine , it was right up the Williamses ' alley ; the couple have made a hobby of square dancing since their first days in Washington . The attitude of the Detroit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Grosse Pointe matron , a neighbor who had joined the Williamses and their workers for the long wait on primary night . " You know , " she whispered to a friend , after a quick look around , " I 'm going to vote for Soapy because I 've known him forever and he 's a dear boy . But I am afraid that if he wins he 's going to carry all these Democrats in with him . " The Williamses ' personal campaign was carried right down into their own home , where seven-year-old Gery and Nancy , five , were taught to answer the phone with a " Williams for governor . " Two-year-old Wendy could n't quite get it out  --  her first success with the phrase came the day after the election . The whirlwind finish of the campaign , which found everybody talking , was of a piece with the conventional plot . It was agreed that Williams had made more of a splash than expected ? and at the same time it was also pointed out that it took a good deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Michigan . When the early Wayne County returns showed Williams leading the rest of his ticket by a substantial total , the Republicans refused to get worried about their governor . " Wait , " they told one another , " till the upstate votes are in . " When these results were tabulated it was discovered that , though Williams had carried only eighteen of eighty-three counties , he had picked up enough nominally Republican votes to cut a nice slice out of Sigler 's expected upstate lead . When this telescoped lead was matched against the Wayne County Democratic avalanche , it was found that Williams had won by 163,000 votes . Michigan Democrats could n't have been more surprised . Neither could the Michigan Republicans , who now had nothing at all to worry about . Dewey carried Michigan , and the state 's battle-scarred Republican senator , Homer Ferguson , beat his Democratic rival . Both branches of the state legislature retained substantial Republican majorities , with Bonine and Tripp , framers of the labor law , being re-elected . Several Republican state officials were re-elected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These evidences of the state 's continuing " normalcy " refute the possibility that Michigan has undergone a political change of life and strongly suggest either that Sigler lost his own election or that the unions have learned how to solidify the labor vote for a favored candidate within a regular party organization . Local observers , who are inclined to doubt that Williams ' personal appeal played a decisive role in the contest , now feel that the surprising vote was a result of the combination of the two . Though the experts may minimize the new governor 's effectiveness as a vote getter , there was no doubt about the result in the minds of the Republican Quirks and the Republican Williamses . The families of the two rebels considered it a smashing personal victory . After vacillating , during the campaign , between personal pride and public head shaking , the two clans came through loyally with a family victory celebration . Before it was over the most unreconstructed reactionary of the lot probably had to admit that a governor in the family was a governor in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 900,000-plus Michiganders who voted to return Kim Sigler to the governorship , the election of the young New Dealer does not seem too catastrophic . They point out that , with sizable Republican majorities in both branches of the state legislature , the random-width planks in the new governor 's platform are in for a good deal of shaving before they can be put together in anything like a workable political structure . The one disquieting feature , as they see it , is that there are enough new Democratic votes in the legislature to support any gubernatorial veto . A few of the more thoughtful Republicans  --  those who have been analyzing the unions ' part in the election  --  are thinking deeply about the future and wondering if this most recent coalition of the Democratic and the labor vote is not , for the country at large as well as for Michigan , a portent of things to come . The Detroit headquarters of . the Michigan CIO are , these days , basking in the satisfaction of a victory well won . Gus Scholle , who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go , laughs away any suggestion that the unions may bodily move in upon the new administration . " Sure we want a voice  --  why should n't we ? Aside from that , the unions ' only demand is that we have honest and capable men in the administration . And do n't forget that we 'll be in there taking the rap if it is n't a good administration . " Asked about the new governor , Scholle smiles quietly . " Williams is a smart young man  --  he knows enough to ask for advice and he 's intelligent enough to go to the right men when he wants it . " One of the first unofficial acts of the governor-elect and his lady was to put their Grosse Pointe home on the market . Whether this was an act of faith in the future or simply the result of a bearish view of the real-estate market , the move surely suggests that the bermes are looking forward to more than a two-year stay in Lansing . Those two years are certain to be difficult ones for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of liberal elements " which elected him  --  the young Democrats , the union vote and the dissident Republicans  --  carries weight enough to force some constructive legislation out of the divided and strife-torn state government and if the governor himself can satisfy enough of his supporters with his handling of such critical issues as goon-squad violence , strike mediation and public spending on controversial projects , Michigan may present the country with a workable pattern of a new New Deal . If this were to happen , the unions ' political strategists would probably decide their Michigan-style trial marriage with the Democratic Party was worth duplicating on a national scale , and their dreams of a liberal third party would be dumped out the window . In any such amalgamation the union vote , sitting between the far right and the far left , the North and the South , would hold the balance of power in the Democratic organization . The name , then , would mean very little  --  for this country would have a live-and-kicking Labor Party . Republicanism , by default , would then become the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines would be drawn . Never again would a presidential candidate be quoted as saying , after the election , that there was little to choose between the platforms of the two parties . Young Governor Williams and his Michigan miracle will bear watching ' for the union label may stick to the donkey 's hide . 