@@487449

OUTLINING to the press his new plan for aiding British purchases in this country , Mr. Roosevelt told a homely parable . Suppose , he said , a man sees that the house next door has caught fire . He immediately drags out his garden hose and does n't stop to bargain with his neighbor about how much he shall be paid for it . He merely expects to get his hose back when the fire is out . If it is damaged , his neighbor will offer to repair or replace it . Put this way , the story emphasizes decent , friendly conduct on the part of the man with the hose , but the point might also have been made that he is acting prudently as well as humanely . For if the wind is blowing in his direction he may have good reason to fear that , should his neighbor be unable to subdue the flames , his own house may be the next to catch fire . That is a point which Anglophobes and Naziphiles , sheltering under some such umbrella as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast majority of plain Amen-cans understand well enough the nature of fire . Aside from all sentiment , they want Britain to win because they are rightly fearful of the consequences to America of a German victory . But they want Britain to win , if possible , without America becoming physically involved . And that being so , the best form of insurance available is to make certain that Britain is not burned out for lack of fire-fighting weapons . In a recent editorial we advocated outright gifts to Britain to enable it to continue its purchases in this country on the necessary scale . We suggested , however , that if assistance takes the form of loans , such loans should be expressed in terms of goods , and repayment provided for in the same medium . The merit of the President 's new plan is its clear recognition of the fact that it is not dollars that Britain wishes to obtain from us but planes , guns , and munitions . He proposed that British orders for these materials should be taken over by the United States and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total production indicated by military events should be either leased to Britain or sold subject to mortgage . At the end of the war these things would be returned or , if destroyed or worn out , replaced from British production . As the President admitted , a number of legal problems must be solved before this scheme can go through , and it will also be necessary to obtain Congressional approval for the needed appropriations . One objection to the plan is that , if Britain wins , our need for war materials will be much diminished . Moreover , a year or two hence our own factories will be geared to immense production and will probably be turning out more up-to-date equipment than the British . It would be desirable , therefore , to make provision for repayment in other types of goods . We believe , however , that the President 's plan could usefully be given a much wider scope by extending it so that all trade between the United States and the British Commonwealth would be put on a clearing basis . This would mean that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for British purchases here would be made by the United States government and booked to the British account . Similarly , all American imports from the British Commonwealth would be paid for by Britain  --  which would have to make subsidiary arrangements with the dominions and its colonies  --  and debited to the account of the United States . At the end of the war a balance could be struck and settlement made in terms of goods specified by the creditor . Almost certainly this arrangement would mean a balance in our favor , but it might not prove to be so large as the present trend of trade indicates . For if the war lasts until 1942 or later , our defense program will tremendously augment our requirements of rubber , tin , wool , and many other raw materials produced by the British Empire . It will be well to leave gold out of this arrangement since further additions to our existing hoard of this metal can do us no earthly good . On the other hand , freed of the necessity of shipping bullion here , the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America and other neutral areas . As a result , gold would be distributed to countries now lacking it , and this would help to alleviate fears that its concentration in the United States will end in its repudiation for monetary purposes by the rest of the world . The objection may be raised that we shall not be able to recover anything due to us if Britain loses the war . But in that event this will seem a very minor worry , and in any case it applies equally to any form of credit . We could , however , ask for a lien on British colonial possessions in this hemisphere with the proviso that it should be exercised only if Britain were defeated . Actually , should the war end in such a catastrophe , we should be compelled in self-defense to seize all these territories . The advantage of this plan is that it would legalize our action and is not open to the objections , previously put forward in The Nation , of a forced sale at the present time . Whatever plan is adopted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little delay as possible . The most crucial months of the war lie immediately ahead , and nothing will encourage the defenders of the British citadel more than to know that their supply lines will not be blocked by financial obstacles . It is equally essential that deliveries be speeded to the uttermost . A bomber in the air is worth five on the drawing-board . State DepartmentVersus Political Refugees BY FREDA KIRCHWEY A ST week the State Department put out a statement designed to silence the mounting protest against its handling of the emergency refugee problem created by the Nazi conquest of Western Europe . The statement was not particularly misleading , it was so patently disingenuous that it was unconvincing . It painted a fanciful picture of efficient and sympathetic yet careful procedure , operating smoothly to rescue the deserving and weed out the dangerous . And it cited figures which , however accurate if the basis for calculation were known , told lies of monstrous proportions when published without explanation . But the document could hardly have been marked by assurance and candor ; the department was aiming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was trying to convince the Westbrook Peglers of its determination to defend the country from reds and spies and at the same time to rebut the charge that it has been obstructing efforts to rescue honest anti-fascists trapped in France . It was also attempting to translate into innocuous language the ominous rumor , appearing in the press off and on for several weeks , that some sort of " super-committee " would soon be appointed to pass finally on the admission of all political refugees . With so many incompatible ends in view the protestations of sympathy rang with a false note , and the statement as a whole only increased justifiable fears that the refugee problem will in the end be left to the harsh mercies of the most reactionary , anti-alien elements in the State Department . For more than six months individuals and committees have worked desperately to save at least a handful of the leaders among the active opponents of the dictators . They have worked against time , knowing that the survival of these people is only a matter of months at best and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , knowing , too , that hundreds have already been delivered to the dictators . In this work , the most important and useful of all the active groups has been the President 's Advisory Committee on Political Refugees , headed by James G McDonald and directed by George L. Warren . Indefatigably , cautiously , with full knowledge of the restrictions to be observed and the pitfalls to be avoided , this body has sifted lists of endangered anti-fascists , negotiated ensilessly with the various departments to establish fixed bases for procedure , examined affidavits and records submitted by interested committees and friends , and finally submitted to the State Department carefully selected names supported by the necessary documents . Working together in harmony and with a common aim , the private refugee committees , the President 's committee , and the Department of State could undoubtedly have accomplished the rescue of the most endangered and most valuable anti-fascists in Europe Owing to the department 's inertia and its obstructive tactics only a handful have been saved . The record of delays , misleading reports , promises , more delays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Washington  --  all this is bitter knowledge among per , .. , as engaged in the business of trying to salvage political emigres . The department claims that it has refused visas in only some twelve instances . Doubtless this is true . The department does not refuse visas . It merely sets up a line of obstacles stretching from Washington to Lisbon and on around to Shanghai . These ordinarily do the trick , and in the process wear down resistance where an out-and-out refusal would produce noisy protest . The refugee who finally surmounts these obstacles must have had immense endurance and friends with both money and pertinacity . The record is one which must sicken any person of ordinarily humane instincts . It is as if we were to examine laboriously the curricula vitae of flood victims clinging to a piece of floating wreckage and finally to decide that , no matter what their virtues , all but a few had better be allowed to drown . But politically the behavior of the State Department is even more shocking It betrays the profound failure of leading officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict in which the United States is inextricably engaged . Has the preservation of democracy anything to do with that conflict ? If it has , surely the leaders of democratic thought and action in Europewill not be deliberately sacrificed to their  --  and our  --  fascist opponents . This position should determine every act of every official charged with the conduct ofour foreign affairs . Instead , what do we find ? According to the State Department 's pronouncement , a new committee representing that department  --  in the person of Avra M. Warren , most active and determined among the obstructionists  --  the Department of Justice , and the War and Navy departments will be charged with supervising the admission of political refugees . If this plan offered a way to straighten out the vast tangle of conflicting jurisdictions and rulings in which all efforts at present bog down , it would be a welcome change . But there is too much reason to fear that it will only add a new and far more reactionary committee to the official bodies already concerned . And if it is granted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions  --  and consequently the reason for existence  --  of the President 's Advisory Committee . It is difficult to believe that the President himself would knowingly countenance such a change . The danger is that a calamitous result may emerge from a plan set up under the guise of useful and apparently innocent reorganization . Beware of State Department officials bearing reforms !                     