@@431212

AIR EXPRESS is the new bonanza of commercial aviation . In the United States last year more than 1,000,000 commercial shipments traveled by plane . They flew to 48 states , 31 nations , and five continents . They ranged in size from a mosquito egg ( Anopheles , the malaria carrier ) to a 33,500-pound edition of a national magazine . Seventeen domestic airlines now carry more than 3,000 express parcels daily in the holds of 265 scheduled airliners , which fly to 269 American cities via about 43,000 miles of domestic airways . In ten years air express , first instituted in 1927 , has grown about 5,000 percent . Average rates have been reduced 66 percent as cross-continent flying time has been reduced from 33 to 15 hours . The average air-express charge is now four cents a pound per hundred miles . The cargo is collected and loaded from the 23,000 domestic stations of Railway Express Agency . The newest addition to the air-express service was started last February 25 , when Pennsylvania Central Air Lines opened the first direct air route between Pittsburgh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Late in February , the Civil Aeronautics Board authorized All American Aviation Lines to introduce a new air-ex- press service into New England this year . LaGuardia Field , New York , has become the world 's greatest port for air express . As many as 3,800 parcels have been flown from there during 24 hours . Packages air-expressed from New York arrive at Hong Kong in seven days , Buenos Aires in four , Honolulu in two . The heaviest air-express traffic is still between New York and Chicago , with three commercial airlines making 82 scheduled flights a day . Today air express flies wherever men fly . From New York it crosses the Atlantic , touching four continents ? 770 miles to Bermuda . thence 3,115 miles to Lisbon , thence 2,110 miles to Bolama in Portuguese Africa , another 3,120 miles to Trinidad and South America 's Guiana coast , then 619 miles to San Juan . Puerto Rico , and 1,610 miles back to New York . From the Pan American Airways international ports a : Miami , Brownsville , and Los Angeles about 150,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republics of Latin America . From San Francisco , air express rides wings to Hawaii , the Philippine China , Australia , New Zealand , and the South Seas . From Seattle , Pacific-Alaska airliners with five-ton loads of passengers and express make bi-weekly flights into the frozen wilds of the Yukon Territory and Alaska . While European air traffic spills fire , wreckage , and death upon  | three continents , American aviation continues to carry peaceful commerce to all continents . Air-express traffic is welded to air-passenger traffic , since it rides the same planes . But air express also leads us toward an era ) f air freight . Soviet Russia now claims world leadership in commercial air freight , with a reported 1940 total of 66,000 tons . Canada probably comes second , with at least 11,000 tons of mine equipment , bullion , furs , and supplies being flown north of the " civilization line , " where there are no railroads or highways . In Central America , air portage of freight is estimated at 4,000 tons a year , roughly two thirds of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90 percent of the world 's supply of crude chicle is now being flown out of the roadless jungles of Peten , the largest , northernmost state of Guatemala . Throughout the South American Andes , mining operations are largely dependent upon air transport to bring in workmen , machinery , and supplies , and to lift out the refined ores . Recently the Fawcett Airlines , operating in Peru , Bolivia , and north Brazil , pioneered plane delivery of livestock , making risky landings upon remote pastures and ranges hundreds of miles beyond railroads . In the United States we still have about 30,000 communities which lack direct railway service . Our highways are overcrowded with truck transport . Demands for faster deliveries increase . Our current national defense program proposes to establish plane manufacturing facilities of 50,000 units a year . It now appears probable that the end of our present defense emergency will find between 25 , - 000 and 200,000 planes and motors awaiting legitimate commercial uses . With these will be between 30 , - 000 and 50,000 young pilots , flight engineers , radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and technical training . It seems reasonable to predict that America will not leave such hugely valuable talents and materials to rust and rot . History has proved that military aviation paves the way for a superior civil aviation . The first big-scale experiment in air express was made in 1919 with a Handley-Page bomber , then the biggest in use , built by the British to bomb Berlin . The proposed route was New York to Chicago . The venture failed when the twin-motored giant was grounded by storm , but eight years later the first commercial air-express route was actually opened between New York and Chicago . Today the War Department is contracting for an unrevealed number of fast cargo planes to be used exclusively for quick transport of military freight throughout the hemisphere . Among our recent commercial developments in non-passenger aviation is All American Aviation , Inc. , a Delaware air line which no W operates five mail and parcel " pick-up " routes in six eastern states . Last January 6 the company opened its newest pick-up run , which covers the 206 air miles between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-stop loadings . The plane skims low over the loading point , reducing speed to about 110 miles an hour . Outbound cargo is placed upon a 20-foothigh ground station , and a 15-foot retractable arm is suspended from the sidehold of the plane . The copilot , or pick-up man , makes a grapple-hook connection with the load , swings it aboard the plane , and stows it in the carrying hatches . He makes deliveries en route by dropping goods from the plane , while speed and altitude are reduced . Mail and ordinary parcels are dropped at specified points in strong bags or insulated boxes . Fragile parcels are " eased down " with parachutes . Methods for improved transfer of cargo are being perfected . Planes can cover the Williamsport-Pittsburgh run in about two hours . There are 14 station towns along the route . This development points to a time when much of our mail , perhaps all of non-local first-class mail , will fly without extra charge . According to statistics of Railway Express Agency , which sponsors all scheduled air express in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about seven pounds . The largest entry is machinery , including airplane and auto parts , electrical supplies , oilwell and mine supplies , and hardware . This group comprises about 27 percent of all air express . Printed matter , including advertising newspapers , and proofs , is second , with about 26 percent of the volume . Genera : merchandise , including clothing , uniforms shoes , hats , furs , and textile samples comethird , with about 12 percent . Motion-picture films make up about seven percent of the traffic , electrotypes and matrices about five percent , cut flowers about four percent currency and bank documents about four percent , and news photographs a little more than one percent . When you study the waybills you see astounding entries in air express : live alligators. stuffed lizards , bananas , queen bees bridal veils , Brazil nuts , live wasps , lightning bugs , mosquitoes , live minnows to ea : mosquito larvae , oxygen in drums , snow in dry ice , airplane propellers , human ashes trained seals , live snails , diamonds , emeralds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Ecuadorean humming birds . Included in recent air-express cargoes  | were a gizzardless hen for the World Poultry Congress at Cleveland , fresh porpoise milk for the University of Chicago , and two 1,000-pound shipments of drill bits for an American oil firm operating at Lima , Peru . From Hawaii to Puerto Rico , orchids and other tropical flowers are being air-expressed to United States markets , and tons of domestically grown flowers are being flown to markets throughout the hemisphere . Plane shipments of salt fish and sea foods show outstanding growth as Canadian and Yankee fishing industries set out to regain United States and Latin-American fish markets which have been lost by Scandinavia . Hundreds of tons of one - pound samples of coffee , wool , cotton and cotton seed , rice , barley , wheat , corn , cocoa , and other great crops are being flown to buyers and brokers . Vaccines , serum , surgical and dental supplies , human blood for transfusion are other increasing entries . Maine potatoes , Louisiana strawberries , Florida turkey , Wisconsin cheese , and Utah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed to far-away markets . Millions of beneficial insects for control of scale , rust , root weevil , and other crop diseases are being flown to and from 20 countries and four continents , since many of man 's most valuable insect friends can not be transported great distances by ship or rail . Engine repairs are flown to broken - down ships thousands of miles from home ports . Recently Twentieth Century-Fox air-expressed 1,600 pounds of film and camera lenses to Argentina for making a South American film . The picture " Jesse James " was an airexpress product . It was filmed at Noel , Mo. , in the Ozarks , and each day the producers air-expressed about 3,000 feet of film back to Hollywood for studio approval and " retake " instructions . During 49 days of " shooting " about two tons of film were flown to and from Hollywood . The " Birmingham Daily News " and the " Miami Herald " are among the first daily newspapers of the United States to use air express for regular deliveries . The " News " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 3:15 it is on sale at Montgomery , Alabama 's capital , 86 miles away . The " Miami Herald " air-expresses an edition to Havana . The longest air shipment on record was made last year , when about 500 pounds of air express traveled from Montreal to San Francisco , thence by Hawaii Clipper plane to Tientsin , China , and thence by Empire plane to Calcutta , India , for an air haul of 18,000 miles in nine days . The shipment contained wool felt , an essential in manufacture of certain types of paper . The largest air-express shipment was made on November 6 , 1940 , when 1,216 packages of the magazine " Newsweek , " weighing about 33,500 pounds , were flown from Dayton , Ohio , where the magazine is printed , to every state and all provinces of Canada . The issue went to press at 10:00 a.m . At 12:20 a TWA plane took off for Pacific Coast cities with 3,600 pounds of the magazine aboard . Within 12 hours , 15 additional plane loads were lifted , with a maximum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next morning the magazine , which carried complete news of the national election , was on sale at newsstands in every important city of the United States . By coincidence , this record shipment marked the thirtieth anniversary of air express in the United States .  |                     