@@485320

FROM the beginning this section has taken a serious view of the situation created by the coup d'etat of Ramirez . To those who look upon this war as just another , greater military struggle , the only important question was whether the new Argentine regime would or would not break with the Axis . Nothing else mattered . That Ramirez was ideologically identified with the Axis , that he would never rupture relations if there were any way to avoid it , did not interest them Nor did they realize that even if a break were accomplished , it would be only a formal gesture which left untouched the fundamental aspect of the Argentine problem  --  the existence in the greatest country in South America of a fascist dictatorship , born at the very time when fascism was being defeated on every battlefield . I have declared a hundred times that the only way to win this war for democracy , to assure collective democratic security , is to establish firmly the principle that the survival of a single fascist state in Europe , in Asia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world and as such intolerable . Full understanding of the gravity of the Argentine situation can not be obtained from isolated news items or comments in the daily press . The threat implied by the existence of the Ramirez regime can be measured only if the present circumstances are placed in their historical context , if the incidental is separated from what is a natural consequence of the past As in every country of Latin America , the middle class in Argentina has never had enough organized strength to thwart the repeated attempts of military cliques to gain control of the government . The Partido Radical , considered the strongest party in the country , ruled for fifteen years without a clear political line , much less an economic or social program . Its outstanding figure , Irigoyen , President of Argentina from 1916 to 1922 , was brought back to the presidency in 1928 by an impressive majority at the polls . He was a myth ; not much of a ruler . I visited him in 1922 in my capacity as delegate of the Nansen Mission , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me as a generous and well-meaning man . But neither he nor his party , at that time or later , was able to evolve a program based on anything more solid than an inarticulate desire for freedom . - In 1930 , therefore , General Uriburu and his officers found it an easy matter to put an end to fifteen years of Radical administration . But if Radicalism had failed to define a program , the military men who took its place had nothing more constructive to offer . Moreover , they lacked the popular appeal which characterized Irigoyen and explained his large following . A few months of Uriburu 's dictatorship were enough to reinstate the Radicals in public favor . The Argentine masses could not reconcile themselves to the abandonment of constitutional methods . They rallied around the three anti-dictatorship parties  --  the Partido DernOcrata-Progresista , the Partido Radical , and the Partido Socialista . And the strong men of the government , forced by the opposition to institute elections , adopted every device of corruption to prevent a genuine expression of the people 's will . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , Argentina has had no truly representative government . On this ground , fertilized by thirteen years of arbitrary rule , the colonels established their government in June , 1943 . That is what makes their presence in the Casa Rosada so grave . It is not a mere temporary reflection of fascism . It is fascism with a past , with deep roots , growing out of a period during which the people 's franchise was never honored but always falsified and twisted to suit the will of the powerful . The war has played into the hands of the colonels . Their most ardent supporters , the landowners and the big cattle-raisers , are interested only in profiting from this war as they profited from the last , when they sold their products to both camps at fabulous prices . The importance of the role of the cattle-raisers and landowners in the political life of Argentina may not be fully appreciated in the United States . Or the role of the cattle . It is more than thirty years since the last census of human beings was taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ livestock is published . We do n't know how large the Argentine population is today , but we do know that in 1942 Argentina counted more than thirty-one mil-lio n head of beef cattle , fifty million head of sheep , five million head of pork , seven million horses , and three million goats . The land which produces the excellent Argentine meat and cereals is vast , but it is owned by a few thousand families . Millions of people live in miserable circumstances , barely able to obtain their livelihood . Certainly it is not difficult for the landowners to play a decisive role in any major Argentine crisis . Today they want neutrality and no idle chatter about the century of the common man . The disparity between the activity of the Axis and that of the democracies in Argentina also helps the colonels. 144 The Axis is energetic , dynamic ; it has enlisted the sup ?  - -  -  ? . December 25 , 1943 port of the Spanish Phalanx and the Spanish clergy in its machinations . As late as December 12 a cable from Lisbon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In contrast , the democracies are weak and hesitating . Americans and British vie with each other in trying to establish a firm hold on Argentina for the period following the war . The office of the Coordinator of Latin American Affairs publishes a magazine , En Guardia , which every liberal Argentine considers an insult to his intelligence . Allied diplomacy flirts now with one Latin American dictator , now with another . American universities welcome the opportunity to confer honorary degrees on tyrants , great or small . If Ramirez would only break with the Axis , they would gladly make him a Doctor of Laws  --  even though he is destroying the universities in Argentina . All these errors and contradictions are effectively used by Axis agents to discredit democracy . The Ramirez coup d ' ? tat can not be interpreted as anything so dignified as a revolution , despite Colonel PerOn 's easy use of the arrogant and pompous phraseology of National Socialism . The overturn of June 4 was not a revolution but a cuartelazo , a military coup . Even the entrance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group which brought Ramirez to power ( the initials stand for " Government , Order , Unity " ) , was no innovation . Secret cells have always existed in the Argentine army . The only novelty is the extreme and clearly defined fascist tendency of the G. 0 . U. The growing strength of Argentine fascism has not , however , eliminated internal weakness and confusion . The coup d'etat was achieved without previous consultation with the army and without the support of the navy , which continues to be hostile to Ramirez . The coup was a child of the city of Buenos Aires , in whose vicinity lies the Campo de Mayo , the traditional gathering place for regiments which perform the cuarielazo . Since its inception the movement has lacked a chief with prestige . The previous public rec-card of General Ramirez was confined to a broadcast to Brazil which praised the Estado Novo of Getulio Vargas . The movement was born without a program , basing ks appeal on a few commonplace and rhetorical slogans against the corrupt achni tion of the Castillo regime and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pacts . " The widespread hatred of Castillo made the denunciation of his administration very palatable to the masses . And in their desire to see Argentina end its unpleasant isolition ? the Allied embassies took his reference to the " continental pacts " as a happy sign that Ramirez intended to break with the Axis . Those two facts explain the popular acclaim accorded Ramirez in his first days of power and the speed with which the United States recognized his government , against the advice of trustworthy pro Allied elements in Argentina . For about six months the colonels succeeded in concealing growing differences in their own ranks and between themselves and the army . But now the disunity . has become apparent , and measures have had to be taken to alleviate it . To begin with , the colonels ' government has been reduced to three effective members . The triumvirate has been formed outside the Cabinet because , in one respect at least , Ramirez respects the constitution . That document limits the Cabinet to eight members . And so , when the new Department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , was necessarily appointed Under Secretary instead of Secretary . The power of government is concentrated in the hands of Per6n , Enrique Gonzalez , Secretary of the Presidency , and Emilio Ramirez , Chief of Police . Each one tries to extend his control at the cost of the others . Gonzalez fancies himself as a Goebbels , and under his direction a true Ministry of Prdpaganda has been installed , in the image of the one set up in 1933 by the shrewd and malignant Nazi . It already controls the press , the radio , book publishing , the theater , the movies . Lieutenant Colonel Hector J. Ladvocat , Under Secretary in charge of press relations , has made it dear that no editor can fool with the colonels . Now and then the great papers , which for years were the pride of all Argentines , still allow themselves the satisfaction of fishing an editorial praising freedom and reaffirming their solidarity with the United Nations . But they measure every word , and no Drawing by Luis Quintal/Ma reference is ever found in the nal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the night and abduct from the capital . One of the functions of the new department is to " cooperate " with the foreign correspondents in Buenos Aires to make certain that no news goes out from Argentina- inimical to the " national interest . " This determination to control the news may arise from a desire to conceal the efforts the dictatorship is making to extend its influence throughout South America by creating a strong military bloc under Argentine leadership . The plan is very ambitious , and in the minds of its mysterious promoters it includes Paraguay , Bolivia , Chile , and Peru . I say " mysterious " because the best observers in Buenos Aires begin to think that some hand which is not that of Ramirez directs the plot . But whoever directs it , the idea behind it is clearly of Nazi origin . It can be summarized as follows : As a consequence of the concessions which , for military reasons , the United States and Great Britain are obliged to make to Russia , the Soviet Union will emerge from the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States and Great Britain may perhaps have found a way to avoid bolshevization . But if these five countries of South America remain separated , or if they rely solely upon the protection of the United States , they will be the object of a powerful Communist penetration . The only way to avoid this is by the creation of " strong " governments in each country , composed , of course , of colonels and generals , and dependent upon Argentina for political and military guidance . Together they may successfully resist the Communist plague . It is in relation to this plan that one must consider the picturesque details of the current visit to Argentina of the dictator of Paraguay , General Morinigo , who has been received in Buenos Aires with unprecedented pomp , reminiscent of the reception given the heads of the small satellite states by Hitler before the war : Indeed , the Hitlerian aspect of the new regime strikes even the visitor . I talked the other day with an American business man who had just returned from Buenos Aires . He is connected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " How would you define Argentina today ? " I asked him . He said , " Germany in 1933 . " Juan Perlin , the most capable and audacious member of the triumvirate , tries to manipulate the working class through the newly created Department of Labor , combining demagogic promises with repression , inviting minor labor leaders to his office while suppressing the two strongest unions in Argentina , the Union Ferroviaria and the Fraternidad . PerOn is undoubtedly the driving force in the regime , but even his motor occasionally fails . He did not reveal himself as a very clever statesman in his recent interview with the Mercurio de Chile , later reprinted in the Prensa of Buenos Aires , which created a new storm after the one that followed the exchange of letters between Foreign Secretary Storni and Mr. Hull . Perlin dedared that he had on his desk the pledge of fealty of more than 2,500 army officers , ready to forfeit their careers , if necessary , to thwart any attempt to oust Ramirez from power . PerOn 's statement had a dual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show that he was the real boss . On the other , he wanted to present Ramirez outside Argentina not as he is in reality  --  a prisoner of the colonels  --  but as the genuine head of the army . The immediate reaction in army circles forced Perlin to publish hasty explanations which did little to increase his prestige . PerOn may be a potential Fahrer . But in his attempt to grasp at power he may also provoke the envy and opposition of his colleagues . The one solution of the present Argentine crisis that would accord with the interests of the Argentine people and of the United Nations is that proposed by the Socialist Party of Argentina at its last congress in October , 1942 . It called for the union of all anti-fascist forces in the country , without exclusions or limitations . Only a government emerging from such an alliance and formed by men with a solid reputation for honesty and consistency can put an end to the regime of the colonels without risking the substitution of one dictatorship for another . Only such a government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incorporate Argentina in the anti-Axis coalition . J. ALVAREZ DEL VAYO                     