@@149024

Last week French Admiral Robert , War Coordinator of the French West Indies , was still in control of the island of Martinique . French colonial troops went on drilling in tropical heat . French warships lay in the big harbor of Fort-de-France . But island exports of rum , bananas , sugar , pineapples had all but stopped . A British fleet of unknown size patrolled the nearby waters-carefully avoiding the appearance of a blockade , making certain that French warships would not streak for home , watching for signs of a Nazi attempt to establish a submarine base on the island . Somewhere nearby , destroyers of the U.S. neutrality patrol also hovered watchfully . Thus quietly time passed on an American island now nominally ruled by the new totalitarian Government of France , which is in turn subservient to the totalitarian Government of Europe . <P> When France fell , demands were clamorous for quick U. S. action on Martinique . But last week , as the Martinique stalemate continued , there were solid U. S. reasons for wanting that stalemate to last as long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Brazilians suddenly came out with a proposal that Brazil be given a mandate over British , French and Dutch Guiana . This looked like common sense to many Brazilians who had not considered that it would be an act of war against Britain , and it pleased some pro-fascist Brazilians who wanted just that . Next , Cuba let it be known that Cubans at the Conference would urge full independence for all colonies and territories in the Western Hemisphere , with weak colonies placed under some form of Pan-American protectorate . <P> In view of Latin-American complications , it seemed to be to U. S. advantage to avoid a final settlement , avoid establishing dangerous precedents that might create trouble in the future . Said Walter Lippmann : " No final settlement of any territorial question is remotely in sight . All that is required . . . is an interim working arrangement about the island itself . . . . It is plainly a question where the proper official attitude is to wait in order to see what actually happens in Martinique rather than to draw conclusions from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What we must do . . . to protect our vital interests in this hemisphere , we must do . . . but it should be done as a practical measure in a transitional period . And we should invoke no general principles , formulate no new doctrines , and above all do nothing which can be interpreted or misinterpreted as a conclusive judgment that France is finally defeated and subjugated . " <P> Best interim solution for the U. S. : internment of the French warships , especially the airplane carrier Beam , in U. S. ports until the war 's end . Last week State Department officials let it be unofficially known that U. S.-Martinique negotiations with that end in view had been broken off by Martinique , that the U. S. was taking steps to immobilize French warships in Martinique harbors.                     