@@475626

THE keynote of our foreign economic policy ? the need to expand overseas trade and secure sources of raw materials ? has led us into strangely varied camps throughout the world , from the most reactionary to the most progressive . In Liberia , the little Negro republic on the bulge of Africa 's west coast , these frankly selfish aims have had a double result . They have injected the United States into the African economic scene , which in the past has been almost monopolized by Europeans . At the same time , they have lined us up with the country 's most enlightened leaders , who are doing things for their native people which amount to a social revolution . The withdrawal of our wartime garrisons did not mean our complete withdrawal from Africa . In Liberia the departing troops left behind them a swarm of American officials to carry out a new policy designed to do three things : ( 1 ) to strengthen our commercial relations with the country ; ( 2 ) to help remake the country itself , so that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) by implication to give us a springboard into the rest of Africa . Those who are most familiar with this program are about evenly divided on whether or not it is evidence of a new American imperialism . The debate isfruitless , since proof one way or the other is hidden in the future . For the present it is enough that what we are doing there is being watched with some apprehension by the European powers , because its ultimate aim ? the modernization and development of Liberia ? may well have a profoundly upsetting effect on the twin institutions of African colonialism and racial subordination . N A VAGUE sort of way Liberia has been I a stepchild of ours ever since the American Colonization Society began to settle freed slaves there more than a century ago . After the Negro republic was founded in 1847 , we raised a polite diplomatic eyebrow from time to time when one of the great colonial powers seemed to threaten its independence . Aside from such gestures , and the establishment of the Firestone rubber plantations some twenty years ago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outbreak of World War II . Then it became important to us overnight ? both because of its strategic location and because it could supply some of the things we badly needed , notably rubber . Today it is still important , partly for strategic reasons and partly because Liberia eventually may supply many things which we need in peacetime ? high grade iron ore , for example , to supplement our own dwindling supplies , and such items as cocoa , palm kernels , kola nuts , and piassava which we previously bought from African colonies through European middlemen . It so happens , however , that our aims add up to the same thing as the aims of Liberia 's President W. V. S. Tubman : namely , drastic social reform . From the most crass commercial point of view , America 's trade with Liberia can never amount to much until the country 's social and economic structure is rebuilt to lift the living standards and purchasing power of its great masses of people . Strategically , the country can provide a secure foothold for us on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its communications modernized . Whether the Liberians , with our help , can succeed in reshaping their country 's entire social structure is a question that can not be finally answered for a good many years . There are many obstacles ? international , internal , financial , and racial ? and the job will not be easy . But it certainly should not be impossible . Since I was until recently the head of America 's economic mission there , I can testify that the country has both the necessary resources and human material ; that excellent opportunities already are opening up for both Liberian and American capital ; and that the ferment of modernization and social reform is already working hard . It can not be stopped short of some results . I Y ANY STANDARD Of comparison , Liberia D is incredibly backward ? a museum piece among nations . Today , a century after the republic 's establishment , it remains a sort of tropical Graustark with Octavus Roy Cohen overtones . In its capital , Monrovia , diplomatic and social protocol has reached the point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a municipal water and sewage system . A few fine houses , inhabited by foreigners and the local ruling class , stand surrounded by a sordid collection of shacks . Nearly everything in the town ? the temperamental power plant , the squalid City Hotel , the almost total lack ofrepair services for cars and refrigerators , the College of Liberia whose graduates have difficulty qualifying as high school juniors in the United States ? is a standing invitation to ridicule . That opportunity has been seized with delight by such satirists as Evelyn Waugh and the authors of such shallow American books as Top Hats and Tom Toms and Lighting op Liberia . But those same conditions are also a standing invitation to modernizing enterprise ? and so far neither American nor Liberian business men have paid much attention to that opportunity . Perhaps they have been scared off by the traditional explanations of Liberian backwardness , The country is still regarded , by many people who should know better , as an example of the debilitating effects of tropical climate . It has been cited as proof of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , had been exploded by a wealth of scientific evidence . It has even been argued that Liberia is too poor to interest enterprising outsiders , although the recent surveys of resources carried out by my staff make that argument look ridiculous . A more plausible explanation of the country 's retarded development is seldom mentioned . For nearly a century , the great European powers have shaped their trade policies in a way to make sure that an independent Negro republic could not grow into a dangerous competitor of their colonies ? and thus into a challenge to the very institution of colonialism . That kind of brake is now losing its effectiveness , since the United States is throwing its great economic strength in the opposite direction . F TNANCIALLY Liberia displays all the symptoms of a sick country . Until very recent years its budget was always below $1,000,000 , at times ranging down to $125,000 . Even today , with its budget swollen by war profits and inflation , the country is spending only about two million dollars a year . That relatively tiny sum has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the schools , courts , Department of Public Works , Bureau of Agriculture , and a Hinterlands Administration to rule the aborigines ; pay the Army and the officers of a Navy that sank some years ago ; and provide all the other things that make up the structure of a nation . Directly or indirectly that budget is derived from a foreign trade whose exports had by 1944 reached the unprecedented total of $10,000,000 , This is pretty small potatoes ? even when you add the assiduous smuggling without which Liberia would go bankrupt . It looks even smaller when you realize that rubber , which is exported and controlled entirely by the absentee Firestone Corporation , accounts for over ninety per cent of the total exports , while raw gold ? a government monopoly ? comprises almost all the rest . Such fruits of native enterprise as coffee , cocoa , and palm kernels ? from which the profits might conceivably stay in the country for national development ? make up less than one per cent of the total exports , with a cash value well below $100,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? which is as great as that of Central America 's Banana Republics a few decades ago ? these statistics are puny indeed . Socially the picture is even gloomier . The country is run by a tight little group of about fifteen thousand " Americo-Liberians , " the descendants of the freed Negro slaves who were settled there a century ago . The original settlers never identified themselves with the native Africans any more than the Pilgrims merged with the American Indians . Nor do their descendaits , who still consider themselves a privileged class , entitled to own the country and boss its 1,500,000 aborigines . Many of them , indeed , talk about keeping the natives " in their place " in terms much like those of a Mississippi planter discussing his fieldhands . These Americo-Liberians rule their native subjects by means of a ramshackle colonial administration , whose sole aim seems to be to collect taxes , foodstuffs , cheap labor , and fines for violation of laws which the tribesmen sometimes never heard of . As recently as 1930 an International Commission of Inquiry discovered conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the aborigines were even rounded up and exported , at a handsome profit , to the Spanish island of Fernando Po . According MAGAZINE to the testimony of a few Liberians themselves , the colonial administration works so badly that many hundreds of natives migrate annually ( or did until the amazing year of 1945 ) to seek the benefits of British and French rule in neighboring Sierra Leone and French Guinea . T HROUGH this economic and social morass , a strong current toward reform is at last beginning to flow . Naturally many of the privileged Americo-Liberians do n't like it , and it is running into plenty of political obstacles . But some of the others ? especially the delegates who attended the San Francisco Conference ? realize that some changes will have to be made , and right away , if the country is to maintain its independence . At one social gathering , for example , I heard former President C. B. D. King , now the country 's honored elder statesman , express national aspirations in these terms : " The job we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Negro republic . " President Tubman picked him up with : " What do you mean , Negro ? Let 's build an outstanding republic and the Negro part will take care of itself . " Strong medicine for a race-conscious people ? and he followed it with stronger . " What we have to do , " he said , " is to outstrip all the African colonies . " Rightly or wrongly , through the accident of circumstances , the United States is today playing a powerful part in the furtherance of that ambition . III O UR HELP was a long time in coming . Al-though our half-hearted diplomatic support may have aided Liberia to preserve its independence during its hundredyear struggle for survival , it did not keep Britain and France from grabbing about half of the republic 's original territory . We showed a flutter of active interest in 1909 , when the Taft Commission looked over the country and brought home a request that we send experts to help with a number of badly needed reforms and investigate natural resources with an eye to development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Firestone plantations during the Harding administration was interpreted by Europe to mean that we regarded Liberia as our sphere of economic influence , but not until the war did the United States show any interest in Liberia on a really significant scale . In 1943 Liberia 's then-President Barclay and President-elect Tubman visited Washington to argue their country 's case with President Roosevelt . From those conversations something big resulted . Whether that something should be described as farvisioned liberalism or plain old-fashioned imperialism depends partly on your semantics , and partly on the way the program works out in the years to come . Today the American effort in Liberia is being pushed along four main lines : ( 1 ) our Navy is building a modern seaport at Monrovia , with a firm understanding that Liberia eventually will repay the entire cost ; ( 2 ) a United States Public Health Service Mission is trying to clean up the worst of the country 's disease conditions and to train Liberian technicians to carry on the work ; ( 3 ) the Air Transport Command is operating a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department is continuing the economic mission , which started in 1944 under the wartime Foreign Economic Administration . In addition , plans are afoot to complete the road from Monrovia to French Guinea which our Army started during the war , and an old French project for a parallel railroad may be revived . Moreover , an American concern , the so-called Christie Group , has been granted a concession for mining iron ore at Liberia 's rich Bomi Hills deposit , while another American group is now trying for a foothold in lumbering . W HEN I was sent to Liberia as head of the original economic mission , my instructions were to work toward Liberia 's development " with the help of the United States and for the mutual benefit of both countries . " Our group translated that broad directive into these specific terms , which were never questioned by Washington : ( 1 ) Liberians were to be helped to produce plenty of good quality cocoa , palm kernels , piassava , and kola nuts , forwhich the United States now offers a good market and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 ) Liberians were to be encouraged to start , either on their own or with the participation of American private capital , whatever small industries they can manage : ( 3 ) large corporate concessions should go to American rather than European firms : ( 4 ) the country 's independence should be protected . These aims launched us on a series of projects and studies which reached into every backwater of the nation 's life . Our survey of resources sent us deep into the hinterland , slogging along primitive trails which had been all but closed to foreigners before . We made studies of coastwise shipping , of future road construction , and of the pressing need for garages and mechanics . We devised programs for scientific training and experimentation , to diversify and improve Liberia 's export crops . We stressed co-ordination between economic development and public health , and worked out recommendations for education , the mechanical arts , medicine , engineering , and all the other fields of training that go into the creation of a modern state . In our offices and compounds we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Working with the Liberian Bureau of Agriculture , we carried on an agricultural program , aimed primarily at increasing the country 's food supplies . Our biggest surprise was the downright avidity with which the aborigines themselves took to new ideas , new methods , new items in their diets , and the small new sources of income that enabled them for the first time in years to meet the tax collectors with ready money . In a testand-demonstration area of some twenty aboriginal villages , the people ? generally regarded as stubbornly conservative ? adopted with enthusiasm our new farming methods and the few donkeys which we imported to replace Liberia 's traditional transport system of head-loading by human carriers . And we succeeded in growing oats and forage crops for the new beasts of burden . This one experiment demonstrated how manpower could be released on a large scale from the old , inefficient transport system , and diverted to improved farming and the new industries . nERHAPS the largest share of credit for f what is happening in Liberia belongs to President Tubman , who seems likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , coaxing , and pushing his feudal country along the road of revolution-by-reform with astonishing speed . The measures he has already sponsored ? such as votes for women and an income tax under which the wealthy Liberians will have to help pay for their country 's development ? are nothing in comparison with his further goal . This is simply to wipe out the fundamental class differences , and to weld all the nation 's inhabitants into one citizenry , with equal rights , opportunities , and social status . No one sees more clearly than Tubman the hard fact that a nation with a ruling class of 15,000 and a subject people one hundred times as large is headed for disaster in the modern economic world . Aside from the arguments based on human justice and political philosophy , it is obvious that a nation of 1,515,000 human beings with equal social , economic , and political rights will be able to produce larger exports and buy more finished goods than can a handful of Americo-Liberians who are scared to death lest the aborigines gain enough power , education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a nation also can afford more money for building schools and roads , maintaining an adequate health service , training mechanics , and building up the country in general . Thus , in supporting national development for Liberia , the United States is supporting a man who represents revolution to the feudal Liberian Old Guard . " That man in the Executive Mansion , " exclaimed one of the Americo-Liberians to me in agony , " is throwing away our birthright . This country was given to the freed slaves who came from America . It belongs to us and he is giving it to a lot of African savages . The United States must do something about it . " N JANUARY 1944 , President Tubman I started a term that will run until 1952 . While lacking the sophistication and world experience of such men as the late President Roosevelt , whom he greatly admired , and Mufioz-Marin of Puerto Rico , whose problems are more nearly like his own , he resembles both of them in his wholehearted liking for people . He also shares their profound awareness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his social class in making drastic concessions that at times seem to many of them dangerously close to their " liquidation as a class . " Tubman has already spent many months away from his capital , walking or riding in hammocks all through the hinterland with other government officials and an enormous train of burden bearers . He has held councils with all his people , from paramount chiefs through clan chiefs , town chiefs , and honored elders , to the lowliest private individuals , His decisions at these councils range from immediate judgments in purely local disputes to pronouncements of principles under which the aborigines will be aided in a longrange program . Together these decisions form a Magna Carta for Liberia 's Africans , some of whom had once complained to me that they were caught " like cockroaches in oil . " The decisions promise education , medical help , greater economic opportunity , more justice ? and with it redress from the often oppressive rulings of the district commissioners . They reaffirm the President 's earlier decree that no man is to be called for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by implication they promise the eventual abolition of such forced labor . At the Salala councils , which Mrs. Hanson and I were privileged to attend , Tubman announced the significant principle that all tribal lands taken illegally by AmericoLiberians or " civilized " aborigines must be returned to their original owners or paid for to the latter 's satisfaction . " And I do n't care , " he said to me later , perhaps because as a wartime American official I was profoundly interested in rubber , " how much rubber those fellows have planted on the land . " A considerable number of district commissioners and members of the frontier force were surprised to find themselves summarily discharged by the President for " malfeasance , misfeasance , and unfeasance . " When the legislature refused to subject those men to criminal prosecution , Tubman took the issue to the public through one of the Liberian newspapers . More startling yet , he has put through laws which give the aborigines the vote and representation in the legislature . When I asked him about a constitutional technicality involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answered , with a turn of logic again reminiscent of Puerto Rico 's Mufioz-Marin : " We collect hut-taxes from those people , and I will not tolerate taxation without representation . " Like any president , Tubman must naturally veer to this side or that , making compromises in order to step around obstructions which he can not take by assault . Hence , some of his zigzags look to hysterical leftists like the betrayal of his own policies . In general , however , he has stayed on his announced course ; and the enthusiasm with which he raised official , diplomatic , and personal hell with a high American official who was brash enough to speak up in favor of the aborigines was widely interpreted as indicating that he and his government are doing that particular job without permitting outside interference . T RE HE is plenty of evidence that Tub- man 's political tactics work . Last year the ruling True Whig party gave him a " unanimous " vote of confidence , as did the Iegislature ? though his most rabid and powerful political enemies stayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tubman 's support from the aborigines has resulted in two rather remarkable incidents . After his conferences at Sinoe , on the Kru Coast , the chiefs and elders of the Kru tribe sent him word that they now ? for the first time in Liberia 's history ? consider themselves at peace with the government . So ended those recurring and terrible " Kru Wars " that have in the past drawn repeated protests from the rest of the world . The second event was occasioned by the grant of the iron mining concession at Bomi Hill to American business men . A great political furor was raised against Tubman on thegrounds that he was selling out his country 's resources and birthright to foreign imperialists . When his critics sought the support of the aborigines , who were the owners of the lands in question , the natives stood by Tubman and refused to join in the hubbub . The anti-Tubman movement then promptly collapsed . How far Liberia will travel on the momentum of the past two exciting years is unpredictable . While the presidential decrees and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to judge how effectively they will be put into practice . It is certain that Tubman 's progressive policies have unleashed powerful forces that can not be stuffed back into the bottle . But it would take a crystal ball to foresee just how the release of national energy will be influenced by shifts in American , British , and French foreign policies . V r z profound stir in Liberia has stepped p diplomatic shenanigans in Monrovia , whose small buzzing foreign colony has always resembled something in the hot countries of Somerset Maugham or Norman Douglas . The French have traditionally followed a policy of being tough with Liberia . Their annexation of many thousands of square miles of Liberian territory in 1892 and 1907 did not endear them to the country , . nor did the warship that they sent to Monrovia six or seven years ago to demand official apologies for a comic-opera brawl between the wife of France 's consul general and her cook . In 1945 they changed all that , first by giving Tubman the Legion of Honor , then by inviting his acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is doing to improve life in her colonies , and finally by replacing their cynical charg ? d'affaires with a man whose energies and point of view are better suited to represent French interests in the awakening nation . This man ? my " goo ' fran , " as Liberian aborigines say ? Guy Quonan de Schompre , by now a full minister , came to Liberia straight from wartime service as one of de Gaulle 's officers , Endearing himself to the colony by his friendly hospitality and lavish cocktail parties , he set about to see what France could do to help herself by helping in Liberia 's modernization . One of the first things he tackled was the urgent problem of sleeping sickness . He also provided us with technical help in mapping , plunging into the railroad question , and taking steps toward sending French teachers to Liberia . Until the arrival of the U. S. Public Health Mission , Liberia had never done anything about its plague of sleeping sickness , except to tolerate the health program on the Firestone plantations and the remarkable individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , G. W. Harley , Repeated protests by Britain and France , who naturally disliked having a focal point of infection at their colonial back doors , brought no results . Today , however , French teams of doctors and technicians are operating side by side with Harley , members of the Liberian Health Service , and the U. S. Public Health Mission , in a co-ordinated drive against sleeping sickness . It makes little difference whether Liberia accepted French help in a spirit of enlightened progress or merely , as some critics claim , by way of following her time-honored diplomacy of playing off the French against us and the British against both . In fact , the international rivalries engendered should kill all the more tsetse flies , which carry the disease . T HE French are one up on the British in the game of nurturing Liberia 's development , because Tubman 's hinterland program is less menacing to French colonial policies than to British . In the past the British have based their colonial policy on strict race differentiation ( which in Liberia becomes class differentiation ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subservient to British aims . French policies , however ? especially as recently underscored by that great Negro colonial governor , Felix Ebou6 ? are aimed at gradual detribalization , the eventual abolition of race differentiation and the entire colonial system , and the final elevation of present colonial subjects to full citizenship in a Greater France that is some day to reach from the Channel Coast across the Mediterranean to far below the Equator . Regardless of arguments about the relative fairness or democracy of the two systems , it is exactly the French course that Tubman is now following ? perhaps a bit more precipitously than the " better " class of Parisians may approve . Diplomatically the British , who previously had largely contented themselves with watchful waiting , recently cut themselves a nice slice of prestige . Until 1945 , the British and French gave tacit recognition to our special interests in Liberia by being represented there only by charges d'affaires , automatically making the American Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary the doyen of the diplomatic corps . That has now been suddenly changed . Not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full minister , with the French following suit , but delays attending our recent change in ministers permitted London 's representative to become senior member of the corps . According to excited gossip in Monrovia 's foreign colony , this amounts to a staggering blow at the prestige of our man , a progressive educator , Raphael O'Hara Lanier , who is new both to Liberia and the diplomatic game . While the protocol situation is significant of the accelerated rivalries , it is in itself hardly important . As long as Lanier is backed by current American policies , by a seaport-in-the-building , by health and economic missions , he can afford to let the Englishman be dean , n om more important , unfortunately , is our inexperience in the realm which counts most in accomplishing what we have set out to do . The pioneering job of commercial enterprise in a backward country requires pioneers of another stripe from those who broke the soil of the American West . Here the British still have the upper hand ? and they know it . Commercially our aims are high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlightened ; but we have yet to demonstrate that as individual operators Americans can take it on the chin while making their fortunes in foreign lands . We have demonstrated superb ability to do things in large corporate enterprises , in splendid mining camps and plantations where the whole environment is transformed to provide American standards of living for clannish employees . We have also shown that our commercial representatives can make a go of it in cosmopolitan cities where there are plenty of other Americans struggling along with Simmons beds , Crane plumbing , cocktail bars , epicurean food , clean linen , Hollywood 's latest , and an atmosphere of international sophistication that can be acquired from submission to such hardships without even learning the country 's language . But living in Liberia is another matter , and it is still an open question whether American capital and individual Americans will take advantage of the hard opportunities waiting for them . Outside of the Firestone plantations , whose trading company is an adjunct to Firestone operations and not to the nation 's general economic life , not one American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Liberians and resident foreigners , the United States apparently hopes to expand American trade by working through existing British , French , Dutch , and international Syrian firms . Liberians are begging in vain for American capital for such enterprises as a hotel and amusement center in Monrovia , for desperately needed coastwise shipping , for manufacturing and management services . Our Department of State , which has laid open these opportunities , seems powerless against our individual indifference to small business in a foreign country . Despite all the talk about how American mechanics and technicians will aid Liberia to achieve her place in the sun , and despite the expenditure of the American taxpayer 's money for Liberian development , so far it has been Dutch , French , British , and Syrian residents who havepaid attention to the new business opportunities . The leading British trader in Monrovia recently returned from a holiday in England with a garage and general repair shop as a supplement to his business . A Syrian trader is making energetic efforts to establish himself in coastwise shipping . So far no American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OTHER SIDE of the picture is indi- cated by the newly granted American concession for Liberian iron ore and current American efforts to engage in large-scale lumbering . The chances are good that such concessions for mining , lumbering , and industrialized plantations will go to us instead of to European rivals . It is even possible that our Liberian program has already begun to pay dividends by giving us a springboard into other parts of Africa . According to recent newspaper reports , the Union of South Africa will now welcome American capital for large-scale industrial enterprises . This unprecedented decision represents another step in America 's dramatic entry into Africa 's economic affairs . For some time Monrovia 's foreign colony has been full of rumors about a dark horse in the struggle for moral and commercial supremacy in Liberia . The Soviet Union was for months reported as ready to establish a full embassy in Nfonrovia , with a staff of fifteen diplomatic tovarisches , an economic mission , and a. fleet of steamers that Stalin is rumored to be building for the West African trade . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face of Liberia . At any rate , it intensifies the light which our State Department has turned so brilliantly on the Liberian struggle for national growth and world recognition .                     