@@475409

lence , purges , lynchings , executions have made many Americans protest that these are the methods of fascism , and they have lent their support to the insincere viewings-with-alarm of former Fascist-serving reactionaries in Europe . Actually , these events seem Fascist but are not . They are spontaneous , popular , whereas all the apparent iliegalisrn of fascism was deliberately directed from above , all its so-called mob violence was as coldly planned as the exterminations at the death camps . The violent gestures in postwar Europe do not solve the psychological problems left by fascism , but they do clear the way for such solutions . Anything which provides an effective outlet for the Europeans ' sense of guilt , of inferiority , of emotional insecurity gives them a sense of power , of security , of self-respect , and hence works against fascism . The gestures provide dreadful punishment for dreadful crimes and therefore assure Europeans that justice will be human as well as legal ; they frighten some of the nostalgia out of former Fascists ; they relieve some of the guilt feelings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having accepted fascism , or even for having failed to fight hard enough against it . Whether or not these people will exchange their nostalgia for fascism for faith in democracy remains to be seen . Thus far , we can judge what is in the minds and hearts of Europeans only by what they do ; the only measurable standard is the political conduct of the individual . In Germany , where for a long time Allied Military Governments will tell men what to do , the political choices will be limited and we shall not be able to judge . In Italy and France , however , we already have clues , for we can see into which old and new political parties the former Fascists are disappearing . We can see that fascism is dissolving into the elements which composed it , and pretty much in the proportions which were always present : a fraction of fanatical mystics to whom fascism was a religion ; a minority of fascism-serving reactionaries to whom it was a means of obtaining or holding property and power and a great majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , professional and lower-middle-class people ? to whom fascism seemed a road to limited but dependable security for themselves at the expense of other people and at the price of their own individual responsibility and political liberty . Impelled by the same motives , they are joining parties which seem to offer the same advantages . Conditioned by their Fascist experience , they are bringing to the parties whose ranks they swell inherent or acquired anti-democratic tendencies ; and their influence will be in the balance in favor of solutions of European problems very far from our American conception of democracy . W HERE are the Fascists going ? Some , a small number of fanatics , are going underground ; bitter-end militants are forming revenge and wrecker organizations ( such as the much publicized Werewolves and the Schweigsieg ) in Europe and Latin America . The Fascist-serving reactionaries are going back where they came from , to the parties of the extreme Right . ( In France they are going into the Social Party and others like it . ) These are the men who served fascism not to acquire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power , and the prestige they already had and to get more . These are the men who for a time gave a false front of respectability to fascism ; who wanted and profited so much by deformed caricatures of order , authority , discipline , and permanence that ? so Icing as they profited -- they could find these things in their antitheses . It would be neither accurate nor fair to assume that the parties of the political Right in a country like France are coming under the direct control of such former Fascists and former collaborationists . Some of the finest militants of the resistance have joined moderate Rightist parties . It is accurate to say , nevertheless , that an influx of reactionaries from among the Ntainists and Fascists into the extreme Right parties may influence an anti-democratic trend . Alone , they would be powerless , but they could form a new financial and militarist basis for another effort ( in France this time ) to subsidize a " benevolent " fascism if they were joined by the reactionary nationalists who , during this war , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such an alliance seems most unlikely . If it should take place , there remains only a very remote possibility that it could form the basis of a new fascism in France or in any other one of the liberated nations . For the reactionaries alone did not make fascism in Italy or Germany , and can not make it anywhere . Fascism must have not only the reactionaries but the fanatics , and the fanatics ? themselves psychopaths ? must have a psychologically exploitable mass to mold and use . In no European country is there such an exploitable mass available on the political Right . Nor does it exist on the Left , and certainly not in the Center . A negligible number of former Fascists have joined the Catholic Center parties and the democratic parties of the Center , Left , or Right . Practically no addition to the numerical strength of the Socialist Left parties has come from the former Fascists . The great majority of those who were followers of the Fascists arc emerging as rank-and-file supporters of Communist organizations and parties . Nor is this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's advent to power , some five million Communist votes were counted . Had there been a reasonably free election in Germany soon afterward , most of these votes would have been Nazi . If an election could be held in Germany today , at least several times five million Germans would vote Communist . In Italy , a large proportion of the former Fascists would certainly vote Communist , and who can doubt that they would do the same in Slavic Europe ? Even in France , a considerable portion of the increased Communist strength comes from French men and women who either collaborated with fascism or accepted it . For the most part these new Communist voters are the little people of fascism . The majority of those who will become Communists will be Communists as they were Fascists : not as leaders but as followers , neither as fanatics nor militants , but as masses who believe because it is simpler and easier to accept than to doubt , who obey because it is safer to be obedient than to resist . For each of them to whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whom being fed is far more important . For each to whom advancement through responsible individual initiative will seem precious , there will naturally enough be hundreds to whom some minimal guarantee of social security will be more immediately valuable . The great masses of the defeated and disappointed will gravitate toward the political creed which , after fascism , will most resemble a secular religion with an extra-national , universal community of feeling . Oppressed by a sense of guilt and yet anxious to escape punishment , they will want to be on the winning side so that they can keep at least the illusion that not they , but others will lose and pay . Having been taught for years that the defeat of communism would spell the final assurance of their personal wellbeing , they will turn toward triumphant communism as the only source of any kind of safety . Why will they turn toward the communism of Russia rather than the democracy of the western peoples ? Not , as the rcd-baiters would have us believe , because fascism and communism are interchangeable . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ready-made faith , while democracy is a faith every man must find for himself as an individual ; because Russia has become not only a European power but the dominant power in Europe , and Fascists are accustomed to domination ; because dread of Russia has become fearful respect for Russia ; because the Russians will stay and the Americans may leave ; because Russia , which was almost destroyed by the Fascists , has done little of the actual destroying in western Europe whereas America ? most powerful of democracies ? was scarcely touched by physical war but has been responsible for most of the physical damage in western Europe ; because America , the land of the safe and the rich , seems even farther away in spirit than in geography from Europe 's poor and unsafe people . BE it be clear at once that neither Russia nor communism will become Fascist through the influence of converted former Fascists . Nor will the anti-democratic tendencies the new Communists bring with them affect the gradual evolution of Russian communism in the direction of a Communist " democracy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nevertheless , even more different from fascism . An influx of former Fascists presents neither a danger nor a dilemma to Russian communism , but it may eventually present both to the Communist Parties in western European countries . This may seem paradoxical to those oversimplifiers among us who have failed to notice that , along with the evolution of Communist " democracy , " the past five years have witnessed the emergence of a double front in world communism : a vertical or national front , and a horizontal or international front . On the vertical-national front , Communists everywhere co-operate to protect by every means the security of the territory and interests of the homeland of their creed , Soviet Russia . They do it without any attention to the tenets of the creed itself , using every device in the arsenal of political maneuver . On the horizontal-international front , Communists everywhere advance the interests of communism by the defense and propagation of the tenets of the creed . To achieve success on both these fronts during the war , which endangered both the Soviet homeland and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist Parties in all lands needed both minority militancy and mass pres-The former Fascists will be wel-and useful recruits to the Communist masses , for they can be counted on to be more pliable and disciplined , less individualistic and exigent , than the former Socialists . In the triangular political pattern in most European countries , the Communists hold the balance of flower between the nationalist Right and the Socialist Left . But the end of the war alters the pattern of wartime western European communism . During the war against Nazi Germany , the vertical and horizontal frontscomplemented each other ; the interests of " national " communism in a country like France , fighting the same enemy as the Soviets , coincided with the interests of international communism . The future relationship of " national " communism ? in France , Italy , or any European country other than Russia ? with international communism is one of the great question marks of postwar politics . At the moment when the Russo-German pact of 1939 forced a choice on French Communists , French " national " communism was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " loyal " to communism rather than to France . After the German invasion of France , many French Communists turned their coats and declared themselves loyal to nazism rather than France ; while they were turning their coats , they went through a period of anti-Russian " nationalist communism . " ( In the early days of Italian fascism , a preliminary and minor version of the same sort of political street-crossing had taken place : Bombacci , one of the Fascists lynched in Milan with Mussolini , had once been a Communist Deputy . ) In view of the precedents , the fact that French " national " communism has been able during the war to be loyal both to France and to Russia is no guarantee that the double loyalty will continue far into the postwar period . Thorez is very loyal to France but Ducks is already sounding the way Thorez sounded in a not very distant past . It is conceivable that French " national " communism and the " national " communisms of other countries may have ticklish choices . U NDER such circumstances , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of former Fascists may become a factor of potential importance in western Europe . If a future choice between nationalism and internationalism were to split French communism , it is possible - that the " nationalist " Communist dissidents would turn their coats again and join the reactionary nationalists . That would form the classic political basis for a new fascism . But again the key element of successful fascism , a psychologically exploitable mass , would be lacking , for the official Communists would undoubtedly make common cause with the Socialists . The result would be not fascism , but civil war . That is the danger presented by the survival of fascism in the minds and hearts of Europeans ? civil war , and its probable aftermath , international war . Neither in the minds of Europeans nor in their activities is the danger of fascism finished . The end of the war against Germany , which united great numbers of the peoples of the world , is the beginning of new con-ificts which may divide them again . We in the United States who now look forward hopefully to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the nations of Europe can not serve that ideal effectively unless they are themselves whole and united , and they can not be whole and united until their individual citizens achieve both material and psychological security . We are already helping materially . We shall be helping ourselves , our security , and our ideals if we also try to achieve sympathetic insight into the Europeans ' psychological problems .                     