@@431189

C ANDID-CAMERA shots of the inside of the human body are being made with ingenious photographic equipment designed by Dr. Wayne M. Hull , Oklahoma City , Okla. , physician and camera expert . By adapting miniature cameras to endoscopes , periscopelike optical instruments used for visual examination of internal organs , Dr. Hull obtains amazing pictures of the interiors of bronchial tubes , stomach cavities , lungs , and other hidden parts of the human anatomy . Providing an " inside " picture story , these photographs are proving of great value in aiding diagnosis of human ailments , and in providing permanent disease records for future study . About four years ago , Dr. Hull purchased his first miniature camera and began to take pictures of interesting cases he met in his practice . Today , camera , exposure meter , photoflood bulb , and various lenses and filters occupy a special compartment in his black medical bag , and form almost as important a part of his equipment as his fever thermometer , stethoscope , and medicine bottles . Two years ago , he took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the eyepiece of an endoscope instrument . To make the camera light and easy to manipulate , he removed all the inner workings except the film-winding mechanism . Since the adapter itself , which fits on the front of the camera , contains a shutter , and is permanently focused on the lens of the endoscope eyepiece , the sole function of the camera box is to hold the film in place . Next he attached a prism to the adapter so that he could look through a special eyepiece down the endoscope into the human organ being studied . In a typical use of the equipment , on a patient complaining of a stomach ailment , for example , the physician first inserts a gastroscope , a slender , flexible endoscope with a battery-operated light at its lower end and designed to slip down the throat of a patient into his stomach . Through the spe- cial camera eyepiece the doctor studies the lighted interior of the stomach . If he finds anything abnormal which he desires to photograph , he turns the gastroscope so that the lens at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one cable release which flips the viewing prism out of the way so that the full intensity of the light can go into the camera , presses a second cable release to snap the microscope-adapter shutter , and the photograph is made . The same procedure is followed with bronchoscopes for examining the bronchial tubes , thorascopes for examining the lung cavity . and other endoscopic instruments now in general use . With the type of light bulb now employed with most endoscopes , pictures must be made on the fastest film available and with a full second exposure , making it necessary to snap the shutter between breaths of the patient . Dr. Hull believes that more powerful bulbs and even tiny flash bulbs could be employed without danger to the patient , making shorter exposures and even color photographs possible . In addition to this achievement in the field of medical photography , Dr. Hull has made two other important contributions : one , a system for taking photographs of medical specimens with great accuracy ; the other , an ingenious rolling tripod arrangement of three cameras and two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of surgical operations both in black and white and in color . These novel outfits are illustrated here .  |                     