@@487476

I TS creator and governor general , M. A. Jinnah , has described Pakistan as " the biggest Moslem state .. . and the fifth biggest sovereign state in the world . " Though the second point might be disputed , Pakistan is unquestionably worthy of attention , for it is situated just where the Anglo-American and Soviet orbits touch in the strategic Central Asian theater . Seldom has a new state been created under such contradictory pressures or with such a load of full-grown problems . Control of the government is vested in a few top officials , supported by a powerful bureaucracy , but Britain has a say in matters of defense , finance , and foreign policy . Already the government is shot through with corruption and nepotism . Social life is dominated by Mohammedan concepts , including the subjection of women . The structure of the state , however , has not yet had time to harden , and internal strains may reshape it in another image . Although Mr. Jinnah exaggerates when he describes his dominion as " blessed with enormous resources and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With an area of 230,000 square miles , one-fourth larger than 1933 Germany , it has a population of 70,000,000 , about the same number as 1933 Germany . It produces an agricultural surplus and can export part of its wheat and rice and a good deal of its valuable jute crop . It also has some oil and chromite and considerable potential water power . Industrially it is the most backward part of the whole under-industrialized subcontinent . There are scattered woolen , cement , sugar , and cotton mills , but cloth and most other manufactured goods must be imported ; some 85 per cent of the raw jute of all India is grown in Pakistan , but the jute mills are in Calcutta . Pakistan has no known coal or iron and only one modern port , Karachi . The people are largely illiterate ; only 4 per cent can , read as against 12 per cent in India . Among the well-educated , here as in India , are too many lawyers and too few engineers . Close and friendly relations with the Indian dominion seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress Party , indeed , finally agreed to partition , after years of deadlock , partly in the belief that Pakistan could not exist as a separate state . " Let them have their Pakistan , " it was argued , " if they 'll take it without the eastern Punjab and without Calcutta and western Bengal . They wo n't have any coal , capital , or industries , and we can throttle them economically . After a few years they 'll come crawling back ! " This attitude , although not shared by the entire Congress high command , has certainly pervaded the partition operations . In the division of assets the Moslems have had to make a separate fight for virtually every typewriter and ream of paper . Difficulties have even been raised over the handling of mail . Pakistan 's economic troubles have been immeasurably increased by the bloody communal conflicts and the resulting influx of refugees . Almost every Moslem League leader from Mr. Jinnah down believes that this refugee inundation was part of a plot to swamp the Pakistan government before it could get established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party to this plot , " one declared , " but I 'm just as sure that it his the backing of Patel ' India 's Home Minister ) and Baldev Singh the Defense Minister and a Sikh . " W ITH enormous problems , Pakistan has only a very ordinary set of leaders to cope with them . The brilliant Mr. Jinnah , of course , must be excepted , but he is over seventy and has been in. poor health since a severe pneumonia attack two years ago . His voice can barely be heard ten feet away , and he chose to become governor general rather than premier partly because it was an easier post . He has repeatedly told subordinates , have done my part of the job ; I 've given you Pakistan . It is up to you to build it . " Premier Liaqat All Khan is a competent administrator with the conservative social views of a typical feudal landlord and a strong belief in a political and economic alliance with Great Britain . He had to choose a man of technical ability for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet are all mediocrities . So farfetched was the appointment of the Calcutta hide merchant , Fazlur Rahman , as Minister of the Interior and - Education that an old friend , seeing him in a front seat . at the Independence Day celebrations , cried out , " You 're in the wrong row ; that 's for the Cabinet ! " Top officials are in the main from the landlord class , with a sprinkling of lawyers and merchants . The sole modern-minded industrialist in the dominion , Hassan Ispahani , is being sent out of the way as ambassador to the United States . Provincial officials are of the same kind : the Punjab Premier is the Khan of Mamdot , the province 's largest landholder . Considerable opposition to this C W leadership is manifesting itself , although it is still unorganized . After 1944 , when the Moslem League became a mass movement , clerks , small shopkeepers , mechanics , and poor peasants thronged to its meetings , and it was they who finally obtained partition . Many of them were recruited through religious appeals ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic discontent formerly directed against the commercially dominant Hindus and Sikhs  --  it still provides much of the fuel for the Moslem arson gangs  --  is gradually being turned against the wealthy Moslem League leaders . The story is told that when Mumtaz Daultana , the brains of the West Punjab ministry , went to his huge Mutton estate in August , his Moslem tenants , all staunch League members , congratulated him on the achievement of Pakistan , and landlord and tenants feasted together . But a pall was thrown over the festivities when a peasant asked , " When will the land be given to us ? " This question is being asked repeatedly , for agrarian reforms have been promised by the League . Similar resentment against the rich is voiced in the towns . A Moslem clerk who is the local secretary of the League in his ward is made conscious of Social differences when he goes from his filthy , overcrowded tenement home to the palatial residence of the provincial leader . At a recent meeting in Lahore a fervent young Leaguer exclaimed , " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of this radicalism is spontaneous ; some of it is the work of the progressives in the League , who are influential throughout Pakistan but especially in the Punjab . These agitators are usually well-educated , modern-minded young people with a war-gained knowledge of foreign countries , a strongly nationalistic point of view , and a liberal approach to social problems , including the position of women . One of the most prominent is Mian lftikharud-Din , known as " Ifti , " a wealthy , radical Moslem who was formerly president of the Congress Party in the Punjab and twice jailed by the British . Now publisher of the Pakistan Times and a member of the December 13 , 1947 Constituent Assembly , he is looked up to by young , progressive Moslems but kept at a distance by League leaders . The tactics of the young progressives have readied a stratum of Moslems never before interested , and at Lahore and Peshawar there have been mass demonstrations of Moslem women clad in the ghostly looking white burqas , a cover-all garment with a net eye-slit which enables orthodox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The League leaders welcomed such mass support in fighting for Pakistan  --  although many had prejudices against women in politics  --  abut now they are embarrassed by the claims of the awakened and demanding millions . During the Laihore riots some of the inflamed young Moslems asked the League progressives for guidance . " We tried to slow them down , " a leftist Moslem leader said , " but we couldn ' ? oppose them openly . The Communists attacked us for , this , saying we could not be considered progressive if we did not openly fight Moslem communalism , but we know that would have meant isolating ourselves from our people . " MAJOR conflict is now looming over the question of how closely Pakistan should be tied to Britain . Nationalist-minded Pakistanis , among whom are most of the young people and the riew League rank and file , are dismayed by the number of Britons in the administration . Three of the five provincial governors , five of the nine departmental secretaries , and all the high officers of the armed forces are British . Informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technical skills but do not want this to be carried too far . Army officers do not object to serving under British generals temporarily , but are concerned that the army should continue to be equipped solely with British materiel and - indignant that promotions have been left in British hands . Some nationalists charge that when Premier Liaqat Ali Khan was in London a year ago he committed Pakistan to remaining within the British economic sphere . In the Punjab even the League right-wingers are anti-British , because the British governor there kept the League out of office for over a year and because the boundary award is considered unfair . In consequence a substantial number of Britons have been dismissed , but many of these have turned up with the central government at Karachi . The railway specialist , A. G. Hall , for example , was put out by the Punjab government but is now director general of railways for all Pakistan . To protests about the great number of Britons in the Pakistan service , the Premier is reported to have replied : " Before the transfer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the interim government promise to keep on all British officials who wanted to stay and against whom we could not make a - specific case . " It is interesting to note that of those who have649 stayed , the great majority have chosen to serve in Pakistan . While this may be due in part to the fact that opportunities are greater in the less-advanced state , there is certainly a feeling among the British that although India will probably declare its independence , Pakistan may be kept within the empire . The likelihood is enhanced by the character of the League leaders , almost none of whom are known for militant nationalism . Since Pakistan 's establishment , League officers have been cautious about declaring where stand with respect to the conflict between Russia and the West . Pakistan is nearer to the Soviet border than to either Britain or the United States , and substantial segments of public opinion show an interest in - the U. S. S. R. Even orthodox Moslems are watching developments in the Soviet Moslem areas , such as Bokhara , which are close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League progressives are pro-Communist , but many seem to feel that some sort of socialism , usually referred to as " Islamic socialism , " is necessary to make Pakistan a strong modern state . There would certainly be overwhelming opposition to allowing Britain and the United States to use Pakistan 's military strength or strategic position to further their own designs . The future of the Moslem League is already a subject of dispute . Old League officers , fearing that the impoverished Moslems will follow the progressives if the government does not soon grant their demands , are tending to abandon the organization which brought them to power and to rely increasingly on the bureaucracy which they inherited from the ? British and on their new powers of bribery through job distribution . Moslem religious leaders are attacking young , modern-minded progressives as " anti-Islamic , " and telling the women to forget about politics and go back into purdah . But it is not easy to turn back the clock . " We have learned that even women have power , and they ca n't make us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 