@@431400

In the area around Dallas , Texas , teen-agers call it " chicken . " It 's a horrifying , terrifying , dread new game . A group of youngsters get into an automobile and drive it onto a highway . They drive at high speed . And then they ride " no hands , " letting the car zoom along , driverless . The first youngster to lose his nerve and grab for the wheel is called " chicken . " He 's the sissy of the group . Other children in other parts of the country are engaged in their own special versions of lethal amusement , with the inevitable result that the teen-age accident rate tops , by an unbelievable margin , the accident rate of any other age group . No wonder the worst motor-vehicle accident in Milwaukee history occurred in 1948 , with a seventeen-year-old boy at the wheel . Four high-school boys died , four were seriously injured . This accident made only one of the equally gruesome headlines that appeared in newspapers all over the country last year . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their children and in behalf of general traffic safety . What can parents do ? Unless children are mentally or physically incapable of driving , parents should give them an opportunity to accept the responsibility of using the family car . Teen-agers ca n't be singled out and refused the use of the car merely because statistics show that their age group is a menace to the highway . Until the states require more rigid license tests , conditioning the new drive remains chiefly the parents ' duty . Today the possession of a driver 's license is no indication of the driver 's temperament , emotional stability , or ability to make mature judgments under stress . Among teen-agers , we find many chronic offenders of such commonplace laws as traffic lights , stop signals , speed limits , etc . Tragically , the driver usually waits until his car is loaded with screaming companions before he defies the laws . That 's the reason we so often read of five or more children maimed or killed in the same ' crackup . In many instances , the age-old custom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front seat of a speeding automobile , has become a fatal distraction . It 's smart to be safe . That is what parents must impress on the teenager who is about to take the car . First , . parents should appeal to reason ; then , the first time the youngster breaks a traffic law , no matter how minor , or shows " wiseguy " tactics , he should be punished severely and irrevocably . After all , parents are bestowing a privilege when they let a youngster take the family car . As soon as the privilege is abused , it must be revoked . Probably the greatest convenience in American life , an automobile at the same time can be a lethal weapon that must not , in conscience , be given to an irresponsible person , regardless of age . A young driver who has joyridden through a red light , or committed any traffic infraction , should be refused the right to drive for at least a month . Parents who smile tolerantly and give a mild admonition when their child is guilty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume full responsibility if their child is ever liable for injury to life or property . It is true that many youngsters emulate their parents in almost all things . If parents have regard for the rights of others , and if they obey traffic rules faithfully , probably their children wo n't be demons behind the wheel . However . if Daddy is a Walter Mitty type . who occasionally thinks of himself as Sir p 38 Malcolm Campbell and gets a real tackle out of passing a bus on the inside lane , we might as well prepare for children right now , instead of waiting til it 's too late . Recently , the Automobile Association America introduced a driving course some high schools throughout the country . In Cleveland , Ohio , the records K ow that teen-agers equipped with this education are involved in only half as many accidents as those who have n't taken the course . In California , Governor Warren recently signed a bill making thee , course compulsory throughout the state . L- . New York , ninety-one schools offer this training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the driving curse be given in all schools in every state . Face the fact . Your boy or girl is going to ask for the car and you 're going to let him have it . What happens after that is your responsibility as well as his . None of us wants to go back to the days of the covered wagon . The automobile is an outstanding example of our progress ; but in the hands of wild-eyed youngsters , it 's a murder weapon . It 's smart to be safe . Make them understand that , and you 'll save yourselves a lot of grief .  |                     