@@485114

WASTE has always been an integral part of the high American standard of living . Until comparatively recently our resources appeared so inexhaustible that conservation seldom seemed worth the expenditure of labor and thought that it involved . So we have slashed our forests and mined our soil . When factories or farms or mines ceased to give quick returns , we have left them derelict and passed on to something else . As individual consumers , too , we have been careless about waste . We have eagerly responded to advertising appeals to junk whatever is slightly outmoded , and our tendency has been to discard any damaged article rather than bother to have it repaired . In households where poverty has not applied the spur to thrift , there has always been wastage of food . Leftovers clutter up the refrigerator , and their utilization demands time and thought ; so away they go into the garbage pail . Now we are in a total war which is going to make ravenous demands on our resources , and freedom to waste is among the luxuries we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food , mounting prices and the assaults of the tax-collector on incomes will combine toenforce the many sermons we are now hearing on the subject of domestic economy . And the actual disappearance from the stores of all kinds of things to which we have been accustomed is going to make it essential for us to get along with the gadgets we already have and to take greater care of them . But as individuals we also have a positive contribution to make in overcoming the scarcity of certain resources  --  the expenditure of effort in preserving various kinds of scrap material and in seeing that it is collected for industrial use . Before the war broke out , we used to laugh at the Nazis ' collection of toothpaste tubes , but their highly organized system for obtaining and utilizing so-called waste has been an important factor in keeping their war machine running . Britain has found it expedient to follow their example . British housewives today are encouraged to supplement the once inclusive ash can with four separate containers designed to receive , respectively , food waste suitable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and all forms of waste paper . The collection of this material is undertaken by the municipal authorities , who sort it out and sell it to pig farmers and the scrap merchants , in many cases achieving a profit . Hundreds of thousands of tons of such scrap are being handled annually , and the British Controller of Salvage has estimated that the resulting saving is equivalent to 250 ship voyages annually . Up to April of the current year enough metal was collected from British households to build 10,000 tanks . The old bones  --  still usable after the dog has had a go at them  --  provide raw material for glue , fertilizer , glycerine , and other products . The paper is pulped and used to make fresh paper and board . As the salvage appeals point out , paper is an essential war material , for apart from its normal uses it is employed in making shell containers and in building board , and as a filler for certain kinds of plastic it enters into the manufacture of planes and radio apparatus . Since Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the utilization of waste paper offers great possibilities in saving shipping . And so great is the need that no possible source is being overlooked . Government offices and business firms alike are hauling out their old records to be converted into pulp . Even bus tickets are carefully saved , every vehicle being provided with a receptacle into which passengers are urged to drop their tickets before dismounting . In this country we may not need to bother about old bones , but we are already being urged by Washington to save old paper and cardboard of all kinds and see that it is passed on to the junk dealers or some collection agency , such as the Salvation Army . For in pre-war years we imported a great deal of pulp from Scandinavia , and although increased production in Canada has partially filled the gap , defense is making heavy demands on the paper and paper-board industry . The utilization of wastepaper for coarser products serves to release fresh pulp for the making of cellulose , which has many chemical applications , including the manufacture of explosives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the OPM 's Bureau of Conservation , headed by Lessing Rosenwald , who is reported to be planning a direct appeal to the public to turn in old metal . Now that our supplies of raw rubber from the East are cut off , at least temporarily , it seems probable that an effort will also be made to haul in old tires and other rubber waste suitable for reclaiming . Few people realize how important scrap iron and steel are as raw materials . Last year total consumption exceeded 40,000,000 tons , with steel mills using about 45 per cent scrap to 55 per cent pig iron in their open-hearth furnaces . In producing castings , foundries consume about 70 per cent scrap to 30 per cent pig iron . The collection of this material is a major industry . A fairly large proportion is supplied by the waste produced within the steel industry itself , and a good deal more is sold direct to the mills by the railroads . Wholesale scrap dealers round up the remainder , drawing mostly from bigproducers , such as metal factories , automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not find it economic to collect small lots , and the scope of their operations is limited by high freight rates to areas within a few hundred miles of the steel mills . Of course , both these obstacles to a larger scrap supply would be overcome if a high enough piice were obtainable . Soon after the defense program was launched , prices did begin to rise under the stimulus of increased demand , but Leon Henderson stepped in and placed a ceiling on scrap with a view to keeping down the cost of steel production and heading off a demand for higher steel prices . In this he was successful , but the result has been to restrict the supply of scrap , which at the present time is said to be below normal . One concession has been made by the Office of Price Administration . for a limited period purchasers have been allowed to pay a higher price for " remote scrap , " that is to say , material originating in states west of the Mississippi , so as to overcome the freight handicap . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is now described as desperate . Several steel mills are today operating below capacity solely owing to their inability to obtain sufficient scrap . The gathering in of steel scrap in small lots from a multitude of workshops , factories , and farms is an expensive operation , for a great deal of labor is involved in the many calls necessary and also in sorting . To make it worth while and to attract the necessary new capital to the petty junk business , the present price ceiling would have to be raised considerably . But this would naturally mean equally high prices for scrap collected in bulk , which already returns a reasonable profit and would almost certainly lead to increased prices for finished steel . Must we risk such a breach in the whole structure of price control in order to bring out this urgently needed marginal supply of scrap ? I believe that before the OPM resorts to this kind of price leverage it should see what can be done by patriotism and voluntary organization . The Bureau of Conservation is already reported to be sending an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the like to appoint a company official who will make a thorough search of the plant for " dormant " steel and other metal scrap . Test surveys of this kind have turned up obsolete machinery , old pipe , and all sorts of forgotten material in quantities which could well be handled through the regular scrap merchants . But if appeals are to be made to small businesses and householders , some further organization to supervise the primary collection will be necessary . The Bureau of Conservation should issue a call to every community in the country to organize a scrap-collection committee . The lead might be taken by the local council , by some charitable organization , or by a community club such as Rotary . In cities , no doubt , subcommittees for each section would be desirable so as to divide up the work and stimulate interest . I do not believe it would be difficult to find citizens willing to lend their services for a house-to-house canvass to persuade the occupants to make a thorough search for old metal . In many places organizations such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assist . Probably many people approached would bring their contributions personally to a community dump . When bulky hoards were uncovered , local business men willing to lend a truck could certainly be found . As the piles accumulated , scrap dealers could be called in and asked to give a bulk price , the proceeds being donated to the Red Cross or some local charity . With efficient organization I believe that very large quantities of scrap could be uncovered , especially in suburban areas , small towns , and villages . In such places people tend to stay many years in one house . They have attics , garages , and barns , and they are apt to accumulate all sorts of lumber which they have put away thinking they might have some use for it some day . Old iron bedsteads , lengths of gutter , old taps and pipes , bits of cars , broken tools , discarded lamps , old radiators , stoves and grates  --  some or all of these things are to be found in almost any country household , and their owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t be metamorphosed into ranks , guns , and sheiis . Farms in particular should yield rich hauls of this kind of material , together with discarded or broken implements . And it is well to remember that the fact that a piece of steel is rusty does not make it worthless as scrap . Other sources of scrap in many rural areas are the unsightly relics of long-abandoned enterprises  --  saw mills , quarries , mines , and small factories . Walking down from Jay Peak in Vermont 's Green Mountains last summer by an almost overgrown trail , I remember coming across a huge boiler half hidden in the undergrowth . With various accessories scattered around , it must have weighed at least two tons . To break up and move such an object would not be a commercial proposition ; nor could it be easily done by volunteer amateurs . But it might be worth while for the government to use some of the CCC boys in tracking down and removing scrap of this nature . A double purpose would be achieved , since in addition to gaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countryside . Probably some legislation would be needed to enable the government to commandeer abandoned property of this kind , particularly since it would of ten be impossible to trace the owner . In maintaining national unity few things count so much as giving as many people as possible a job to do which they feel is making a contribution , however humble , toward winning the war . Hundreds of thousands of citizens are already working for civil defense , but there are plenty of others who could be rallied to a volunteer salvage corps by a government appeal imaginative enough to make clear the vital importance of the task . But the campaign will have to be more carefully thought out and organized than was last summer 's aluminum collection if it is to gain full public cooperation .                     