@@485117

MR . FRANK L. POLK , the head of the American peace delegation at Paris , persists in taking a hopeful view of the world situation . " The laborious edifice of world peace , " he is reported to have said in a public statement just before leaving for home , " is on the eve of achievement . " We heartily wish that we could agree with him . We should be glad indeed if , scanning the horizon with Mr. Polk and his associates , we could descry a sign of peace as big even as a man 's hand . Yet we should be doing injustice to Mr. Polk 's intelligence and information if we did not think that he knows better than to indulge in such worn-out optimism as he is credited with expressing . Mr. Polk and his colleagues may have lived a cloistered life at Paris , but they have nevertheless met unnumbered representatives of the many interests with which they have had to deal , and have had access to a wealth of information and advice such as no other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfectly well , whatever they may say for public consumption , that their labors have brought to a distressed world neither peace nor the hope of peace , and that the " laborious edifice " at which they have worked houses far more of discord and failure than of contentment and good will . What makes such grandiloquent pronouncements as that of Mr. Polk the more distasteful is the fact that everybody now knows how great and dreadful the failure has been , and the reasons for it . From the moment when Mr. Wilson , entering the Peace Conference with a wealth of world influence and prestige such as no head of a great nation had ever possessed , abandoned his demand for " open covenants of peace openly arrived at , " the fate of the Conference was sealed . The one great safeguard against political intrigues and nationalistic schemes , the one assurance that the peace , however far-reaching or drastic its provisions , would regard the desires of peoples rather than register the ambitions of diplomatists and politicians , was gone , and the way was open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the war had been fought to destroy . Once the Big Five , with no other argument save that of might , arrogated to themselves the right to control the decisions of the Peace Conference and retired behind closed doors to deliberate and act in secret , the ultimate outcome was easily forecast . The experts whom the members of the Conference had summoned to advise them had no option save to bow to the will of the five dictators or to resign ; and few resigned . The Powers not of the elect Five must go into opposition , or scheme and bargain , or bide their time . The peace of peoples became first a term to conjure with , then a mockery , and in the end a lie . Yet the opportunity to build an edifice of peace such as Mr. Polk and others still , apparently , affect to see was as clear as it was unprecedented . Whether Mr. Wilson 's Fourteen Points constituted , in the mind of their author , a well-considered and comprehensive program of details , or whether they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which peace ought to be made , they had laid the foundations upon which the reconstruction of a warring world might easily have proceeded . How elemental and sweeping they appear now that the horrid mess which Mr. Wilson and his associates have made ofthem is everywhere known ! A diplomacy proceeding " always frankly and in the public view " ; freedom of the seas " alike in peace and in war " ; the removal of economic barriers between nations ; reduction of armaments " to the lowest points consistent with domestic safety " ; an adjustment of all colonial claims " free , open-minded , and absolutely impartial " ; for Russia " an unhampered and unembarrassed opportunity for the independent determination of her own political development and national policy " ; the restoration of Belgium and the return of Alsace-Lorraine to France ; readjustment of the Italian frontiers along lines of nationality " c iearly recognizable " ; autonomy for the peoples of Austria-Hungary , the evacuation of Rumania , Serbia , and Montenegro , and for Serbia " free and secure access to the sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autonomy for other nationalities hitherto under Turkish rule ; an indel pendent Poland ; a league of nations . Such was the edifice for whose uprearing the world stood waiting in expectancy . It is hard to see how Mr. Polk , straining his eyes however intently , can discover the outlines of a building of this great sort in the Europe to which he has just bidden adieu . Of open diplomacy there has at no time been even a trace . Freedom of the seas has been forgotten . The economic barriers which have impeded trade between nations still continue , and have even been piled higher . The weight of armaments bids fair to rival that of the decade before the war . Germany has been stripped of its colonies for the benefit of the Allies , Great Britain getting the most , while no other colonial claims have been considered . The treatment of Russia , in very truth the " acid test " of Allied intelligence , sympathy , and honor , has been one long tale of lying pretense . Austria is being strangled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rumania has successfully played the robber in defiance of the Council , Serbia has as yet no access to the sea , and the Italian frontier illustrates chiefly the principle of imperialistic greed ; while as regards Turkish sovereignty there has been no settlement at all . Even the league of nations , abruptly shifted by Mr. Wilson from the end to the beginning of his international program , is still to be born . That the Supreme Council , whether as the mouthpiece of the Peace Conference or as a practically independent body , should have failed so miserably in most of the tasks which it undertook , is to be ascribed far less to the difficulties which it faced than to its own invincible obtuseness and reactionary temper . The Council has not been uninformed so much as it has been unenlightened and inept . If it sympathized with , or indeed even comprehended , the ideas of liberty and bettered social organization which awakened minds are everywhere struggling to realize , it gave small intimation of the fact . If it did not deliberately intend to strengthen the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and institutions , it nevertheless pursued a policy which could have no other result . For the palpable failure of its efforts for peace , as for the contempt into which it fell , it had only itself to thank ; and for its dissolution there will be only a sigh of relief . It is for the peoples of the world , acting through governments which they themselves control , to achieve now the " laborious edifice " of peace . The Courts and the Coal Strike T HE decision of the leaders of the United Mine Workers of America to accept the proposal of President Wilson for ending the coal strike is naturally a cause of general relief and satisfaction . Some 400,000 men will probably go back to the bituminous coal mines , after a six weeks ' absence , and a regular supply of a product that all the world needs may again be assured . The miners are to receive an immediate increase of 14 per cent . in their earnings , without raising the price of coal to the public , while the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to report within sixty days . It would be a mistake , however , to regard the present agreement as more than a truce unless there is subsequent effort to adjust fundamental economic wrongs ; and it is also much to be regretted that the two great legal issues in the controversy seem likely to be left unsettled , except in so far as victory rests with the Administration at Washington by default . In that case it is highly probable that such advantage as the Government has gained will be used as a precedent against labor in the future . We have already discussed various questions of ethics and public policy involved in the coal strike and in the action of the Government against the miners . We wish now to call attention to certain important questions of law and to the unfortunate situation in which those questions are left . The two great legal issues of the coal strike are , first , the validity of Judge Anderson 's injunction requiring the officers of the United Mine Workers to cancel the order for a walkout ; and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against eighty-four of the leaders of the miners on the ground that they had violated the injunction . When the officers of the miners agreed to abide by the injunction issued by Judge Anderson , they announced that they would nevertheless seek to carry the case to a higher tribunal for an opinion as to its validity . It is greatly to be hoped that they have not abandoned this intention , but it is a fair question whether compliance with the injunction has not ended the possibility of effective action . The more recent effort of the Department of Justice to prosecute certain leaders of the miners for violation of the injunction seems likely to be left even more at loose ends , since the court proceedings have been postponed at the request of the Government and probably will not be resumed . It may be that the Department of Justice has evidence of the violation of Judge Anderson 's injunction . In view of what has happened in the last two and a half years , however , it is equally possible that the Government began the action as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to justify prosecution . One assertion , at least , bearing on that point should not go unchallenged . Mr. Dan W. Simms , special attorney for the Department of Justice , was quoted as saying that " refusal to return to work , if a miner knows of the injunction and the subsequent order of the union officials rescinding the strike order , constitutes violation of the injunction , and the Government will proceed on this theory , regardless of whether officers are guilty of some specific act of encouragement of the strike . " It may be said unequivocally that such a conception is unknown in either the theory or the practice of the law . Nothing is better settled than that an injunction can not compel personalservice ; nothing is more certain than that no miner or group of miners can be compelled to go to work on a court order . In usage the injunction is negative in character . It forbids rather than requires persons to perform certain acts . In ordering the miners ' officers to withdraw the strike order , Judge Anderson gave to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but his action could be explained on the ground that it was only part of a general negative order . Where a person makes an individual contract to perform a service , and breaks it , his employer can bring a civil suit for damages . In the case of the coal miners , however , even this possibility did not exist , as theirs was a general union contract which did not prevent any individual from stopping work when he pleased . So far as the validity of Judge Anderson 's injunction is concerned , it may be admitted that the Government had the right , on purely legal grounds , to invoke the Lever law in the coal strike , but there is good authority for questioning whether an injunction was the proper remedy . It is probably a violation of the Lever law to conspire to limit the production of coal , so long as the war is technically going on , but the act provides its own remedy in a clause which makes the violation of the act a crime , punishable by fine and imprisonment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Lever law for relief by injunction . Ordinarily , therefore , such relief would not be given by the courts unless the violation of the law could be shown to have some other aspect than that of a crime . Now the purpose of an injunction is not to deal with crime , but to prevent irreparable injury to property . Here the Government case rested on shaky foundations . The Government contended that through lack of coal its operation of the railways would be interfered with and that a money loss would result . Obviously , however , that would be only an incidental and indirect result of a strike ; there would not necessarily be any direct physical interference with the operation of trains . If a large group of shippers should decide to use automobile trucks instead of railway freight cars , it is evident that the Government would suffer a loss in railway revenue , but it is equally certain that no court would enjoin the shippers on that account . In any case , the Indianapolis injunction against the coal miners raised grave doubts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoined officials ought to have resolved at once . A quick and sure way of doing so is suggested by the case in re Sawyer ( 124 U. S. 200 ) , involving an attempt on the part of the City Council of Lincoln , Nebraska , in 1887 , to remove a police judge from office . The latter obtained an injunction from the United States Circuit Court forbidding such action . The City Council nevertheless removed the police judge , whereupon the Mayor and eleven councilmen were committed to jail by the court for contempt . Their counsel took the case to the United States Supreme Court on habeas corpus proceedings , the action of the lower court was declared void , and the prisoners were ordered to be discharged . The decision is cited only to show how the validity of an injunction might be tested in a case such as that of the officers of the United Mine Workers . Unfortunately , the procedure which was followed in the Nebraska case is no longer open to the miners ; but if there is any other way in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization and to the public to adopt it , regardless of the outcome of the coal strike . Now for Woman Suffrage I T was a wise as well as a politic move for the Republi-can National Committee to urge , as it did at its meeting at Washington last week , that in all States in which the Republican party is in control special sessions of the Legislatures be called , if necessary , in order to ratify the pending woman suffrage amendment to the Federal Constitution before February 1 . Perhaps the advice was animated quite as much by a desire to catch votes as by any deep purpose to do justice to the political claims of women , but the advice was sound nevertheless . We heartily endorse it , only with an emendation extending it to States under Democratic control as well . After years of agitation , the question of Federal suffrage for women is at last before the country in the form of a specific proposal , requiring only the affirmative action of the State Legislatures to give it effect . It is neither a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There should be no unnecessary delay in giving to women the victory for which they have fought and the justice which is their due . Since the submission of the proposed amendment by Congress last spring , twenty-two States have ratified it . The States , in the order of their ratification , are Wisconsin , Michigan , Kansas , Ohio , New York , Illinois , Pennsylvania , Massachusetts , Texas , Iowa , Missouri , Arkansas , Montana , Nebraska , Minnesota , New Hampshire , Utah , California , Maine , North Dakota , South Dakota , and Colorado : Wisconsin ratified on June 10 , Colorado on December 12 . In seven States the action of the Legislature was unanimous , and in all the others the majorities were large . That the course which the Republican National Committee recommended is not unprecedented is shown by the fact that eighteen of the twenty-two States which have ratified the amendment did so at special sessions , fourteen of which were called solely for that purpose . In order to obtain the three-fourths ' majority which the Constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suffragists have set February 1 as the date on which they hope to see ratification completed , chiefly in order that women voters may take part in the primaries and conventions which will begin soon after that date in preparation for the Presidential contest . It is expected that the amendment will be accepted in January at the regular Legislative sessions in New Jersey , Maryland , Kentucky , and Rhode Island . Of the ten special sessions which will be necessary , the National Woman 's party is hoping that seven will be in Wyoming , Washington , Oregon , Idaho , Nevada , Arizona , and Oklahoma . In these States there is already full suffrage for women , but the Governors have thus far declined to call special sessions of the Legislatures to ratify the amendment . As five of the Governors are Republicans , the advice of the Republican National Committee is counted upon to help them change their minds . One still hears it urged , even by advocates of suffrage for women , that the question is one which each State should have been left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that the procedure would have been more democratic if the question had been submitted to a special convention in each State , thereby getting a direct and specific mandate from the people . Failure to seek the suffrage through State action alone has given color to the criticism that the advocates of suffrage were unwilling to submit theissue to popular vote . The reply to such objection has been that public sentiment has already sanctioned woman suffrage and that the shortest and least expensive procedure which would secure suffrage as a Federal right was the best . The question of procedure is no longer , apparently , of practical importance , but- in their assumption that public opinion has approved of suffrage for women we believe the suffragists are in the right . The change is inevitable , but it is more than that ; it is democratic and it is just . What was once a subject for argument is no longer within the field of controversy : Political leaders throughout the country are ranging themselves in support of the amendment , some of them , no doubt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , but far the larger number , we suspect , because they realize that intelligent public opinion is behind it . The argument that special sessions of State Legislatures entail unnecessary expense is not impressive and should have no weight . The question now is not how the desired result should be obtained , but how soon it can be accomplished . That American women have at last achieved the conquest of public opinion is not only a tribute to the energy and skill with which they have carried on their campaign , but a conclusive reason also why they should be allowed without unnecessary delay to enter into the fruits of their labors . We earnestly hope that the Governors of the States in which special LegislatiVe sessions will be necessary , and in which the rejection of the amendment is not a foregone conclusion , will not misread the signs of the times in this important matter . We are persuaded that the people wish to have the suffrage amendment ratified not grudgingly , but cheerfully and forthwith . The Voice of the Churches O NE thinks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it has one , ordinarily embodies convictions in matters of faith and practice which have grown out of years , perhaps generations or even centuries , of introspection and experience . Its forms of worship , once adopted , come in time to seem a wellnigh inseparable part of faith itself , and are not likely to be much changed without long discussion or even struggle . So far as the church concerns itself with current - matters of politics or social welfare , it is prone to stand , albeit negatively quite as often as positively , for the existing order . More often than not it has been the implied supporter of a reactionary or oppressive government or the passive handmaid of an outgrown social system , not because it was convinced that the government was worthy or the system sound , but rather because it disliked and dreaded change . When , accordingly , some important branch of the church strikes out on new lines , and seeks to translate its principles of religious faith and conduct into a practical program of industrial or political action , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide and deep . Some months ago a writer in The Nation discussed at length the remarkable program of social and industrial reconstruction made public at Chicago by a group of Roman Catholic bishops . Within a few days the social service division of the Presbyterian New Era movement has urged the members of that church to establish personal relations not only with groups of employers and employees , boards of education , and organizations or groups having to do with politics , recreation , the press , or public health , but also with " the disturbing group of those who incite violence and lawlessness : " The General Assembly of the Presbyterian church has already adopted a social program which calls , among other things , for a more equitable distribution of wealth , the abatement of poverty , the abolition of child labor , the regulation of industrial employment for women , the release of every worker from work one day in seven , conciliation and arbitration in industrial disputes , and " the development of a Christian spirit in the attitude of society toward offenders against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but , as Dr. John McDowell , director of the social service division , said in a recent interview : " It is not the office of the church to determine the form of social organization . It is its work to influence the spirit of it . " The Methodist Episcopal church is more specific . Last May the Board of Bishops of that church , in a letter to the clergy , declared in favor of " an equitable wage for labor ers , which shall have the right of way over rent , interest , and profits " ; " collective bargaining as an instrument for the attainment of industrial justice and for training in democratic procedure " ; and the " advance of the workers themselves through profit-sharing and through ' positions on boards of directorship . " The Federal Council of Churches , representing a membership constituency of some 23,000,000 , put itself on record later as favoring industrial councils and shop committees ; a living wage which should be " the first charge upon industry before dividends are considered " ; heavier taxes for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman in the home , together with " the control of her own person , " and , in her work , " professional standing equal to that of men " ; and for colored persons , " parks and playgrounds , equal wages for equal work , adequate and ? efficient schools , equal facilities and courtesy when travelling , adequate housing , lighting , and sanitation , police protection , and equality before the law . " A commission of the American Unitarian Association has just issued a statement " in regard to the social duty of Christian churches in these times of industrial unrest and critical decisions . " Whom and what do the churches of this country represent ? There are in the United States , according to the Federal Council of Churches , approximately 135,000 priests , ministers , or rabbis in charge of congregations . The number of communicants is about 42,000,000 . In the Protestant churches alone there are 115,000 ministers and 25,000,000 communicants . In addition to clergy and communicants there are some hundreds of religious newspapers and publishing houses , other hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposing array of hospitals , asylums , and other institutions for the relief of distress or the enhancement of social welfare . Here , clearly , is a vast social force which , too often latent thus far , is apparently upon the point of rousing itself . It would be hard to over-estimate the impetus which would be given to any project of industrial or political reform if such powerful bodies as the Roman Catholics , the Methodists , and the Presbyterians were to unite in support of it . Can the churches agree , and can they unite ? Can they attack the admitted evils of industrial and political life with the energy which they have shown in proselyting for the faith ? Can they sink their sectarian rivalries in a common effort for the realization of that kingdom of righteousness among men for whose coming they all regularly pray ? If they can , the forces of evil will have a foe to be reckoned with .                     