@@471147

the attention of the nation has been riveted upon the rapidly shifting scene of the war the Army has accomplished , with a minimum of fanfare and publicity , one of the most unusual operations in its history : the evacuation of one hundred thousand Japanese ? men , women , and children ? from Military Area No. 1 , a strip of territory extending one hundred miles inland down the length of the West Coast . Wholly without precedent , this largest mass evacuation in American history has been accomplished by the Army on time , without mishap , and with virtually no friction . In retrospect this accomplishment is certain to loom large as a miracle of effective organization . The timetable is , indeed , impressive . On February 19th the President authorized the Army to exclude any person , alien or citizen , from any area on the West Coast which might be required on the grounds of military necessity . On March 2nd the first evacuation areas were designated ; and on March 10th the Wartime Civilian Control Administration was established , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were selected . Army engineers went to work immediately to construct 28 shelters a day in these centers , to house the evacuees . On March 19th the President , by executive order , created the War Relocation Authority ( a purely civilian organization ) to prepare the permanent resettlement centers . On March 29th all voluntary evacuation was prohibited by proclamation . Andby May 31st some 99,770 Japanese had been moved from their homes and transported to the assembly centers ; with the exception of invalids , orphans , and a few others , every Japanese on the West Coast was under surveillance . Even the hospitalized cases have been concentrated in a few institutions and plans are now under way to evacuate the orphans . In effecting this vast movement of people in such a brief allotment of time the conduct of the Army has been wholly admirable . Both officers and troops behaved , at all times , with the utmost tact , good judgment , and consideration . There were , to be sure , minor flaws in the planning , but as a whole the evacuation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be as exciting as bombing Japanese warships in the Coral Sea , but it must be credited as a major feat for the Army . The whole movement was , in fact , executed so swiftly that those of us who were watching from the outside found it impossible to keep abreast of the exciting and dramatic sequence of events . Fortunately many phases of the operation have been documented : by eye-witness accounts , by photographs , by documentary films , and by public hearings , so that a few years hence it should be possible to piece together all the myriad fragments of this unprecedented episode in our history . Not only has the initial phase of the operation , that is , physical evacuation , been almost fully accomplished , but the work of permanent relocation is well under way . Permanent relocation sites have been selected , in California , Arizona , Utah , Idaho , Wyoming , Colorado , and Arkansas , and it is now possible to get some perspective on the relocation , as distinguished from the evacuation phase of the movement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or final phase ? what is to happen when the war is over . The evacuation itself was handled on an area basis , as one district after another was designated for exclusion . On the day appointed all Japanese within the area , citizens and aliens alike , reported at a specified place . They came for the most part in their own cars , carrying a limited amount of baggage and equipment . Accompanied by the Army escort , the strange procession then got under way for the nearest reception center . The movement itself was carefully timed , with stops at designated intervals and arrangements made for hot lunches en route . On arriving at the particular center ( usually a race track , fair ground , or park ) , the evacuees were swiftly inducted into camp life . Each member of the family was given a superficial medical examination ; their belongings were inspected ; a social case-history was taken ; the rules of the camp were explained ; each member of the family was given a badge with his number upon it ; and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Fairly typical of the assembly centers on the West Coast are those at Pomona and Santa Anita , in Los Angeles County , the one a fair ground , the other a race track . I came away from a visit to these centers recently with a bewildering variety of impressions , both good and bad , and profoundly moved by what I had seen and heard . Until it was taken over by the Army , Santa Anita was a sumptuous race track , ornately designed , beautifully laid out , bounded by exclusive residential districts . Within the twenty-five acres which make up the grounds a city has come into being . When I visited the center , on June 25th , it had a population of 18,562 Japanese residents . Santa Anita has almost everything that any California city of comparable size would have : newspaper , hospital , police and fire departments , recreational centers , stores , ball parks , workshops , and libraries . It has been divided into seven sections , each with its own post office , store or canteen , mess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) ; and each district has its representative on the city council . Shortly before my visit the camp residents had held an election . Every adult member of the camp , whether citizen or alien , had been declared eligible to vote . For the first time in their lives , the Issei , or first-generation Japanese , had been permitted to vote in an election . Here , in the space of a month , a large city had grown up , with well-organized community facilities , and its residents were going about their business in a quiet and orderly manner . The essentials of camp life were obviously well established . The residents of the camp eat in shifts in large community mess halls , with 3,000 and 4,000 people sitting down to eat at the same time . Provisioning such a camp is no small undertaking in itself , for the occupants of Santa Anita consume 70,000 pounds of food a day . All of the food is requisitioned through the Quartermaster 's Corps ( there are no private " concessions " of any kind or character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kitchens and mess halls , checked the menus , inspected the food , and interviewed , in private , numerous friends among the Nisei group . The food is good , there is enough of it , and the kitchens are clean . Many residents of the camp , however , complain of the lack of variety , the mass-feeding technique , and the fact that they have to wait , in long lines , before meals . Tea is served twice a day , coffee once , and milk is available at all times in whatever quantity desired . Mothers can get milk and special formula preparations at milk stations conveniently scattered throughout the camp . No one is starving at Santa Anita . By and large , I should say that the shelter is adequate . Much has been made of the fact that stables have been converted into dormitories and living quarters . It is true that one section of the camp , housing about 8,500 people , is made up of units which were formerly stables . But these units constitute , if anything , somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by standard housing tests , there is overcrowding and a lack of proper ventilation , and the units themselves are not adequately insulated . Each unit has running water and each section has its community toilets and showers which , generally , are not as conveniently located as might have been desired . The units themselves are regularly inspected twice a week ; sanitation is properly supervised ; and garbage and rubbish are collected through a street maintenance division . The camp as a whole is surprisingly neat . At the canteens , which are operated by camp residents under supervision ( and with profit to no one ) , the evacuees can purchase some 163 different articles , ranging from shoes to aspirin . The camp boasts of a one-hundred-and-fiftybed hospital , staffed by Japanese doctors , nurses , and attendants . Some twenty-one babies have been born in the camp , the first , Katherine Anita , being the daughter of Dr. Mitonori Kimura , a distinguished scholar , whose attainments are chronicled in the British Dictionary of National Biography . II It would certainly not be accurate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To be sure , the camp is surrounded by barbed wire ; it is guarded by a small detail of soldiers ; searchlights play around the camp and up and down the streets at night ; and the residents can not leave the grounds . Their automobiles are all impounded ; two roll calls are taken each day ; and , at least at the Pomona camp , I was able to verify thefact that there is a military censorship on outgoing and incoming mail . Occupants can , however , receive any publication or periodical they desire provided it is not in the Japanese language . This description may sound perilously like a concentration camp . But the internal policing is all provided by the Japanese themselves . They have an auxiliary police force , made up of volunteers , who function under the supervision of a deputy sheriff . People move freely about the camp during the day ; they enjoy their own social life ; a measure of self-government has been provided ; and the utmost good feeling prevails between camp residents and the management . By and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials throughout the State have told me that they have nothing but praise for the way the Japanese have behaved . At the Manzanar camp , Hikaji Takeuchi , a twenty-twoyear-old Nisei , was shot by a guard , but the incident seems to have been the result of misunderstanding on the part of both the victim and the guard . There have been some arrests for gambling ; and recently at Santa Anita six aliens and five citizens were apprehended for violation of camp rules . But to date there have been no major " incidents " of any kind . Strolling through the streets of Santa Anita and Pomona is indeed an amazing experience . It is quite common to see American flags and service flags , with one , two , and three stars , in the windows of the dwelling units . There are twenty-nine World War veterans at Santa Anita and a flourishing post of the American Legion . Many of the quarters have been tastefully decorated with a talent for improvising that borders on the miraculous . I never knew that tin cans could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decorated . Miniature victory gardens have been laid out ; shrubs and flowers have been planted ; dainty curtains appear at the windows , and gaily colored rag rugs cover the floors . The Japanese are , moreover , certainly possessed of a sense of humor . The streets have been named after famous racehorses : Azucar , Whirlaway , Seabiscuit , Man o ' War ; there is a " haunted house " on one street with the caption " Whoo-whoo ! " ; and barracks have been named Dusty Inn , Burlap Row , and Jerk 's Jernt . Amateur barbers can be seen at work in the streets and alleys . Santa Anita has eighty-one baseball clubs ? with such names as Tigers , Japanita Pals , Stablemates ? and its own set-up of leagues and world series . I wish that some of our more rabid race-baiters could have witnessed , as I did , a game in the " junior league series . " I have never seen better baseball played by teen-age kids nor have I ever listened to more picturesque baseball fans ? fans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a typically American emphasis . The fact is that they are painfully American in speech , action , and behavior . Santa Anita has its own PTA groups , its Boy and Girl Scouts , its Whiskerino contest , its literary societies , its badminton , volley-ball , and tennis courts , and its Aeroplane Model Builders . The residents have organized a fifteen-piece orchestra , and when they sing the National Anthem and salute the flag in the main auditorium it is a thrilling sight . In the basement of the race-stands I found a dozen young Nisei practicing on violins , drums , and horns as they endeavored to master " The Star-Spangled Banner . " Throughout the vast stands on an afternoon ? the imposing and ornate stands from which great crowds once witnessed the performances of Seabiscuit and Whir/away ? one can see little islands of Japanese study-groups : youngsters , old Japanese ladies learning the English language from Nisei instructors , and a variety of classes in literature , science , history , and sociology . Dr. Yamato Ichihashi , for thirty years professor of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courses and the beginnings of a normal school . Contrary to popular American belief , the Japanese belong to a variety of religiousfaiths . Mike Masoaka , for example , national secretary of the Japanese-American Citizens League , is a practicing Mormon in good standing . Church services therefore are conducted in the camps by many different groups . There is the most complete freedom of religious worship , and a limited freedom of speech , assembly , and press ( naturally of course camp residents , in their meetings and in their newspaper The Pacemaker , do not feel free to express all that is on their minds ) . The Japanese-American Citizens League however , from its headquarters in Salt Lake City , issues the Pacific Citizen , which is as free to print whatever it wants as any other American newspaper . This publication , moreover , circulates freely in the camps . The Army has however made one serious mistake : its prohibition on Japanese publications and on a Japanese-language section in the camp newspapers . The effect of this policy is to make it almost impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group . It is interesting to note that many patriotic wartime activities are carried on in the camps , such as Red Cross work , and recently the residents of Santa Anita contributed $5,000 to buy war bonds . Every adult in Santa Anita has a job and the variety of camp occupations is amazing : gardeners , barracks inspectors , carpenters , draftsmen , sign painters , plumbers , truck drivers , stenographers , accountants , policemen , firemen , teachers , and so forth . There is no compulsion about these assignments , as the management has depended entirely upon volunteers to staff its various projects . Fortunately an astonishing variety of skills and occupations have been represented . Inside the camp , as well as outside , money is the real problem . Camp residents must purchase certain items : shoes , toilet articles , clothes . Most of the residents are at the end of their resources . Coupon books are given out which enable the residents to buy $2.50 worth of merchandise a month at the canteens . Admittedly this allowance is insufficient . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the projects : $8 a month for unskilled labor , $12 a month for skilled labor , and $16 a month for technical and professional services . No charge is made for support or maintenance . A large number of Nisei are employed at Santa Anita ( they were all volunteers ) on a camouflage-net-making project . Only citizens can work on this project because of the provisions of an international agreement signed some years ago at Geneva prohibiting compulsory employment of enemy aliens in cases of war . This particular project happens to represent an important type of defense employment , vital to the war effort . It is difficult therefore to defend a policy which compensates the American citizens employed on the project at the rate of about 4% ; cents an hour , when the same work , if performed outside the camp , would command a much higher hourly rate . To some extent at any rate , this situation will he corrected when the evacuees are settled in the permanent relocation centers . There are strange sights to be seen in Santa Anita . On my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ironically , finds himself an evacuee . Some years ago he married a Japanese girl in the Orient and brought her to this country on a visitor 's visa . He is of course at liberty to leave the camp whenever he desires , but to date he has elected to remain with his wife . He quarrels endlessly with the Japanese and resents the manner in which he is ostracized among them . There are , in fact , many cases of mixed marriages , involving Koreans , Chinese , white Americans , Mexicans , and even Negroes . The most amazing case of all perhaps is that of the Hayward tribe . The genealogy is somewhat complicated but essential to an understanding of the case . In the Hayward family there were five girls and four boys , all American-born ; and all of them , at the time of the evacuation order , were married to white Americans . There were children in seven of the nine marriages . The Haywards do not speak , write , or read Japanese ; they have never been to Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have never associated with Japanese . But it seems that the father of this tribe , whose name was originally Hayoshi , was one-fourth Japanese . In the Pomona camp therefore are to be found 21 members of the Hayward tribe . Two of the American husbands of the Hayward girls elected to remain outside the camp ; the others are with their wives . This strange situation results from the Army 's policy of admitting no exceptions : if there is any Japanese blood , no matter how small the quantum , the individual falls within the evacuation order . Some of these mixed-up individual cases can perhaps be reconsidered after the Japanese have been removed to the permanent resettlement centers . Santa Anita and Pomona are , I believe , fairly typical of the the average camp . I have received complaints from the Nisei from various other camps ; and there has been considerable criticism of Camp Harmony , in Oregon . In general , however , I believe it correct to state that many of the camp residents , perhaps a third of them , are living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that another group , also perhaps a third , are no better off and not much worse off than they were before they were evacuated ; and that a remaining third , made up of the relatively well-to-do families , are unquestionably having a difficult time in adjusting to the new routine . A definite leveling-off process is discernible , in fact , in all the camps . There is undeniably a serious morale problem ; there is also an undercurrent of resentment . Occasionally signs have been found painted on the barracks , such as " V for the Axis , " indicating the existence of such an undercurrent of feeling . None of the Nisei with whom I talked believed that there was any possibility of their release during the war and they were utterly in the dark as to their possible future . There was also much cynicism among them . The fact that in the recent camp election only 57 per cent of those eligible to vote exercised the privilege may be traced , in part , to this cynicism . Jitterbugs abound in the camp and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a bumper crop of babies . There is discouragement , bafflement , and cynicism ; but one can note also high spirits , gaiety , and much admirable fortitude . Many of the youngsters in the camps resent their classification as 4-C in the draft ; and quite a number that I spoke to said that they would like to fight in this war if they were given a chance to do so . What I have said about the reception centers should be sufficient , I believe , to emphasize the point made in the final report of the Tolan Committee to Congress : " The curtailment of the rights and privileges of the American-born Japanese citizens of this country will furnish one of the gravest tests of democratic institutions in our history . As with all previous crises in the nation 's history , the preservation of liberties will depend upon the degree to which clear vision is applied to momentary difficulties . Realism must go hand in hand with a profound sense of responsibility for the maintenance of our way of life . " . III The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " military necessity , " but the phrase itself fails to characterize the complex situation which prompted the decision . It is extremely important that the nation at large , and in particular the various minority groups , understand something of the nature of this necessity , which was by no means entirely military in character . I was told recently that Jawaharlal Nehru , in a letter to an American friend , had expressed his amazement and concern over the evacuation of the Japanese . Is what we have done actually at variance with our war aims ? Is it consistent with our democratic ideals ? The answer to these questions is to be found , not in the realms of abstract speculation , but in a consideration of the facts involved . In this section I am not attempting to rationalize what has been done ( I was opposed to mass evacuation ) , but rather to point out some of the considerations , many of which arc quite persuasive , which led the government to believe that the measure was necessary . In 1940 there were 126,947 Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three West Coast States ( 83 per cent in California and most of them in Los Angeles County ) . Of the Japanese affected by the evacuation order about 41,000 are aliens ; about 71,000 are American citizens . The aliens , as a group , are about 59 years of age , with an average period of residence in this country of thirty years . The citizen , or Nisei group , are , on the average , about 21 years of age . Unlike other immigrant groups , the Japanese have shown no tendency to disperse ; on the contrary , they were more densely concentrated on December 7 , 1941 , than they were twenty years ago . Americanization of the Japanese , as of other groups , increases with length of residence and loss of contact with the homeland . Not only are the Japanese recent immigrants , but a number of factors have served to preserve their ties with the homeland . Through the presence on the West Coast of numerous Japanese mercantile and financial concerns , the local immigrant groups were tied to Japanese-controlled firms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other immigrant groups , the original Japanese immigrants were barred by the provisions of the Exclusion Act from becoming American citizens . Race prejudice largely accounts both for their concentration in certain areas and also for the fact that they were highly organized as a group . There is reason to believe that , because of the Exclusion Act and the Alien Land Act , some of the resident Japanese harbored deep-seated resentments against this country . The cessation of all immigration in 1924 served to fix the economic and social leadership in the original immigrant group , to the exclusion of the American-born and educated Nisei . Anxious to maintain some tics with the homeland , the parents , in many instances , sent their children to Japanese-language schools or arranged for them to receive part of their education in Japan ( almost 12,000 American-born Japanese received part of their education in Japan ? the so-called Kibei ) . The same considerations prompted many parents to register their children with the consulates as Japanese citizens . In 1930 Dr. Edward J. Strong , Jr. , of Stanford University , estimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registered as citizens of Japan . Considering the obstacles in their way , the Japanese had made a wonderful economic adjustment , as an immigrant group ; but socially they were not so well assimilated . By reason of their race the Japanese never acquired a broad economic . base in the community . Almost 20,000 , or 50 per cent of those gainfully employed in California , were in agriculture . Largely because of this fact , the Japanese tended to stay together and to develop communities that were socially and economically introverted . Race prejudice , by preventing intermarriage with white stocks , had much the same effect . In Seattle , Portland , Tacoma , Sacramento , San Francisco , and Los Angeles the situation was everywhere much the same : produce farming ( peas , cabbage , broccoli , cauliflower , celery , berries , etc. ) near the large urban markets , with a Little Tokyo settlement located in the city itself . Little Tokyo was operated by and for Japanese , with the usual service trades and professions . Discriminated against in general employment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese settlements tended to remain Japanese . The economic base was far too narrow ; it failed noticeably to provide outlets for the talents of the younger generation . Many Japanese settlements , moreover , in the words of Colonel Karl Bendetsen , were " deployed through very sensitive and very vital areas . " For the most part , however , this was a matter of coincidence : the Japanese were already in the particular area before it became a vital defense zone . One such colony was located on Terminal Island , in the center of Los Angeles harbor ; another was located in Pugct Sound , on Bainbridge Island , near the Bremerton Navy Yard . In Seattle the , Japanese operated 206 hotels , many of them along the waterfront , and it was known that these hotels provided an almost impenetrable screen for espionage activities . So many of these settlements were located near strategic areas that a mere relocation within the general area would have involved nearly as much dislocation as total mass evacuation . Since the Japanese settlements were made up of businesses operated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losses after the attack on Pearl Harbor . Import and export firms were closed down ; banks and produce houses had their funds impounded ; fishing was suspended for the duration ; and , gradually , a paralysis crept over the settlement . This development of itself would have forced governmental intervention sooner or later . It should also be remembered that California has a large resident Chinese and Filipino population , and mounting racial antagonism was a factor to be carefully considered . Unlike German and Italian nationals moreover , the Japanese are easily recognizable . Virtually every law-enforcement official on the West Coast , according to the records of the Tolan Committee , was convinced that the problem of surveillance , from a civilian point of view , was insoluble and that the situation warranted military action . It is apparent therefore that the widespread belief on the West Coast that the Japanese did constitute a special case is not without foundation in fact , however extravagant some manifestations of this belief may have been . What , then , were the alternatives ? No one has doubted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were disloyal elements among the Japanese . Those individuals known to be dangerous were of course seized at the outset and are now in internment camps in Montana , North Dakota , and New Mexico . If , in an effort to segregate the potentially dangerous , the aliens alone had been evacuated , it would have resulted in splitting families , creating juvenile dependency , and jeopardizing the success of resettlement projects which stand in need of the talents of the Nisei group . Canada , for example , merely evacuated all male Japanese between the ages of 18 and 45 ; but this policy , again , results in separating families . To have evacuated the aliens alone would have been tantamount to saying that none of the Nisei were suspect . It is interesting to note that the law-enforcement officials all agreed that there was more reason to suspect the Nisei than the Issei ( a belief which I find it impossible to share ) . if the citizens had been left behind and the coast had been bombed , there was always the danger of mob violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a moment of hysteria , people would not have distinguished between Japanese and , for example , Koreans , Chinese , and Filipinos . It was deemed essential that the general population receive emphatic assurance that all Japanese had been removed , so that they might know that any remaining Orientals were non-Japanese . Law-enforcement officials testified that they had been plagued no end with ' phone calls and complaints concerning Japanese residents since December 7th ; and they also testified that , as civilian officials , they lacked authority to take measures deemed essential to the protection of public safety and order . Another question needs to be considered since it has received considerable public attention . Can it be said that self-seeking groups were responsible for the evacuation program ? A careful study of the Tolan Committee hearings has convinced me that such was not the case . It is true that the large-scale shipper-grower interests in California , for selfish reasons which were freely admitted , wanted to have all Japanese moved from the West Coast . But in the State of Washington , where small-scale production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed to evacuation . " White American " nurserymen , in Los Angeles and elsewhere , were quite willing to get rid of their Japanese competitors . But there is excellent reason to believe that a number of banks and a few railroads were opposed to the measure . The fact is that the question cut across the ordinary economic alignments . The Washington Commonwealth Federation , for example , an ultra-liberal and progressive political organization , favored total evacuation . While opinion on the question was by no means unanimous , nevertheless , as the Tolan Committee found , there was a deep-seated conviction on the West Coast that all Japanese must go . That purely military considerations were not solely responsible for the decision is indicated by the fact that the Japanese , citizens and aliens alike , constituted only about 1 per cent of the total population of the three West Coast States ; whereas they constitute 37 per cent of the population of the Hawaiian Islands , and we have it on the authority of the Assistant Secretary of War that in the islands the Japanese are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ islands themselves . Factual considerations dictated also the form that the evacuation program assumed . The Japanese , between February 19th and March 29th , had the option of moving voluntarily . But it was almost immediately apparent that the problem could not be handled on this basis . The Japanese did not know where to go ; there was no assurance of acceptance ( on the contrary a freely expressed disapproval of the idea ) on the part of other communities . Since they had long been concentrated on the West Coast , the Japanese did not have friends and relatives in other areas ; and they feared the consequences of retaliatory measures such as boycotts were they to move . Even the out-of-State employers who were willing to accept them did so upon condition that some supervision would be provided and that adequate measures for their safety would be taken . Also the financial problem was most acute . While a few of the Japanese have been quite successful ( and all of them are amazingly thrifty and industrious ) , the fact remains that the vast majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources meager in amount but , after December 7th , they had been frozen in many instances by regulatory orders . Only about 6,000 Japanese took advantage of the opportunity to depart voluntarily and many of these merely moved from Military Area No. 1 into the restricted zone , or Zone B , as it is called . IV Evacuation , as one witness told the Tolan Committee , is a " surgical operation . " It has involved not merely the transfer of persons but also the transfer of property . To give some conception of the magnitude of the problem , there were some 5,135 Japanese-operated farms in California alone , embracing 226,094 acres of valuable farm land which produce about 42 per cent of the State 's produce crops . These farm properties were valued , in 1940 , at $65,780,572 . And there were of course the other holdings , urban and rural , of the Japanese throughout Military Area No. 1 . Because of the uncertainty and confusion which prevailed at the outset and the haste of the evacuation program itself it is undeniable that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic losses . Properties were sacrificed , crops were lost , frauds were unquestionably practiced . The transfer of farm properties however has been effected more easily than might have been imagined . Most of this work was supervised by the Farm Security Administration functioning as part of the Wartime Civilian Control Administration . The latest figures I have been able to obtain indicate that , out of a total on the West Coast of 6,540 farms , some 5,774 have already been sold by the Japanese or otherwise transferred to non-Japanese operators . in many instances neighboring white farmers arranged to take over the Japanese-operated farms . The FSA has made loans totaling nearly $3,000,000 to enable these non-Japanese operators to expand their operations . But all manner of makeshift arrangements have been negotiated as part of the business of transferring holdings . Schoolboys , veterans , Chinese , Mexicans , Filipinos , dust-bowl migrants , and " week-end " farmers have been utilized also in taking over these holdings . At Fallbrook , California , a group of Future Farmers of America ? students at the local high school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a paying production laboratory . Two young girls , fresh from floricultural studies at San Francisco Junior College , have taken over a Japanese greenhouse and nursery . At Sawtelle , California , a Japanese who had built up over a period of sixteen years a profitable nursery business turned it over as a gift to the veterans of Sawtelle Hospital . Around Bakersfield , dust-bowl migrants have taken over numerous small Japanese properties . In several instances Japanese farmers took in Chinese partners , taught them the rudiments of farming , and turned their properties over to their newly acquired partners . In a number of communities , city residents , anxious for a hand at farming , have taken over small Japanese holdings which they operate as week-end ventures . By and large , the transfers have been successfully effected . The economic consequences of evacuation can be summarized in a general way , although of course they can not at this time be fully appraised . The removal of Japanese from the cities will , for example , have no appreciable effect on the economy of the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as I have pointed out , catered primarily to their own people . Their removal has as a consequence not been noted . The Little Tokyos are abandoned and , in general , have the appearance of ghost towns : the " cities within cities " have disappeared . But as a result of the housing shortage and the lack of new construction of all types , these abandoned properties are being rapidly reoccupied . One of the important industries affected has been that of the nursery or greenhouse business , in which the Japanese were entrenched . But fortunately this is not an important wartime industry and its total temporary eclipse would cause no major dislocation . The truth of the matter is that the J apanese did not play a highly important role in the economic life of West Coast cities . Nor will their disappearance from the produce industry ? their major economic endeavor ? cause as much disruption as at first was contemplated . This is all the more remarkable because of the high percentage of the production of particular crops which was controlled by Japanese , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as high as 90 per cent in others . The relative ease with which the transition has been effected can be explained , in general , by two factors . In the first place , Japanese production was primarily concentrated in specialty produce crops , as distinguished from staple produce crops ( with the possible exception of canning tomatoes ) . For example , the Japanese had no great foothold in the production of staples such as potatoes , onions , and squash ; but they did monopolize the production of such specialty crops as celery root , escarole , chard , watercress , and leeks . They also virtually monopolized the production of strawberries . As a consequence of their removal there will be less variety of produce in the West Coast markets , but not necessarily any reduction in volume . The entire elimination of strawberry pro duction would not seriously affect the " food-for-victory " program . In the second place , the Japanese had made a niche for themselves in the small-scale production ( largely through the use of family labor ) of product crops for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were linked in the scheme of production with Japanese commission brokers and with Japanese-controlled retail outlets . They had , in fact , nearly monopolized this field . But in the large-scale production for Eastern markets they had never acquired a dominant or even seriously threatening position . For in this other field ? production of large commercial acreages for car-lot shipment ? the advantage of family labor was offset by large-scale mechanized operations . Hence their removal , while felt in some respects , will not cause any major disruption on a national scale . It will result however in a further and dangerous consolidation of land holdings and of production in the hands of the large shipper-grower interests on the Coast . V The present relocation schemes for the Japanese have been largely dictated by the necessities of the situation , rather than by consideration of what might have been socially desirable . Theoretically , in order to avoid social ostracism and to provide a " normal " community life , the relocation units should have been small . But this has been impossible for at least three reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small detail of troops can guard 5,000 people as easily as 500 ; and also the fact that larger units make possible the maximum utilization of the diversified talents and occupations represented . Most of the relocation projects are therefore large-scale in character , involving 10,000 or more evacuees . In general , most of the reception or assembly centers selected by the Army are purely temporary in character . As fast as possible , the evacuees will be moved into the permanent relocation sites selected by the War Relocation Authority . To date the following sites have been selected : In Arizona , two projects , one at Poston , on the Colorado River , designed to accommodate 10,000 evacuees ; another at Sacaton , also with a capacity of 10,000. in California , the Manzanar project , in Owens Valley , will accommodate 10,000 ; the Tule Lake Relocation Center , in Northern California , 15,000 . In Idaho a large site has been selected at Eden , designed to accommodate 10,000 . Other large centers have been selected in Wyoming , Utah , Colorado , and Arkansas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , permanent in character . It is difficult to imagine the Japanese drifting back after the war to their former points of concentration . A new set of vested interests has already been created ; these interests will not welcome the Japanese back with open arms . Nor , for that matter , is it desirable that the Japanese should be concentrated in localized areas as they were prior to December 7th . Besides , California is rapidly locking the doors behind the departing Japanese . Local ordinances are being passed barring the Japanese from certain trades and professions ; the loopholes in the Alien Land Act are being eliminated ; and suits are pending in the courts which call in question the citizenship of the Nisei group . Vast improvements are being made in the relocation projects : land is being reclaimed , towns are being constructed , new communities are being laid out , small-scale industries are being planned . These improvements , by their very nature , are permanent in character . The Japanese , moreover , are going to have a strong equitable interest in the product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least foreseeable that the governmentwill eventually work out some scheme by which they can acquire ownership of these projects . As free American citizens , the Nisei can of course go wherever they wish after the war ; but my point is that they will probably prefer to remain where they are rather than to go through the dislocations occasioned by a second resettlement . In the long run the Japanese will prob .. ably profit by this painful and distressing experience . They had not made a satisfactory adjustment to American life prior to December 7th ; and through the unforeseen exigencies of the war it is possible that they can win for themselves a far more satisfactory position in American life than they have enjoyed in the past . On the other hand , it is also possible that the evacuation policy can degenerate into a horrible fiasco , resulting in the possible post-war deportation of the aliens in the Japanese groups and in making social and economic pariahs out of the Nisei . The success or failure of the undertaking largely depends upon how thoroughly , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem can be interpreted to the American people so as to win for the War Relocation Authority the indispensable freedom of action which it must have in dealing with the problem . Great issues are at stake in the evacuation program : the question , for example , of whether a democracy can fight a total war and preserve its freedom . The issue is fraught also with great international significance in terms of our relations with colored peoples generally . There is no reason why the relocation projects can not be successful , can not in fact reflect great credit upon us as a nation -- provided a majority of the American people will insist upon fair treatment of the Japanese and not succumb to demagogues and race-baiters.                     