@@306455

Death , which lurks in every corner of a big metropolis , struck with unusual suddenness in New York City last week : Shy Josephine Marra , 29 , was embarrassed by the awful pain in her abdomen . She had no idea what caused it . She had just been walking along Brooklyn 's Greene Avenue , had doubled up , and then had fallen . Flustered , she allowed a passer-by to help her into a small , private hospital . But the doctor was about to perform an operation on another patient , and asked her to wait . She left , walked seven blocks to her home . The puzzling pain grew worse . After two hours Josephine 's stepmother called a doctor . He took one alarmed look , decided to send her to a hospital . But the ambulance did not come for another hour . When emergency-ward surgeons finally discovered her trouble it was too late . She died without knowing that a .22 caliber bullet , fired by boys playing on a housetop , had gone through her back and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hector A. Orta , a small , brown-faced Puerto Rican , walked into a Times Square subway station . There were only a dozen people in the echoing cavern , but one of them-a huge , slack-faced man-was drunk . As he reeled and mumbled , the rest watched him nervously . Suddenly they shrank back against the shiny , tile walls ; the drunken man was twirling a revolver . He swung around , his eyes full of cunning , and threw his free arm around the neck of the man nearest to him-which happened to be Hector Orta . The big man pushed the revolver against the little man and fired . He fired twice more . Later , two policemen came and took him away . He said his name was Kelly-Joseph Kelly-but he did n't know why he had killed Hector A. Orta . Alexander Cook , 41 , a mailman , father of four , was making his last round of the day on Manhattan 's lower Seventh Avenue . It was cold and windy , and he had his face buried in his collar . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building , Mrs. Natalie Biro , a blonde , 36-year-old radio actress , was getting ready to commit suicide . She had tied her hair in a kerchief , put on slacks ( which would not billow in the wind ) and pinned her purse to them . Two seconds after she closed her eyes and jumped she landed squarely on the head and shoulders of Alexander Cook , smashing him to the sidewalk , killing herself and him .                     