@@155266

Germans , nourished for the past eleven months on a staple diet of promises and threats , were suddenly commanded last week to partake of the fruits of victory . Adolf Hitler , back from the wars for a short vacation at his Alpine snuggery , rescinded his ban on dancing and decreed that his countrymen could dance on Wednesdays and Saturdays between 7 p.m. and curfew . He also granted them permission to tune in on Nazi-occupied Norway , Belgium , The Netherlands and France , but still forbade them under pain of beheading to listen to Denmark , which , at least theoretically , is not " subject to German sovereignty . " <P> These good deeds done , generous Adolf Hitler scudded away from sweltering Berlin to cool Bayreuth for four hours of Gdtterddmmerung and a visit with British-born Winifred Wagner , daughter-in-law of the great Richard and a soul mate whose name was long coupled romantically with the Fhrer 's . This year 's Wagnerian Festival was in the spirit of Hitler 's Europe : no admission tickets , fashionable guests or foreigners , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ das Volk what Wagner is all about . It was Hitler 's gift to the nation , and he commanded 70,000 industrial workers , farmers and soldiers to enjoy it before it closed at the end of July . Last week he sat among munitions workers and disabled soldiers who had been brought to Bayreuth in special trains to enjoy socialized Kultur . <P> Egg Eaters Rejoice . More satisfying to hungry Germans were a few substantial fruits of victory that became available last week and began to grace the German table . Following seven lean years , seven fat years were just around the corner , Germans assured one another . " With Holland our vegetable garden , France our vineyard , Denmark our dairy , Poland our slaughterhouse , the East our wheat fields , the Southeast our orchards , and Italy our little harvest-helper , what more do we want except some real coffee and tea ? " <P> Some meat cuts were still a rarity last week but better-class German restaurants included snails , lobster , frogs ' legs , crabs , trout and caviar in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be carved from one million Danish pigs and 10,000 cattle condemned for slaughter because of a fodder shortage . Supplies from Denmark and Holland increased the butter ration from three to four ounces weekly and egg eaters received three to four more eggs monthly . Markets displayed fewer kinds and smaller quantities of green vegetables than last summer , but there were constant promises of shipments from Alsace-Lorraine . An average of 100 railway carloads of fresh vegetables arrived from Holland every day but most of these were sent into the Ruhr industrial district to provide additional vitamins for nerve-racked workers harassed nightly by British raiders . Bibulous Berliners , nourishing a long thirst in anticipation of cracking the enormous stocks of wine and champagne captured in France , heard with disappointment that these stocks are being preserved intact for later conversion into foreign exchange-probably in the U. S. <P> Sobering news to a victory-drunk nation was the announcement that after Aug. i the bread ration would be reduced .                     