@@491853

EARLY in May , 1943 , President Roosevelt conferred with Generals Joseph W. Stilwell and Claire Lee Chennault . Stilwell and Chennault were in disagreement over the strategy to be pursued in China , and the issue had been taken to the White House . Chennault had a dream , a bold one , as befitted so imaginative a fighter . He proposed to span Free China , from Kunming to the Pacific , with three strings of air bases , each about 350 miles apart . The main string  --  the names will be familiar as being the line along which the Japs sawed Free China into two  --  was to follow the Hunan-Kwangsi Railway , from Hengyang to Liuchow , with Kweilin the pivoting field . Using these as permanent bases and staging out of fields farther east , Chennault saw himself bringing all Jap shipping along the China coast within bombing range . When Admiral Chester W. Nimitz made his promised landing on China , Chennault 's Flying Tigers would be there to hammer the enemy from the rear and to provide a cover of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mission of " improving the combat efficiency of the Chinese army . " Everything furnished Chennnult had to be flown over the Hump , and his airfield program would limit Lhe tonnages Stilwell could count on for equipping Chinese troops . Chennault 's venture was bound to fail in the end , Stilwell contended , for if the Japs were hurt , they would drive in and take away the fields . Chennault felt the Chinese could defend the bases , but , if not , was confident airpower alone could . Given a certain tonnage , he told the President , he would hold the fields . Stilwell scoffed at these claims of airpower stopping a ground assault . As for relying on Chinese armies  --  no one had greater faith in the Chinese soldier , properly trained and equipped . But in their condition and organization , Stilwell predicted , the Chinese would melt before a determined Jap nssault . Roosevelt decided to gamble on Chennault 's dream . The story of these conferences is retold here not in criticism of the President , for , despite the fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been the wisest . Before Chennault 's fliers were driven from their East China air bases , they destroyed 500,000 tons of enemy shipping , numerous planes , quantities of supplies ; they killed thousands of Jap soldiers . The story is told as one of the missing pieces of the puzzle so badly confusing the American public as to what has been happening in China ; what was behind Stilwell 's recall ; why , this late in the war , should we have suffered such disastrous defeats ? China is the one front in the entire world where Allied forces arc not victorious , and the full consequences of the debacle there seem to have been generally overlooked in the excitement over MacArthur 's return to the Philippines , the storming of Germany and the football season . Yet the defeats already have reached such proportions as to affect profoundly  --  and unfavorably  --  at least three questions of vital concern to every one of us : How long the war against Japan may last ? Whether American G.I. 's in Europe will have to be detoured from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whether Lhe China that emerges from the war will be able to contribute to policing Japan 's unconditional surrender , and , if not , what happens to peace in the Orient ? Last October , Admiral Nimitz , reiterating that we would have to land on China 's coast for air bases , warned " to the extent the Japanese improve their situation in China , our task will become more difficult . " Since then , by chopping China in two , the Japs have obtained a continuous overland route from Singapore to Tokyo . Most of our military people in China see the Jap army , some 3,000,000 fanatically strong . using these gains to root itself tenaciously into the Asiatic mainland for a war of extermination . When I asked one American general in China who held this view whether he saw the defeat of Japan as a matter of months or years , he replied gloomily , " Years . " The threatened loss of China as an effective ally makes Russia 's entry into the war against Japan more important . Within China , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guerrilla armies in the northern provinces , while weakening Chiang Kai-shek 's government . Risks of civil war have been aggravated . Pessimistic observers see postwar China coming under the dominance of Soviet Russia , which would give Russia a political land empire from the China Sea to the plains of East Prussia . Why all this ? What has been going on in China ? There are no more cruel  --  and honest  --  mirrors than military defeats , and it seemed that the best way of getting at " the truth about China " was to fly the hump of ballyhoo and censorship into the country and do a frank , realistic analysis of these defeats  --  just why these air bases were lost . In making this analysis , I spoke to everyone I could find who might throw light on our China adventure , getting every viewpoint . American , Chinese and British  --  the different factions among them . For firsthand accounts of the fighting , I went to both Kweilin and Liuchow while they were being prepared for a pitiful last-ditch stand . With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his shoulders in defeat and confessed that his biggest trouble was lack of replacements  --  this in a country Americans popularly picture as having unlimited manpower . Checking my notes , I find among the scores of persons interviewed , both Stilwell and Chennault ; Gen. Patrick J. Hurley , our new ambassador to China and the principal figure in the negotiations which delivered up Stilwell 's head ; former Ambassador Clarence E. Gauss ; Gen. Ho Ying-chin , China 's ousted war minister ; T. V. Soong , her new acting premier . In Washington I saw White House , State , War and Navy officials . So these people would talk frankly , I assured them I did n't care about quoting them , wanting only to get the facts for a balanced report to the public . The story that emerges is no simple , villain-hero melodrama of Chiang Kai-shek versus Stilwell , as the situation in China has been headlined . Rather it seems more like a marionette show with two bold American dreams  --  symbolized by Stilwell and Chennaultstruggling against the strings that foredoomed them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength on the Asian mainland and China 's determined weakness . To start with Stilwell 's struggle : In explaining Vinegar Joe 's dilution , President Roosevelt minimized the incident as a clash of personalities . Most correspondents in China and India saw much more at stake . To them , Stilwell stood for all our efforts to win the war in a hurry , while Chiang symbolized the obstructions and limitations frustrating us . As one of these reporters . Brooks Atkinson , of The New York Times , wrote , our bowing to Chiang 's demand for Stilwell 's recall meant a triumph for " the moribund antidemocratic regime that is more concerned with maintaining its political supremacy than in driving out the Japanese from China . " Beyond question , personal relations between Vinegar Joe and the " Gimo " had become impossible . Temperamentally as different as their countries , they could n't come together without clashing . Stilwell was an intense worker , whose training had been to dig at the root of a problem and spade it forthrightly . Quick-minded , he had a disconcerting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ windups . So concise were messages he dictated , an aide told me , they could n't be reworded without changing their meaning . A famous example was his remark on being driven out of Burma in 1942 , " I say we took a hell of a licking . " If Stilwell seemed the rapier , Chiang was the foil . Like all Chinese , he was a master of indirection , a shrewd bargainer , antiforeign in his suspicions . One of his confidants described him to me as " a realist , unpleasant as that may be . " Ruling China as the head of a coalition by skillfully dividing the forces that might oppose him , he lived in a world of intrigue . Mulishness and brusqueness were two distinctive traits , and lately they had taken the form of fits of temper . Chiang , the military politician , feared Stilwell , the soldier . One discussed solution for the Chinese Communist question was to put an American in command of both Chungking and Communist troops , to overcome the mutual distrust of the two groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he could organize the Communists into a fighting army that would beat the Japs . Told of Stilwell 's remarks , Chiang exclaimed , " Not that man . He would turn them against me . " Actually ; Stilwell , knowing it was White House policy to keep the Generalissimo in power . avoided dealings with any of the dissident Chinese , who were eager to attempt Chiang 's overthrow , given an encouraging American nod . Stilwell , though , made little effort to conceal how he felt about Chiang , and his opinions , repeated freely by members of his staff , must have come to the " Gimo 's " burning ears . Still , it would be a serious mistake to dismiss the Stilwell incident as name-calling . Stilwell was anything but petty , and his conflict with Chiang was born not of personal dislike but of fundamental differencesover the role China should play in the war . And , although Stilwell is gone , the same clash of policy remains  --  still to be resolved . It was the American plan pressed by Stilwell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fabulous manpower . Then few American doughboys would need to be brought into China to fight the Jap army . Chiang endorsed the plan , and , to Stilwell , the issue thereafter was no matter of personalities , but of good faith on Chiang 's part in carrying out the program . Certainly the proposition proved nowhere as simple as just setting up training centers and handing out guns . Unlike the dragon of the western world , who is a warlike monster , spewing fire and devouring human beings , the Chinese dragon is kindly and peaceful . He eats clouds and spits mist ; is definitely vegetarian . Getting this reluctant Chinese dragon to swallow the vinegar of fighting was , for Stilwell , an unending wrestling match against incredible handicaps , which led him into astonishing psychological and international tail-twisting . Perhaps the most bizarre incident occurred during the fighting near Shadazup , along the Ledo Road in North Burma . Stilwell had taken the remnants of the Chinese armies who had walked out of Burma with him in 1942 and set up a model training center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the skeptical military world , and to the Chinese themselves , that Chinese soldiers , traditionally held in contempt as rabble bands who warred only for loot , could make as good fighters as any . He added meat to their rice ; exchanged their straw sandals and shabby cottons for G.I. shoes and bright khaki ; saw them paid regularly in rupees ; gave them ample weapons , including tanks and artillery . The Chinese never have fought an offensive war . To build their confidence , Stilwell , spotting a platoon of Japs , would send a whole battalion to slaughter them . Before one assault , he offered a prize of fifty rupees , gold , to the first soldiers to capture the town . When Chinese commanders complained that further advances were blocked , Uncle Joe would scout the trails ahead and return , saying , " I 've been down there myself . You can move . " The day Vinegar Joe and our Ferdinand-like dragon really got to wrestling was near Shadazup when the Chinese commanders said they had received orders from Chungking not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move up . The army commander was sorry , but said he had his orders . " If you wo n't advance , " Stilwell threatened , " I 'll go to your leading division and command it to ad-vance ! " The division commander gave Stilwell the same response  --  he had to wait on word from higher up . " I 'll go to your leading regiment and order it to advance ! " Stilwell fumed . He went to the regimental commander , then to the leading battalion , with each going through the same furious ritual of demanding an attack , only to be told that orders had to come from Chungking . When even the battalion commander would n't budge , Stilwell wheeled on the group and swore , All right ! If none of you want to fight . I 'll walk in on the Japs myself ! " With that , he started down the trail through the jungle for the Japanese lines alone . This was too much for Chinese " face . " The commanders chased after him , hastily ordered an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly trying to " whoa " the Chinese troops in the field . It reflected the defensive policy pursued by Chiang Kai-shek all through the war . In his own words , he had " sacrificed space to gain time . " Lacking anything resembling a modern army , the Chinese never hoped to defeat the Japs in military combat . Their salvation lay in holding on until the outside powers , notably the United States , came to their aid . Avoiding fixed battles , Chinese troops would hold briefly , then fade , sucking the enemy deeper into China , harassing his lines of communication through guerrilla action . It was the strategy of a thousand blood pricks  --  waiting for someone else to deliver the chopping death blow . While China fought alone , the outlook was grins ; many of Chiang 's ministers wanted to make a deal for peace . " When Germany began the war , " a Chinese official told me , we could see the end . " The common viewpoint of Americans in Chungking is that once we entered the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could coast to victory on our strength . As several put it caustically , " Pearl Harbor was China 's Armistice Day . " This point has been emphasized to me by more than one American official as the crux of our difficulties in China , the fact that the Chinese , steeped in weakness , have clung to their defensive psychology . Since her capture of Hankow in 1938 , Japan had pressed no large military operations in China . Along much of the front , in fact , a brisk smuggling trade had grown up . The Chinese seemed content to leave well enough alone . Some were alarmed by ambitious American dreams for using China as a great offensive base , fearing too much activity might provoke the . Japs . Stilwell had to fight to accomplish his mission , Before large-scale training could be undertaken , China 's blockade had to be broken , so equipment could be brought in . With the Chinese troops trained at Ramgarh , Stilwell proposed to fight the new Ledo Road through from India . He needed a second force to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the . Japs from the China side of the road . The training program within China , developed in November , 1942 , aimed at creating such a force . We undertook to deliver enough artillery and other equipment to outfit completely thirty Chinese divisions . At the time , about 300 divisions were scattered over China , all under strength and of varying poorness . Stilwell hoped . eventually , to squeeze 100 fully equipped , fully manned , fighting divisions out of this pulpy 300 . To start shifting the Chinese army from quantity to quality , he proposed the thirty divisions for the first training be obtained by consolidating forty-five divisions . In China . where armies are its political precincts , this reform was comparable , say , to reducing the number of antiquated county governments in the United States . Generals would have to be dismissed . Bringing divisions up to strength would threaten to deprive commanders of their equivalents for sheriff 's fees . Chinese commanders receive lump sums for their troops  --  so much per head for food , clothing , pay . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid for well above actual numbers . The consolidation of divisions never went through . What seems to have given Chiang greatest concern , though . was the idea of concentrating all troops being trained into a single Chinese Expeditionary Force . Chiang wanted the equipment turned over to him and spread thin all through China . To Stilwell and his staff . Chiang seemed to dread creating too strong an army force , which might challenge his power . They saw Chiang using American weapons to strengthen himself politically , rather than against the Japs . Given to Chungking , it was feared , many guns would disappear into caves to be hoarded against possible civil war with the Chinese Communists . The precarious balance of military power within China certainly colored Chiang 's thinking . It has been commonly reported that upward of 500,000 of Chungking 's best troops have been immobilized watching the Chinese Communists . Less generally known is that some Chinese war lords will not obey Chiang 's orders to fight . Gov . Lung Yun , of Yunnan Province , is an example . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kunming , his capital . is accessible to American visitors , often are photographed as typifying the Chinese army . So far , they have done no lighting . Everything about China would tend to give Chiang a miser 's concept of war  --  China 's backward poverty , frail transportation , lack of weapons , his own precarious political porch . To Stilwell , the essence of warfare was the calculated gamble  --  to concentrate and attack with one 's full force . East and West , hoarder and gambler , the twain never met. , Chiang would arguethat America 's scanty Lend-Lease aid did not warrant real risk-taking ; Stilwell saw Chiang always holding something back . The training program finally agreed upon was an uneasy marriage , satisfying neither . A Chinese Expeditionary Force was set up , paralleled on the American side by the " Y " FOS operational staff under Brig . Gen. Frank Dorn- Stilwell held onto the Lend-Lease dowry , while Chiang insisted on being boss in his own military household . Mother-in-law to this marriage was Gen. Ho Yingchin . Ho had studied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had risen with him in the Chinese revolution . He had been Chiang 's minister of war since 1930 . In that post he implemented the agreements between Chiang and Stilwell . To Americans , Ho 's policy seemed one of " continued procrastination " and " blocking the program all the way . " One instance is interesting , considering the victim . Chiang and Stilwell had agreed on Gen. Chen Cheng , an American favorite , to command the Chinese Expeditionary Force . Ho delayed issuing the order giving Chen command for six weeks , during which time Chen sat around Chungking losing " face . " In the recent cabinet shake-up . Chen succeeded Ho as minister of war . At no point was there wholehearted working together between us and the Chinese . Impatient to get to fighting , we seem to have striven constantly to extend our training toward exercising greater , although indirect , control over the Chinese armies . Chungking , as persistently , sought to whittle the program and to keep Chinese troops under its direction , even when committed to battle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on mutual problems . We were arm 's length Allies . So loose was the Chinese system of security , it appeared unwise to entrust our plans to them . They , in turn , kept their own counsel . As late as a month before Japan attacked , the American staff in Chungking was unable to satisfy itself whether the Chinese had plan for defending the East China airfields . When Stilwell launched his training program in November , 1942 , he and Chiang agreed on the spring of 1943 as a tentative dead line for taking the offensive . Chiang , however , set as a condition that Stilwell deliver an all-out Burma campaign , supported by naval forces and built around a British amphibious attack . Prod as he did , Stilwell never could bring off this full-scale Burma drive . At least three times , plans were pretty fully worked out , but each time the British backed off , wanting greater resources . This reluctance many Americans blamed on " Britain does n't want a strong China " because of such imperial inter-eats as Hongkong . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stilwell set up the Ramgarh training center . Viceroy Archibald Wavell refused to permit the flying of additional recruits from China into India for training . Only by twisting the screws on a shipment of Lend-Lease tanks promised the British did Vinegar Joe gain permission . . Apart from China policy , the British could cite other reasons for being unwilling to commit their resources . When Stilwell begun his prodding , India itself was none too secure , and an abortive effort to retake Burma might expose India to disastrous counterthrusts . In 1944 , the Jap push into Manipur came perilously near overrunning Northeastern India . Also , India was the Empire 's last reserve of manpower , and no one knew what losses liberating Europe would entail . Pointing to the hard fighting of British and Indian troops in Burma this past year , British officials insist , " We took the offensive as soon as we had the resources to do so . " To the British and Chinese , Stilwell 's impatience for them to slug it out with the Jape must have seemed a bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the ring assuring him , " They ca n't hurt us . " Stilwell had no army of his own . He had pleaded vainly with our global strategists for American troops , first five divisions , then two , then one . Flying with an American photographer , Stilwell , running through his mail , came across a new revolver holster sent him by the Army with the request would he be good enough to report how it compared with the old issue ? Stilwell tossed the holster to the photographer , snorting , " I ask for a division of soldiers . Look what they send me . " As Stilwell once wrote his home-town Elks , the CBI theater was " the last stop on the line . " Our global strategy called for defeating Germany first , Japan second . And in reducing Japan it favored building up the Navy and MacArthur 's ground forces to sweep in from the Pacific . China at all times was relegated to a holding front , no more . Stilwell could plan offensives , but never with assurance that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new type truck tractor , semi-trailer was designed especially for the peculiar needs of the Ledo Road , but none ever got there . Last September . Lord Louis Mountbatten revealed that landing craft and ships allotted to him were withdrawn for the Anzio assault . Stilwell was in the position of trying to lead a reluctant lion and an even more reluctant dragon to battle with only a shoestring of supplies as a halter . How much did he really hope to accomplish ? When I saw him , I remarked on the frustration that was everyone 's lot in CBI , from the highest commander down . " This is the frustrated front . " I said , " and the whole business seems to me to have been a bootstrap operation from the start , doomed to fail . " Stilwell replied , " A man has to do the best he can with what he has . " That best was to needle the British and tussle with the Chinese , which ceritainly was not calculated to swell his personal popularity . Stilwell and his chief planner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans  --  that many combinations  --  of how the skimpy resources in the theater could be mobilized for an offensive . But to the British and Chiang , it was always the same shoestring . Meanwhile , the Navy 's swinging ahead of schedule in the Pacific threatened to eclipse Stilwell 's hopes of putting together a sufficiently trained and equipped Chinese force to take part in the main show . In October , 1943 , a small contingent of American G.I. 's , to become famous as Merrill 's Marauders , arrived in India . Stilwell could wait no longer . Using them as a spearhead for the Chinese trained at Ramgarh , plus some Kachins , Gurkhas and other Indian troops , Stilwell jumped off into North Burma , A limited offensive , he hoped to turn it into an all-out drive . Chiang still wanted to wait for a British amphibious attack . In April . 1944 , Stilwell and Dorn met with the Generalissimo and Madame . Chiang to get Chiang to issue the orders for the Chinese Expeditionary Force to cross the Salween River . Moody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the passibility of a Jap thrust into East China . He wanted some artillery diverted there . So little artillery was involved  --  a dozen batteries  --  Stilwell felt it could make no difference . He and Chiang were beginning to tangle when Madame Chiang drew Dorn to a side . " You had better agree to shift the artillery , " she told him , " or the generalissimo will get angry and walk out , and you will have no offensive . " The artillery was shifted , and late in May the Chinese crossed the Salween , a few days after Stilwell , in what Mountbatten called " a great feat of arms , " swooped on Myitkyina , key point of North Burma . There is a favorite anecdote of Americans in India , worth repeating for what it reveals about American-British relations there . According to this tale , the North Burma campaign was being discussed at Mountbatten 's headquarters in Ceylon . Estimates were being offered of when Myitkyina'e capture would be possible . An American official , listening with amusement , finally broke in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be interested to know that 1 received a message from General Stilwell today . He has just taken Myitkyina . " Myitkyina was the height of Stilwell 's glory . The Chinese troops would not be managed by the American general in command and Stilwell had to take per-sonal direction . Burrowing like animals , the . Jape held the city against superior numbers for eleven weeks . The Jape had opened their East China offensive a few days after the Chinese crossed the Sal-weer ' , and it was in those months , while Stilwell fought in the Burma jungle , that Chennault 's air castles were tumbled , one after another . Given a " Roger " by the President , Chennault had gone ahead stringing up his air bases . As it finally worked out , Chennault never got the full tonnage he asked for  --  that would have taken everything . Stilwell received enough to complete the Y-Force training program , with little left over for the East China armies which might be called on to defend the air bases . Some fields lacked even trained antiaircraft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Jape , volunteers from the Adjutant General 's office manned the ack-ack guns . Supply , not defense , seemed Chennault 's big worry . To grasp the distances involved , think of Kunming as Dallas . The first string of fields around Kweilin would fall along the Mississippi River ; the second string along the Alleghenies ; with the farthest string in the I Richmond-Baltimore area . Unlike the United States , these bases were not cross-stitched by numerous highways and railroads , but were strung loosely along a supply line that wavered across 1700 miles of mountains and rice paddies , and involved seven transshipment points , rail to truck and back to rail . For some fields , the last lap had to be negotiated by sampan boats or coolie-drawn tea carts . A drum of gasoline traversing this supply line took at least one month , generally two to three . To command his forward air fields , Chennault picked twenty-nine-year-old Brig . Gen. " Casey " Vincent , a West Pointer from Texas and a flier with six Jap planes to his credit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose operations were handled out of a carpenter 's shack and cave , it grew into a huge base with three fields  --  one large enough for B-29 's  --  and hundreds of buildings , , gas and bomb storage facilities , repair hangars and a hospital . On one field , Vincent had some logs propped up to resemble the outline of ships , and set his fighter squadrons to practicing low-level strafing and dive bombing . By November , 1943 , he was ready to begin sweeping the China coast . Thanksgiving Day , to show what really could be done , he boldly raided Formosa , surprising the enemy and bagging more than forty planes . As the toll of Jap shipping climbed to 40,000 tons a month , Vincent 's enthusiasm soared . He saw himself leaving . Kweilin and moving out to the airfields farther east . At one of these fields he ordered construction begun on new headquarters . He might even be able to get out there in time to help MacArthur take the Philippines . Until this year , the Japs had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal ports , coastal regions , river approaches , the main railroads  --  enough to enforce effective blockade . Except for &moiltory; guerrilla activity , about the only fighting came in the spring and fall , when the Japs would thrust into Central China , then pull back , combining a raid on the rice crop with training Many believed last May 's offensive was just another " rice-bowl " drive . Others argued that since Japan 's needs had changed , so would her obj6ctives . To offset grave shipping losses , Japan needed an overland route across China . That route was vital for any last stand on the Asiatic mainland , if only as a line of retreat for Jap soldiers who would be cut off in Southern Asia . Japan had to prepare for Nimitz 's threatened landing ; perhaps she wanted victories for home prestige . Driving into East China filled all these needs . By shattering the Chinese armies and neutralizing Chennault 's air force , Japan insured her rear . Seizing Chennault 's airfieldseliminated one threat to her shipping , while acquiring airfields to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China as to be free to do as she pleased there for six months , a year or more . Vincent and his deputy , Col. David ( " Tex " ) Hill , believed airpower could stop the Japs . They decided to throw everything they had against enemy supply lines for a month 's " wide-eyed operations , " as Hill termed it . Hengyang was the crucial battle . To get to the city , the Japs had three avenues of supply  --  the Siang River , the Hunan-Kwangsi Railroad and the highway . From the first glimmer of dawn to dark , Hill had his fliers patrolling these beats , strafing marching columns , sinking boats , dive-bombing trucks and bridges . Five missions a day was not unusual for a pilot , nine hours of flying a day 's normal stint . Some exhausted pilots stayed in their planes , gulping hot coffee and taking off as quickly as refueled . The wet heat and nightly enemy air raids robbed them of sleep . As the Japs drew closer , the air-raid-warning net was shortened . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get off the ground . For three days after Hengyang airfield became unsafe , Hilt held on , taking advantage of bad weather which kept Jap planes out . " We flew the bad weather , never knowing , when we took off , if we could get back , " he recalled . " Pilots flew so low , when hit by ground fire , they had to climb and gain altitude before they could bail out . " At Lingling , eighty miles south of Hengyang , Hill , lean , lanky and in his undershirt , strode about , pulling off bomb fuses , speeding the reloading and tanking up . Often , while briefing pilots , he would break off , " Hell , I 'll fly you myself . " Every drop of gasoline had to be squeezed for fullest damage . Several fliers came back exulting over having shot down four Jap planes . " Yes , that 's fine , " Hill interrupted , " but did anyone remember to strafe on the way back ? " The fact that Japs were confined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger . The Japa began watching for the beat patrols . Casualties mounted . Hill had to call on pilots who had flown 120 and 135 combat missions and been grounded for operations duty . Several of his best friends were killed . " It was fly them or ? quit operating , " Hill told me bitterly . The month he and Vincent planned for had slipped by , and everything was being pushed to breaking . One pilot flew for three days on benzedrine . Several , wounded in the morning , were back flying in the afternoon . Hill barely could shuffle planes and pilots to put a full squadron into the air . At one field , one day , less than 8000 gallons of gasoline were left  --  not enough to get the planes off the ground if the Japs staged an air raid . Lingling 's air-raid-warning net went . The Japs came over , catching every American plane on the ground . It looked Like the finish , but the clouds were so thick that the Zeros had trouble coming down , giving our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lingling field was blown up and the planes pulled back to Kweilin . An Air Force had tried to fight a ground army , and failed . Some of Chennault 's people argue that , given a greater tonnage of supplies , they could have stopped the Japs . Most of them , today , admit airpower could do only so much . Their achievement was considerable . They delayed Hengyang 's fall at least a month . They made daylight so costly that Jap troops dared move only at night . So badly disrupted were Jap supply lines that the enemy had to pull back part of their forces to supply them . and prisoners taken at the time had been fed no rice for several days . This brief interlude the Chinese celebrated with a victory banquet . But after ten days the Japs returned to their relentless business , pushing the crumbling Chinese before them . Chennault , Vincent and Hill certainly stretched airpower to its Limits  --  only to be yanked to earth by the marionette strings they could not shake loose . Nor wasStilwell to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him the fourth star of a full general  --  also angry charges from Chiang that Stilwell had failed to deliver an all-out Burma offensive and had traded East China for North Burma , Stilwell could retort that any shift of his resources would have exposed the I ndoChinn and Indian borders . But Chiang , in the course of the negotiations with General Hurley , lashed out with these accusations again and again  --  like a cornered , vengeful dragon waiting for the first faltering of his tamer . And so it was that the defeat which Stilwell predicted became the pressure behind his recall . 