@@223298

Ninety percent of the Catholic priests in the U.S. oppose 1 ) " a shooting war outside the Western Hemisphere , " 2 ) aid to " the Communistic Russian Govern ment . " This was the result , announced last week , of a poll taken by the Catholic Laymen 's Committee for Peace , an organization of out- &-out; isolationists . Although the results were undoubtedly loaded by the form in which the questions were put , the trend of the results was vouched for by the attitude of the Catholic press . <P> Its 317 newspapers and magazines , which reach a Hearst-sized audience of over 8,000,000 , bespeak the Church 's mind more directly and potently than any other religious press . Since the Spanish Civil War , when it was credited with putting across the Church 's campaign to keep the embargo against arms to the Republic , the Catholic press in general has been strongly isolationist . <P> Catholics point to a variety of attitudes in their press ranging from the socially radical Catholic Worker , to the liberal Commonweal , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice ( the last two called by the Florida Catholic " the Brooklyn-Royal Oak Axis " ) . They point also to the pro-Roosevelt cast of such leading diocesan papers as the Chicago New World , the San Francisco Monitor , the Pittsburgh Catholic . But the influential Catholic newspaper-the Brooklyn Tablet-and the two most influential magazines-America , the Catholic World - are still isolationist . Commonweal ( most widely read by non-Catholics ) supported aid-to-Britain until the Nazi invasion of Russia , not long afterwards denounced the Fight for Freedom committee 's appeal for Catholic support . <P> Rated No. 1 Catholic publication through its influence on teachers and clergymen , the Jesuit weekly America , edited by 52-year-old Francis Xavier Talbot , S.J. opposed the war and everything connected with it , including the draft . The Catholic World , a Paulist monthly edited by 64-year-old America-Firster Father James M. Gillis , is much more isolationist than America , though like almost every other isolationist Catholic publication it makes a distinction between national defense and intervention in World War II . <P> A major overall influence on the Catholic press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1920 ) and controlled by the Archbishops and Bishops of the U.S. Headed since 1924 by shrewd Editor Frank A. Hall , ex-city editor of the Washington Post , it is the world 's biggest Catholic news bureau , has its own network of foreign correspondents , turns out an average 50,000 words a week . It furnishes the bulk of national and international news , features , pictures in the Catholic press ; even sends out prefabricated editorials . Typical of N.C.W.C. News Service is its handling of the President 's hopeful statement made this month about religious freedom in Russia . It sent out three stories : The first denounced the statement ; three days later the N.C.W.C. News Service sent out a special communique by N.C.W.C. General Secretary Monsignor Michael J. Ready , commending the President 's move to encourage religious freedom in Russia . Third story , three days later , again attacked the President 's statement .                     