@@475456

THERE is a distinct disposition , now that " the best reported war in history " is over , to forgive and forget the censorships on the ground of " What the hell ? we won , did n't we ? " It is a dangerous tendency , and not merely because we are still kept from getting any adequate knowledge of many of the events that took place . The boys who are interested in seeing censorship as an institution grow and prosper have learned altogether too much about the technique of suppressing any facts but those they want people to believe . If they are not called to account for what they have done in the past , they will keep right on doing it . If anyone doubts this let him consider General MacArthur 's attempt to hogtie the press by personally deciding what newspapers shall be represented in Japan and by whom ; and let him look at the May bill for control of atomic energy , which , in effect , would place an Army censor in every publication office in the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request of a foreign government from writing the kind of stories he does best . It seems the Chinese objected to having Dr. Fu Manchu a Chinese villain ; they even objected to having him a Japanese in Chinese disguise , and their objection could be made to stick because Rohmer was writing for the movies . One can hardly blame the military men for their efforts to maintain an institution which gave them such spectacularly successful results during the conflict . Successful within the terms with which military censorship usually operates , that is . Essential military information was seldom concealed from the enemy by censorship . The Japanese knew how much damage they did at Pearl Harbor and at Savo Island . The convoy for the invasion of North Africa was no secret to the Germans ( they merely guessed wrong about the point of impact ) ; neither was the explosion in Bari harbor which destroyed the supplies for the Cassino offensive . The approximate date and place of the Normandy invasion were correctly identified by the enemy . But censorship succeeded beautifully in concealing the name of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japs at Attu when he had only a division of 15 ; 000 men and the support of a fleet . Until it was revealed in W. L. White 's Report on the Russians , censorship concealed from everyone but the Germans the fact that in a night bomb attack on Poltava they burned all 70 of the Flying Fortresses that made the first big shuttle raid across the Reich . Our troops were surprised and defeated at Kasserine Gap in Tunisia and in the Battle of the Bulge in the Ardennes ; but censorship never permitted the mention of any officer 's name as responsible for either setback . The carrier Saratoga was twice torpedoed and the Wasp once ; the latter went down . The loss of the ship was not hidden , but the fact that both carriers were hit while running routine patrols in a restricted area at a speed of eight knots was hidden ; and it was precisely because the Japanese had ascertained this fact that they were able to slip submarines in on the two carriers . It has never been revealed whether any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hint that the famous V-mail device was detested by the men at the front and was usually so incompetently managed that ordinary letters and postcards beat V-mail for speed . When General Stilwell returned from China he was allowed to talk to the press , but with a colonel of the Army 's private Gestapo sitting right beside him who said " There 's a stop on that " whenever any but the most innocuous subjects were raised , and who ended by telling the reporters they must not even mention what questions the general was not allowed to answer . ( One of them was whether the Japs he had encountered were using equipment made in Manchuria ? which gives anidea . ) A dispatch by Stoneman , the correspondent , telling of destructive looting by American troops at Jena during the German collapse was held up till after the Nazis quit . In other words , the official censors have pretty well succeeded in putting over the legend that the war was won without a single mistake , by a command consisting exclusively of geniuses , who now have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all scientific thought and utterance . II r-r HE case made by military officials for I the suppression of anything suggesting that our men and their officers are on a lower level than archangels is that such ideas are bad for morale . This is already some distance from the preservation of military secrets , and it does not rest on very good ground as a philosophy , particularly when one recalls that " thought control " was the precise thing we were supposed to be fighting against . Not only does it make a thoroughly objectionable assumption about the childishness of the people whose morale is being kept up , but it also sacrifices one of the few real advantages democracies have in war ? that the acts of the ruling power are subject to popular review . The popular judgment is not always just , as we know from the history of our own Civil War and that of the French Revolution , but there seems no doubt that in the long run publicity makes for military efficiency . An American or British leader who blundered as badly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have kept his place . But Adolf the Great was happily able to keep right on being inspired till after the breakthrough at St. Lo ; while , on our side , we had the swift downfall of the Chamberlain government after the British defeat in Norway . Moreover , censorship for morale was stupidly and unimaginatively handled . The Army and Navy Register tells of a colonel in the Pacific whose wife 's letters were returned to her on the ground that his morale would be shaken by her description of conditions in the home townthough apparently he was to remain undisturbed if he did not hear from her at all . I have had my own letters home from a destroyer at sea clipped by a Navy censor when I used the forbidden phrase " not happy " over some such minor matter as a bad breakfast egg . These are by no means isolated cases ; they are the necessary result of a flat , tight censorship rule that nothing " discouraging " must be allowed to go through the mails in either direction . Consequently , during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the Japs on Attu and Kiska only through Radio Tokyo broadcasts . Newspapers , magazines , and even private letters from the States which contained any reference to the campaign were clipped to keep the Alaskans from getting melancholy . MHE result of this policy or set of policies I has been that instead of being the best reported war in history , it was very nearly the worst reported . It was well reported in the sense that never before had so much attention been given to the individual soldier or sailor with , his home address and next of kin , but in that sense alone . Of the larger issues of the war , of the way it was fought , of what actually happened both on the home and the military fronts , most Americans ? in the service or out ? remained profoundly ignorant . John Hersey 's conclusion that the Marines of Guadalcanal were fighting for blueberry pie was echoed from Africa , where the politically-conscious British were simply stunned at the discovery that the American troops in their area neither knew what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No compilation of the total military vote in the 1944 election has been published , but on at least one major vessel of the Pacific fleet not two hundred men out of three thousand voted ( " What does it matter who 's elected , anyhow ? Ca n't they call off that crap till the war 's over ? " ) ? and the proportion can not have been widely different elsewhere . In the other direction , it is firmly believed , probably by a majority of Americans , that the heroic Cohn Kelly dived his damaged plane into the battleship Haruna , causing her destruction ; references re-cently were made to the story in that form in a New York newspaper editorial . Somewhat less firmly , perhaps , it is widely believed that only one battleship was sunk at Pearl Harbor ; that the planes of the MacArthur command sank 22 Japanese warships in Bismarck Sea ; and that the victory in Tunisia was largely an American operation . These items for popular consumption , the product of official errors ? to put the matter as charitably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a concomitant of war . Last time we had the fables of the Kadaver-Fabrik and the crucified Canadians , and the Civil War produced the story of General Butler 's silver spoons , to mention only one . The novelty under the forms of censorship with which we have had to deal in this war is the continuing official insistence that the official lies were perfectly true . When Harper 's attempted to print an article in which MacArthur 's claims for damage in the Bismarck Sea battle were compared with the facts , the War Department objected to publication . ( It is very hard to see what question of security was involved here . ) When correspondents with the fleet , at the time the Haruna appeared in Leyte Gulf , mentioned that this was the battleship Colin Kelly had " sunk , " the line was censored out of their dispatches . The quasi-official " War in Outline " published by the Infantry Journal for members of the armed forces after the war was over perpetuates the legend that only the Arizona was sunk at Pearl Harbor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who could look out their windows and see the gunless , engineless hulk of the Oklahoma being led toward the scrap heap . The official viewpoint , based apparently on Roosevelt 's famous " propaganda of truth " phrase , is not only that every communique is literally true but also that American officers never make mistakes in ascertaining the truth . For example , nineteen Japanese heavy cruisers were claimed sunk before the battle of Leyte Gulf , chiefly by the bombers of the MacArthur command . The Japs had eighteen at the beginning of the war , and had built none since ; yet they showed up for the big fight with fourteen . But no correspondent was permitted to call attention to these mathematical discrepancies , as long as any censor had anything to say about his copy . Of course , the official mythologists did not always get away with it . It came out during the war itself that Doolittle 's Tokyo bombers , instead of all landing safely as the communiqu ? said , had all been wrecked and some of their crews captured by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the loss of the cruisers off Savo Island eventually had to be corrected . When the late General Patton administered the slap heard round the world , when our own parachutists were shot down by American gunfire over Sicily , the events were concealed ? but for the time being only . In the last two cases , however , it is noteworthy that the information reached the public through writers who were not war correspondents and who therefore were not subject to having their copy examined before it was printed ; and in each of these cases , the story was so sensational that even months after the event it still made news . N CASES like this , the disease produces I its own antibody . The really dangerous , because far more numerous , instances are those in which no corrective has been applied to arbitrary censorship or official falsehood because the event is not sufficiently newsworthy to bother with after the facts do become known . A good case is that of the bazooka . This rocket-firing anti-tank instrument had been used by Montgomery 's group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American troops in Tunisia all through the winter campaign and deep into the spring of 1943 , while remaining on the forbidden list for American publications . The Germans had captured several bazookas and already had one of their own ? the panzer-f aust , technically an improvement ? in production . In February 1943 the Marine Corps Gazette published a picture of the " secret " weapon with a descriptive caption . Reproduction of item or picture by other magazines was still being objected to by the Army review office a month and a half later . In April General Campbell , the head of Army Ordnance , grew tired of secrecy about something that was no longer secret and in a radio broadcast over a national hook-up told the bazooka story . It went on the AP wires and was printed by practically every daily in the country . The Army 's review office had little control over dailies , but its stop on the bazooka remained in effect for magazines . When one of them included in its copy submitted for review a transcript of the Campbell broadcast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could appeal to the Byron Price Office of Censorship ( whose role throughout the whole censorship business was highly honorable ) on the basis of previous publication and would certainly be sustained . The Army review officer in charge is reported to have replied that this was perfectly true ? but if the magazine in question did anything like this it would find great difficulty in getting future copy cleared , whatever its nature . Another case . One of the service journals sent a combat correspondent to interview soldiers who had participated in the desperate fighting on Guadalcanal . " What was wrong and what was right in your training ? " they were asked . " How could you have learned to do things better ? " The result was a small book which so impressed General Marshall that he wrote a preface stating his hope that every American soldier could read it . At the same time , as required by procedure , a copy had gone to the Army review office , which classified the volume as confidential . This meant that all copies had to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regiment receiving them , and that any soldier who wanted to read one in accordance with the Chief of Staff 's request had to take it out under his personal signature with a court martial hanging over him if he lost the volume . The story has already been told about the Army 's excessive tenderness over some of its new forms of radar ; it even refused permission to print repair manuals , so that when a set broke down it had to stay that way . Neither in this case nor in that of the Guadalcanal pamphlet could even such a figure as General Marshall overrule his subordinate . Under Army protocol he could only remove the officer in question , who was presumably doing good work in other directions . THESE cases have been somewhat de-liberately chosen out of many similar instances of bumbling , because they point to the basic defect which hamstrung the whole censorship and public relations policy of both services throughout most of the war , turned censorship into an instrument for keeping news from Americans instead of facts from the enemy , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of giving us access to accurate information . ( Not that there is anything wrong with such a bureau in itself ; we needed one . But that is not what a large number of writers and publishers thought they were leading up to when they signed a petition to have Elmer put in there to give us the facts . ) In both services the final decision as to whether an item should be published or not rested with the operational officers . They would have been something better than human if they had not used so wide an authority to stifle criticisms as well as to withhold information that in a direct sense would have been of value to the enemy . Both the Army and Navy had able writers and editors on their rosters ? men who understood perfectly not only the value of the printed word , but how to use phrases to cover military facts as well as to reveal them . In both services these men fought a losing rear guard action against the operational officers to whom anything bordering on " security " had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a new Navy public relations officer was informed on taking over his post , " not on what you get into the papers but on what you keep out of them " ? an instruction to maintain relations with the public by not having any . The reaction of these operational officers was simple and comprehensible . They were overworked men in the midst of a desperate war . Having borderline cases under censorship brought to their attention was a nuisance , taking time from really important business for something which the operational men could not but regard as the most maddening form of hair splitting . They were accustomed to getting and receiving information in the downright form of a military report , where there are no shades of meaning . " God damn it , " said one of them in a sincere but unguarded moment at a party in Washington , " I would n't tell them anything till the war is over , and then I 'd tell them who won . " The remark excited considerable indignation among the members of the press ; sympathy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really insoluble under the method by which the business of informing the public and misinforming the enemy was administered . The operational officers attempted to solve it by a series of directives sometimes issued at Washington , sometimes in the war theaters , to which no exceptions were admitted , and which would ( it was hoped ) spare them the necessity of . deciding the individual case on its merits . m osT of the trouble can be traced to these directives . One such blanket prohibition was that against discouraging items in letters , mentioned above . Another was an Army rule , long in effect , against mentioning any unit below a division in size . It produced results like this : part of the 27th Division was mentioned as in action in the Pacific ; New York telegraph desks added " including the famous Fighting 69th . " The 69th was nowhere near the action and considerable needless worry was caused in the families of men in the organization . ( On the straight matter of security , of what importance to the Japanese would it have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against them ? Even the division was not mentioned until the island had been taken . ) The outstanding case was that of radar . There had been articles about it in various scientific journals before the war and a long report had been printed in the Congressional Record . A flat prohibition against mentioning the word nevertheless went down at the beginning of the war . Early in 1943 it became clear that both the Japs and the Germans were using the device and the rule was relaxed to allow it to be mentioned , provided significant technical details were avoided ? but what were the significant technical details ? The operational and intelligence officers were called upon to decide doubtful cases so frequently that they flew into a temper , rescinded all previous okays on the subject and substituted a new regulation , in force to the very end of the war . No reference that by the remotest periphrasis approached the subject was permissible , and the word must not be mentioned in any connection . This produced some fantastic results , particularly since James F. Byrnes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he used the naughty word in connection with the Battle of Guadalcanal . The Office of Censorship considered that publication in a recognized official source put anything in the clear . The reviewing officers at the Navy Department were required by regulation to strike out from all copy submitted to them both quotations from the Congressional Record and from Mr. Byrnes . But when the matter was appealed to the Byron Price office , that agency invariably sustained the republication of the official document , so that in this case , at least , the regulation accomplished nothing but to make the regulators look ridiculous . O NE result of this policy of trying to strait-jacket within the bounds of specific words and phrases a business so wholly indefinite as the means of human expression , was that public relations officers , especially in the Army , were driven to sending out under the official stamp some of the dreariest drivel that has ever entered a newspaper office . Toward the end of 1942 someone in the Army decided that it would be in the interests of efficiency to have all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington . It was so ordered , with the result that from that point on every newspaper office and columnist in the country was bombarded daily with from forty to sixty pages of mimeographed official releases . A contract had been Ict for the construction of a new sewer at Fort Blanding , Florida . Colonel John F. Whatsis was promoted to brigadier general of an infantry command ( unnamed ) . A formation at Fort Snelling had been discovered to contain no less than four men who followed the morticians ' profession in private life ? everything was of approxi-MAGAZINE mately this order of interest . But about events in the titantic war being waged across the borders of the world not a word . Anything about battlefronts must be handled at the source , according to another blanket official ukase . The correspondents up in the front lines and out with the fleet were the individuals hardest hit by these regulations , made by men who had not the slightest conception either of news values or of how to tell the story of a battle without giving information of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to write reports that had military value . The correspondents had neither time nor means to appeal to the Byron Price office or anywhere else . Men with the Army , moreover , were accredited only to a single command , which placed them under the almost absolute authority of a public relations officer who often interpreted rules in the most whimsical manner , holding disaccreditation as a threat over the writer 's head . The classic example is the case of the four correspondents sent to the official chopping block in August 1944 . They had been accredited to the Ninth Air Force , operating in France . The Ninth was doing a lot of flying , but the news at its headquarters was by this time mostly the well-hackneyed narration of successful bombing raids and German planes shot down . On the other hand , the great armored battles that drove the Germans back across their borders were in full swing , and the correspondents in question not unnaturally felt that their home offices would be more interested in these major Army movements . Colonel Parham , public relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were attached to his air force and they could write about it or go home . When they proved contumacious , he revoked their accreditation and sent them home . It is fair to report that these disaccreditations were later canceled from Washington . But Washington did nothing about the system that left Army correspondents little choice but to become special publicity agents for the organization to which they were attached . This was responsible for one of the worst failures in war reporting , and indirectly for one of its most bitter episodes . It seems fairly certain on the evidence we now have that the Germans , after the line of the Seine had been broken , intended to stand on a position which linked Antwerp via the Albert Canal with Li ? ge . They never made it , because the forces which should have held this position were utterly smashed in a great , semi-accidental battle at Mons. A good many of the men in France knew about it but there did not happen to be any with accreditations that would permit them to tell the story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the communique and an article in Life months later . An event like that in World War I would have hit every front page in the country . pvi IE other instance is the background of I Ed Kennedy 's break of the news that the Germans had signed their surrender on the dotted line . Mr. Kennedy has been content to let the case stand on its own merits , on the ground that the Army heads had no business acceding to a request from the Russians or anyone else to withhold the news that the war was over ; and that the Germans by putting it on the air had broken it anyway . That question need not concern us , except to remark that it was another instance in which American authorities lent themselves to the foreign censorship of the American press ? like the suppression of Sax Rohmer 's Fu Manchu and the withdrawal for revision of James Aldridge 's The Sea Eagle , presumably at the request of the British government , which came off rather badly in that work of fiction for its dealings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has never mentioned ) is that some months earlier he had been the first newspaperman into Bizerte , at the intimate peril of his life . The press relations men made all the press representatives on the front toss coins for the use of the limited cable facilities , and Kennedy lost the toss and his story . He was also ( it is said ) the first correspondent into Paris , coming in with a unit of the Seventh Army , again through a thousand dangers . But Paris was in the area of the Third Army and was supposed to be captured by that unit , so the regulation-bound censors would let Kennedy say nothing about it . At the signing of the surrender he once more found himself in a large group of correspondents served by inadequate wire facilities and facing the practical certainty that the Russians would break the news first from Berlin . This matter of who gets the news first is not at all important to army officers , but it is the bread and butter of the newspapermen . The limitation of correspondents to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so severe as to rouse the suspicion that the Army did not want the war reported at all by independent individual writers . Only the great press associations could afford to maintain men at all the various fronts , and they were fairly easy to control by the threat of such blanket expulsions as that visited on AP ( and later withdrawn ) after the Kennedy incident . Later six correspondents were disaccredited because they went to Berlin without having received the special new accreditations necessary for them to visit that place . The war was over , Berlin in defeat was obviously the only story about which anyone back home gave a hoot ? but the Army operational officers had so many other things on their hands that they had not got around to issuing any credentials for Berlin and no other officers had authority . IV HE blame for this sort of occurrence , I for all these occurrences , was commonly placed by the correspondents on the men appointed to handle public relations , whom they derided as " the Hollywood extras . " This was unjust ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would permit them to be nothing but messenger boys for the operational officers . What was really needed was a press relations division headed by an officer with rank and experience sufficient to command the respect of field leaders and with authority , referable to no higher command , to decide whether a story or an item in a story should be released . Responsible for results , yes ; Army quartermasters ( for instance ) are responsible for results in their department , but they do not obtain them by having responsibility without authority . The Navy had clearly begun working toward such a system in the latter part of the war . This showed up in public relations which improved steadily throughout the conflict , till at the dose the reporting from the Pacific stood on a far higher level than that from Europe , despite the enormous difficulties of transmission . The Navy called in Rear Admiral Merrill , who as commander of a cruiser division had one of the best combat records in the whole war , and followed him with Rear Admiral Miller , whose communique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best piece of official prose the conflict produced . The Army clung throughout to Brigadier General Surles , retired , who ? whatever his talents were in other directions ? simply lacked the background to be anything more than one of the glorified lackeys the Army system produced . T Is also unfair to place upon the censors I and press relations officers the entire blame for the inefficient reporting of the war . This showed up very clearly during the Okinawa campaign , when no front line stories were half so effective as the Navy Department releases on the experiences of Bunker Hill and Saratoga under kamikaze attack . The point is that too many correspondents waited for such reIeases ? which is to say that they were clumsy and ineffective correspondents . No men during the whole war showed a higher courage and a greater endurance than these correspondents . Their losses were proportionately greater than those of any combat service , and they were men who for age or for physical infirmity had been rejected as unfit to take part in combat . Some of them ? Pyle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers . But if physical courage is the basic criterion , the Japanese of Attu are entitled to still higher praise than the correspondents ; their losses were 99.5 per cent . The fact is that with a few exceptions the writers , like the Attu Japanese , failed to achieve their objective . When all allowances have been made for censorship , an inefficient public relations system , and difficulties of transmission , there remains a residue of bad reporting which can only be accounted for by sheer professional incompetence . Far too many of the representatives of the press were old political , police beat , and district men , trained in the spot news tradition , who failed completely to realize that reporting a war is a business of writing a continuing series of feature stories . Under the official repressions most of them turned into " handout men , " waiting around headquarters for the communique and any attached releases , then simply putting these in their own words for the cable . For a specific example , the light cruiser Birmingham put in at Pearl Harbor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried to rescue the burning carrier Princeton , and in the explosion of the latter had lost two hundred men . Two hundred more aboard were being awarded purple hearts and other decorations . The correspondents were invited to witness the ceremony and to talk to the men . Not one came . The story was quite equal to that which broke when the Bunker Hill came home later , but it had no spot news value , because it would have to be held up for a couple of weeks till the cruiser reached the continental United States . The trouble here ? as in many other cases where correspondents failed to grasp what was going on or antagonized military men by their sheer ignorance ? was at least partly the fault of the home offices . They doubtless had their manpower problems like everyone else during the war , but this does not excuse the type of policy that made AP , for instance , choose as its war correspondents men who could by no stretch of the imagination be called qualified . When they got a man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very good ones , such as Drew Middleton ) , they put him behind a desk somewhere , handling the copy that came in from the field representatives . These field men were almost invariably good routine district reporters , capable of covering a two-alarm fire , carefully drilled to spell names right , get quotes and figures correct , and follow the assignment exactly without allowing themselves to be side-tracked . The result was that the war was reported in terms of a social function by the Fifth Street Ladies ' Club . The names and addresses were correct and all the necessary ones got in ; the phrases were the stereotyped , unobjectionable stencils one should employ on such an occasion ? and there was almost never any sense of the hurry , passion , and continual surprise that are the essence of real fighting , or of the ineffable boredom and desperate devices for self-entertainment that are the focus of preparation for battle . These were left for the " trained seals , " the stunt men like Pyle and La Farge and Clark Lee . MHE home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , another part of the failure of the public to understand what was going on . To the extent that they were so responsible , the editorial cries that rose from time to time that the government was not giving out facts were disingenuous . The point may perhaps be best illustrated by a citation from an AP dispatch published by a big metropolitan daily during the fighting on Okinawa : " A wide , winding river ? the Asatostands between Naha and the Americans . The Japanese attempted to blow up the span by covering themselves with explosives and detonating charges as theyplunged onto the bridge . They damaged the span and delayed the crossing . " The headline placed on this item by the paper in question was : " Japs ' Human Bombs Fail to Halt Marines . " Now the point was that the Japs ' Human Bombs did precisely halt the marines in that instance . It was a whole week before the marines finally got across the Asato . The cable desk put the opposite interpretation on it , less because it was unintelligently handled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read the rosier version . In a somewhat similar case one of the correspondents brought back from the Pacific to his newspaper the protest of the men at the front against V-mail . The city desk was simply not interested , and did not think its readers would be ? which is a method of saying that the primary interest around such desks is in peddling papers rather than in giving facts . And this is , unfortunately , precisely one of the most dangerous truths which the people favoring censorship of every sort have discovered as they follow in the footsteps of the masters of " thought control . "                     