@@487460

CAN America send food to the people in the countries conquered by Germany without aiding Germany and Italy and weakening the British blockade ? This is a question with which American public opinion is deeply concerned ; it can be answered only after a thorough examination of the facts and after the following preliminary questions have been answered : What kind of foodstuffs does Europe need and in what quantities ? How can the distribution of food be reliably supervised ? What direct and indirect effects would such food distribution have upon the German war economy ? Chief attention is focused on the conquered countries of Northern and Western Europe , which must import agricultural products and which normally have a food deficit of about 25 per cent . Hitherto this deficit has been made up partly by imports from other European countries  --  for example , synthetic fertilizer from Germany , feed corn from the Balkans  --  and partly by imports from overseas . The entire region at present under Axis control  --  that is to say , Germany and Italy , most of the Balkans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has , with normal crops , a food deficit of 12 to 15 per cent ( figures of the Deutsches Institut flir Konjunkturforschung ) . Since the last crop was probably far below the average , the present deficit in Axis territory must run to approximately 20 per cent . This deficit is chiefly in high-grade foods , such as fats , meat , fish , fruit , and milk , and in feed and phosphate fertilizer ; grain , potatoes , vegetables , and sugar are probably available in sufficient quantities . One way of coping with this shortage is through rationing , which can be carried out in Western Europe within certain limitations without impairing the general health . In addition , the food requirements can be shifted to products raised at home which were not consumed as long as more palatable items could be imported from abroad . Production can also be increased almost everywhere , especially the production of grain , vegetables , goats ' milk , and rabbit meat . This can be done in France by the utilization of large areas of fallow land and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which have hitherto been unfamiliar with scientific agriculture  --  that is , all countries except Germany , the Netherlands , and Denmark  --  it can be accomplished by the application of Germany 's huge surplus of potash and nitrate fertilizers . The use of synthetic fertilizer can make agricultural production rise by leaps and bounds despite the lack of phosphates , which have been cut off by the blockade . It should be understood , furthermore , that existing shortages may be met , at least until the next crop comes in , by the supplies in storage . It seems clear , therefore , that the per capita calory consumption in countries under Axis control need not necessarily decline greatly , certainly not to the point of famine . Vitamin consumption , however , is likely to fall steeply , and it is here that the real danger lies . Germany is staving it off with synthetic vitamin compounds , undoubtedly with a measure of success . But this procedure has certain limitations ? not all vitamins can be manufactured ; production can not meet the quantity requirements ; synthetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Synthetic foodstuffs , moreover , give rise to indigestion and stomach ailments , partly because they provide insufficient bulk . Nor should one forget that general conditions in the Axis regions  --  lack of soap , warm water , and heat , the use of unheated bomb shelters , and the psychological irritants resulting from the war  --  have increased the demand for nourishing foods . The results of a diminution and deterioration of the food supply are seen first in weakened nervous and physical resistance and lessened working capacity , then in acute hunger epidemics , and finally , when the supply has fallen below a very low limit of calories , in famine and death . The phase of weakened resistance is shown most quickly by children , pregnant women , nursing mothers , and sick people . Supplies of food at present available in the Axis regions exclude any danger that the third phase will ever be reached ; even the second is highly unlikely as things are today , though resistance to disease The NATION may be noticeably lowered in regions where an already undernourished population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emergency action to counteract a lessened working capacity is unnecessary and would merely serve to injure Great Britain . Conditions in Europe today certainly do not demand it on a large scale provided the Continental transport system functions and the Nazis distribute evenly all existing foodstuffs . The Central European transportation network has suffered greatly since the outbreak of the war and is of doubtful capacity . Many local breakdowns are caused by the bombs of the RAF . On the other hand , the freight load has fallen since the disappearance of a front in France , and many towboats have become available for inland and coastal shipping . As for fair distribution , it is certain that Germany and Italy will take for themselves whatever they need ; it is equally certain , however , that they will try to prevent famine in the occupied territories which serve as bases against England . If they wish to protect their soldiers from infection they will have to ' feed the native populations too . In spite of sensational reports to the contrary , no real undernourishment is visible except in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not likely to become appreciably more acute for some time . How can food distribution be supervised ? That depends in great part on the extent of the proposed distribution . During the World War , when the problem was to feed seven or eight million people in Belgium and northern France , there was reasonably effective control . That it was not as effective as is claimed is shown by the following remark of Princess Bliicher , the wife of a high official in the German Foreign Ministry : " I can add that England , without knowing it , is paying for our dinners , for the food that we are able to obtain generally comes from Belgium and was sent to feed the Belgians " ( " Notes Intimes " ) . If Britain continued to permit the supplies to go through , this was chiefly because even greater infractions than those that occurred would hardly have mattered . During the World War for every Belgian or Frenchman supplied with American food there were some fifteen starving Germans and Austrians . Today for every person in the conquered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans and Italians  --  only one and one-half if Eastern Europe is added to the West and North . If food were sent to the European population today , any diversion of it by the Axis would benefit ten times as many Germans and Italians as were benefited during the last war . And since today it is not a question of feeding a mere seven to eight million persons , but of feeding forty-five million in Western Europe and an additional twenty to thirty million in Eastern Europe , control would be proportionately more difficult . December 14 , 1940 In the World War , moreover , control was tied up with certain political realities that no longer exist today . The Comite Nationale , which supervised food distribution in Belgium , enjoyed the confidence of the British and was regarded by the Belgian population almost as a substitute for the Belgian government . Under present conditions it is unthinkable that the Nazis would tolerate such a committee . The only committee that could operate today would consist of Quislings and de Mans , and such a committee would certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be exercised only by means of a large staff . If this staff were loyal to England or composed of neutrals , Germany would hardly tolerate it , if it were composed of persons loyal to Germany , England would have no guaranties Control of large-scale food distribution in all or most of the countries occupied by Germany seems , therefore , hardly practicable . Alleviation of an acute emergency in a limited region , however , offers fewer difficulties . Certainly supplies could be sent to maternity and nursing homes , hospitals and kindergartens , milk could be dispensed in schools , and food could be distributed to prisoners of war if Germany would admit supervising agencies made up of neutrals enjoying the confidence of the British . Even if control were air-tight , it can not be doubted that large-scale relief for the subject peoples would benefit the German war economy . Germany can make excellent use of well-fed skilled workers and through them of the industrial plants of the conquered regions . And it would rejoice at the chance to commandeer foodstuffs from the countries under its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those countries  --  a factor of great importance which England could under no circumstances permit  --  could be prevented only if relief were restricted to persons not engaged in work , such as babies , nursing mothers , and sick persons . It is erroneous to suppose that the receipt of food might prevent the migration of skilled workers to the Reich . This migration will take place if and when Germany needs workers regardless of the available food supplies . Finally , the argument that American supplies would increase the chances of a revolutionary uprising do not require refutation , Hitler would not permit the supplies to go through if this possibility existed . Of the high-grade foodstuffs that Europe needs to combat malnutrition this country has only limited amounts for export . Part of these limited quantities would presumably be sent to the twenty million Frenchmen in unoccupied France ; part would have to be reserved for England , whose health requirements are much more gravely threatened than those of any other country except Poland . Thus little would be available for the occupied regions in any event The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population almost as large as its own . It can contemplate no more than relief for children , pregnant women , nursing mothers , sick persons , and prisoners of war ; the general population can be helped only in those depressed areas which are seen to be nearing the famine phase . Since it is impossible to foresee where shortages will be most severely felt , relief campaigns should be organized only as the crises arise .                     