@@494237

A Year of War Production Ap rEa MONTHS of disaster , the approach of Pearl Harbor 's anniversary finds a draft of morning air rippling across the free world and the shackled spaces of Europe . Russian hardihood and Anglo-American valor have awakened far and near a sense of immediate destiny ? a breathless instinct of tides hanging between ebb and flow . The scales of battle , so long adverse , are pronounced by Mr. Roosevelt to have slanted at last in favor of the democracies ; though he warns that we still have " a gigantic job to do . " Whether the light of these victorious weeks is true dawn or false depends largely upon the American arsenal of management , labor , tools , power and materials . With the United States close to the end of its first year of participation in the war , the time is appropriate for casting a balance in the great task of Production laid upon the national plant . The task is perforce a double one . The aim is to supply deficiencies of military equipment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia and China ; and at the same time to create American armed forces capable of safeguarding domestic security against all attacks and of shifting at the earliest feasible moment from defense to aggression . It is small Wonder that success has been less than complete . The raw figures themselves , however , are in most aspects impressive . Since the passage of the conscription law we have put about 5,000,000 men under arms , of Whom about 800,000 are now overseas , and are adding more at the rate of several hundred ' thousand per month . Our total production of war goods is now about eight times bigger than it was beforp Pearl Harbor . Shipbuilding , which was already quite active in 1941 , la now six times higher than the average rate for that Year . We are launching merchant ships at the rate of three a day ; Henry Kaiser alone is building sixty to leventy ships a month , in an average time of thirty ! Ys and a record time which at this moment is three ' 13 's . We have cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months to seventeen 414 are turning out one every thirty days ; a battle-824 , five years to three ; submarine , two years to one ; uestrnyer , eighteen months down to six . We have n't cached the President 's goals on airplanes and tanks , tUt ? this country alone is producing more airplanes than th e entire Axis combined ? about 4,000 a month . The was of our operations is indicated by the fact that the 414Y and navy have acquired 12,000,000 acres of land ' Will Will finally take 30,000,000 , equivalent to the 1 ' , ware area of Massachusetts , Connecticut , Rhode Island , ' , ware , four-fifths of ! slew Jersey and the District Columbia . Yet even so , there is ground for belief that American rearmament is about twelve months in arrears of what it could be today except for inertia and confusion in the industrial program . Not until this autumn did the administration really " get down to business " in the job of prosecuting the war . The waste of that year postponed the opening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prolong the conflict and multiply casualties . Every American blunder has translated itself directly into losses of territory , resources and lives . The United States bids fair to enter its second year of war with only 4o to 5o percent of its strength as yet mobilized , with about half its production absorbed by civilian consumption , with small business almost wholly outside the pale and with a spending fund of $20,000,000,000 at least by way of dynamite for possible inflation , this being the surplus of national income remaining at large after taxes and estimated savings . There are ominous shortages of strategic metals , including steel , copper , nickel and steel alloys . Now at hand are grave crises in manpower , oil and probably food . Although this situation has been somewhat improved , jealousies , backbiting and deliberate sabotage of one another still persist among high Washington officials . If a department dislikes what a given establishment is doing , it calls in a pet columnist or willing congressman to do a " needling " job on the offender . That disharmony survives in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with opposite counsels flooding from rival agencies . This nation still lags far behind Britain in conversion of man and woman power to war industry and in per-capita output of military goods . England adopted a National Service Act in 1940 . Advocates of similar legislation in this country argue that voluntary organization has had a thorough trial , in which it was demonstrated that coercion is necessary to utilize the nation 's 6o,000,000 availables . Whatever the merits of the controversy , the fact remains that the United States must soon really confront for the first time the problem brought about by modern warfare 's redoubled demand for manpower , in both the field and industry . The gravity of the question has been somewhat abated by the reduction of the draft age to eighteen . Remedies under consideration indude registration of women , enforcement of uniform procedure on state draft boards , consolidation of the War Manpower Commission and the Selective Service System and an embargo on voluntary enlistment , which amounts to irresponsible raids on farm and factory labor . In thirty-five major centers of war production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) and 738 pirating of workmen operates unchecked . Workers in war plants are frequently not used to full capacity . In some localities artificial labor shortages exist because of discrimination against women or minority groups . The strain on American industry has been multiplied during the year by costly errors of design on the part of the armed forces . Other naval construction was smothered last May when the landing-boat program was flung over it like a blanket . Millions of dollars were squandered , many months were lost and the possibility of a second front was postponed because the navy insisted on building its own model instead of a superior one offered by Andrew J. Higgins of New Orleans . According to the Truman Committee , the Higgins boat has a gate-end through which a tank may be driven , while the naval , type 's exit could scarcely afford passage to three men abreast . By way of belated amends , eminent heads recently rolled in the Bureau of Ships . No one can deny that on the whole our aviation has been fighting magnificently . Against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have hung up the amazing average record of fourteen of the enemy 's planes lost for every one of our own . In the European theatre our big multi-engined bombers within a few weeks created a new technique of aerial warfare by going out unescorted by fighters and beating off attacks so successfully that at present the Germans seem afraid to go up and give combat . Both army and navy planes have been magnificently effective against surface ships . Yet there are two gross oversights , chargeable to the army , which have placed needless burdens on the national aviation plant . Not until two years after the conquest of France did the War Department admit reluctantly that there might be a case for the dive-bomber . Until a few months ago our army had no training whatsoever in the difficult and intricate tactic of ground-air teamwork , which the Germans mastered before 1939 and have practised constantly ever since . Substratosphere combat emerged during the Battle of Britain , but the American air corps entered the war on December 7 , 1941 , without a single high-altitude pursuit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army , having chosen the Allison liquid-cooled engine to drive its fighter planes , neglected to develop this motor as regards both horsepower and supercharger equipment . The Bell Airacobra had to be re designed to admit a supercharged Allison , while the Curtis P-4oF Warhawk and North American Mustang were replanned for the installation of Rolle-Royce Merlins instead of Allisons . Reviving a two-engine fighter model which the navy had discarded some years earlier on account of its clumsiness in acrobatics , the army equipped it with two Allison motors and evolved the Lockheed Lightning interceptor , which is declared to be the fastest climber in the world . But its twin-boom structure is so THE NEW REPUBLIC unmaneuverable that some experts believe it may wind up as a light bomber or torpedo plane . The Republic Thunderbolt , America 's answer to the Spitfire , Zero , Messerschmitt and Focke-Wulf , was created by putting a new 2pm-horsepower Wright air-cooled motor in a six-year-old design . Great things are promised for the Thunderbolt , but it will be some little time before it can take to the air in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nullified in part by the administration 's neglect to impose a unified command upon tonnage . Vessels controlled by the War Shipping Administration now carry little nonessential cargo , but maritime space over which the army and navy exercise full control is often used wastefully . Freighters have been sent back to this country in ballast from points as remote as New Caledonia and Australia . England has avoided such waste by putting vessels employed by the armed services under the direction of the shipping authority . Lack of control over loading and unloading in the ports of the world has cost much time and hundreds of thousands of tons of shipping Wand left scores of vessels standing idle in one foreign roadstead or another . Very recently the United States had only twelve experts to supervise these operations throughout the globe , and to make sure that cargoes put aboard were strategic rather than profitable . Not until November 2 was the first step taken to ward a requirement that had been sought in vain for more than a year ? drafting an over-all blueprint for distribution of materials . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Materials Plan , under which priorities will be replaced by ironclad allocations based on supply rather than demand . To begin with , only a few shortage metals are dealt with , but other materials may be included as need arises . Unfortunately , the plan will not reach full effect before next July I , and as Senator PePPer pointed out in last week 's New Republic , it still leaves bad loopholes . In the meantime , with symbols dizzily. mounting , priorities have plunged into an inflation at their own and declined in many cases to the value of Confederate shinplasters . Private companies have found it necessary to send out procurement gangs scour the country . Their adroitness , rather than mill tary needs , has governed the flow of supplies into ' plants . American production is handicapped by the 101.4 grievous infirmity besetting the Allied cause . This , S ? enforced dispersion of United Nations strength over the earth , with inadequate power focused as 51 ! in any area , except North Africa , to drive home r offensive operation . Naval and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , el ' " aspect of the war is afflicted by decentralization . A It is more than three years since the invasion. ! ti Poland and two years and a half since the tAllrg DECEMBER 7 , 1 9 4 2 States acknowledged the existence of an emergency . The Battle of Britain prevented Germany from conquering the United Kingdom and breaking out into the Atlantic . At a cost of five million casualties , the Red Army has granted eighteen months ' reprieve to American rearmament . Even a gambler would hardly expect such a remarkable run of luck to continue . Nevertheless , the element most urgently required is still time ? a minimum of seven months more , until the national effort can attain its promised peak at the end of June , 1943 . Despite fundamental problems still unsolved , and the failure of the war effort to reach its goal , no one will deny that American management and labor , in view of the fact that their start was made virtually from scratch , have accomplished veritable prodigies of conversion , expansion and production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Axis nations Combined not only in military planes but probably in tanks , artillery , rifles and machine guns , and certainly In naval and merchant-ship construction . Washington has long been stigmatized as the principal bottleneck of the war program . An announcement that the capital 's log-jam has been broken would be premature , but it was at least jarred by a burst of energy during the last few months which recalled the ? 739 Hundred Days of the New Deal . It became obvious that the President 's education during his first war year has included the mastery of three hard lessons . He has learned to delegate power in wholesale lots . He has taken resolute command of the home front . Apparently he has recognized that totalitarian war must be fought with totalitarian weapons , embracing , if need be , a bold curtailment of private liberties . Fascinated historians will perhaps dwell on the assets and liabilities scheduled above as a reflection of the paradoxical personality of one man , Franklin D. Roosevelt . They will marvel at a kind of divided personality which long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bravura of his foreign , naval and military policies with his often fumbling and hesitant touch on the domestic keyboard . They will ask how the same brain could have conceived the brilliant expedition against Northwest Africa and have lavished two golden years on such a series of bumbling " high commands " as the War Resources Board , the National Advisory Defense Commission , the Office of Production Management , the Supply , Priorities and Allocation Board and the first edition of the War Production Board .                     