@@494285

War and the Language WORLD WAR I found us speaking English ( of an in- ferior colonial vintage to be sure , but none the less English ) and the modern literary language was just stirring within its straitjacket of puritanism . Henry Mencken had not yet reared his ugly head . Louise Pound was breaking with the genteel tradition of dilettante dialect study . Jespersen and McKnight , who might have been pioneers in the American held , were preoccupied with European English . Hans Kurath was a budding young German scholar . Leonard Bloomfield was writing about language , but few recognized his genius . George Philip Krapp was tentatively tinkering with American as a distinct linguistic phenomenon . Dialect Notes was reflecting some interest in regionalisms . Allen Walker Read , Cabe11 Greet , George P. Wilson , Harold Wentworth , Bernard Bloch , Guy Lowman , Alan Marckwardt , Don Hayakawa and other bright youngsters who have since contributed so much to the discovery of the American language were unheard of . Slang itself was considered rather disreputable , and hardly the proper subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World War 1 . Yet when they returned home they bore marks on their speech which would not come off . . The more virulent elements of expression were for a while quarantined to the poolroom and the brothel . Then the study of dialects , heretofore largely an amateur activity , came into the hands of professional scholars ; anticipated by Joyce , Sinclair Lewis showed a keen ear and a shrewd sense of mockery in reporting middle-class jargon ; Ernest Hemingway brought the language of the social outlaws into full literary flower . Works like " What Price Glory ? " ? where taboo-words became common coin ? caused the purists to yammer for censorship . But the lingo of the soldier had taken a foothold which resisted all attempts at disinfection . The residue of the speech of World War I is the soil from which the slang of World War II has burgeoned almost incredibly . Supplementing this residue from the first war were all the linguistic forces unleashed when millions of men , drawn from every conceivable social and occupational level , were isolated from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create a new pattern of living . The reflection of this pattern is the tremendously fecund slang of our present armed forces . The development of this new way of living within so short a time would have been enough , in itself , to have instigated a terrific linguistic ferment . This ferment was not local ; it was farflung ? in fact , worldwide . It was intensified by the fact that Americans are still close enough to the frontier to relish free-and-easy play with language ? anybody 's language , and especially their own . Instead of bringing home a few draggle-tailed malapropisms from French , as their fathers did in World War I , they have now plundered almost every language on the face of the globe . In addition , the military forces of the Second World War were exceedingly diversified . Although the larger divisions were prominent , within these branches there were innumerable smaller divisions , each with a vast technological equipment , an indigenous organizational set-up and separate military problems ; within these divisions the smaller units developed a close-knit feeling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common self-interest , a similar if synthetic environment and the sharing of all troubles and pleasures , especially those involving food , women and military authority . Psychologically , each man resented the other , but the members of the squad dropped their individual dislikes in order to rival every other squad , and so on throughout companies , battalions , divisions , to other whole branches of the service . In the face of all sorts of pressures from outside , each unit , however small , developed group morale based on rivalry and a pattern of group behavior which distinguished it from other units ; perhaps partly because individual action was regimented in so many ways , individuality came to be expressed through originality in speech , with the result that the normal rate of the formation of slang was stepped up perceptibly . By the same token , individuals sought refuge and even sanctuary within the shelter of the speech-pattern of the group , and thus slang was spread faster than would be the case in civilian life . Each group was an ideal breeding-place for special slang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became the earmark of the initiate . Moreover , the seeds of unconventional idiom were already sown , for within the native linguistic matrix of each group were latent the forces which produce slang ? the residue of the lingos and jargons of a thousand and one trades , occupations , professions ; the technical languages of many industries ; the rich flavor of rural dialects ; a plentiful sprinkling of the argots of many criminal and semi-criminal professions , the grifters and gamblers and thieves . These spoken languages , always just beyond the fringe of printed respectability , are hotbeds for fostering the development of new group-slang . With the interminable shifting of men from one outfit to another , this slang was disseminated over the face of the earth at a highly accelerated rate compared to the spread of slang in peacetime . Most of it has not yet come home to roost . This acceleration both in the production of slang and in its distribution adds up to a supplemental language of great size ? so great that one is staggered at the thought of collecting and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into our present language . Perhaps we will find that we have a hundred thousand entries to deal with ? perhaps more . This is not just an increase in our vocabulary ; that is the least significant , although perhaps the most obvious to the civilian . There are fundamental changes in idiom , in syntax , and some in the very structure of the spoken language ? changes which are now speedily transmitted to the printed language through the medium of hundreds of news organs written and published by men who have come to think in terms of military lingo . Thus the time- between the coined slang locution and acceptance in print is reduced almost to zero ; never in the history of the language has the spoken word been channeled so rapidly thto the levels traditionally dominated by a standard or li.erary language ; not since Elizabethan days has the conaection between the two levels been so close . As a point of departure for this brief and inadequate preview of the impact of the slang of the armed forces , the writer has had access to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incidentally , be incorporated in a comprehensive Dictionary of American Slang prepared under his sponsorship . At hand also are Colby 's ifrrny Talk , Kendall and Viney 's Dictionary of Afrmy and Navy Slang , Taylor 's The Language of World War II and other biliogrephical materials . These are all valuable documents , though they all stress vocabulary only and none of them Jays claim to being exhaustive ? or even reasonably complete . We are beginning to accept the idea that the language belongs to the people , that it is the collective voice of a civilization rather than the exclusive property of a small literary clique . While printed records are valuable sources of information about language , our most vital experience with language comes through people . For the literary artist as well as the linguist , the individual informant is taking on increasing significance . Therefore , more emphasis should be placed upon transcribing large blocks of speech from selected informants , followed by careful scientific analysis . It would take a large collection of phonograph records , tellies of phonetic transcription and painstaking analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linguists to give us that anatomy in full . The results of this research ? that is , as much of it as we get around to doing ? will constitute historical fact . But language waits for no man , and meanwhile the American language , both spoken and written , will have absorbed the impact of military slang with consequent changes , some of them in the very nature of its fabric . You do not have to be a specialist to sense the vitality of military slang . Yet anyone with a curiosity about language begins to raise questions when he hears it . What do some of these strange words mean ? Where do they come from ? Were they already in the language before the war ? If so , why have n't we heard them before ? Are n't some of them borrowings from foreign languages ? And some Irani native languages ? By what shifts and processes have they acquired their present form and meaning ? How do these unfamiliar locutions fit into the pattern of the language ? All that is another story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the sources of meaning , the sheer communication of ideas , become almost secondary factors in the slang of special groups . The pleasure of using it , the prestige which comes with deft familiarity , the sense of " belonging " to the group , the ease with which it expresses moods and emotions and the fun of rolling it off the tongue are all strong motives for its use . And for military personnel it provides a key to psychological escape . At the same time , this lingo is not that of an obscure group like , say , carnival grifters . There is nothing esoteric about it . It is a vast common language differing somewhat , it is true , from one branch of the service to another , and from one part of the world to another , but used , to a greater er less degree , by all men and women who have been in theservice . For millions of people it has become a vehicle for thought , the natural way of expressing themselves . So it can hardly be dismissed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep roots in a way of life . If its growth has been too rapid , it has not been unnatural . It reflects the attitudes , the emotions , the ideas of a great body of our population living under the disciplines of military life . It is genuine . It will take a series of books and articles to say anything final about this language . But , looking at it broadly and superficially , we are tempted to indicate several characteristic trends which are already obvious . The first is the extent to which mechanization has influenced the thinking and speaking of service men . Thousands upon thousands of technical words and phrases , along with locutions not commonly found in the vulgar speech , testify to the important part which mechanics , electronics , transportation , engineering , ballistics , medicine and a hundred other technical fields have played in the lives of men . One young major in the Armored Force tells me that he estimates that about three thousand technical words , most of them new coinages or adaptations , are used in the operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While many of these terms from all fields are taken over in their true technical sense , most of them rapidly acquire slang forms or meanings , or find convenient metaphorical application to situations in no way related to the original context . The second point is that one major phase of American slang is no longer provincial ; on the contrary , it represents the first large-scale manifestation of cosmopolitanism in spoken American since early Colonial days . For the first time , common , often uneducated Americans are reaching out for the words , phrases and ways of thought in every language with which they come in contact . While of course many foreign phrases are the victims of crude folk-etymology , many more are carefully preserved in both form and pronunciation and applied with great skill . Perhaps part of this budding linguistic cosmopolitanism is influenced by the brief but excellent foreign-language training given in some branches of the service ? although those who take the course do n't appear to be the most active in making the slang ; perhaps , even more , it indicates that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we can not escape the infiltration of strong , salty phrases which combine humor and what the puritan elements might call obscenity ? with most vigorous results . Our verbal taboos are being shattered by the hundred , with the resulting shockers sometimes disguised by giving only initials in the presence of women and children , a practice which only intensifies the titillation accompanying the violation of a taboo . Part of the humor also no doubt springs from hearing the uninitiated pick up and use abbreviations for phrases as yet unspeakable and unprintable on certain social levels . The universally popular SNAFU is a good example of this . ( The other day I observed a society note to the effect that some subdebs were giving a SNAFU Dance . ) This useful term has been followed by the even more vigorous TARFU , and its big brother in quintessence , FUBAR . Other humorous obscenities , often sinking to anal-erotic levels , are disguised by clippings and back-formations which permit currency of the low phrase without any but the initiate realizing the forceful connotations ' For instance , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numerous variants ) refers to a stupid or inattentive person in the Air Corps can not be set forth here . One day it will no doubt cause trouble for our etymologists . Some of these suggestive words which depend upon the hearer 's knowing the unspoken background , constitute clever and subtle ribaldries ; most of them are simply strong , visceral obscenity-symbols scattered through almost every sentence . At the rate they are moving into legitimate and even literary usage , it is not unreasonable to suppose that the American language may soon be charged as never before with high-voltage phrases . However , it must not be assumed that all this is mere linguistic heeltap , or the scurf and offscourings of the gutters of the world ; it is anything but decadent ; rather , it is exuberant , aggressive , earthy language which enables the American to hold his own with anyone in invective . To those who have decried the monotony and lack of originality in American billingsgate , notice is hereby served that the language is being replenished . The American language is remarkably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times . As an instrument to express our culture , it is becoming ever more effective . Like our people , it is flexible and resilient . It has already come of age . While I distrust linguistic judgments made in terms of good and bad , I have the feeling that this inundation of military lingo , the full impact of which is yet to be felt , will have a wholesome effect on the natural growth of spoken and written American . It should serve as a freshening influence , a widening break with provincialism , with prudery and with the questionable standards of refinement which emasculated American literature of the early twentieth century and caused an attempted repudiation of slang after the First World War . We now have the writers who can use it , and the scholars to interpret it . It can become a vital part of the language . Let us hope that good taste and a sound sense of linguistic honesty , rather than bigoted censorship , will guide us in using this potent literary tool . 