@@485318

( This is the concluding instalment of " a cautionary tale . . . a rash attempt to write history before it has happened , " by a distinguished British journalist and member of Parliament . In the preceding issue Mr. Bartlett outlined some of the problems with which the various commissions of the Washington Peace Conference were engaged . ) VII . The International Police Force NOVEMBER 4 . Several days of sensation and bad temper . The Armaments Commission has been meeting in even more somber secrecy than the other commissions . It has been able to use the argument that since the war against Japan is still on , secrecy is necessary for reasons of security . The reply to that one is that no plan for the general control of armaments , as against the unilateral and perpetual disarmament of anaggressor state , is likely to encourage the Japanese to fight with greater vigor or to give them valuable military information . Then the secrecy merchants trotted out the argument that all the conference needed to do was to regulate the disarmament of Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the methods used for preventing Germany from ever making war against us must fit into the general pattern . The Czechoslovak delegation had taken the lead in preparing a scheme for an international air police ( cf. diary , September 17 ) and had won for it widespread support among the smaller European nations . Very correctly they had kept it secret until they could obtain the commission 's agreement to its publication . There was a row last Tuesday because that agreement was not forthcoming , despite their argument that no international police would ever be established until public opinion had Ito accustom itself to the idea . It was known that opposition to publication came mainly from the British and Americans . Then , on Thursday morning , Iverach Macdonald was able to send a very complete summary of the scheme to the Times of London and Drew Middleton an equally complete one to the Times of New York . Everybody accused everybody else of bad faith . Where the news came from I do n't know , except that Iverach tells me he did not get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapermen got nasty cables from our papers asking why we had been scooped . Ted Montgomery and I each had one from our editor , and in our distress we drank so much rye whiskey with Middleton , who had his success to celebrate , that I woke next morning feeling  --  in Drew 's words  --  as though a dwarf had walked over my tongue with muddy boots on . And this morning comes the cable to Anthony Eden signed by a couple of hundred members of Parliament . Their protest that the British delegation is handing over British defenses to foreigners would have been out of date at the end of the last war . In fact , it 's even more misleading and deceptive than the warning that came to the Versailles Peace Conference from a roughly similar bunch of members of Parliament . But it has put the fear of the devil into the minds of our delegates . November 11 . This morning 's sensation was produced by Victor Gordon-Lennox in the Chicago Daily News . General de Gaulle is in one of his Joan of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has it in mind to leave the conference and to summon a rival one in Brussels or Paris . He hinted  --  according to Victor 's story ? that he had the support of the Russians for a scheme to enable the Europeans to decide their own future without the intervention of non-European ' States such as the British Commonwealth or the United States . He was particularly bitter that these two great powers should put forward their demands for the control of any international police force at a conference to decide the fate of Germany and Italy and their lesser European allies . A French colonel , two American majors , and a British civilian had a terrific row at a table near ours in the Mayflower this evening . " Do you realize , " Ted Montgomery asked me in the middle of it , " that today is the anniversary of the armistice that ended the last war ? " November 12 . Axes are being ground so noisily and to aggressively that the voices of the smaller nations can scarcely be heard . Their first demand is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Italy shall not be allowed to build or to possess aircraft of any kind for fifteen years and after that time shall be entitled to do so only if the nations change this decision ' by a four-fifths majority vote . If all airfields everywhere in the world are open to the aircraft of the international air police and the commercial aircraft of all the signatory nations , these two countries will not he , able to trail pilots even if they are able in some way to get machines. - You may be able to hide factories  --  although it is very doubtful whether you could manufacture so complicated an instrument as an airplane in secret  --  but you certainly can not hide an airfield . Since aircraft and air-borne divisions are so vitally important in modern war , this restriction on Germany and Italy should make it unnecessary to maintain large Allied forces of occupation in these two countries . Therefore the delegatidhs of large and small powers agree on this first demand . They do n't on the second , which is that the commander-in-chief and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be from the smaller states , so that too much strength shall not be- - placed in the hands of the United States , Great Britain , the Soviet Union , and China . Nor do they agree on the third , which is that members of the international air police should wear no badge to denote the country of their origin . The over-fifties , whose opposition is based on nationalism , are making the most of the argument that this demand is incompatible with the fourth  --  that except in times of emergency , and particularly in the first few years , an effort should be made to keep a high proportion of members of this force in the country of their origin , so that public opinion will be helped to look upon the international air police as its own police force . If there is a real row on this , I suppose I shall fly back to London in the hope of taking part in a House of Gammons debate . It will be a great tragedy , it seems to me , if we lose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an international loyalty . It could be done ; in the early days of the League of Nations one found a real esprit de corps developing among men of all nationalities in Geneva . On a more limited scale , General Eisenhower achieved it in the Mediterranean . Also we went a long way toward it when men of several nationalities were brigaded together or flew in the same squadrons to fight the Germans . To succeed in this more ambitious scheme we should start with as few outward signs of different nationalities as possible . Some of my colleagues in Parliament are going on a deputation to the Prime Minister to urge this view on him and to try to counteract the effect of the cable from our two hundred other colleagues  --  confound them ! There is also likely to be a great deal of dispute about the proposal that all aircraft be produced under international license . One of the troubles in the old days was that the small nations depended for their defense on =a few great armament manufacturers in a few great countries . This tempted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to increase the competition for markets . Also their sense of insecurity made them ready to believe -  - -  stories about the wicked intentions of their neighbors and inclined to order weapons they could n't afford . Ana 25 , 1945 the manufacturers , with the money they received from these poor and nervous little countries , built up bigger and better armaments for use by the great powers . It seems absurd that we should start this trouble and distrust all over again in the matter of aircraft . The American objection to internationalism is much more comprehensible than the British , since the States have built up such enormous production . On the other hand , the very immensity of it is proving the strongest argument for national , and ultimately international , control . I have had enough of this . I drafted a cable to my editor asking for permission to come home . Dined alone in an atmosphere of gray misery and drank rye whiskey . The dwarfs with muddy boots on will be active during the night , but I tore the cable up . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 13 . Dined with Harold Nicolson , and we got to talking of the last peace conference and of the way in which so many of its mistakes are being repeated a generation later . He reminded me that we had both written books about it . " Yours was very good , " I said . " Yours was very bitter , but not too much so , " he replied , -I wonder what sort of books we should write about this one ? " I quoted to him a sentence about the last peace conference from his own book , " Why Britain Is at War " : " The conference was conducted in an atmosphere of angry and hysterical rush . " I left him shortly to go up to my room and to run through the pages of this diary . Here , I thought , was the material for another book about another peace conference . But I was too bitter , too sick at heart , to polish it into a neat volume . Perhaps , even so , my publisher might be interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the hope that I may not have to live it later on . A hundred and fifty years ago Thomas Paine wrote these words , which should still inspire men today : " We have it in our power to begin the world over again . " They are more true now than they were when they were written by that extraordinary Anglo-American who was elected to the Convention in Paris during the French Revolution . For now words , arguments , and appeals can encircle the world in a fraction of a second , and oceans have ceased to be obstacles to the spread of ideas . It is because I believe in our power , the power of ordinary humble men and women , that I have asked you , at a time when we still have to face the nagging anxieties of war , to realize how great an effort we shall have to make even when the war is over . justice Brandeis said of the men who won American independence that they believed " liberty to be the secret of happiness and courage to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by their resistance to tyranny during the last few years , have shown that they share this belief . With so many allies there is no cause to be faint-hearted . In the Wind T HE ARTICLE Charleston Contra Mundum in the November 20 issue of The Nation was roundly de . nounced by the Charleston press , but curious denizens of the city who wanted to read the article were unable to get it . The newsstands refused to handle that issue of the magazine . . ? . Back in January , 1940 , when the Forum published as article entitled Charleston : The Great Myth , the mayor bought up all newsstand copies . AN NLRB ELECTION will be held this month by the 1,500 employees of the Corn Exchange Bank Trust Company of New York to determine a collective-bargaining agency . The United Office and Professional Workers of America reports that the bank , which ranks twenty-second in size among the fourteen thousand commercial banks of the country , pays lower wages than any other bank in the city . The election will be the first to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wall Street is that the management will yield gracefully to the inevitable . FROM AN ARTICLE on the evils of grade labeling in the Dallas Morning News : " You apparently have n't minded too much . You thought , ' This is war time . Everything will be all right once we whip Hitler . ' But will it ? Will you be - able to go into a store and say , ' I want some of those good old Del Monte peaches ' ? " THE TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION of America hopes that after the war the government will not continue " the present policy of compelling competition among modes of transportation , " particularly as there is " a vast over-supply of basic transportation facilities . " FOOD MEN , says Printers ' Ink , are worried sick over an unpublished study by the FTC showing that the present distributive system tends to inflate prices . THE BITUMINOUS COAL INSTITUTE , in an advertisement designed to build good-will for the mining industry , offers this explanation of company stores in mining towns : " Company stores were originally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the automobile . " PESTUNG EUROPA : The French underground movement has issued a handbook giving general instructions in sabotage for the use of men and women being conscripted for forced labor in Germany . . . . The Nazis are taking the doors , win dows , woodwork , and radiators from Belgian hotels to repair bombed houses in Germany . . . . The occupation authorities in Prague recently planned a " Day of Czech Youth " to demonstrate the loyalty of youth to the New Order . No Czechs took part in the demonstration .                     