@@487792

IF THIS COUNTRY IS SAVED FROM DESTRUCTION in some not-too-remote future much credit must go to the very scientists who produced the atomic bomb . Last week in Washington , before several Congressional committees dealing with atomic control , they revealed the actualities of a scientific advance more fateful in the affairs of man than the coming of steam . They also displayed a depth of political and international understanding matched by few elected Representatives  --  least of all , alas , by the President himself . All agreed there was no defense against the atomic bomb . All agreed there could be no substitute for international control . The majority felt that the May-Johnson bill would commit this country to a disastrous foreign policy which would negate any efforts by our statesmen to create a world organization and would in fact result in an atomic bomb race leading to certain death for millions of Americans and the destruction of our major cities . The testimony of the scientists , terrible though it is , has paradoxically dispelled much of the hysteria born of ignorance that has prevailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to act sanely and responsibly when they ' ' know the facts . " There must be the fullest opportunity given for free discussion of atomic control  --  in Washington hearings , in the press , on the air , in local assemblies . " After all , " as Professor Harold C. Urey , Nobel Prize winner , said last Sunday , " it is the people of the United States who face destruction and death and should have the privilege of making their decisions . " The immediate issue before responsible Americans is reopening the May-Johnson bill hearings before the House military Affairs Committee and keeping them open until every American with something to say on the control of atomic energy has had his chance to testify . Wires should be sent to Representative Andrew J. May , House of Representatives , and a copy to John W. Snyder , care of The White House . THE FRENCH GENERAL ELECTION CONFIRMS THE power and popularity of Genera/ de Gaulle but reveals greater support for the Communists , who are in opposition to most of his policies , than had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scored heavily , with the Radical Socialists getting the second largest number of places and the Communists a long way behind both . In the new Assembly , however , the Communists will be the largest party , with the Socialists and the Popular Republican Movement , the Catholic democratic party born of the resistance , running neck and neck close behind them . The Radical Socialist Party , so long the balancing force in French politics , has collapsed . From the incomplete figures available as we go to press it appears that the Socialists and the P. R. M. in alliance may be able to command a rather precarious majority in the Assembly to support a provisional government headed by De Gaulle . In any case such a government should be fairly sure of tenure during the seven months ' life of the Assembly . This follows from the voting on the two questions put to the electorate : ( 1 ) Shall the Assembly be empowered to write a new constitution ? ( 2 ) Shall its tenure and authority over the provisional government be limited so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority vote confirmed after a three-day breathing spell ? An overwhelming majority voted " yes " on the first question , and on the second the " yesses " outnumbered the " noes " by nearly two to one . This constitutes a strong vote of confidence in De Gaulle , who appealed for such answers . THE WAR CRIMINALS FACING TRIAL IN Nurnberg have already been condemned by the opinion of the world . Their crimes were public , and the results are evident in a continent laid waste , in the still uncounted millions of dead , and in the profound corruption of the political life of the peoples . No court procedure was needed to convict these men , no new proof required to convince the world that Goring , Streicher , and their accomplices deserve punishment . For this reason the trial , even in advance , has taken on a curious air of unreality . It is a political act , justified and overdue , wrapped up in an elaboration of judicial procedure that seems to a lay observer somewhat farcical . The Nazi leaders could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the joint decision of the Allied powers without all these expensive and legally questionable formalities . The banishment of Napoleon offered precedent if any were needed . But the trials are under way , and one can hope that they will serve to dramatize and recall to the flagging memories of people who already are beginning to forget , the details of the organized terror under which Hitler and his party attempted to bring the civilized world . We hope the procedure will be rapid , decisive , and free from the sort of pettifogging detail that in other political trials  --  notably the sedition cases in Washington during the war  --  has so completely obscured the issue and prevented a clear judgment . The Nurnberg court is a political court with a political job to perform . If it allows the trial to degenerate into legalistic maneuvering and quibbling , its only value will have been thrown away . THE TAX BILL AS REPORTED BY THE SENATE Finance Committee is slightly better than the unsatisfactory House bill . Although the Senate committee voted an unwarranted bonus to a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modifying , the excess-profits tax , it offset this action in part by restoring the 4 per cent which the House cut from the corporation tax . The cut in the individual surtax rate was set at 3 per cent instead of the 4 per cent as of the House bill , and the House 's proposal for a guaranteed cut of at least 10 per cent in each individual 's tax bill was rejected . The latter provision was replaced by a straight 5 per cent cut superimposed upon the other reductions . The net effect of these changes is to give the taxpayers in the middle brackets a somewhat greater reduction than provided by the House Bill while avoiding the outrageous rebates which the House granted to the very wealthy Even with improvements , however , the measure remains substantially a rich man 's tax bill . GENERAL MAEARTHUR HAS COME THROUGH WITH flying colors against the first real challenge to his authority by the Japanese Cabinet . The showdown came , as had been widely predicted , over an Allied attempt to break the power of the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Japanese militarism . Japan 's new " liberal " Cabinet not only balked at the enforcement of an Allied order calling for the elimination of the Zathatsu control over Japanese economic life but endeavored , through Foreign Minister Yoshida , to defend the monopolies as essential to the restoration of normal economic activity . In an effort to forestall drastic Allied action several of the Zaibutsu institutions initiated a voluntary reorganization designed to conceal their monopolistic character . The Yasuda and Sumitomo families , for example , promised to dissolve the key holding companies through which they dominated their industrial empires , and to retire personally from all executive positions in the affiliated companies . They have shown no inclination , however , to divest themselves of the ownership of their huge family holdings . The even more powerful Mitsui and Mitsubishi families refused to yield control over their vast industrial domains on the ground that such action would " invite confusion and disorder in economic circles . " The most that they were willing to do was to sell some shares in their holdings so as to remove the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control . Colonel Kramer , chief of the economic and scientific section of Allied Headquarters , has assured us that the financial grip of the Zaibatsu will be broken by the end of the year , and it looks as if he really means it . PRESIDENT TRUMAN 'S DECISION TO RETAIN General Patrick J. Hurley as ambassador to China casts an unexpected shadow over the improved prospects for Chinese unity . From the time he engineered the recall of Stilwell as commander of the China-Burma-India theater General Hurley has been regarded with suspicion by progressive groups in China . The Chinese Communists have distrusted him because of his high-pressure tactics in attempting to force a settlement with Chungking on Kuomintang terms . And the moderates of the Democratic Federation have complained that he ignored them completely in his apparent desire to strengthen Chiang Kai-shek 's regime . General Hurley is largely responsible for the dispatch of American troops to Peiping and Tientsin , where their chief function has been that of preventing the resistance forces from accepting the Japanese surrender He also must be held accountable for the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China . Hurley 's return will undoubtedly accentuate the current rift between the War Department and the State Department over our Chinese policy . The groups within the State Department counseling October 27 , 1945 moderation in our support of the Kuomintang have been considerably strengthened recently by departmental changes and promotions . But Hurley has preferred to run his show without State Department advice in the past ; and unless popular pressure forces his resignation he will doubtless continue his high-handed role , regardless of the cost in American lives and prestige . * COMMENTING ON THE ARGENTINE CRISIS LAST week , we said that Colonel PerOn " is not a man who can be casually dismissed . " But none the less we were surprised by his return to power within forty-four hours after his ouster . PerOn 's lightning coup was due- to two factors . first , the incredible naivete of the opposition , which , though it had built up an effective organization in recent months , the ComisiOn de CoordinaciOn Democratica , let a great opportunity slip through its fingers by abandoning its fighting position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Had the forces of the opposition remained on the alert , in the streets , until a Cabinet they could trust had been formed , it would have been extremely difficult , if not impossible , for PerOn to regain control so swiftly . Second , PerOn succeeded in dominating some of the unions through a gang of bogus " labor leaders " whom he bribed and to whom he gave unlimited authority during the twenty-two months he served as Minister of Labor . We repeat that the reputable trade unions never fell for PerOn 's propaganda , but it is undeniably true that thousands of unskilled and non-political workers were won over by leaders who knew how to exploit , to the dictator 's advantage , the widespread dissatisfaction with the economic and social conditions which prevail- throughout South America . One has only to read the list of the new ministers to realize that they are all hand-picked PerOn men . Even Juan Isaac Cooke , the discredited Minister of Foreign Affairs , is back in his old post . The anti-Jewish demonstrations with which the " PerOnistas " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ VENEZUELA THE SITUATION IS LESS CLEAR . Despite the coincidence in the timing of the coups , it would be wrong to assume that the government of President Romulo Bettancourt is another PerOn or Bolivian dictatorship . The Cabinet includes men of unquestionably democratic conviction , and its first pronouncement on foreign affairs , to the effect that Venezuela would never establish diplomatic relations with Franco or Trujillo , is a good sign  --  although we must not forget that the Bolivian regime also severed relations with Spain . Not so promising was its more cautious statement about Argentina . Moreover , two generals who have announced their support of the regime , Celestino Hernandez , commander of Maracay , and Leon Jurado , Governor of Falcon State in western Venezuela , were long associated with the most despicable tyrant of Latin America , the super-killer Juan Vicente Gomez . If the new ministers and young officers , most of them educated abroad , who revolted against the Medina regime really want a progressive and socialist Venezuela , they will recall to service such able and sincere democrats as Rafael Vega @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has taken refuge in the Mexican embassy in Caracas . 419 THAT THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN Revolution have no respect for the egalitarian principles of their ancestors is not news . No one was surprised when they refused to rent their Washington auditorium , Constitution Hall , to the pianist Hazel Scott simply because Miss Scott is a Negro . Their rule that the hall shall be available to " white artists only , " they said , conforms to the " prevailing custom " of the District of Columbia . A fine excuse for descendants of revolutionists ! Better manners , if not greater intelligence , might theoretically have been expected of ladies who pride themselves on their blue blood , but actually there is nothing in the record of the D. A. R to justify that expectation . Perhaps it is best not to appeal to their sensibilities . A more effective key to the doors of Constitution Hall is the effort of Representatives John M. Coffee , Emmanuel Celler , and Helen Gahagan Douglas to rescind the tax exemption which this exclusive club enjoys in its capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ladies ' champion in this embarrassing situation is the unmannerly Representative John E. Rankin . That Mrs. Truman consented to take tea with them after their disgraceful behavior is regrettable . She missed an opportunity to reassert the principles of her ancestors and theirs by resigning from the D. A. R. X -- AT THE INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION Conference in Chicago nearly a year ago , Adolf A. Berle , Jr , called in ringing tones for freedom of competition in the air and successfully blocked proposals for a body to regulate international air traffic as the Civil Aeronautics Board regulates domestic American air lines . His stand was generally applauded by American aviation interests with the exception of Pan-American Airways , then still hoping to be appointed a " chosen instrument " with a sole franchise to carry the American flag on transocean routes . Despite this victory for free competition , however , an article in The Nation ventured to suggest that if public regulation were ruled out , private regulation would almost certainly be attempted . That prophecy is now well on the way to fulfilment . Meeting at Montreal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air lines of various nationalities have adhered , set up nine regional traffic " conferences " covering all international routes . These conferences are to determine policies , in so far as they can reach unanimous agreements , on a number of matters of common interest , with " tariffs , rates , and schedules " the first items on the list . Thus , following the example of the shipping industry , which has long employed " conferences " to bar " uneconomic competition , " the air lines have turned their back on Mr Berle 's ideals It was inevitable that they would , for air transport is a form of public utility the development of which by means of unlimited competition would surely result in unsafe and uneconomic practices . Since most of the air lines belonging to the I. A. T. A. are government-owned , the conference method adopted at Montreal may be regarded as a backdoor method of introducing the public regulation which the United States rejected at Chicago . To our way of thinking , however , it would be better if the oversight of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose members could approach their task more judicially than airline executives .                     