@@487524

OPPOSITION TO FRANCO , FOR THE FIRST time since his seizure of power , has gone to the extreme of public demonstration and strikes , with hungry Spaniards marching through the streets of Madrid and shouting for food and better wages . The impression created abroad has been the stronger because the marchers were not industrial workers but bank clerks , seldom given to violent forms of protest . As a consequence , the authorities were embarrassed to the point of feeling obliged to issue an announcement pretending that the demonstration had been organized by the Falange . But nobody inside or outside Spain was deceived . The Madrid hunger march was a well-organized protest carried out on the initiative of the bank employees and in unequivocal defiance of the government and the Falange . Less sensational but hardly less significant are the student strikes , still spreading at this moment . A totalitarian regime tends to look solid and unbreakable until the moment when it begins to fall ' to pieces , but even the impression of strength has been vanishing fast from the Spanish scene . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political complexion have reported the ' regime in an advanced stage of internal decomposition , maintained only by police action and by rumors of foreign loans . Reynolds News in England , the New York Post-Home News through the intecresting dispatches of Seymour Freidin , the Wall Street journal , the National Zeitung of Basle , the FrancTireur of Paris , now vigorously anti-Communist  --  all have arrived at the same conclusion : Franco 's last remaining hope is in the peripatetic American Senators and Congressmen who visit Spain and then go home to advocate support for the Spanish dictator . It is time for President Truman or Secretary Acheson to repudiate this irresponsible agitation , whose only effect is to compromise the position of the Administration in the eyes of democrats everywhere . IN RESORTING AGAIN TO THE THREE-DAY work week for his miners , John L. Lewis has admitted a defeat , but he is retreating in good order to what the war communiqu  --  s used to call a " previously prepared position . " For three weeks in November his men worked without a contract as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public convenience " ? and , far from incidentally , to give Lewis a chance to probe for soft spots in the front presented by the mine operators . When he found no such spot , he appeared to face a choice between surrender and a prolonged and bitter struggle . If he yielded , he would probably have been through as a first-class power in the labor movement . If he had ordered a protracted strike , he would have forced the President in time to invoke the hated Taft-Hartley act . In either case trade unions as a whole would have suffered their worst setback in a decade , for the smashing of the United Mine Workers would have reawakened the hopes of every anti-union industrialist in the land . So it is that in spite of his high-handed methods , his arbitrary use of power , and his plain cussedness , labor in general will be glad that the wily Lewis has slipped out of a tight spot , The three-day week will provide enough coal to preclude emergency action by the government and still give the miners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the operators on an individual basis . As fast as they sign up they will get a five-day production schedule . At the same time , the miners themselves , restive over having lost eighty days this year in response to Mr. Lewis 's signals , will be assured an income during the pre-holiday season . All in all , the lone wolf of labor has made the best of an ugly situation created in part by his own recklessness . POWERFUL IMPETUS TO A MORE RAPID settlement of outstanding Palestine problems has been given by the United Nations through its action on Arab refugees and developments on the Jerusalem question . This progress is due to the fact that for the first time the focus of big-power maneuvers is not Israeli concessions to the Arab ' states but Arab concessions to reality . The $54,000,000 voted without dissent is more than a relief and work program for needy Arabs . The reference to " Palestine " refugees in the title of the new agency and the reiteration of the right of Arabs to return to their former homes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face-saving devices . By agreeing to permit the program to be conducted in their territories the Arab states have opened the door to permanent resettlement of the refugees . This the Arab- states know very well . To be sure , the works program will benefit these states , but a year ago that would have been an insufficient inducement . Their sudden acquiescence means only that stubbornness is no longer being encouraged . The United States and Britain have discovered that a final peace settlement is desirable and that Israel - cannot be blackmailed into endangering its own existence . THIS PUBLIC DEMONSTRATION THAT THEY have lost the war is a bitter pill for the Arabs to swallow . It accounts for the violence of their effort to win a victory on Jerusalem . But here , too , they are doomed to defeat . There is no possibility that the General Assembly will vote for the complete internationalization of the Jerusalem area . The reasons are several : first , most of the delegates realize that the opposition of Israel and Jordan makes implementation impossible ; second , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and freedom of access assured without internationalizing the city and its people ; third , internationalization in the 1947 sense is opposed by , the United States : A new rallying point has been provided by the resolution introduced by Sweden and the Netherlands . Based on the **25;720;TOOLONG concept , this resolution deals solely with United Nations supervision of the Holy Places . As we go to press , the Swedish-Dutch proposal appears to have a good chance of being adopted . Should it fail , no other plan will win the necessary two-thirds ' majority . This would mean that Israel and Jordan would continue their present control , ruling out any future international supervision not agreed to by both countries . ) ( - WHAT THE COUNTRY NEEDS RIGHT NOW , according to a Long Island University law instructor , is annuities for cats . All too often , Milton Fisher told a group of cat lovers last week , an owner dies and " the cat is left out in the cold , " dependent on the dictates of a Surrogate 's Court that may be utterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not share the view of James F. Byrnes that " too , many people not to say too many cats are thinking of security instead of opportunity , " - but we do feel that pensions for cats pushes the welfare principle pretty far . Moreover , the system would introduce a marked injustice . The cat in the street , the common cat whose century this is supposed to be , would either have to buy its insurance , with funds acquired by selling mice to the new rentier class , or it would have to rely on an improbable expansion of federal social security . But the worst aspect of the Fisher plan is the effect it would have on character , if we may say so without sounding too much like a news release from the Re-'publican National Committee . Could anything be more offensively smug than a cat with an independent in-come ? IT IS IS ONLY HUMAN FOR BRITISH TORIES TO hail the victory last week of the Nationalists in New Zealand as a promising omen for their own success in next year 's general election . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indeed the bellwether of the Commonwealth , its experience equally suggests that many years may elapse before voters of the mother country follow its swerve to the right . For the New Zealand Labor Party won a sweeping victory as long ago as 1935 and since ' then has come back at three successive general elections , though with progressively smaller majorities . That after so extended a term of office the tide should have turned against it is scarcely surprising . What , is noteworthy is that it has solidly established a " mixed economy " in New Zealand and forced its conservative opponents to accept a large part of its program . The Nationalists , in fact , won a " me-too " campaign . New Zealand , therefore , is likely to remain one of the most advanced of all welfare states . It has always been a leader in this respect , being , the first country in the world to introduce old-age pensions . A decade later , in 1908 , Britain followed its example . The Labor regime of the past fourteen years has strengthened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic utilities and services had long been publicly owned . The country has been prosperous , enjoying full employment and a high standard of living . But it has had its share of post-war economic difficulties , and the government has had to bear the blame for high taxes and some unpopular restrictions . The Nationalists have promised to reduce taxes and controls and promote free enterprise , while maintaining social-security benefits and wages . Conservatives in many lands , including our own , will no doubt observe with aiious ' interest their success in performing this trick . ATOMIC ENERGY 'S PROMISE OF AN ERA OF constructive scientific accomplishment is slowly taking on substance . New processes based on radioactive materials produced in the Atomic Energy Commission 's " nuclear ovens " are beginning to appear in textiles , petroleum-refining , and several other industries . And last week the AEC announced that blueprints have been completed for a pile to " breed " atomic fuel . The " breeder " occupies a critical place in the complicated technology which is to bring atomic power . It- will convert Uranium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atomic fuel . Without breeding , we would have only the single naturally occurring fissionable material , Uranium 235 , which forms only 1/140 of natural uranium , the remainder being non-fissionable U-238 ; atomic energy , consequently , would hardly be a practical proposition . Well-informed scientists have been confident right along that breeding was practical- and had no fears concerning the availability of atomic fuel , since plutonium has been made for five years by a closely similar process . Nevertheless , it is impressive to see the first breeder pile , which was designed by the AEC 's Argonne Laboratory and will be erected at the new atomic-test station in Idaho , advance toward actual construction . Vigorous development of constructive uses for the atom is , in the last analysis , the best antidote to overemphasis of its military role . The world could do with more news like the development of the breeder , and with less like the announcement , the next day , of a new series of atom-bomb tests at the Eniwetok proving ground . ? Soviet Tactics and Soviet Fears BY FREDA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia wants to avoid war , is genuinely fearful of ? encirclement and ultimate attack from the West , and counts upon the predicted collapse of Western capitalism to open the way for Communist revolution throughout the world . Meantime it will try to expose the " imperialist , militarist " policies of the " West , led by America , line up the " progressive " elements in all , z , countries behind its own " peace " program , solidify the Soviet bloc or punish defections therefrom  --  and prepare for war , if war should come . ( The quotes are not Stalin 's . ) Translated into action this short-range program entails some behavior that may , from a short-range Western view , look more provocative than pacific . ut that is a question of strategy and does not destroy the validity of the assumption that Russia wants to prevent a shooting or in more modern lingo a nuclear-explosive war . For Russia may believe it must take the risk of provoking the West to stronger measures in order to expose and attack what it regards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peaceful desires . it may believe that only by doing this cane it arouse and mobilize the foreign progressives to whom it looks for support , as well as its own population , which must bend to the stern dictates of a war economy . If Russia does accept these postulates  --  however preposterous they may appear to most Americans  --  then the conduct of the Soviet delegates at Lake 560 Success , as of Russian officials and agents and Soviet sympathizers throughout the world , becomes intelligible . It does not , however , become intelligent . In fact , the course of recent events in the United Nations , as well as in Europe , proves how stupid and ill-conceived it is . For Moscow has managed to alienate many persons who in the past have strained their emotions and ? their credulity to the limit in an effort to believe the whole Soviet case , and has , in fact , weakened that case even where it was strong . Its initial " peace " move in the U. N. Assembly  --  a sensible enough proposal for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rousing denunciation of the United States and Britain as warmongers . Mr. Vishinsky may believe them to be warmongers ; doubtless he does . But if he had intended the resolution as a serious effort to end the schisms among the wartime Allies , he ! would have concealed his views long enough to permit the resolution to be debated on its merits . One must assume that he intended it , rather , as a demonstration to the world of Russia 's peaceable desires , in contrast to the warlike attitude of the Western powers . But even this lesser aim could have been achieved only if the resolution had looked like the real thing . To be an effective demonstration , it should have been so phrased that the warmongers would have had to reject an apparently serious proposal , not a rider attached to an insult . When they voted it down , by the conventional fifty-three to five , the U. S. S. R. had proved nothing . It might , by other means , have put the The NATION West on an uncomfortable spot . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Washington and Whitehall . pursue many policies that conflict sharply with their own successful counter-resolution calling on member nations to rededicate themselves to the principles laid down in the Charter . The same tactics spoiled the effect of Mr. Vishinsky 's presentation of Russia 's position on atomic control . At no time did he argue his case like a man who is trying to win it . Russia has a case , or a partial one . Vishinsky squandered it in an attempt to score points off his opponents . His last fairly detailed explanation of the Russian plan for international inspection of atomic installations and the degree of control it would permit was spiked with attacks on the motives of America and a contemptuous rejection of the delegation of Nationalist China . This last item , though no more than a parenthesis , was inevitably seized upon and played up in the press to the virtual exclusion of the solid substance of the talk . If this was unfair , one can only say that Mr. Vishinsky provided an almost irresistible opportunity for unfairness . - But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triple-barreled pronunciamiento issued in Moscow last week . Here in a single package the Cominform presented the world with a demand for ( 1 ) the consolidation and extension of a peace movement directed against the Anglo-American bloc and " its policy of preparing a new war , " ( 2 ) the enlistment in this movement of all labor and democratic groups interested in defending peace , and ( 3 ) the unleashing of a struggle in which political , economic , and " other measures , " should be combined to overthrow Marshal Tito and his clique of reactionaries , traitors , spies , and lackeys of the American imperialists . Speaking in the Assembly , Ambassador Kosanovich remarked that Yugoslavia saw in the attitude of the Cominform " a danger for the peace and independence of small countries . " One need not exaggerate its importance as a threat of war  --  nor did the Yugoslav Ambassador do so  --  but it is a little difficult to regard the Cominform blast as a promising move toward peace . If the . Russians seriously hope to pull together another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the ruling circles of the United States , " then they should be warned that they are going about it the wrong way . Only a Stalinist of unquestioning orthodoxy would join a movement which asked its followers , first , to attack their own government with the venom of a Vishinsky , and , second , to promote peace by liquidating a government whose sin was to assert its independence of Moscow . What such a statement really proclaims is Moscow 's angry recognition that the Tito rebellion threatens the whole hierarchical structure of party and state in Eastern Europe . For Russia to smash this rebellion by war would presumably be easy . But war against Tito would not only invite the danger of general war ; it would also create a state of total demoralization in the " family of Socialist states . " Tito must be discredited as a traitor to communism ; overthrown if possible from ' within ; if that is impossible , crushed by boycott and blockade ; if that fails , attacked by saboteurs and guerrilla raids and pilloried by " democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the " warmongers . " Meanwhile every Communist leader who shows signs of supporting Tito 's rebellion , or of harboring rebellious inclinations of his own , must be put out of the way . The intensity of the purge in the other Eastern countries , and in Communist parties elsewhere , is in direct proportion to the successful resistance of the Yugoslays as well as to Russia 's fears of Western encirclement . It is one thing , however , to carry through this ruthless program as part of a drive to maintain Russian dominance in ' the Eastern bloc or in the Communist movement . It is another to incorporate it in a " peace " campaign for which Moscow hopes to win popular support . Na single aspect of Soviet policy has caused such soul-searching among fellow-travelers or such sharp divisions - within the various Communist parties themselves as the attack on Yugoslavia . As for the miscellaneous labor and liberal groups to whom the latest Cominform statement appeals , they are least of all likely , in the name of peace , to join a crusade against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the hazard of its very existence . The Great Kickback P SYCHIATRISTS could have a field-day with J. Parnell Thomas . So much of the man 's political activity has been a reflection of his own guilt . Here was the fierce patriot , dedicated to eliminating conspirators against the government . As he described himself only a year ago , he was " one who stood up against the enemies of this country and did not cower before them . " And all the time he was himself engaged in a shabby little conspiracy to pilfer funds from the public treasury . Here was a man whose Committee on Un-American Activities made much of every little variant in the names of witnesses brought before it . Was he subconsciously concerned over his own change from Feeney to Thomas ? ( He kept the " Parnell " for the Irish vote . ) Here , too , was the implacable prosecutor heaping scorn and abuse on those who refused to answer questions on the ground that their testimony might be self-incriminating . Yet when his own thievery caught up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jury . Not one slippery trick went untried by this " protector " of the American way of life . When the Department of Justice first brought the charge that he had padded his pay roll with people whose only work was to " kick back " their salaries to the Congressman , he was the spirit of outraged innocence . The accusation was " despicable and revolting , " " cheap Pendergast politics , " a pre-election maneuver to take the Administration off the spot for its " failure to do its duty " in crushing Communists . All he asked was his day in court , but he wanted that day to be put off until after the elections for the sake of clean politics . His request was allowed ; and , insisting that the charges were " baseless " and a " vicious smear , " that he would ' clear himself in court , he was reelected . In due course he went before the grand jury , refused to talk , was indicted , and launched a series of delaying maneuvers that saved him for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomas soon perceived the difference between the judicial process and the workings of his own committee . Here were no klieg lights , no flag-waving rhetoric , and no press releases from the bench ; only legitimate evidence and documentary proof . Unused to such outlandish procedure , Torquemada collapsed and threw himself on the mercy of the court . If there is any moral to be drawn from the fate of J. Parnell Thomas it is that patrioteering  --  not " patriotism , " as Samuel Johnson had it ? " is the last refuge of a scoundrel. "                     