@@171912

To survey the world crisis and chart a realistic Christian course of action , 400 delegates representing more than 35 million U.S. Protestants met in Cleveland this week , under the auspices of the Federal Council of Churches . This conference on " The Churches and World Order " was the third such church discussion of inter national affairs to be sponsored by the Federal Council . The first , in 1942 at Delaware , Ohio , produced the famed " Six Pillars of Peace , " which stressed the need for a postwar world organization . The second , at Cleveland in 1945 , prophesied against the moral nihilism of the Dumbarton Oaks Charter and effectively demanded that the United Nations Charter should pay its respects to the Christian concepts of justice , law and human rights . * This week 's meeting was opened with a speech by John Foster Dulles , delegate to U.N. , who , for eight years as Chairman of the Commission on A Just and Durable Peace , has led a devoted band of Christian thinkers in serious efforts to apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world as it is . This time he was able to show that Protestant influence had been effective in leading the U.S. away from isolationism toward a sense of realistic responsibility for the peace and liberty of men &; women in other countries . Illusion V. Faith . According to Dulles , it is quite wrong to say that a third world war is inevitable . " Today there are assets for peace which were wholly lacking before World War II . " Specifically , he said , " we are largely cured of the illusion that words are a substitute for deeds , and we know that a just and durable peace can not be achieved merely by ... heads of states meeting to proclaim it . " <P> " Our churches , " declared Dulles , " have played a notable part in changing the attitudes of our people . . . " It was Christian leadership , he said , that committed the U.S. to helping weaker nations ( e.g. , the Marshall Plan ) , while it permitted a big stick to enforce a just and Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past three years , our nation has dealt with the Soviet Union on a basis that has been firm but that , for the most part , avoided provocation , it is largely because our Christian people have , on the one hand , seen the danger lying behind beguiling Communist propaganda , but have also seen that there was no inevitability of war . " <P> The Churches ' Role . In waging the cold war , Dulles warned , the Russians are doing their best to trick the U.S. into rushing to the defense of unjustifiable attitudes . " Soviet leadership is astute in aiming its assaults against positions in the non-Communist world that are indefensible , morally or practically . . . We need not laud or sanctify whatever or whomever Communism attacks , and our material support should principally serve to sustain , fortify and enlarge human freedom and healthy economic and social conditions . "                     