@@475576

pUBLIC attention and policy during the past decade have centered themselves primarily on the visible effects of the conflict between labor and management . And , while we tinkered with symptoms , the conflict itself has grown more intense and more bitter all the time , until today both labor and management seem to he engaged in an armament race for bigger and better industrial warfare . Punitive legislation against the " excesses of labor " ? now hawked about as the panacea ? will improve matters just as little as the punitive laws against the excesses of management in which the New Deal put its faith . The point is fast approaching when the conviction ? still that of a minority today in this country ? that labor strife isinevitable and inherent in industrial society will become generally accepted . From this conviction it is but a short step to complete government regimentation of industry and labor . No society can allow itself to be disrupted by incessant civil warfare between such powerful groups as labor and management . And a free society is possible only if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supports it actively and loyally . The most urgent need of domestic policy today , in this and in all other industrial countries , is to work at the causes of labor conflict , their diagnosis and control . We can not even escape any longer into the complacent belief of an earlier generation that a radical change in the legal structure of the economy such as the " elimination of the capitalist " will abolish or even significantly mitigate labor conflict . It is no accident that we no longer talk of the conflict between capital and labor but of that between management and labor . For we know ? from first-hand reports of Western engineers working in Russia under lend-lease , as well as from official Russian publications themselves ? that the industrial manager in the Soviet Union , although he does not have to worry about union trouble , faces pretty much the same labor relations problems as his colleagues in capitalist countries . And the first and biggest problem which has been confronting European socialism in nationalizing industries , in Britain as well as in France and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager and the workers . This conflict is obviously rooted in conditions , relations , and policies general to modern industry and technology rather than specific to this or that " system . " What we need is not an ideology but a science ? a new science of industrial peace . T now science ? or art ? of industrial peace ( like polities , it is both ) is still in its infancy . Our ignorance still covers a much larger area than our knowledge . Also , we have concentrated our attention on manufacturing industries and have rather neglected industrial relations in the numerically more important distributing and service trades . But largely unnoticed by the general public ? lawmakers , managers , and union leaders alike , we have amassed during the past quarter century a very considerable amount of knowledge and experience about the nature of human relations in industry ; and we have acquired at least an elementary understanding of the proper policies to make the worker not only contented but eventually an active partner and citizen in the industrial community . Not that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and we shall never find any ? but we have reached definite and concrete conclusions , both about the nature of the industrial disease and about its cure . These conclusions are all based on actual clinical work on labor relations done at the spot where labor MAGAZINE trouble is caused , that is , in the plant . The first conclusion is that the causes of labor conflict and labor unrest are almost always to be found in concrete policies and in objective conditions , not in somebody 's villainy . This is in sharp contrast to the popular belief that labor conflict and labor peace are primarily a matter of personalities , of the " good boss " and the " bad boss , " the " good American worker " and the " bad " and presumably un-American worker . This popular belief , which explains why so many managements still select labor relations men according to the criteria for a good scoutmaster , also explains why such an amazingly large number of people are willing to accept the Daily Worker 's thesis that labor conflict is caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and striped pants who breakfasts on unemployed proletarians ; or its counterpart , the thesis that all trouble is caused by the " alien labor agitator " who , in broken English , poisons the minds of perfectly happy and contented American workers . Undoubtedly there are still a good many employers who try to exploit their workers and who abuse their power over them ; and they have their counterpart on the labor side . But compared to the disastrous effects of wrong policies , those of wickedness or bad faith are truly negligible . While it would be foolish to deny that a labor relations man must have political flair and a genuine interest in people , the most ideal " leader " will fail if he employs the wrong policies and fails to remove the objective causes of labor trouble in his plant . The second general conclusion also runs counter to prevailing beliefs . This conclusion is that wage rates are rarely an important cause of labor trouble in American industry , except in a few areas of substandard wages , such as in the Southern cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are genuine disputes in which the interests of the employer and worker are in opposition ? though even this opposition is more a result of bad policies than inherent in the subject . But wage disputes are most unlikely to become conflicts or to lead to industrial warfare unless there is bitterness and mutual distrust in the plant for some other and more profound reason . Wage conflicts are effects and symptoms rather than causes , releases for tension and resentments built up in human rather than in financial relations . This explains why workers are willing to stay out on strike , as for instance last year at General Motors , even though the most complete victory could not make good the income they lose because of the strike . The third general conclusion from our work in industrial relations is that there as no one cause of labor conflict . The tendency to over-emphasize one cause ? a tendency from which very few people in the field are themselves entirely free ? is actually in itself a major cause of trouble . Almost every conflict is the result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each conflict has to be diagnosed individually and prescribed for individually . w r there are a few important causes one or more of which ? though in greatly varying proportions and in constantly shifting weight ? can usually be found at the bottom of industrial conflict and labor unrest . These main sources of trouble , listed in purely arbitrary order , are : ( 1 ) Managerial unfairness ( or the appearance of managerial unfairness ) in the handling of contractual relations : especially in the treatment of grievances , in the establishment of wage differentials between different jobs , in making plant rules and in changing them , and in promoting and firing workers . ( 2 ) The physiological and psychological effects of certain types of assembly line work . ( 3 ) The tendency throughout industry to organize work and pay scales in such a way as to set the individual worker against his fellow workers or to isolate him from them . ( 4 ) The economic insecurity of the worker . While these causes for normally good industrial relations . And every one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successfully , at least in part . T HESE conclusions rest on work that has been carried out since the first World War by a great many different men and organizations working largely independently of each other . Among the important workers in the new field ? to name but a few ? have been large corporations , such as Standard Oil , Procter and Gamble , the Bell Telephone Companies , and the Pacific Coast pulp and paper industry ; small business , such as Hormel , the Carrier Corporation , the American Cast Iron Pipe Company in Birmingham , Alabama , Johnson and Johnson in New Brunswick , New Jersey ; some unions and union leaders , notably the International Ladies ' Garment Workers ' Union , the Amalgamated Clothing Workers , Clinton Golden and Harold Guttenberg of the Steel Workers ' , and the anonymous editorial writers of the American Federation of Labor 's American Federationist ; and some labor arbiters , notably Harry Shulman , professor at the Yale Law School , who has been the impartial umpire at Ford 's for the last five years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayo ? for the past twenty years professor of industrial research at the Harvard Business School ? and his associates and disciples . Not only did Mayo initiate the systematic study of industrial relations as early as 1923 , but he has , single handed , given us the principles and methods of industrial diagnosis . His recent little book , The Social Problems of an Industrial Society , which summarizes his entire work , should be required reading for all employers and all union leaders . The diversity of men and organizations working in the field , the great difference in their starting points and approaches , and their independence from each other , give special weight to the impressive unanimity of their conclusions . At the same time , the lack of co-ordination between these men is also largely responsible for the public neglect of their findings . How can the public realize that there is a new systematic discipline of industrial peace as long as most of the men working in it do not themselves see more than their own little corner , and often barely know that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A systematic survey of all the work done , a systematic integration of all our experience ? a job so big that it would probably keep a tri-partite group of business men , labor leaders , and university men busy for several years ? would seem to be the most important step toward labor peace that could be made today . As it is , the necessarily sketchy and over-simplified report in the series of articles of which this is the first , is , to my knowledge , the only attempt so far made to present the field as a whole . II O F THE four prevailing causes of labor conflict , the most general one and the one about which the workers themselves are the most vocal , is the resentment against unfairness ( real or fancied ) on the part of management in the day-to-day handling of its contractual relations with the worker : working rules and their changes , firing and layoffs , promotions , the establishment of wage differentials , and the settlement of grievances . These matters take up the bulk of practically every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these points the unions have gained almost all their specific demands . Occasionally , as in the establishment of the unqualified seniority basis for promotions , they have gained more than is compatible with the best national interest . Yet on the whole , the resentment against managerial unfairness in handling these matters is today as great as it has ever been . The fault is very largely management 's  - -  and it is a fault of elementary political intelligence . Management , especially the subordinate local managers of plants and divisions , have chosen this area as the basis for guerrilla warfare against the unions . They tend to turn every single question of contract interpretation into a test of strength . Actually nothing is less likely to weaken the union or to strengthen management 's authority than this policy of pinpricks , for every single such case is ofdirect and vital importance to an individual worker . Management 's prevailing attitude can only confirm the employee in his belief that the union alone protects him from managerial unfairness and tyranny ; and it also puts a premium on union pugnacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex out of the area of conflict . This can be done only by admitting the workers to full and equal partnership and responsibility in all decisions that come up under the union contract or under the rules of the plant . This , for instance , is the solution worked out by the Pacific Coast pulp and paper industry . Joint responsibility for all contract matters is the central plank on which this industry has built a structure of exceptionally good industrial relations ? particularly impressive in view of the acute state of conflict in so many Pacific Coast industries , especially in the neighboring logging industry . In the Pacific Coast pulp and paper industry there are joint committees to handle rules , firing , grievances , and promotions . These committees are composed equally of elected worker members and management representatives . With the exception of promotions , on which management has the final say , every decision has to be made by a majority of the representatives of either side . There is a system of immediate appeals all the way up to an industry-wide joint committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services have never , however , been invoked so far ) . Wage differentials are . worked out by a joint management-union job analysis board for the whole industry . This does not differ too much from other union contracts . What makes it stand out is the spirit rather than the letter of the law . And this spirit finds expression in several distinctly unusual provisions . First , the joint management-worker committees in many of the plants meet regularly whether there is something to decide or not . This makes it possible to iron out many difficulties before they ever become grievances , and to discuss changes in working rules well in advance of a decision . It also makes the normal contact between management and workers ' representatives a friendly one ? in sharp contrast to that in most companies , where management and workers ' representatives never meet except to fight something out . Another important point is that grievances must be settled immediately . If not disposed of within five days they go automatically to appeal ; and the five-day rule applies to the appeals boards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as seriously as the worker does . Normally a manager will tend to forget that a detail such as a two weeks ' suspension of a man somewhere down the line is not a minor but a very major matter for the man himself , and will tend to delay dealing with it until his desk is cleared of more important things . Nothing causes as much resentment as such delay , which , to the worker , looks like deliberate stalling . ( This may seem an unimportant detail ; but so few managers understand the importance of grievances that one labor relations expert in a big company considered himself singularly successful in having convinced his plant manager after five years of insistent work that grievances must be attended to right away . ) Another special feature of the Pacific Coast pulp and paper industry plan is its handling of layoffs . The workers in the individual plants are normally asked to decide themselves whether a cut in the working force should be carried through by laying off workers according to seniority or through a share-the-work plan . Finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the goldfish bowl . " The actual talks are in the hands of two teams of about ten men each , but surrounding them in the room sit some sixty employer representatives from individual plants and a hundred and fifty delegates from the local unions . As a result , the local men on both sides are thoroughly familiar with the provisions of the contract , with the interpretation agreed upon by their representatives , and with the reasons behind them . Other companies which have worked out similar ways of handling contractual relations ? notably Standard Oil and the American Cast Iron Pipe Company ? have had the same good results . In every case the key to a successful solution is recognition on the part of management that these decisions are of such overwhelming importance to the individual worker , and to the workers as a whole , that they can be taken only with the joint participation and responsibility of the workers ' representatives . III TF THE worker 's resentment of manage-1 Hal unfairness in the handling of contract matters is his most vocal grievance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is as a rule hidden even from himself . But this situation is rapidly changing , perhaps because the original " immigrant " generation of assembly line operators and the " hill-billies " were as much immigrants as the " Bohunks " and the " Canucks " ? is being replaced by Detroit- and Cleveland-born workers . Today it is particularly the returning veterans who begin to rebel against the psychological and physiological damage of the traditional assembly line ; with amazing unanimity veterans ' vocational advisers hold this feeling primarily responsible for the aversion of these men to assembly-line work . In traditional mass production ? as in the Ford assembly line ? there are three things that cause severe disturbances . First , the worker is confined to one motion : a fact which results in fatigue , in physiological and neurological damage ( tics , headaches , deafness , neuritis ) , and finally in a numb resentment . Second , the worker is chained to the speed and rhythm of the slowest man on the line and is not allowed to work at his own speed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nervousness , and jerkiness . Finally , the worker never does a whole job , never makes anything that he can identify as his own personal product ; this leads to lack of interest and to a deep sense of frustration . These dissatisfactions are not inevitable results of following the principles of mass production . They result , not from its basic concepts , but from the unthinking use of the human being as if he were a machine tool designed for one purpose only . It is on this assumption that the time-motion studies of Taylor and speed-up systems such as that of Bedaux are based . But , needless to say , this is a grass abuse , or misuse , of that wonderful , multi-purpose tool , the human being ; and like all abuse of tools , it results in low productive efficiency and in shoddy work . The traditional assembly line is simply a piece of poor engineering judged by the standards of human relations , as well as by those of productive efficiency and output , During the war we learned ? by necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembly line is not indispensable , but that is very often a highly inefficient way to apply mass production principles . We were forced to mass-produce a great many products , such as bombsights , which for technical reasons could not be handled on the orthodox assembly line . In other cases , the available labor supply made it impossible to use the orthodox methods . Thus engineers were forced to think about the fundamentals of mass production , rather than to copy traditional methods blindly ; and the results of this first critical analysis were amazing . m Ass production rests on three prin- ciples : the breaking up of a complex , skilled operation into its component eleImentary and unskilled motions ; the syn , ehronization of the flow of materials with human operation ; and the interchangeability of parts . Of these only the first matters here . In the traditional assembly line each of the elementary motions is performed by a separate worker ; the intellectual process of analysis is laid out in space with each separate analytical step represented by a separate worker . This would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right ? method if the work were done by single-purpose machine tools , such as a reamer or a trip hammer . But it makes no sense if we use people to do the work . The right method , as we found in literally hundreds of instances during the war , is to lay out the assembly in concept rather than in space . This means that we still go through the breakdown of the operation into elementary motions . But instead of having each motion performed separately by one worker , a whole sequence of motions is performed one after the other by one worker . At Cadillac in Detroit , for instance , completely unskilled and industrially inexperienced Negro women made a high precision aluminum part for aircraft engines ; each one turning out a finished product . Every girl worked by a chart which showed in three parallel columns what to do next ; what to look for before doing it ; speed , temperature , etc. ; and what the step accomplished . The worker still did nothing but unskilled motions which were easy to learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these women than it would have taken to train them for orthodox assembly line work . But every girl did a whole operation which brought into play one muscle after the other , thus giving the whole body a chance to rest and a chance to develop a working rhythm . Also each girl could work at her own speed and could vary the speed , in itself one of the best means of combating fatigue . And each worker produced an entire product with all the satisfaction that goes with it . As a result , there was not only a highly satisfied and happy laboring force ; there was also an extremely efficient one which produced more than could have been produced on the orthodox assembly line . It is not likely that the lessons learned during the war will soon be applied wholesale to peacetime production . In the first place managers , very understandably , went straight back during reconversion to the old methods which they knew and understood , instead of experimenting with new ideas . Also , there are certainly some operations ? the final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods could be applied only with great difficulty , if at all . The main obstacle to the large-scale application of the new method is , however , that we still lack a sufficient theoretical understanding of its principles . It is clear that Taylor did only the first half of the job when he analyzed individual motions . But the second half ? the integration of the individual motions into a work pattern ? has still to be done . On the other hand , many engineers have learned that the new method pays in terms of productive efficiency , and are therefore likely to try to work out , for peacetime use , methods similar to those that produced such good results during the war . If they succeed , they will have done much to combat a major cause of dissatisfaction and resentment among workers . IF THE traditional assembly line method I creates emotional and physiological disturbances because it violates the simple truth that man is a being rather than a machine tool , the even more general tendency to organize the worker 's work in such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in opposition to , his fellow workers violates the equally basic truth that man is a political being . No one finding in the whole field of industrial relations is as well-documented as the one that men spontaneously , and by their nature , work in groups and that any policy or organization that disturbs or tears apart the team is bound to cause severe trouble . Elton Mayo has made this his particular field of study . His first experiment in a Philadelphia cotton mill in 1923 ( just after he had come to this country from his native Australia ) , his now classic studies at the Western Electric plant at Hawthorne , Illinois , in the late twenties , and his latest work in West Coast aircraft plants during the war , all bring out the profound importance of teamwork for human satisfaction , emotional and physical balance , and productivity . Yet of all the major causes of labor trouble , this is the one that managements pay the least attention to ? probably because the workers themselves are so rarely vocal about it . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two neighboring Midwestern cities ( let us call them Indianapolis and Dayton , though those are n't the real names ) . Both plants were run by the same company and they produced identical goods , prepared and laid out by the same engineering department . Yet they differed markedly in their performance . The Dayton plant ? an old ramshackle building hastily converted to war use ? did a superb job , regularly exceeded its production quota , had a very low labor turnover in an area with a rapidly shifting working population , and had a low absenteeism rate , a low accident rate , and generally satisfactory labor relations . The Indianapolis plant ? brand new and specially built for this war job ? worked rather poorly with a productivity one-sixth less than Dayton , plenty of labor turnover , too many accidents , and pretty badly strained labor relations . What baffled the engineers most was that every single manipulation was done faster in Indianapolis ? yet the end result was less output . There was but one difference between the two plants . In the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been worked out in advance by an ultra-progressive management ; all he had to do was to follow instructions . In Dayton there had been no time to do that . Management had done the over-all engineering and had worked out the general layout of each operation ; but it had had to leave the actual details to be worked out by each group of men among themselves and with their foremen . Management ? by necessity , not by choice ? did not interfere as long as the production quota set by its engineers was reached and surpassed . The superintendent who showed me around in Dayton apologized all the time for what he called the lack of neatness ; for no two aisles did the job quite the same way or at quite the same speed . In one group the same man would always hold the cylinder block while the cylinder heads were put on by four others ; in the next group the men would rotate , etc . In Indianapolis , on the other hand , everybody did the same job in the same way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happy plant " ; Indianapolis was miserable . In Dayton every single group of men insisted on showing our party how they did the job . There was a friendly rivalry between the aisles , the atmosphere was unhurried and easygoing , and the men talked to one another while they worked . In Indianapolis everybody was far too busy to look up from his work when we passed by . They hardly talked to one another for fear of falling behind . In the middle of our tour the manager was called away ? trouble had flared up in one department , there had been a fight , and the men had walked out in a " quickie strike , " the second in four days . ft took the bosses some time to find out that it was precisely the " lack of neatness " ? supposedly so deplorable that was re-sponsible for the good showing of the Dayton plant . And it took even longer to introduce the Dayton methods in Indianapolis ; both the local managers and the workers resisted it at first . But a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a system under which every aisle was working as a team ; and both plants were equally efficient and enjoyed equally good labor relations . One conclusion from these experiences is that management should consciously try to encourage the workers ' natural tendency to work as a team . And the team should have joint responsibility for such matters as the actual division of work , the arrangement of rest periods and " days off , " etc . Also , much more care must be taken in the selection as well as in the training of the foremen . Another , perhaps even more important , conclusion is that if management attempts to set the individual worker against the group , this is certain to cause trouble . Above all , it is likely that incentive wage plans that offer bonuses to individual workers do more harm than good , a suspicion supported by our experience with such plans . Group incentive plans there arc several successful ones in use , one , for instance , in relation to apprentice training at the Infant Sock Company in Reading , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of the whole team , including the foreman , and in which all members of the team share in the rewards for increased productivity , are much more likely to promote both greater productivity and greater satisfaction on the part of the workers . EVERYBODY realizes today that a sense of economic insecurity is a major source of unhappiness and opposition among ' workers . Indeed , we are in danger of overemphasizing this feature in the labor picture to the neglect of other equally important ones . Much has been done , too , to improve conditions in this respect . In three ways the worker now has a great deal more security than he had even a decade ago : first , through the spread ofinsurance protection against the results of old age , illness , accident , and death ( the pioneering job here was done by Standard Oil of New Jersey ) ; second , through seniority protection in his job ; and third , through the almost general replacement of arbitrary firing by a negotiated code of rules and joint union-management grievance procedure . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has to do with fundamentals rather than with techniques . People often ask why the worker should enjoy any more economic security than the doctor , the lawyer , the farmer , or the cigar-store owner . This question so completely misses the point as to illuminate it . In the first place , there is the basic difference that the worker by his own efforts can not do anything at all to counteract the effect of economic fluctuations on his own economic position . No amount of ingenuity or inventiveness , no amount of skill can help him if he has no job ; for without access to tools ? that is , to the machines in the plant ? the worker can not produce anything at all and is condemned to social ineffectiveness . In the second place , the whole tendency of industrial thought and action ? and in this respect there is not the slightest difference between capitalism and socialism ? has been to conserve machinery and materials rather than to conserve the workers . Machinery is regarded as " capital equipment " which must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not in use , and must be serviced on a long-term basis . Labor , on the other hand , is treated as if it were a raw material ? to be bought or not bought , as business conditions may warrant . In an extreme form this attitude showed itself in the depression when panic-stricken managements fired even the literally irreplaceable corps of foremen and skilled workers . This was a principal cause of the present deep discontent among foremen and of the success of the drive to unionize them . A plant manager once complained to me that the front office , while always willing to allot money for a scheme that would lead to a more balanced utilization of warehouse space , never spent a cent to achieve a more balanced utilization of manpower . And there is certainly some truth in the statement of one of the nation 's leading labor relations experts ? the vice-president of a big corporation ? that one important cause of trouble in such industries as the automobile industry is the tendency of management to have many more men than are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the time , rather than try to find ways of employing a smaller number of men all the time . The way in which union people usually formulate this same thought ? that management does not take into account the investment that each worker represents to society ? is a thoroughly misleading one . But the thought behind it is sound . I T IS this idea that makes the annual wage so important , and explains why it is likely to become labor 's most serious demand in the next few years . For the annual wage forces the employer to look upon labor as a " capital asset " rather than as a raw material . And for this reason it is imperative that the annual-wage idea shall not be killed in its infancy by mismanagement or by demagogic stupidity . The annual wage can not possibly be a guarantee of full employment ; it can only guarantee a minimum income . It is even more to the interest of the worker than to that of the employer that this minimum be kept so low that there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will need the protection most , that is , in slack times . If the steel workers ' union is really going to ask for an annual wage based on a fifty weeks ' guarantee , as has recently been reported , it will kill the whole idea outright , even if the demand be put forth only as a bargaining move . In an industry as volatile as steel no plan should guarantee more than thirty or at the most thirty-five weeks of pay , payable in fifty-two equal installments , with any additional time worked paid for at standard rates every three months or so . And for the bulk of American industry the standard plan ? assuming the normal forty-hour work week ? should probably not guarantee more than fifty-two weekly payments at the rate of thirty hours a week toworkers with a minimum seniority , again with the difference between the guaranteed minimum and the actual hours worked to be paid every quarter . ( This is more or less the way the successful annual wage plan in the Hormel Packing Company works , though its guarantee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its provision for a joint labor-management committee to appoint and supervise the outside firm of accountants who make the often very complicated quarterly wage adjustments . ) Needless to say , any annual wage contract will also have to contain escape clauses against such contingencies as fire , a strike , or a shutdown brought about by a strike at a supplier . The greatest danger to a successful realization of the idea is , however , that the annual wage may be mistakenly looked upon as a protection against depression unemployment . If the worker really wants the annual wage ? and there is no doubt that he both wants and needs it ? he will have to insist on a clause providing that the plan shall be suspended if orders over a period of months fall below the levels of a " normally bad " year . Otherwise the economic landscape will be cluttered with the wrecks of annual wage plans in the first major setback , and the whole idea will be discredited for a long time to come . TET without some definite guarantee against depression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic feeling of economic insecurity and the effects of this feeling on his attitude toward society in general and his employer in particular . Even in England today , where all signs point to a long-time shortage of workers rather than to a shortage of jobs , the memory of the depression haunts the worker and determines very largely his actions and thoughts . That only a positive employment-creating policy can give the necessary protection against the depression threat to the worker 's security has become a commonplace even though it was clearly formulated for the first time only a few years ago in the Beveridge plan . But with this statement the student of industrial relations parts company with Beveridge and with all the full employment economists whether of the right , the left , or the middle . Not that he quarrels with their economics ; it is their ideas about their human relations that are all wrong and contrary to everything we have learned . The economists are all out to guarantee jobs ; but what the worker needs is not a guarantee of sixty million jobs but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs of his fellow workers in the plant , and of his fellow townsmen . Where the economists deal with the over-all economy , twenty-five years of industrial relations work have taught us conclusively that we must always tackle every single industrial relations job in the individual plant . What is needed for industrial peace is not one big full employment plan , but many little ones . ( Incidentally , nothing makes one as skeptical of the value of over-all planning as three months ' practical work in labor relat ions ) . W E SH ? um be able to make some headway with these many little plans even on the strictest Keynesian principles . The core of all full employment plans is the proposal to distribute capital goods investment evenly over the business cycle . But there is no good reason why this should be done by the government rather than by individual corporations . Plans such as Alvin Hansen 's ? which served as the original basis of the subsequently emasculated Full Employment Bill pro-pose to put government finance on a cyclical instead of an annual basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a cyclical basis , thus accomplishing the same end . The first step in such a policy would be to put corporation payments on a cyclical basis , something not much more difficult than the shift to the " pay-as-you-go " system of individual income tax payments . Each company would make an annual tax return as it does now , but it would pay taxes only on its estimated average cyclical profit . All profit over and above this figure should be exempt from taxation , provided it be put into a long-term capital investment fund . Whatever sums in this fund are not used for employment-creating capital investments after ten or fifteen years would automatically become subject to tax ; and if they should remain unused , even though there should he a depression and unemployment , the tax should be confiscatory . But the tax would be permanently waived if the fund actually were used in depression years for employment-creating investments . A few years of moderately good business would provide us with a fund more than adequate to maintain the necessary investment in capital goods even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before taxes ) of twelve billions a year ? a very low estimate ? we could expect annual reserves ( over and above depletion ) and average profit to come to about three billions . In five years of moderate business we would thus have an employment fund of fifteen billions , which is more than the total amount that , if spent on capital investments in 1932 , would have converted a period of intense suffering and unemployment into one of high business volume and full employment . Actually it can be shown that the fund would be sufficient to maintain employment at the level of the minimum guaranteed in the annual wage if only the present corporation taxes ? rather than the profits taxes ? were put into that reserve . To gain the proper effect on labor relations these employment-creating funds must he tied up directly with the worker 's job . Hence it should be made compulsory for all businesses accumulating such tax-exempt funds to work out , during the good years , specific employment-creating capital projects for the bad years to come ? such things as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scope , working on new products , etc . These projects should be as definite as possible , and should contain some forecast of labor-hours needed , of the type of work involved , etc . And it would be only the most elementary common sense to bring the workers ' representatives into the preparation of these projects . For while it is neither necessary nor possible to give the individual worker a binding promise of minimum employment , the plant community as a whole should know in detail what it can expect when orders fall off . This is but a vague outline of an approach rather than a finished plan ; and many very important problems obviously would still have to be worked out . It is offered here only to show that even the most dreaded economic insecurity , the insecurity of a depression , can be tackled in a way that promises greatly to relieve industrial tension ? a way , incidentally , which , like all the other policies discussed here , would be as beneficial to management as it would be to the workers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that all they need to do is to eliminate the present causes of industrial conflict . But such a view can only lead to a new type of paternalism , none the better for using Freudian rather than Sunday School tenninology . The elimination of the causes of labor conflict in our present industrial system is only the first step toward good industrial relations , and is nu more identical with industrial harmony than an armed truce is identical with peace . Actually , in taking this first step , we have to be looking ahead to the second , because the proper handling of such matters as grievances or layoffs , or the organization of workers as a team , or the annual wage , requires active participation by the workers and puts considerable responsibility on their shoulders . But this only touches the outer fringe of the field of industrial citizenship , a field which is as new as it is exciting and promising .                     