@@223098

Two thousand miles up the steaming Amazon from the Atlantic Ocean , 15,000 feet over the crusty Andes from the Pacific , lies the only undrawn boundary remaining on the American continents . The 50,000 square miles of territory in dispute between Peru and Ecuador lie mostly between the Maran and Napo Rivers , tributaries of the Amazon ( plus a picayune area along the Pacific coast ) . They are made up of a little fertile highland , a little more barren mountainside and much more tangled jungle , from which come a bit of rubber and some desiccated human heads for the tourist trade . <P> Spasmodically for a century Peru and Ecuador have tried to reach a settlement of the dispute . They have put their problem to the King of Spain and to the President of the U.S. without satisfaction , between times developing short tempers and occasionally exchanging shots . The latest effort to end the dispute , through mediation by Argentina , Brazil and the U.S. , ended last month when Peru refused to discuss the sovereignty of three of the four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week tempers in Lima and Quito were shorter than usual . Each capital suspected that the other was trying to buy U.S. support with concessions . Other American capitals suspected , with more reason , that Axis and pro-Axis provocateurs had planted and watered the first suspicion . The Spanish Ambassador to Peru , Pablo de Churruca , Marqus de Aycinena , who once studied the problem for Arbiter Alfonso XIII , was shrewdly suspected of having put pressure on Peru to hold out for a lion 's share of the territory . <P> However it started , one night there was a burst of shooting along the amorphous border . Soon a grown-up battle was raging , with machine guns and artillery backing up the rifle fire , with Peruvian warplanes roaring overhead . Quito said Peruvian bombers had destroyed the military barracks and a church in the Ecuadorian town of Chacras , that frontier forces had attacked at other points on the frontier . Lima claimed that Ecuadorian troops had tried to cross into Peruvian territory , had been driven back . After two days the fighting died down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flare up again . Both Governments were mad . Peru accused Ecuador of provoking an incident to force a settlement by the other American nations . Ecuador thought Peru was trying to settle the dispute by pure force . In Washington , Buenos Aires , Rio de Janeiro and Bogot diplomats hastened to proffer their good offices , hoping that at this time , of all times , the Americas would not get to fighting among themselves . But while statesmen took counsel together , 15,000 people marched through the streets of Quito , waving flags , stood bareheaded before the statue of Simon Bolivar and sang the Ecuadorian national anthem .                     