@@475929

Tla people of Connecticut voted last November to give the United Nations the powers of a limited world federal government . In an official state-wide refer- endum on election day , they voted by a margin of almost twelve to one for a resolution passed by the State General Assembly calling upon the United States to take the initiative inside the UN in bolstering it with authority to enact , interpret , and enforce world law . Connecticut thus became the second state ? Massachusetts was the first by a vote of nine to one in 1946 ? in which the national campaign to strengthen the UN was carried directly to the people . In both states ? indeed , in fourteen other states in which world-government resolutions have been passed by the state legislatures ? the question cut across all party lines . In Connecticut , lily Republican opponent , Governor Shannon , joined me early in the campaign in taking the world-government referendum out of politics . Let no one suppose that the Connecticut and the Massachusetts popular vote for worldgovernment through the UN was of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election day , you could tell by the questions put to you after talks and in letters that the people were trying to think it through . In fact , the strongest opposition came not from die-hard isolationists , but from many sincere , world-minded persons . Such persons tend to say yes to world government as an ideal , but do n't believe in it as a practical or attainable reality . They say yes to the basic arguments which point to the need for enforceable world law , but do n't see exactly how it is to be achieved . More particularly , the " yes-but " approach to world government is best . represented by these three specific categories of questions : ( I ) World government " vs . " UN . Is n't the campaign for world government actually harmful to world peace in that it diverts people 's attention from the needs of the United Nations ? Should n't we first try . to make a success of the UN ? which at least has the advantage of being in existence even if it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bypass it or scrap it in an idealistic but dangerous short-cut to some political utopia ? In short , if the UN does n't work , what right have we to expect that anything more ambitious will ? ( 2 ) How do we get it ? What are the specific steps leading to world government ? Since a government could not be established except through the co-operation and consent of the world 's statesmen , who obviously can not now agree on matters of lesser consequence , what reason is there to believe that they will agree on nothing less than the abrogation or destruction of that great untouchable , National Sovereignty ? Would n't those statesmen be called upon , in effect , to repudiate their own authority and their own careers ? And if , by some cosmic miracle , you could get them to agree , would n't that very act of agreement make world government unnecessary ? In short you ca n't get world government without agreement ; and if you could get agreement , why would you need world government ? Would n't world government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an empty ring after a fight had been called off ? ( 3 ) What about Russia ? By what political hocus-pocus do world federalists* propose to eliminate the vast and terrifying differences ? differences of ideology , religion , philosophy ? now separating America and Russia , to say nothing of the rest of the world ? Is n't the capitalist-communist struggle too basic to expect both systems to co-exist within a common government ? By its own definition , world government means all nations . If Russia does n't accept , what then ? In asking these questions before they would support the world-government resolution , the people of Connecticut were actually reflecting , it seems to me , the general popular attitude about world government everywhere . For while most people accept the need for world law , their doubts follow the general lines of the questions listed above . Thus the campaign has moved on to a **25;383;TOOLONG level on which practical answers will have to be supplied to practical questions . My contention is that there are such answers . ? In using the term " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world government advocates in general , and not necessarily to the members of any formal organization . Let 's begin with -- I World Government " vs. " the UN . The argument that world federalists seek i- , either to bypass or scrap the UN has its source , I suppose , in some of the early arguments over the effectiveness of the Charter . When the tale of two cities , as written at San Francisco and Hiroshima , clearly revealed the inability of the UN to deal with a revolutionary new situation brought about by an absolute weapon , the lack of world control which of itself constituted a combustible danger , some federalists called for the immediate scrapping of the United Nations and for a full government to take its place . But most federalists ? and this includes the United World Federalists , the largest single organization working for world government ? were then and are today opposed to any and all efforts to undermine the UN , or to scrap it , or to bypass it . My own work and association with the UN should certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the effect of destroying the agency . Nowhere have I found any deeper or more real concern for the United Nations than among believers in world federation . Their program is to save the UN , to give it blood and bones , to give it something to work with , to make it in fact a world organization capable of keeping the peace . But this can not he done through dodge , drift , or delay . It can be done only if there is a supreme popular effort to invest it with appropriate authority . What is the threat today to the UN ? Is it the demands of the federalists for giving it the required strength ? ( . ) r is it the fact that it has become ? even if it was never intended so to become ? an adjunct to the foreign policies of the great nations instead of a central agency with power to avoid the inevitable collisions of those foreign policies ? There is a curious atmosphere of unreality in which pttblic campaigns are being conducted in America and everywhere to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a serious crime wave were suddenly to sweep down upon an American community ? a wave of murder , arson , theft , and kidnapping ? and it became clear that the town constable and his three assistants were plainly inadequate to meet the threat , I doubt that posters would be distributed pointing to the importance of maintaining a constabulary . I doubt that resolutions of faith and confidence in the constable would be considered sufficient . Faced with a crime wave , the citizens would build up the constabulary into a police force large enough and strong enough to do the job , pronto . But the movement to support the UN in America , it seems to me , has tended to become an end in itself , promoting a label instead of a reality ? as though the important thing were to publicize the product regardless of the product itself . It has an all-too-typical charity flavor about it , like supporting the Red Cross , or contributing to the building fund for a new church around the corner . Belief in the UN is becoming ritualized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above meaning and reality . I certainly do not quarrel with ? indeed , I applaud ? the effort to make the American people conscious of the critical importance of the UN . But I do not think the cause of the UN or peace is served through advertising acceptance alone . Nor do I go along with the idea that serious criticism , however honest , must be discouraged at all costs . This can only have the result of creating disillusion and severe reaction against the very concept of world organization as it becomes increasingly obvious that the UN , like the local constabulary , is unequal to the job of keeping the peace . I F THE UN is to become in fact what the preamble of the Charter says it is to be ? namely , a world agency charged with the responsibility for averting war ? then the first order of business will he to put an end to the double standard governing the relations of the nations to the UN . Under this double standard , the large nations proclaim that their first line of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred dollars into armaments for every dollar they put into the UN . Under this double standard , the American people sent men , money , and military equipment into Greece and other areas , declaring that we undertook this responsibility only because the UN itself lacked the means of safeguarding American security ini terests in those areas . But strangely , we refuse to propose that the UN be invested with such means or power . Under this double standard , we condemn the use of the veto , but soft-pedal the fact that we ourselves proposed the veto at San Francisco , or that in the summer of 1948 the State Department opposed a congressional resolution calling for a strengthening of the UN , declaring that the United States favored the retention of the veto for its own protection . Why , then , it may be asked , does n't the United States announce publicly and flatly that it regards the UN as secondary in its foreign policy , that it does not want to see the UN become a law-making and law-enforcement agency on a world scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have an earthquake effect in Washington . Hence the double standard ? proclamations in favor of collective security but an actual policy of unilateralisri , and coalition-building inside the UN . I know that President Truman has earnestly favored a policy looking to a strong UN ; but the influence of the military at the end of the war , a hostile 80th Congress , and his own reasonable doubts as to the willingness of the American people in the past three years to cross the Rubicon to a sovereignty higher than our own ? all these have apparently kept him from declaring publicly what he has often stated privately , that world peace is impossible without world law . But with a new Congress ready and anxious for Presidential leadership and with a better balance between the civil and the military in the making of American foreign policy , prospects for an American policy of clear , uncompromising support for the UN are looking up . The decisive factor , of course , is public opinion . Very property . the President will have to be convinced that the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereignty in favor of a higher security than is obtainable through national military supremacy alone . T HAT is why the program of the United World Federalists impresses me as being both promising and realistic . Far from attempting to undercut the UN , this organization is working hard on the community level to produce a groundswell of popular support to save the UN . It is dramatizing the self-evident truth ? made all the more striking by the daily headlines ? that the UN can be preserved only through a supreme supporting effort to give it authority . In sum , the federalists regard the UN as the world 's best chance for averting the last of the great wars , but believe this can only be done by finishing the job begun at San Francisco . Specifically , the federalists are working for a UN with jurisdiction and powers confined to matters affecting the common security . They believe that control of armaments must not be limited to atomic weapons but must include all weapons adapted to mass destruction . They believe that armament control must proceed out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency with clearly defined powers . Such an enforcement agency would necessarily represent preponderant force over the individual nations ; only under those conditions should the United States feel secure in relinquishing its own military program . In order to be effective in terms of averting crises instead of coping with crises , the strengthened UN should have authority over individuals ? again limited to those matters affecting the common security . The principle here is the same as laid down at Nuremberg ; what the federalists propose is that acts leading to war be made the basis for determination of individual guilt ? before rather than after the damage is done . It will be observed that the powers of law here are fairly well restricted to the security area . The broader aspects of world citizenship represent the long-range objectives . Nothing could be more harmful to the chances for world government than to attempt to impose upon it at the start all the attributes of a common citizenship . Once the peace is secured , there will be a magnificent opportunity ? made attainable by the revolution in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to release their energies in the building of a world community . But such a community can not be legislated into being overnight ; what the United World Federalists seek to do is to lay the foundation for it through a world security organization represented by a federation of the United Nations . This brings us to -- 2 How do we get it ? The proposal for giving the UN the powers of world law can only come , if it is to have any real chance for acceptance , from the United MAGAZINE States or Russia . Obviously no move to revise the UN could even be attempted unless under the active leadership of either or both of the two great nations . Proposals for world law have already been made inside and outside the UN Assembly by delegates of other nations . More than two years ago , Foreign Secretary Bevin announced that His Majesty 's Government was ready to sit down with representatives of other governments to explore the requirements of a world organization with effective powers . The new French Constitution contains a specific provision authorizing France to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeatedly declared that the UN could have meaning only by being given the powers of government . Ambassador Carlos P. Romulo of the Philippines has been perhaps the most eloquent orator of all on the need and possibilities of world government . At San Francisco , China actually proposed world government , but the United States and Russia , in their role as leaders , were too intent upon establishing the UN as subordinate to their own sovereignties to permit even serious consideration of the Chinese proposal . All these points bear considerable emphasis . They help to answer the question : what about the rest of the world ? They indicate that the world government movement is something more than an " American fad . " They make it clear that it is absurd to say that all the statesmen are concerned only with the protection of their own national sovereignties . Indeed , it is possible to assert that America and Russia are actually holding back the natural political evolution of the nations into a higher unit . Some of the main reasons for America 's opposition to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article , we shall speculate on some of the Russian reasons . But whatever Russia 's reasons may actually be , one thing seems certain : the proposal for world government will not come from Moscow ? which , indeed , has already characterized world government as an imperialist plot . That leaves the United States as the only possible effective proposer for UN revision ? in fact , it leaves the United States as the one nation to which the peoples of the world are looking , and have been looking since the end of the war , for vital leadership in building world law . 1 ET us assume that the President and the Congress are convinced not only that J they have the popular support for American initiative in revising the UN , but that public opinion actually demands such initiative . What , then , specifically , do we do ? Our first job , obviously , is to attempt to establish the atmosphere in which our proposals can be seriously considered , and to leave no doubt of our sincerity in attempting to create a real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Charter provides the principal means for UN revision . Under 109 , a review conference for amending the structure and Functions of the UN can be called whenever two-thirds of the member nations decide to do so , Such a call is not subject to the veto . We should make clear in proposing the calling of the conference that our aim is solely to examine whatever weaknesses may have developed in the operation of the Charter , and to remedy those weaknesses in keeping with the spirit of the preamble . The United States should point out that the fundamental danger of the UN as presently constituted is not only that it is too weak to cope with an actual crisis , but that this very weakness tends to create crises . For the inability of the UN to guarantee security has made it necessary for the larger nations to take security measures of their own which frequently overlap or are in direct conflict with each other . Since most of the world outside the United States and the Soviet Union is a power vacuum , and since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military significance , the struggle for security has meant an inevitable competition between America and the Soviets for predominant influence inside that vacuum . Thus security means expansion , and expansion means conflict . The most constructive first step for the review conference would be to undertake a security inventory of the nations . Just as an economic inventory of the European nations prepared the ground for the Marshall Plan , so a security inventory would assemble the facts on which a strengthened UN could be built . Let each nation state under what circumstances or conditions it would feel secure , first in reducing its armaments , then in disarming . Let the nations define the basis oftheir geographical security . Then let them state what guarantees of security each would require from the UN before giving up their unilateral security programs . It is not unreasonable to suppose that such an inventory would reveal that most nations , including the United States , would he willing to undertake armament reduction so long as there were enforceable guarantees against secret violations by other nations . With respect to atomic weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the United States would logically restate and reemphasize the provisions of the Baruch Plan calling for a comprehensive system of inspection and control . This time , however , we would not he advocating , as we did under the Baruch Plan , the establishment of a separate agency that actually had greater powers than the UN itself ? an agency to control weapons but not an agency to control war . It is to be hoped that this time we would make clear that the problem of inspection and control is not to be separated from the problem of world law ; that possible violations can be dealt with only against a definite background of statutory law , with due process , and with a law enforcement agency equal to the job . Anything short of that could not possibly guarantee that the mechanism of inspection and control was being fairly administered , and was not the means by which one nation would seek to prevent another from making full use of the industrial application of atomic energy . T nEsE would most likely he some of the questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faced with the problem of recommending the machinery for implementation . If decisions of the UN in those matters clearly related to the common security are to he exempt from the veto , precisely what is to be the machinery for compulsory jurisdiction ? And if compulsory jurisdiction is to be effective , what would be needed in the way of preponderant force to back it up ? Of what would such preponderant force consist ? And what would the basis of representation be in the revised Assembly ? One nation , one vote ? Or weighted representation according to population , industrial capacity , and other relevant factors ? And if the UN is to have authority over the individual in certain matters , what rights will the individual have in return ? These problems , it will be observed , go to the heart of the making of government . No more complicated and delicate problems have ever faced any group of constitution-makers in the past . But the difficulty is dwarfed by the necessity ; and the important thing is that at least and at last we address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we need not intimidate ourselves by the size and scope of the job . For the conference will not be venturing into entirely uncharted territory . Responsible studies pertaining to representation , for example , have already been undertaken by such well-qualified international-law experts as Grenville Clark . On a more ambitious level , there is the draft of a world constitution worked out by a group of distinguished political scientists brought together by Chancellor Robert M. Hutchins , of the University of Chicago . In any event , the most serious difficulty of all is not represented by a definition of compulsory jurisdiction , or by the creation of a preponderant force , or by the relationship of the UN to the individual . All these can be worked out ? assuming there is general agreement on their necessity as general objectives . The most serious difficulty is represented by our next question . 3 What about Russia ? Before we attempt to speculate about what Russia might do or ought to do , let us examine a basic fallacy commonly held about world government . The purpose of world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purpose of world government is to keep them apart . It is precisely because both large power systems are moving toward a catastrophic collision that some means must be found to head it off . In the absence of a superior force , each seeks the security that can be obtained only at the expense of what the other regards as its own security . And the job of a UN with powers of government will be to insert itself between the two , to establish fixed limits to the competition between the two , to keep the differences that separate the two from becoming combustible . World government , in theory or practice , is no steamroller designed to flatten out the differences , however great , that forbetter or worse are the lot of the human race . It does n't seek to impose a stifling uniformity but to make the world safe for diversity . But no part of that diversity must be greater than the whole . The gap ? ideological , philosophical , economic , historical ? between America and Russia is too profound today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a unified social system immediately acceptable to both . A world organization which had this as its objective would succeed only in precipitating a civil war . But an organization strong enough to eliminate the competition for security between the two , that could assure both America and Russia a free hand in the development of their internal economies , would provide the best possible proving grounds for the peaceful competition between democracy and communism . Deprived of the economic hypodermic of war or armaments races or military-aid programs , American economy will have to prove itself capable ? as I am confident that it can ? of avoiding the bust that follows the boom ; it will have to prove there is nothing inconsistent between a comprehensive program of social welfare and the preservation and indeed enlargement of political and economic liberties . Similarly , Russian communism , deprived of the excuse that a hostile outer world is forcing it to pour most of its industrial , political , and emotional energies into war preparation . will have to prove its ability to raise the living standards of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political democracy and economic democracy are moving toward each other in a beautiful blend , with America and Russia as the centers of the approaching gravities , seems to me to be fallacious under existing conditions . What is happening today , and what will continue to happen , is that spiraling war tensions will promote militarism in the United States and place increasing pressure on our political liberties ? to say nothing of the pressure on free enterprise . Make no mistake about it : preparation for defense in an atomic war eventually and inevitably involves much more than the mere stockpiling of atomic bombs . It involves what the experts call " vulnerability reduction " ? a polite military euphemism to describe the relocation of populations , the decentralization of industry , the operation of underground war plants , the possible conscripting of capital and labor . If under these conditions the American and Russian systems approach each other , it will not be on the basis of mutuality in economic and political democracy , but a mutuality in totalitarianism . But in a world with the war factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is entirely likely that over the years the vast ideological gap between America and Russia may be narrowed . Whether or not the gap eventually disappears is a matter of speculation . What is of central importance today is that a basis for co-existence be defined and established ; and if there is a better way of doing it than through a world agency stronger than either nation , I have yet to hear of it . A ti. these considerations should figure largely in the effort to get Russia to go along with us in revising the UN . Our aim should be to make it as difficult as possible for Russia to refuse , although some circles advocating UN revision seem primarily interested in making only those proposals which they are certain Russia could n't possibly accept . In initiating a call for a revision conference under 109 , in calling for a security inventory , in drafting a basis for world law under the revised Charter , and in taking the moral and psychological offensive on a world scale , we can be sure we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For the one thing the Soviet leaders dread is the danger that she will be cut off from the mass of the world 's peoples ; every important Soviet move of the past three years has been accompanied by the most painstaking effort at justification before the bar of world public opinion . This is understandable enough , for the Soviet leaders know , even if we do not , that the fate of both Russia and the United States may very well be decided by the 1,500,000,000 people outside the two nations . And any really sincere and constructive attempt by America ? clearly recognized as such by the world 's peoples ? to bring some measure of sanity and moral leadership to the world at large , would shift to Russia the burden of demonstrating her own good faith . After all , we would not be asking her to give up anything or to do anything we are n't ready to give up or do ourselves . We would be making it clear that what we propose is not the legalizing procedure for a coalition but the genuine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the past three years have been motivated primarily by fear , and if , as Mr. Henry Wallace has intimated , she has been " reacting " rather than acting , then nothing could be better calculated to allay those fears than a world organization which alone could guarantee her requisite physical security . But if Russia 's actions have been motivated primarily by ambition , then only a world organization possessing an organized preponderance backed by the moral weight of justice and duly-constituted law , could provide adequate means of containing such ambition . In either case ? whether Russia is motivated by fear or ambition ? by proposing world law , we make the only move which adequately covers both contingencies . Let us suppose , however , that despite the sincerity of our approach and the reasonableness of our proposals , Russia decides to stay out . What do we do then ? I believe it is our responsibility to go ahead with as many others as are willing to join with us in strengthening the UN with powers of government . We would still work in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a government of the whole . In so doing , we would have the day-to-day opportunity of demonstrating the advantages of participation in the world body We would know , too , that it would be difficult for any nation or bloc of nations to remain indefinitely outside an integrated world community possessing both physical strength and a firm moral sanction of the popular will . Yet speculation as to what Russia will do is futile . The only way to find out is to put the question . And right now the big job is to get the United States to do the asking . Not until we put the question will we get , or be entitled to , an answer . 