@@471224

THE Soviet-German War is the most secret conflict ever fought between two great powers . We have no independent eyewitness accounts of the great battles , of Smolensk , Kiev , Sevastopol , Stalingrad . And neither Russia nor Germany permits discussion and criticism in the press or on the radio of strategic plans and future military prospects . About all that can be known with certainty is that there has been an unprecedented clash of huge armies , armed with the most modern weapons , and that losses on both sides have been very heavy . How these losses have been distributed , what are the correct figures of destroyed airplanes and tanks , what fresh reserves are at the disposition of the two commands , how much plant equipment the Soviets succeeded in salvaging from such important occupied industrial regions as the Donetz Basin , Kharkov , Dnieprostroi ? all this is highly conjectural . Even the line of the front has become blurred and confused since the Red armies took the offensive late in November . As I write , each side has apparently been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rear of large enemy forces . But whatever the future may tell us about the detailed course of battles and campaigns , Russia has displayed surprising and unforeseen strength . Every other country to which the Nazi military machine had land access went down , crushedand overwhelmed , after a few weeks of fighting . Russia has sustained tremendous losses , in manpower , in territory , in natural resources , in severed routes of transportation . But after more than eighteen months of battering it still stands up militarily ? it is still able to hit back hard . What are the sources of this Russian strength ? Are they to be found in the Revolution or in departures and deviations from original ideals and practices ? The answer , as one pieces it together from a careful study of Soviet wartime newspapers and periodicals , is that the Russian showing in the war owes much to both these tendencies . This may sound paradoxical . But it is easier to understand if one recalls the spirit of Napoleon 's armies . French soldiers still retained some feeling of fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many of the former feudal barnacles on efficient military organization had been removed . But Napoleon , by liquidating many of the excesses of the first years of the Revolution , gave his armies elements of discipline and organization and regular service of supply that had been lacking when the first irregular levies of the Revolution marched off to the strains of the " Marseillaise . " Russia to-day is socially and psychologically about as far removed from the Russia of 1917-1921 , even from the Russia of 1932 , as France under Napoleon was from France under Robespierre . The dynamic impulse that always lives on after a big social upheaval is still there . But during the past decade there have been a large number of measures in social relations , industrial management , and education that have tended to scrap some of the more utopian aspirations of the first period of the Bolshevik Revolution . Had it not been for these measures it is scarcely conceivable that Russia would have displayed so much unity and efficiency in the present greatest ordeal of its long and tragic history . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , that I have been systematically reading the Soviet press . In some respects the leading Moscow newspapers , Izvestiya ( News ) and Pravda ( Truth ) , are very much as before . There is the same fourpage format , the same bad print . The cynic might still repeat the oldest of Soviet sour jokes , that there is no news in the Truth and no truth in the News . War has naturally not diminished the strict state control over the printed word . But the language and phraseology of these newspapers reveal an amazing change . The columns are fairly studded with words and phrases that would formerly have been denounced as " petty bourgeois " and " counterrevolutionary . " Words such as rodina ( motherland ) , and otechestvo ( fatherland ) . In the twelve years that I spent in Russia , from 1922 until 1934 , I can not recall seeing the word " patriot " used except as a term of contempt . " Social patriot " was a stock term of abuse for a socialist of moderate views . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest praise . Nationalism , condemned and rejected in the beginning by a Revolution that avowedly proclaimed itself the prelude to a world upheaval , is now stimulated and cultivated in every possible way . Take , for instance , this excerpt from an article which a prominent Soviet author , Vsevolod Ivanov , wrote immediately after the German attack : I am a Russian . My fatherland is from the White Sea to the Pacific Ocean . It is my ancestors who marched through the steppes and forests of Siberia under Yermak , who fought in the ranksof Peter the Great . It is their Cossack horses that drank the waters of the Rhine . It is their banners that waved in the streets of Berlin . It is they who defended their fatherland when they stood shoulder to shoulder on the field of Borodino . It is from my ancestors that the unconquered Napoleon fled in fear , throwing down his arms . In another country this might seem a normal wartime patriotic appeal . In Russia the approved publication of such glorification of the national past is little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the early years of the Soviet regime . Equally instructive as a reflection of the growth of a pure nationalist mood is a popular poem , " Letter of a Red Army Soldier to His Friend , " by Constantine Simonov . Here Russian women are described as " whispering God help you ' " to the soldiers , and the fatherland is defined as " those roads which our fathers marched before us and the humble crosses of Russian graves . " There was a time in Russia when a poem which employed such religious symbols would scarcely have passed the censorship and would have been attacked as revealing " counterrevolutionary religious prejudices " . if , by some slip , it had been published . Twenty-five years , even ten years ago , a Soviet newspaper could scarcely appear without some reference to the leading role of the proletariat in Russia and the ultimate triumph of the proletarian revolution throughout the world . Now this note has simply dropped out of the propaganda chorus . War appeals are on a straight nationalist basis and carry the implication that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in being a teacher or doctor or engineer , and probably less than in being a Rcd army officer . And suggestions that there is a German proletariat that is the ally of the Russians and that will some day rise against Hitler are few , half-hearted , and perfunctory . The present war , in complete contrast to the struggle against foreign intervention after the Revolution and the war against Poland in 1920 , is given no overtones of class struggle . It is presented to the Russian people as an outright national war . Typical of the style of contemporary Soviet war propaganda is the following excerpt from lzvestiya : Soldiers of the Red Army , you fight for the right cause . You defend the freedom of your people , the honor and independence of your native country . Be worthy of your high mission . . . . Hatred fur everything Russian , bestial desire to destroy physically , to exterminate the Russian people ? this is what animates the Hitlerites . General MacArthur or General Montgomery would scarcely employ very different phrases . II MS strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Last summer three new decorations were instituted for officers . They were named not after Marx , Lenin , or any other revolutionary , Russian or foreign , but after three heroes of old Russia , the medieval prince , Alexander Nevsky , and the Tzarist generals , Suvorov and Kutuzov . The announcement of these orders , of which the Suvorov is the highest , was accompanied by the following tribute : " The most glorious of the glorious names of Russian military history is the name of the genius-leader , the teacher of Kutuzov , the conqueror of many foreign armies ? the name of Alexander Vassilevitch Suvorov . " General Denikin or any other conservative Russian who fought in the White armies could subscribe to this sentiment . The days are long past when Russian history before the Revolution was presented as nothing but a dreary waste , with no figures deserving a good word except leaders of peasant insurrections like Stenka Razin and Emilian Pugachev . The Red army started out with an informal type of discipline . Saluting was enforced only on duty . Titles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " Comrade Commander . " There were no epaulettes ; it was hard to distinguish an officer from a soldier by outward appearance . During and after the civil war political commissars were attached to army units , with the right to control operative decisions of the officers and the obligation to look after the morale of the soldiers . Epaulettes and formal titles of rank for officers were restored in the early thirties . And now formal discipline , down to theminutest details , is as strict in the Red army as in any armed force in the world . Witness the leading article in kvestiya of August 13 , 1942 , which bears the heading , " The Iron Will of the Officer ? The Guaranty of Success " : The stern insistence of the officer on discipline , severe and ruthless , is no formality . It is the indispensable condition of success in war . The officer who can not show this insistence , who disregards petty violations of discipline , who forgives cowards , is a bad officer . There has apparently been a prolonged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminating or retaining the political commissars . This office , with its implication of divided authority , was abolished by Timoshenko in a general shake-up of the army organization after the war with Finland . The political commissars were reinstated shortly after the beginning of the war with Germany , but were abolished again , this time presumably with finality , in October , 1942 . The commissars functioned as the eyes and ears of the Party leadership in the army . Their disappearance marks a gain in independence for the army officers ? a class that has grown substantially in numbers and probably in influence during the war . What will be the significance , for Russia 's future , of the emergence of this new military class , nurtured in a spirit of intense nationalism , can not be predicted with certainty . But it will scarcely be a negligible force in what is certain to be a difficult and complicated reconstruction period . III p-nHE growth of nationalist spirit in Rus- sia may have two effects on the country 's international relations . First , there will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social revolution in other countries . On the other hand , a more nationalist Russia is likely to be more uncompromising in trying to realize national territorial and strategic objectives , to which the early leaders of the Soviet regime , animated by more cosmopolitan ideals , were comparatively indifferent . It may of course be argued that the wartime emphasis on patriotism is only a temporary zigzag of the Communist " Party line , " designed to lull suspicion in Russia 's allies and also to appeal to those classes and groups in the Soviet Union which would be most susceptible to the nationalist appeal . As against this interpretation , however , one must set the fact that Russia 's turn toward nationalism is not a mere wartime expedient . It had been finding increased expression in the schools , in the press , in literature , for years before June 22 , 1941 . And it is now so deeply imbedded in popular consciousness that it could scarcely be uprooted without great difficulty . The turn toward nationalism was only part of a broad trend in the direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservatism in the middle and late thirties . The significance of this trend was somewhat obscured for the outside world because it was not accompanied by any coup d ' ? tat or visible shift of governmental power and because attention was focused on the spectacular trials and purges . But it changed Russia socially and culturally very much , just as France was transformed first under the Directory , then under Napoleon . A conspicuous feature of this conservative trend was the abrogation of the class character of the Soviet state . When the Bolsheviki seized power in 1917 they characterized their regime as a " dictatorship of the proletariat . " In practice , to be sure , final and absolute authority rested in the hands of the small group of men who controlled the machinery of the Communist Party , among whom Stalin , for more than a decade , has been incomparably the most important . But the " proletarian , " the factory worker , was given social and educational discriminatory privileges . " Proletarian origin " became a Soviet equivalent for the British " old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much stupidity and to an inverted form of class snobbishness . It became a practice to lay down arbitrary quotas of children of working-class origin who must be admitted to universities and higher technical schools , regardless of their scholastic qualifications . Children who were unfortunate enough to acknowledge as parents former aristocrats , capitalists , kulaks , and priests were excluded from higher education . Now this system , which was both unjust to the individual and harmful to the interests of society , since it certainly did not make for the selection of the best qualified and most capable students , has been completely scrapped . Admission to the universities is by merit and no one is asked about " class origin " ? that cause of many personal tragedies in the early period of the Soviet regime . An interesting result of this new policy is that by 1938 the Soviet intelligentsia , constituting about 6 per cent of the population , furnished 47.3 per cent of the university students . Scholarships , formerly assigned to the neediest students , are now reserved for the brightest . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Constitution of 1936 . Its assurances of political and civil liberties up to the present time have proved nothing but eyewash . But the Constitution did bring about an important social change . It abolished the Russian pariah class of lishentsi , or disfranchised , which had included former aristocrats and capitalists , kulaks , priests , and ministers of religion , together with their children . Inability to vote is a minor deprivation in a country where there is only one hand-picked list of candidates to vote for . But disfranchisement in Russia carried with it some very serious practical disadvantages : exclusion from state employment , from social insurance benefits , from higher education , and liability to all kinds of administrative persecution . The removal of this discrimination has certainly contributed much to giving the Soviet citizen , even if he belonged to a class that had suffered severely from the Revolution , a feeling of being reabsorbed into the national community , of possessing a stake in the country . The only reported case of mass deportation during the war has been the removal of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this was on a race , not a class basis . Under the new policy of relative conservatism there has been a good deal of recognition of what seem to be ineradicable human instincts for personal distinction and for inequality . There is stilt. no order of nobility in Stalin 's Russia . But there has been a lavish distribution of honorary titles , " Hero of Labor , " " Meritorious Scientist , " " Meritorious Doctor . " And there has been the more material incentive of a growing spread in the salary and wage payments for more and less skilled work . Without this turn to the Right , without the measures that did away with " secondclass citizens " and made for greater capacity on the part of university students and greater efficiency in agriculture and industry , the Soviet Union could scarcely have stood up so well to the German onslaught . Even a term so reminiscent of Tzarist times as " Guards Regiments " has been revived ; it is reserved for the units that distinguish themselves on the battlefield . IV r . THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes of the past decade , it also owes much in spirit to the memory and traditions of the Revolution . The new social order , highly collectivized , where the individual has little personal life , is admirably suited to war requirements . The tough fighting spirit , the response to reverses with new efforts , the readiness to resort to experiments to overcome difficulties ? all these qualities of Communist leadership during the civil war are very much in evidence at the present time . Whatever may be thought of the Soviet system as a desirable form of society , its efficiency as a school for war can scarcely be doubted . War demands discipline . The Soviet citizen has been learning discipline the hard way for the last quarter of a century . War demands deprivations . The new generation that has grown up since the Revolution has been accustomed to little else . War demands a high degree of common effort , from civilians as from soldiers . And the ordinary peacetime life of the Soviet Russian , under strong group pressure from the cradle to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public service , is excellent training for this common effort . Scattered through the pages of the Soviet newspapers one finds many itemsindicating the speed and energy with which war losses , human and material , are counteracted by improvised mobilizations , by constantly increased pressure for harder work . As the rich farming regions first of the Ukraine , then of the North Caucasus fell under German occupation decrees were passed ordering the collective farmers to give more working time to the state , calling for the mobilization for farm labor at harvest time of all able-bodied persons not engaged in the armed forces or in the war industries . In their final form of organization the collective farms to which the overwhelming majority of Russian peasants belong represent a kind of " mixed economy . " The principal crops , cereals , cotton , sugar beets , etc. , are raised on collective farm fields . No one has individual title to these crops ; the members of the collective farm who have planted and harvested receive payment , in money or in kind , after taxes and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size of the harvest and the amount and quality of their work . But each family in the collective farm has the right to maintain a truck garden , to raise poultry , pigs , and livestock on a basis of individual ownership . There has been a chronic struggle between the state authorities , who want the maximum of work for the collective farm , and the peasants , who are usually disposed to put in as much work as possible on their little individual plots . The war has ended this argument . A decree of last spring prescribes that the number of " work-days " for the collective farm must be increased from 60-100 to 100-150 . ( The " work-day " is a unit of labor ; it may be more or less than an actual working day . ) And any peasant who tries to beat the game by not turning up for work on the collective farm fields when he is most needed , in the press of harvest , gets six months at hard labor without pay . As Izvestiya of March 22 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized persuasion must be directed against the people who do n't want to participate in social production . " There is also an intensive drive for more planting in the regions that have not yet been touched by war , in the middle Volga , the Urals , and Siberia . Collective farms set aside certain new plots of cultivated land for the benefit of the Red army and for the relief of peasants in regions which are freed from the enemy . When Russia 's main source of coal , the Donetz Basin , was lost , partly in the autumn of 1941 , entirely in the early summer of 1942 , fuel came to rank with food as a major preoccupation . The Moscow Committee of the Communist Party and the Moscow Soviet held special meetings and decided to organize a movement of citizens to cut down trees , bring in wood , dig peat , of which there are large reserves in the neighborhood of the capital . These mobilizations are not mere acts of arbitrary compulsion , although the element of force is always in the background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinforced with propaganda and lit up and intensified by patriotism and a sense of supreme national crisis . It is a reflection of the same kind of mood that made the British workers , after Dunkirk , labor at their benches until they dropped from exhaustion . Another device for extracting hard work while appealing to the game instinct is the socialist competition . Factories in a given industry , collective farms , commercial enterprises start competitions for higher production , lower costs , better quality , with prizes and honorary citations for the winners . In the movingpicture industry , for instance , the winner in the branch of entertainment films is the organization that " produces most quickly films of high artistic quality with the greatest economy of money and material . " The winner in the military films branch is the one that " photographs the largest number of fighting episodes with the smallest amount of waste and breakage . " This method of group effort is applied to many other war problems . Women in one district of the city of Sverdlovsk start a movement to wash @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities in this case had proved inadequate . Meetings are held to promote the adoption of war orphans , of whom there are many . It is characteristic of the new conservatism in social affairs that the government wants to findfoster parents for these children , instead of placing them in state-operated children 's homes , as was done with waifs of the period of the civil war and the 1921-22 famine . There is also the problem of how to feed and care for the children when the father is in the army and the mother in a munitions factory . The Soviet Union has always maintained a network of creches for the benefit of workers in its larger factories and offices , and these are being utilized to the fullest extent . A new institution is the children 's restaurant , reserved for little boys and girls whose fathers are in the army . There are twenty-seven such restaurants , where thirty thousand children are fed daily , in Moscow alone . Attached to the restaurants are supervised play and rest rooms , so that the children can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources of Russia 's strength are to be found both in the Revolution that occurred twenty-five years ago and in the long national past that stretches back for centuries into dim prehistory . The Revolution has given many Russians , especially of the younger generation that has been trained under its influence , the fanaticism of a fighting faith . It has also made easier the adoption of many of the techniques of wartime collectivism . At the same time the pull of the Russian historical past , the deep traditional identification of Russian people with Russian land , has been far too important a force to ignore . As Napoleon once identified himself with everything in French history , from Clovis to the Committee of Public Safety , so Stalin , in his hour of greatest danger , tries to achieve a synthesis of Alexander Nevsky and Lenin . War is changing Russia , as it is changing every belligerent country , fast and visibly . The shape of things to come is harder to foresee than it would be in a country where there is more opportunity for free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can foresee a continuation of some processes that have been going on for some time . A young nationally minded army leadership will be crowding the Party bureaucracy for power . The peasantry , the backbone of the fighting forces , will probably acquire more of a voice in national affairs , although the burden of reconstruction is likely to lie heavily on the peasants , as has always been the case throughout Russian history . There will be less artificially stimulated agitation against religion , more emphasis on Russian national aspirations , less on international revolution . More obsolete relics of doctrinaire Marxism will be thrown out of the window . The pendulum of American opinion about Russia has swung erratically from left to right without ever stopping at a center of objective realism . Russian popular cohesion , fighting strength , and industrial power were generally and grievously underestimated before the test of the German invasion . Now there is a tendency , even among some Americans who can not be classified as Communists or " fellow travelers , " to fly to the other extreme , to argue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been justified by present-day developments . There are retrospective attempts to underwrite the authenticity of the Moscow treason trials and to endorse the purge that accompanied the trials and took thousands of victims for every one who was brought to open trial . I have yet to see an apologia of this kind that seriously discusses , much less refutes , the mountainous accumulation of evidence ? showing discrepancies , inconsistencies , and downright fraud in the " confessions " ? which was collected by the investigating commission headed by Dr. John Dewey . And this commission was able to study only the comparatively small part of the testimony bearing on events that were supposed to have occurred outside of Russia . As for the purge , no one can express a confident judgment as to the guilt or innocence of its many victims , because no evidence has been published . The typical reasoning of the ex post facto vindicators of the purge , however , is almost comically na ? ve . As Louis Fischer has aptly observed , the formula is somewhat as follows : Russia had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a good thing . One might just as plausibly say : MAGAZINE Russia had a famine . Russia fights well . Ergo the famine was a good thing . There is no excuse , in my opinion , for consciously representing the Soviet or any other form of government and social order , our own included , as either better or worse than the historical facts indicate . One gets on very slippery ground if one tries to assume that a regime which makes a good showing in war is necessarily endowed with the four freedoms and all the virtues . Peter the Great 's casual method of cutting off heads first and asking questions afterward , if at all , did not prevent him from beating the Swedes and contributing a good deal to the consolidation of the Russian state . Genghis Khan and Tamerlane , to say nothing of military dictators of our own time , created powerful hard-hitting war machines without benefit of much sweetness and light . What should be recognized , I think , is that the Russian people as a whole have not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggle for power at the top , or with many acts of governmental ruthlessness . The explorer in the Arctic , the scientist in his laboratory , the worker , the farmer , the teacher had no concern with the trials and the purge . Such a mass atrocity as the " liquidation of the kulaks as a class " was abhorrent to most of the peasants , as I know from personal observation . But they could do nothing to prevent it , just as the decent German now can do nothing to prevent the Gestapo from liquidating the Jews as a race . Because of the appalling concentration of power in the totalitarian state there has perhaps never been an age in human history when so few could inflict so much suffering on so many . The great historian Kluchevsky ascribes the salvation of Russia after the " troubled times , " the period of chaotic anarchy which set in about the beginning of the seventeenth century , to the " little people , " whose instinct for patriotism , order , and self-sacrifice finally brought about internal peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any commanding personality in the role of a leader . If Russia to-day is saved from slavery under the Nazi " new order , " the " little people " will again deserve much of the credit . Leafing through the generally dry pages of Soviet newspapers , I stumbled on an eloquent description of how the " little people " of Leningrad had stood up to an ordeal far more terrible than London 's . For this second city of the Soviet Union has been in a state of semi-siege for more than a year , not only shelled and bombarded , but so nearly encircled that its food and fuel situation has been desperate . Here is an abbreviated summary of Leningrad 's resistance , as described by the president of the local Soviet , P. Popkov . It is a story that has never been adequately told , for no foreign correspondents have been able to visit Leningrad since the beginning of the siege . The problem of supplying the city with food became very acute for the Leningrad Soviet in the autumn of 1941 . The diabolical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from all sides and doom it to starvation . But what seemed to the Germans impossible ? and what was really incredibly difficult ? Soviet people achieved . The supply of the city and the front with food was organized over a road across the ice . When water became short it was brought in containers ; people hitched themselves to sleighs in order to bring fuel . In the fiercest cold chauffeurs drove automobiles along uncleared streets in darkness . They worked under fire and showed marvels of heroism . The cruel privations of the winter affected the health of the people . Therefore a network of stations was set up , institutions of a semi-medical type , where people could refresh themselves , cure themselves , regain strength . Tens of thousands passed through these stations . In the spring , when the food supply improved , restaurants with increased food rations were opened up in all districts , and workers , employees , and their dependents were assigned to these restaurants by instruction of physicians . About 300,000 people were served by these restaurants . Because the telephones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call doctors , order food , call for fuel for their stoves . But they were not abandoned . Young Communist Pioneers Soviet Boy Scouts and school children began to go about the apartments , find out who was sick , give all kinds of help . If someone was weak , they went to the store for food , to the restaurant to bring a meal . They heated stoves , washedfloors , cleaned up laundries . Orphans were taken to children 's homes , sick people to the hospital . The school year ended on July 1 . In November of last year 30,000 pupils of the seventh to the tenth classes and 60,000 younger pupils began to study under front-line conditions . Frequent air raids , bombardments , lack of fuel , absence of light demanded the greatest exertions from teachers and students . The ink would freeze in the classrooms ; the lessons would be written in pencil . Children prepared homework by flickering candlelight . Shells often fell near the schools and broke the glass in the windows . The older pupils with the teachers repaired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers , students themselves prepared fuel , collected the fragments of destroyed wooden houses to heat the classrooms , brought water on sledges , kept the schools clean . Some teachers walked five or six miles to their work . Shells and bombs fell on hospitals . Doctors , nurses , assistants were the last to leave . Surgeons continued their operations during the heaviest bombardments . One night eight shells burst on the grounds of a hospital . There were forty women in the maternity ward ; three gave birth during the shelling . Thanks to the selfsacrificing work of the doctors and nurses not one of the pregnant women or of the newborn children was injured , although all the windows in the maternity ward were smashed by the explosion of the shells . One hundred seventy children were brought out of nurseries and taken to shelters during an intensive bombardment of the Red Guard district , The nurse-in-training Rossiskaya asked for permission to go to her own home , where she had three children , only after all these nursery children had been placed in safety . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other Soviet people came to the help of Rossiskaya 's children and got them out of the flames . That is the story of Leningrad in our day . It is also , with some variations , the story of London of 1940-41 , Warsaw in 1939 , Chungking , Barcelona , and all the other martyred cities of one of humanity 's worst crucifixions . These plain people of Leningrad were unconsciously transcending both the national boundaries of Russia and the ideological boundaries of the Russian Revolution . They were joining the heroic international of plain people of many lands who would not surrender to all the mechanized powers of darkness .                     