@@485718

CRITICS of capitalism have long maintained that its acquisitive anarchy has proved too inefficient and too socially reckless to serve as a stable base on which to build a democratic nation 's welfare . They claim , moreover , that these elements of instability are becoming rapidly more destructive with the growth of giant technology and the resulting need for coordination of the entire economic system . But a reigning system of power sits heavily upon men 's imaginations and creates its own defenses against the assaults of fact . Critics of capitalism therefore have been faced with the difficulty : Granted that there is " a deal of ruin " in a deeply rooted system like capitalism , how much evidence of its failure is necessary to refute its pretensions to permanence and superiority ? And in this undefined situation how can those who dominate the system be compelled to assume unequivocal responsibility for delivering or failing to deliver specified results ? That is , how can they be made to accept the conditions of a crucial test ? Such a test has now been publicly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : ized big business , led by its top strategy board , the National Association of Manufacturers , killed the OPA , it inaugurated Operation Capitalism . Acting and speaking through the N. A. M. , big business shouldered aside the efforts of democratic government to control the economy and announced that it would itself do whatever was necessary for the public good and do it better than could any other system  --  particularly any kind of government planning or control . The November elections confirmed the power of big business to do the job in its own way , free from government interference . The N. A. M. 's fifty-first annual Congress of American Industry held in New York earlier this month was a prolonged roar of triumph . The congress told the world that American organized business " knows whit it wants to do , where it is going , and how to get there , " and that its broad , closely articulated program is " designed to carry heavy loads in the days to come . " Having learned that a policy of " mere opposition " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , business says that it is now going to " stick its neck out " and provide the necessary " practical leadership . " Brandishing the big stick of its power , it herds all of us into the fold . Even labor , it says , " is hungry for truth , hungry for leadershiplro hungry it will follow anybody who comes along , in the absence of the honest leadership industry should provide . " The program business offers holds ' The individual free-enterprise system " and " the welfare of the nation " to be indivisible , It proposes the restoration of a " voluntary economy " and , thereby , " the resumption of economic progress in America . " We are promised " A Better Tomorrow for Everybody . " For the N. A. M. pledges that " the great majority of American manufacturers are determined to produce as much as they can , as fast as they can , to sell at the lowest possible prices , and as the result America will enter the period of prosperity that everyone has been hoping for . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tion at a time when as Anne O'Hare McCormick has said , " the tensions in this country are greater than they were in the depths of the depression of the last decade . " They are intended to persuade the public to trust private business rather than a democratic government ' to take whatever measures may be necessary to secure our economic future . Any plan to insure a decent economic future for all Americans necessarily engages to bring about an immediate end of inflation ; avoidance of a postwar depression ; ' full employment , a stabilized high-level national income , and inclusive social security ; mare democracy dot less ; peace  --  not a balance-of-power , spheresof-influence truce , but peace . Why has business let itself be collectively committed to this thumping test ? Large promises have often been . ade in the past by individual capitalists . Today it is the party line " of the whole dominant front of American industry to which we are listening . The reason business has let itself in for Operation Capitalism is that the power struggle has reached the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort must be all-out . Business 's hand is being forced by damage both to its prestige and to its ideological defenses . The depression of 1929 hurt capitalism as nothing ever had before in this country , hurt it in a way that is crucial in a democracy , by undermining public esteem for its capacity and for the reliability of its promises . The helplessness of business at that time and the enforced extensive par , ticipation of government in making our economy work built up a lively popular awareness that the government can Jo things about people 's needs that business ca n't do . The outer ring of business 's ideological defenses has been breathed by the emergence in full , successful operation elsewhere in the world of national planning , and particularly of socialist planning on a continental basis . This makes it impossible for business men any longer to scorn all criticism on the ground that there exists no competitor to capitalism outside the heads of utopian reformers . The . inner citadel , too ? is threatened by the logic of modern technology and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating unit characteristic of the private-enterprise system ; in an economy dominated by diversified corporate giants like du Pont , the distinction between " private " and " public " diminishes . To the extent that big private business must look to government for secured profits , subsidies , and relief for its unemployed , its position is further weakened . Pressures like these have forced big business into a. continuous offensive . The results are seen in the growth of the N. A. M.-type of organization and policy-making since 1933 and the recent collective assumption of responsibility for Operation Capitalism . - Where does the intellectual " left " stand as regards all this ? It has good grounds for suspecting that business can not make good on its promises . What is called for is a broad , coherent policy dominated ' y the public interest as democratically defined , and this is precisely what capitalism has not been able to achieve ; it did not even achieve it in a national emergency program like the NRA . The trouble is not that business men as a class are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - " - irresponsible , " but that the dynamic system in which their lives are enmeshed and which determines their actions is not set up to serve collective democratic ends . It " works " only when men act as if they were greedy and socially irresponsible , engaged in ' a Hobbesian warfare of each against all . The task business has taken upon itself is being pictured as a holy crusade . The " private-enterprise system " is identified in this campaign with democracy , and all other convenient values . It is because the intellectual left does not confuse capitalism with democracy or planning with dictatorship that it must not allow itself to be drawn into this crusade . Nor must it simply sit it out , ticking off the score of capitalism 's failure . The left has a two-fold task : ( 1 ) to identify and publicize the obligations American capitalism has undertaken and the tactics to Which it will resort as it fails to achieve the promised stability ; ( 2 ) to chart an alternative course , for lack of - which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by default . Because American capitalism has powerful ideological 750 and material tools with which to manipulate the American people if its business-as-usual strategy should fail , it is likely to adopt the following tactics : 1 . Deny that it ever committed itself to certain objectives recently announced . From this it will be easy to slip - over into implying that these objectives are unobtainable anyway , and that capitalism will bring us closer to them than we could get in any other way . A prime example of this tactic was business 's precipitate abandonment of the concept of " full employment " on discovering that it depended on greater concessions than business was prepared to make . First the Committee for Economic Development turned thumbs dawn on " full employment " and set up a vaguer target , and then business saw to it that the United States led the successful fight in the United Nations to eliminate this dangerous goal as a commitment on the signatory nations . 2 . Shift the responsibility for failure to others . This device is already in use in the drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for our domestic and international muddling in these first post-war years . Responsibility for the failure of veterans ' housing is being shifted from the housing industry to the Democratic Administration ; inflation is attributed to labor 's wage demands ; and we shall shortly hear that the drive for expanded world trade failed because the Soviet Union and countries in its sphere of influence refused to join the international trade agencies . 3 . Cut beneath the whole level of concrete failures and redefine the issues . Instead of the pursuit of specific objectives  --  such as low prices , no depression , full employment , and peace  --  emphasis will be placed on the " vastly more fundamental " struggle for democracy against some inclusive bogy variously called collectivism , totalitarianism , or communism . The groundwork has already been laid for this by the current propaganda identifying the free-enterprise system with democracy , national planning with dictatorship , and so on . 4 . Suspend specific democratic procedures because of the need to " restore law and order " and " save the American way of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local grass-roots level in the methods of the Associated Farmers , the Mohawk Valley Formula , and similar drives to enlist local sympathies in support of antidemocratic power tactics . The logical next step is to mount such programs on a national scale. 5 . Move into that amalgamation of big business and the state which we call fascism . This will be the pay-off on the present business clamor for the cessation of all government interference and the restoration of our freedoms . Nobody knows better than business the " freedoms " obtainable through government controls  --  of the right sort . One of the things to watch is the use of emergency powers on a national scale . An example of this is the increasingly anomalous prolongation of the Selective SerThe NATION vice Act and the Smith-Connally Act , as convenient weapons for the control of labor . And it is but a step from these- war powers to equally convenient peace-time powers , if an economic emergency is declared to exist . We shall probably see an intensification of present hindrances to the organization of third parties . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority to use public powers to achieve its own private version of what the nation needs . This is where the N. A. M. 's knowledge of " what it wants to do , where it is going , and how to get there " comes in. 6 . Launch , if necessary , another world war to obliterate capitalism 's failures . At present big businessoes not want another war and will settle for controls over labor and over any future NeW Deal tendencies . War hurts capitalism as a system by introducing government participation in financing , production , and marketing , by speeding up the monopoly tendency , and by encouraging big capital to diversify into the established commodity lines of smaller enterprisers . But war does not affect all sections of capitalist society equally ; and as Brailsford pointed out a generation ago and as the balance sheet of this last war reveals , war can be vastly profitable to those powerful enough to be on the inside in the running of it . To identify these tactics as they occur and to point out their common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , now that business has accepted , on the barrel , the obligation to provide permanent and stable prosperity , the left must keep the score . And when the score shows  --  as it almost certainly will  --  failures heaping up into disaster , the left must be ready with an alternative program . If , as I expect , a liberal compromise between modern monopoly capitalism and socialism is found to be no longer possible , the program must point the way to American socialism . The American intellectual left is ill organized for such a staggering responsibility . The grip of business and of conservative research foundations all but strangles independent critical thought in the social sciences in the United States . The British Labor Party has evolved from fifty years of organization , public discussion , and research on the left . In this country we have no such continuo tradition of Socialist dissent and inquiry as a basis fair left programs . Brookings Institutions and Rockefeller Foundations do not do Fabian Society thinking . Our intellectuals generally are afraid to be thought " radical . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is immersed almost entirely in immediate " service research . " But no one in touch with American university ' graduate students can be unaware of the restless demand in this younger generation of social scientists for a Chance to think without a bit in their teeth . It is labor and this younger intellectual group that must build a democratic program for America . 