@@493605

Kim ANGUS WARD was the American Consul General in Mukha . In November , 19,18 , he was placed under house arrest by the Chinese Communists , who were then in control of Manchuria . For six months no charges were made against him . Then , in May , 19-0 , the Communist press and radio announced that Ward had directed an espionage ring with the aid of a short ? wave-radio system . Several Chinese were arrested , and confessed to belonging to the spy ring . But still no charges were brought against Ward and the case ap ? parently died . The State Department was able to reach Ward and instructed him to close the consulate and return with his staff . He applied to the Manchurian Communists for permission to leave , and permission was granted . But Ward was unable to depart . No one could be found to move the consulate 's property ; the railways failed to provide transportation . Suddenly , in October , Ward and four members of his staff were arrested and jailed on charges of physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A final twist was given to the case when , at the time of Ward 's release , the espionage charges were again raised and dropped against the Vice Consul , William Stokes . The charges of violence we know nothing about . The charges of spying , to the Chinese , may seem to have some foundation . The Consul gathers informa ? tion by legal means , the spy by illegal methods , and although the record of the American foreign service is clear , for many countries the dividing line is at best obscure . When Ward arrives in the United States his full story may be told . It would be unwise until then to speculate on its significance . Yet the Ameri ? can reaction to Ward 's arrest has been so violent that even fragments of the incident are worth piecing to ? gether . These facts , then , seem to be significant : First , China is accomplishing the greatest economic , social and political revolution in her recent history . Since their comrades were - killed by American guns and planes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . Yet there has been almost no violence against Americans . There has been no illegal confiscation of American property in China . American businessmen who may have been rough-handled have none the less been treated in just the same way as Chinese businessmen . The Ward case is not the rule , but the exception to the rule . Second , the Ward incident was altogether against the interests of the Chinese Communists . Their im ? mediate ambition is to win recognition from the West . For the Communists , recognition means membership in the United Nations , added strength within China , final demoralization of the Nationalists , the breaking of the blockade and the resumption of trade . For the sake of these important objectives , the Communists have given high places in their government to men whose inclination is negotiation and compromise with the West . In turn , the West his been preparing to grant recognition . At the recent conference of experts called by the State Department , bankers , industrialists and old China hands agreed that recognition was nec ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ward incident , recognition may be delayed . It is possible that the Chinese Communists , whose knowledge of the outside world is provided by Tass , the Russian news agency , had no concept of the re ? action that Ward 's arrest would cause in America . It is also possible that they believed that capitalist Amer ? ica would accept any humiliation in its mad desire to earn profits . Yet America has steadily reduced its representation in China until today there are only four consulates left . With few exceptions these officials and thOse of other nations have been treated very well by the Chinese Communists . Manchuria is the region of China which is domin ? ated by Soviet Russia . Russia alone holds major con ? cessions in Manchuria . Russia has asserted her pro ? tection over Manchuria as well as Inner and Outer Mongolia and Sinkiang . The Communist leaders in Manchuria are Soviet-trained men . The arrest of Ward followed by three days the arrest of Amtorg officials in the United States . The charges against Ward re ? peated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastern Europe . From the Soviet point of view , recognition of China by the West is less to be desired than the dependence of China on the USSR . For Russia , the Ward case may , serve , first , to drive the United States out of Manchuria ; second , to deepen the rift between the Chinese people and the American people ; third , to divide America from . the British Commonwealth . For if the British extend rec ? ognition while America withholds it , the old crowd in Congress can be relied on to drive the wedge of divi ? sion as deeply as they can . Whether or not the Russians were behind the Ward incident , they alone benefit from it , and the violence of America 's reaction plays directly into their hands . At a critical moment in the developing relationship of the Chinese and American peoples , our policy is dic ? tated by unreasoning anger instead of common sense . The Chinese Communists are almost unchallenged ' today . Nearly all our experts believe that they will hold power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their rule , passes completely within the Soviet world , then ultimately all Asia will follow . The one hope of a non-Soviet Asia is that the Chinese people will continue , even under their present rulers , to pursue their classical revolutionary objectives of national in ? dependence and industrial development . The power of the West in aiding China to realize these objectives is still very strong . Politically , China has protected herself for centuries by maintaining al ? ternatives in diplomatic policy . To forsake these alternatives in favor of unconditional subordination to Russia would be disastrous for China , as every Chinese knows . Economically , China 's future lies in trade with the West . America has represented one-quarter of China 's foreign trade . Japan , which remains in the Western world , is still more important to Amer ? ica , and China is vital to American-occupied Japan . Huge stocks of goods are accumulating in Japan today which China alone can buy . Without Chinese trade , Japan can live only by an American dole . These facts are not unknown to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the UN calls on all states for these , among other actions : To respect the political independence of China ; To respect the right of the people of China now and in the future to choose freely their political in ? stitutions and to maintain a government independent of foreign control . The trouble is that we can not have it both ways . If this resolution is more than a cheap and sterile gibe at Russia , then it applies to the United States as well Today the Russians may well ask : Who is rimekica to throw the first stone ? For example , we are still shipping armaments to Chiang Kai-shek in Formosa ; although it is clear that Forinosa will fall to the Communists by a combination of popular revolt and transfer of allegiance by its naval and air-force commanders . These actions should earn for their sponsors , Senator Knowland ( R , Calif. ) and . Representative Judd ( R , Minn. ) , the titles of honorary quartermaster-generals of the Communist armies . We are further backing Chiang by tacit support of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal recognition because to do so when its claim to legality is so flimsy would set a dangerous precedent for America as a great sea-going and trading power . And yet we are giving unofficial support to the block ? ade by refusing to aid American ships in reaching Chinese ports . The blockade is effective in denying the Chinese people cotton yarn , wheat and petroleum . In supporting it for the sake of the disruption it causes we are arousing further hatred and bitterness toward America among the Chinese . Either we can continue our recent policy of per ? petuating chaos in China or we can attempt to regain the respect and friendship of the Chinese people by accepting the new status quo . We can not pursue both policies at once with any chance of success . If there were any hope of overthrowing the Chinese Communists , then the policy of promoting chaos , bru ? tal as it is , might seem to have some justification . There is no such hope , and the policy of promoting friend ? ship alone can serve America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all the intermediaries of good will : that is , it requires recognition . Recognition of Communist China does not mean approval of the Communist regime . The ddctrine that " recognition equals approval " is described by John Bassett Moore as " a preposterous and mischievous supposition ... contrary to the elementary principles of international law . " Secretary Acheson has reemphasized that recogni ? tion of any government rests on three tests : It controls the country it claims to control . It recognizes its international obligations . It rules with the acquiescence of the people who are ruled . These tests have been substantially met by China 's new government . By failing to recognize it , we are actually following the policy of non-recognition that in the ' cases of Russia and Argentina proved to be useless and harmfill . Britain , India , France and many other nations seem certain to recognize the Chinese Communists by the spring of 19.50 . If America stands out alone , it will because 1950 is an election year . Senator Bridges and his right-wing friends believe that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find genu ? ine issues , they believe that China is a useful club with which to beat the Administration . They are willing to sacrifice America 's future in China to partisan political advantage . It is inevitable that there should be disagreements on America 's foreign policy . These disagreements should be political issues , but not political footballs . Our China policy has been determined too long by domestic pressures and prejudices without regard to the merits of the situation in China . Today our divided China policy reflects divisions here , and not in China , where there is substantially none . If we are wise and bold ; we shall disregard the tactics of political black ? mail and recognize China 's new government long before the November ballots are in . The selection of a successor to David Lilienthal as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission is being treated with unusual concern by Presi ? dent Truman . A wise choice is so es ? sential that he is well advised to wait until he can find the best possible man for the position . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will do this time . No demigod is required either . The new chairman of the AEC should be a forceful execu ? tive , but managerial ability is not the main qualification . The necessity for that kind of experience has actually been exaggerated ; most of our atomic-energy enterprises today are run by the general manager of the Commis ? sion and his staff , and even they serve as a holding company for projects conducted by private Companies and university laboratories . What is most important is that the new chairman be a man devoted to peace who will not yield to every burst of pressure directed at him . He should be sensitive to the important relationship between the domestic and the international control of atomic-energy development . He should be capable of steering the program to maintain the dominance of civilian control in relation to the military without constant recourse to the Presi ? dent . He should be sufficiently experi ? enced in the practical workings of politics in a democracy to have good relations with Congress without al-ways standing as a humble suppliant before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than . a series of technical secrets , the American people have a right to be assured , also , that the Atomic Energy Commission chair ? man is going to be candid in his re ? lations with the public , that he will go as far as possible in making the peo ? ple real partners in atomic activity . A number of Americans possess these qualities in the desired quantity . President Robert Hutchins of the Uni ? versity of Chicago ; Dr. James B. Conant of Harvard ; Chester Barnard ; Philip Jessup ; and Justice . William 0 . Douglas occur to us as men highly eli6ible for consideration . Second-bests wo n't do . Seven American states have passed laws requiring loyalty oaths of teachers or other state employees or both ? Arkansas , California , Kansas , Mary ? land , New Jersey , New York and Washington . The Maryland law was declared unconstitutional last August in a ringing decision by Judge Joseph Sherbow of Baltimore . " Law deals with overt acts , not thoughts , " he said . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? . Laws may not intrude into the realm of ideas , religious and polit ? ical beliefs and opinions . " Now the Feinberg Law , the most recent enactment in New York State , has been similarly held invalid by Justice Harry E. Schirick of the State Supreme Court . New York is so sensitive about loyalty among public officials that it has passed three laws ? in 1917 , 1939 and 1949 ? demanding certificates of purity . The newest , the Feinberg Law , di ? rected the Board of Regents to con ? duct a witch-hunt in the public schools and to dismiss all teachers or other employees found to be Communists or fellow travelers . This , says Justice Schirick , violates the state and federal constitutions . " Due process " is im ? paired in four ways , because of the law 's vagueness , the procedures in ? voked , the presumption of guilt , and guilt by association . No improper act by any individual needs to be shown . The law assumes that the Communist Party is subversive , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This constitutes a bill of attainder , says Justice Schi ? rick , quoting the US Supreme Court in a ruling in 1866 which forbade " a legislative act which inflicts punish ? ment without a judicial trial . " This case will now go directly to the New York Court of Appeals , the highest in the state . The Maryland de ? cision on a similar law has also been appealed . Before very long we shall know whether the US Supreme Court , with its present personnel , ' recognizes the dangers to American institutions that are implicit when citizens can lose their jobs , and suffer other pun ? ishment , not for their acts but because they have been accused , rightly or wrongly , and without judicial process , of holding certain beliefs .                     