@@475089

THE arrival was different in 1943 . In prewar days , like most other visitors to Bermuda , I had always caught my first glimpse of that mid-Atlantic island through a liner 's porthole . In the very early morning , as the liner plowed its leisurely way through a rolling sea , a series of nubbins of land would break the level horizon line ahead . For hours yet we would be dressing and breakfasting and packing and superintending the collection of our bags by the stewards , while the ship entered the wide channel off St. David 's , turned right through the narrow passage among the reefs to Murray 's Anchorage , halted to permit a tender to take off passengers for St. George 's , and then ran along the Island 's low north shore and turned into Hamilton Harbor , heading for the Gothic cathedral tower of Hamilton ; until finally we passengers looked down from the upper storeys of our floating hotel upon carriages and wagons and bicyclists moving with Bermudian deliberation along Front Street . The arrival was a long-drawn-out and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time it was quick and mechanized . On the flight deck of a Navy patrol bomber , I was surrounded by control boards , dials , and instruments , and by men in Navy summer khaki and blue jeans each wear-ing a yellow life jacket like an outsized bib hung round his neck and tied behind ? men who lived in a world of mathematicalcomputations and engineering adjustments . At my right the navigator sat at his table , the chart of our course before him , his endless scratch-paper flgurings at an end now ? for we should sight Bermuda any minute . Opposite , with his back to me , sat the radio operator ; a few minutes earlier the pilot had handed him a scrawled message , he had translated it via the codebook into unintelligible words , and had dot-dashed them to the Island ; now he too was waiting . At my left , in their adjustable seats , absurdly like great dentists ' chairs , the pilot and co-pilot sat at their wheels , gazing ahead at a vast emptiness of blue sky and blue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the binoculars and took a long look almost dead ahead . In a moment , over his shoulder , I too saw what he had seen ? a faint white blur on the vague horizon . In another moment there were other blurs to left and right of it ? presumably beaches or sandy bluffs . The outlines of a long low island took shape ; and almost at once the shoaling water ahead began to brighten into the stabbingly brilliant viridian green that is Bermuda 's special glory a color so intense that by contrast with it the white-flecked cerulean blue of the deeper water seemed a dull purple and the green land a dull greenish brown . The plane swung slowly to the right , and approaching the shoreline at an angle we looked down from five hundred feet upon little crescent-shaped beaches , groves and fields and pink oleander hedges , whiteroofed houses , the white pillar of a lighthouse ; then upon a golf course where a tiny foursome were holing out on a tiny green . Banking to come about into the wind , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leveled out just above the wave-tops , and with two or three gentle bumps and a great welter of spray astern ? came to rest in quiet water alongside huge hangars . Between our first glimpse of Bermuda and the landing there had elapsed just sixteen minutes ! Less than an hour later I was being driven along a Bermuda road , not in the horse-drawn carriage of tradition but in a U. S. Navy station wagon . It was the remembered Bermuda ? narrow white roads , edged by gray stone walls and overhung by oleander blossoms ; pastel-colored houses with white roofs dazzling in the sun ; gentle air of an incredible softness ? yet to a man who had been spending hours among the technical gadgets and calculations of the flight deck it seemed unreal as a lotus-eater 's dream . And I asked myself again one of the questions that had brought me to this mid-Atlantic island : had the Bermuda familiar to the affections of hundreds of thousands of American vacationists altered to the mere ghost of itself , now that it had become the site @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States ? There were two other questions to be answered . The first was economic and social . Bermuda is always a fascinating subject for study because , although it is very small ? less than thirty miles long ; so narrow and broken by water that its land area is only about that of the island of Manhattan ; inhabited by only 32,000 people , of whom 12,000 are white and 20.000 arc colored ? it reveals in microcosm many of the sharp economic and social problems of our time . The problem of waning self-sufficiency , for example . During the twenty or thirty years which preceded this war Bermuda became more and more dependent upon the American tourist trade . Gradually its exports ? chiefly potatoes and onions ? diminished , and farm production even for the Bermudians ' own sustenance dwindled ; more and more the Island became dependent upon imports , and paid for them not by exporting goods but by importing tourists with money in their pockets . This money brought an agreeable prosperity , but it was a source of danger in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own control . I wondered how the war had affected this economic dependence . But the most fascinating question was this : what happens to a British colony when it becomes the site of American bases ? Before the war Bermuda had been a free self-governing community . English by descent , the Bermudians were as close in tastes and temperaments to their American visitors as to the present-day English , if not closer ; but they were loyal to the King and proud of membership in the British Empire . A few of the higher officials had been appointed from London , and the Governor had always been a British military man ; but this Governor was surrounded by a Legislative Council of Bermudians , and the real power lay in an elected House of Assembly . Bermudian political institutions had seemed oddly oldfashioned : a property qualification for voting and a still larger one for membership in the Assembly ( an arrangement which not only left many white Bermudians voteless but also reduced the size of the Negro vote and Negro representation in the House ) ; no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the colony being derived almost wholly from customs receipts ; a negligible public debt . I wondered how these people , so conservative yet so independent , were reacting now to the presence of American military power . In this respect too it seemed to me that Bermuda might present in microcosm evidence of interest to the citizens of a nation which has established military bases or war facilities in all manner of friendly territories from Iceland to Australia . How do the Americans get along with the permanent residents ? What are the sources of friction and what can be done about them ? Are we unwittingly , step by step , building an American empire , or are we respecting the sovereignty and independence of the territories in which our men and guns are planted ? W HEN Britain declared war in 1939 the two great liners that had plied between Bermuda and New York the Monarch and Queen of Bermuda ? steamed off in gray war paint to serve the Empire , and the tourist business went into a prompt tailspin . Soon it became apparent that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was being washed away . Unemployment rose rapidly ; and though the colony was sending volunteers into the R.A.F. and was conscripting some men for home defense , it began to look as if the most immediate battle which Bermuda would have to fight would be against economic deflation . The Imperial Government soon began spending money to expand the defenses of the Island , but it was not for almost a year that substantial help came . In previous crises Bermuda had unexpectedly prospered . During the Boer War it had been used for the safekeeping of Boer prisoners ( one of whom , on being led to a hilltop and seeing more ocean on the other side of it had been heard to cry in bewilderment , " But where is the interior ? " ) . During the war of 1914-18 Bermuda farmers had got record prices for their potatoes in New York and the fact that the Island was an important naval base had brought in a good deal of money and kept business from collapsing . During the depression the tourist traffic had hardly slackened at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit than Europe . And now , in 1940 , economic providence once more smiled upon the colony . The aid from abroad took two quite unexpected forms . One was the decision in London to make Bermuda a great censorship center for the interception and examination of mail and goods crossing the Atlantic for Europe . Over a thousand censors were sent from England in 1940-41 ? with British salaries for Bermuda spending . The other form of aid wore a more equivocal face . It was the AngloAmericanagreement , first definitely made known in the dark days of August , 1940 ? just as the Battle of Britain was beginning ? that the United States should turn over to Britain fifty destroyers and that Britain in turn should provide the United States with sites for military bases in Newfoundland , Bermuda , the British West Indies , and British Guiana . * The news struck the Bermudians with dismay . They were ready to make war sacrifices , but this agreement had aspects that filled them with foreboding . In the first place they did not know just what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? An American Naval mission under Admiral Greenslade arrived to make a survey of possible sites and proposed the leasing to America of several islands in the Great Sound at the west end of the Bermuda colony , together with a strip of land across Southampton Parish ? which would effectively cut the colony in two . When this plan aroused Bermudian protests the Americans made an alternative proposal for a combined military and naval base at the east end , in the Castle Harbour district . Both proposals were far more ambitious than anything the Bermudians had dreamed of . And while they were being discussed it began to be reported that now the Americans wanted not only nearly all the extensive lands they had asked for at the east end , but a part of their original claim at the west end as well ! With such massive plans in prospect , how could Bermuda escape becoming virtually an American colony ? The Bermudians liked Americans as visitors , but would hardly welcome them as masters . Yet the uncertainty as to what territory was involved in the deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of the Bermudians felt during the latter part of 1940 and the early part of 1941 one must bear in mind two things . In the first place , one must remember that in 1940 the United States was not at war . Bermudians were not being asked to permit the use of bases for the prosecution of the war ? this would have met with in- * Strictly speaking , Bermuda was not included in the swap with the destroyers ; the base ts tee in both Bermuda and Newfoundland were given to the United States " freely and without consideration , " while the sites elsewhere were traded for the destroyers . stant enthusiasm ? but bases for the defense of a Western Hemisphere that , for all they then knew , intended thus to wall itself off in isolation from the war which the British peoples were fighting alone . That was hard to take . And in the second place , the leases did not extend merely for the duration of the war ? this too would have been quickly accepted ? but for ninety-nine years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalent to eternity . In the face of those facts is it surprising that some Bermudians felt that the British Government had traded their independence for war material ? When the news of the long-rumored deal first definitely broke , the House of Assembly voted to send a memorial to the Right Honourable the Secretary of State for the Colonies of His Majesty 's Government , in which , as " His Majesty 's most dutiful and loyal subjects , " they gave eloquent voice to their misgivings : The people of Bermuda are deeply disturbed lest some new conception of American hemispheric defense may affect the status of this ancient Colony as an integral part of the British Commonwealth . We reaffirm our unswerving loyalty to His Majesty the King . Our island home is one of the oldest Colonies in His Majesty 's Empire . Our Parliament ranks in seniority second only to that of the Mother Country . Many of His Majesty 's subjects in Bermuda trace their ancestry with unbroken domicile here for over three hundred years . . . . Grateful for past protection and proud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the present struggle and shoulder our share of Britain 's burden . We earnestly pray that the ties of tradition and the bonds of affection which unite us to the Mother Country may never be severed . . .. We recognize that His Majesty 's Government , in weighing the merits of new defense proposals , intend only to further the interests of the Empire at this critical juncture . We pledge our support to any agreement reached , but pray that such agreement may take heed of our deep-rooted and fervent attachment to the Crown . The memorial did n't seem to do much good . Mr. Roosevelt said that no transfer of sovereignty was involved in the deal , but the Bermudians felt that they could be sure of very little for the longer future . In the winter of 1940-41 they sent three delegates to London for the final negotiations . The details of these negotiations have never been made public ; however , the general impression was created thatthe extent of the concessions was not precisely defined , and uneasiness continued lest still greater sacrifices should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been hearing were right : the Americans wanted the use of territory at both ends of the Island . But they felt it was their duty to accept the deal anyhow as a war measure and the agreement was signed on March 27 , 1941 , the Bermuda Parliament quickly concurring . The die was cast . The Bermudians were going to get war prosperity ? that was obvious ? but on terms that seemed to them deeply disquieting . HI T ) URING the following month ? April , 1941 ? American Army engineers and construction workers began to move in and the job of building the bases began . At first the American soldiers found themselves bewilderingly quartered , four cots to the room , in the luxurious Castle Harbour Hotel , which with its wide lawns and terraces , its salt-water swimming pool , and one of the most peacefully exquisite views in the world , provided a strangely unmilitary setting . Many of the civilian construction workers from the United States were even more oddly housed ? in an old Hudson River steamboat , the Berkshire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was moored by the shore near St. George 's to serve as a floating dormitory . The huge job of leveling old land , dredging shallow water to make new land , and building barracks and hangars got under way . And as it did so the Bermudian uneasiness was not noticeably alleviated . To appreciate the reasons for the Islanders ' new discomfort you must remind yourself of the nature of the Bermuda community . Because it is small and isolated , and people know one another , it has never been a healthy place for a criminal or unruly element . Because it subscribes to the deep British respect for law and has found that the best preserver of the amenities is a tradition of decorum , it has always been lightly policed . In fact one of the reasons why in prewar years many Bermudians had been uneasy about the Island 's increasing dependence upon the tourist trade had been that some of the American visitors regarded Bermuda as a place where the home-town rules did n't hold and they could drink swizzles in quantity and raise Cain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reflect that if they took a strong line against such behavior they might be undermining their own livelihood . When into this quiet community were precipitated thousands of construction workers , not selected for their refinement and with ample wages to spend , the peace of the Island was shattered . Most of the construction workers brought their families and led conventional , orderly lives ; but life on the Berkshire was reminiscent of an old-time frontier town . For some of the workers it was a wild round of working , drinking , gambling , and sleeping ? and looking for women . Inevitably there was uproar and disorder , there were breaches of the peace , and there was a sharp rise in local prostitution , especially among the Portuguese and Negro elements . The soldiers and sailors , being under military discipline and having less money to throw round , were less conspicuously out of key with Bermudian life , yet even they seemed a discordant element . In the days before Pearl Harbor many of the American draftees had little understanding of why they had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subtropical isle that they could n't get away from . After days of hard work in the hot sun they would be restless and sex-starved , and some of them would be ready to go on the loose . As for sailors on leave , they had an even fiercer longing for release . Temperaments differ : for one man the inner need after days or weeks of regimented discipline is for the gentlest unmartial cornforts ; for another , it is for a bender . For the first type of man there could hardly be enough opportunity in Bermuda for contact with normal society ; Bermuda was too small for hospitality on a wide enough scale to serve everybody ? despite the genuine friendliness of many Bermudians . For the second type there were few chances for a bender that would not resound for miles . The result was widespread frustration . Is it astonishing , then , thatas a result of three or four disagreeable episodes Bermudians began to wonder if the streets of Hamilton were not unsafe for a woman at night , or that a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home with unwelcome invitations , or that drunken base workers would be reported to have sat on the roadside walls amusing themselves by shouting obscene comments upon every woman who passed by ? Such episodes of course were extreme cases and most of the American soldiers and sailors were ready to assure the Bermudians that they too disapproved of this ill-behaved minority . But in a predominantly rural community like Bermuda , where at night one can hear a dog bark half a mile away , one roisterer can make enough disturbance to sound like a whole battalion . The Bermudians tried to persuade themselves that the sort of thing that happened was very much like what happened in any college town anywhere the night after the big game , and that anyhow it was their wartime duty to he patient . But just as the Americans ' conduct was relaxed by the fact that they were away from home , among strangers and under a foreign flag , so the Bermudians ' reactions were sharpened by the fact that the offenders were American ; if this seems unreasonable , let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sailors on leave reflect how his instinctive distaste for their occasional breaches of the peace would inevitably be heightened if they were foreign . Now when one is irked by the present behavior of a newcomer and a little suspicious of his future intentions , one is likely to meet his requests for co-operation with a certain wariness . Sometimes when an American officer , intent upon the urgent job of building the bases fast and well , asked for permission to use Bermudian facilities or material he felt that the Bermudian response was grudging , the negotiations interminable , the resulting help niggardly . The American officer could hardly be expected to realize to what extent these people , thinking of the ninetynine-year term of the new relationship , were wondering whether each new favor or concession would set a precedent until little by little their independence had been whittled away ; he was likely to feel simply that they were obstructionists , insistent upon business-as-usual . So there was irritation on the American side too . Another cause of American irritation was economic . Prosperity had come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soaked up . Money was pouring into the colony . The value of imports during 1941 rose 66 per cent above the figure for the previous year . Customs revenue rose 85 per cent . Bank deposits leaped . The wage level went up and up . During the early part of 1942 , when submarines were sinking ships in quantity in the western Atlantic , there were inevitable shortages of goods in Bermuda , and there were much higher rates of war-risk insurance to be paid on the cargoes that came through ; as a result , the cost of living went up until by December , 1942 ? despite price-control measures and rationing ? food had become an estimated 69 per cent more expensive than in 1939 ; clothing , 73 per cent more expensive ; rent , 12 per cent ; fuel and light , 28 per cent ; sundries , 50 per cent . As happens everywhere during a price rise , there was grousing about the cost of things . And so American soldiers and sailors complained about Bermuda profiteers . Those soldiers and sailors could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were held to reasonable levels by regulation , and that the high prices they paid at the shops in Hamilton reflected abnormal wartime shipping costs and abnormal insurance costs . All the sailors knew was that you did n't have to pay such prices in Altoona or Louisville . When they found that beer cost more at the United Services Club in Hamilton than it did at the Naval recreation center at Riddell 's Bay , they could n't be expected to know that the price in Hamilton included customs duty while the Navy price did n't ; and that the Bermuda government , which had traditionally lived upon customs duties , felt that in permitting the Army and Navy to import goods duty-free it had made a wide concession . Naturally the boys felt that somebody was making a rake-off out of their beer . And of course the grousing was intensified whenever amistake was made ? as when the water supply of the city of Hamilton ran short , and the Navy sent a ship to Hamilton to distill water to supplement the waning supply , and somebody sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile , however , a combination of circumstance and tact and thoughtful adjustment had begun to smooth out the early frictions . Pearl Harbor brought an immediate change in the atmosphere ; Bermudians and Americans were now partners in arms . The British government , intent upon avoiding any AngloAmerican embarrassment over questions of seniority in rank , and presumably wishing to ease the diplomatic situation by establishing in Government House a man of known sagacity and discretion , set a new precedent by appointing as Governor , not a general , but a civilian , Lord Knollys : a cool-headed man possessed of shrewd and useful tact . American Navy officers have told me how helpfully the British Navy officers aided them to learn the local ropes and how gracefully , after Pearl Harbor , they yielded up the chief responsibility for this whole area of air , sea , and land . ( The British Admiral , who had previously been Commander-in-Chief of the Atlantic and West Indies station , with a very wide sphere of authority , became simply the Senior British Naval Officer in the Western Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war is now Rear Admiral Ingram C. Sowell , the solid , athletic , and likable Tennessean who is commandant at our Naval Base . ) Likewise , Bermudians have told me how they have appreciated the constant efforts made by Brigadier General Alden G. Strong , commanding U. S. Army Forces in Bermuda , to iron out all difficulties ; and how , when there were recent reports of continued boisterousness on the part of American sailors , Admiral Sowell acted with such speed to tighten up shore-leave discipline that the situation improved overnight . Nor can anyone measure the salutary effect of the hospitality of certain Bermuda families who week after week have made a practice of taking American soldiers and sailors into their homes ; or of the way in which Bermuda women have slaved in the United Services Club and the USO . By this time too the civilian construction workers have left , and with them have gone the worst -- because least amenable to discipline ? causes of friction . Irritations remain , but on the whole the diplomatic skies are clearer . Possibly there are two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Bermudians who see the miracles that have been wrought at either end of the Island are beginning to find the bases something to be proud of . The other reason , though negative , is perhaps the most important of all . Though there have been annoying misunderstandings and disagreements and conflicts of authority here and there , there has been no real invasion of Bermudian independence such as troubled Bermudian dreams in 1940 and 1941 . The Americans have been there nearly two and a half years now , and Bermuda is still British and still free . IV H ow much has Bermuda changed meanwhile ? Well , that depends upon where you look . At some points on the Island the change is tremendous . Where the American Army base is situated , the landscape has been unrecognizably transformed . Vast quantities of coral rock and sand have been scooped up from the bottom of a harbor to add nearly a square mile of land to Bermuda , and to make a flying field which can hardly have an equal . anywhere . What pilot would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factory chimney or telephone wire to hurdle after leaving them ? The lands and houses of a good many residents have been expropriated ? and new , up-to-date houses built for them elsewhere ? and the Army has built a group of attractive permanent buildings for itself , following the prevailing Bermuda style ; the post office , for instance , has a clear white interior wainscoted in red Bermuda cedar . There is a huge and efficient hospital ready for service . There are barracks and administration buildings and so forth in profusion ? some permanent , some temporary ( for permanent construction was stopped after Pearl Harbor ) , and allcamouflaged with great ingenuity ; At this base there is little but the architecture of the permanent buildings and the brilliant contrast of white sand and bluegreen water to remind you of the old Bermuda ; this is Fort Bell , efficiently constructed in quick time , efficiently managed , and ready to show its teeth to the Axis . In another part of Bermuda the Navy has wrought a similar transformation , erecting permanent buildings along what looks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hangars of such majestic size that not by any stretch of the imagination could they remind you of Bermuda ? hangars in which even a four-motored Consolidated flying boat is dwarfed . From these two bases go out the planes whose function it is to make the Atlantic Ocean for hundreds of miles around a very unhealthy place for a submarine to show its periscope . But elsewhere Bermuda seems very little changed ? with two chief exceptions . The most conspicuous is the presence of automobiles . Until the war Bermuda did not permit them ? partly because the tourists enjoyed the leisurely pace of horseand-buggy life while on holiday , but chiefly perhaps because the Island was so small that if one were able to get from one end of it to the other in an hour or two tourists and residents alike would soon feel cabined ; psychologically , Bermuda would shrink to an islet . Manifestly however the American forces had to have cars and trucks to get on with their job at full speed ; and the ban was thereupon lifted also for the British and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The result is that there are now nearly a thousand automotive vehicles in Bermuda about as many as there are horses . Since the narrow , winding roads were not built for motor traffic , each passing car raises a cloud of white dust ; and American soldiers and sailors are amused to see the Bermudians in their surreys putting handkerchiefs to their noses ? in what looks like a gesture of high disdain ? as the dust envelops them . A few Bermudians have even acquired little masks for bicycling . Yet the automobile is far from ubiquitous : walking on one stretch of highway I was passed by five cars in the space of two or three hundred yards , but on another road I drove for half an hour in a carriage and was passed by only three or four . The other chief exception is the omnipresence of soldiers and sailors and the diversion of former tourist facilities to war uses . Various minor military establishments are scattered inconspicuously through the Island ; the Hamilton Hotel has become a United Services Club , the one-time Frascati Hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beach pavilion have became branches of the USO , the Bermudiana Hotel provides living quarters for the English censors , the Princess provides them with working quarters , the Inverurie is full of American Naval officers , there are Army officers in the St. George 's , the Riddell 's Bay golf club is a Navy recreation center ; and of course half the people on the streets of Hamilton on a Saturday afternoon wear the Navy white or the Army khaki . There are no visiting American vacationists at all ; now that the base workers have left , virtually the only non-Bermudians , except those in uniform , are a sprinkling of English evacuees and European refugees , and the English censors . ( The censors , by the way , a generally quiet and intelligent lot , have fitted into the Bermuda scene unobtrusively and on the whole harmoniously . ) Yet from Fort Bell to the Naval Base the wonder is not that so much , but that so little , has been changed . One might almost say that except for an occasional automobile , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uniforms , it is still the old Bermuda . Still the gentle airs blow softly over oleander and hibiscus , the white-roofed houses shine like sugarloaves among the cedars across the bay , the water gleams with incredible color , the . chick-o ' - the- village converses in the foliage , the peepers strike up at dusk . Still the trains of the diminutive Bermuda Railway moan their slow way from halt to halt , their wheels screaming as in torture when they round a curve . Still bicyclists carry their parcels home in a small basket attached to the handlebars , and sometimes have a small basket seat over the rear wheel to accommodate a child ; couples dismount when they reach a hill and theman skillfully pushes their two machines up the grade . Walking one afternoon on Front Street , with the hot sun beating down on the sidewalk , the horse-drawn carts rattling by , the bicycle bells trilling , the dignified carriage gongs sounding ping-PONG , and the white-helmeted traffic policeman on his round platforrh at Front and Queen Streets gesturing to the gentle traffic , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required a closer look or a moment of reflection to see the differences : the fact that two members of the American Shore Patrol were standing in front of a liquor shop up the street ; that inside the Furness-Bermuda steamship office , once so crowded , there was not a single person waiting at the counter ; that a jeep was coming down Queen Street among the bicycles ; and that the view seaward was not shut out by a mighty liner with red and black funnels , but only served as a frame for smaller , grimmer naval vessels . I went to a Bermuda wedding and it was completely in character ? the white ribbons on the coachmen 's whips , the wedding company proceeding from the church to the bride 's house in a long row of carriages with bicyclists wheeling beside them ; the only differences were that there were a good many Bermudians in uniform , and one heard about so-and-so 's son who had been killed in the R.A.F. and about so-and-so 's cousin who was a prisoner in Germany . I went to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in character : the Governor driving up in a carriage of state while a military hand played ? a little wheezily ? before the House of Parliament ; the members of the Legislative Council and the Assembly waiting in silence in a smallish room upstairs for the Governor 's arrival in their midst as the King 's vicegerent ; his appearance from behind a red curtain at the back of the room , his removal of his whiteplumed helmet , his solemn bowing to the assembled legislators , his putting on the helmet again to read the speech from the throne ; his departure , again by carriage , after the playing of " God Save the King . " Here too there was a difference : in the group beside the throne stood Admiral Sowell and other high American officers . Otherwise the ancient pattern held true . And I visited two beaches where I had often bathed in years gone by , half expecting them to be unrecognizable . Near one there were two or three new houses ; by the path leading to the other was a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FORCES ARE WELCOME TO USE THIS PART OF THE BEACH ; otherwise it seemed to me that not one grain of sand had been displaced . At the end of one beach a family ? husband , wife , and two small children ? were wading into the many-tinted water after having engaged in the old-time Bermuda rite of undressing behind the jagged rocks . It had n't been a dream that first afternoon after all . V w HAT are the postwar prospects for Bermuda ? Here we confront a forest of question marks , among which an occasional visitor such as I must move tentatively and circumspectly . The prospects for prosperity look good . The American bases will continue to be manned after the war of course , though presumably on a smaller scale ; this will mean that considerable American money will be coming in steadily . There should be a rising revenue from the expanding use of Bermuda as an agreeable place to stop over during a transatlantic flight . And the vacationists from the United States can be expected to come back strong when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be found for the automobile problem . This problem is a fascinator . Most Bermudians ? including , though you might not believe it , the younger ones ? appear to wish that after the war the Island might proscribe automobiles except for military , medical , and other emergency use . But it is one thing to decide in the absence of automobiles that the use of them would make the Island less inviting to visitors and too small for everybody ; it is another thing to wish them away after one has actually experienced the convenience of being able to go from Tuckerstown to Hamilton in twenty minutes ( instead of an hour or more ) in a conveyance that will stand without hitching . And so there appears to bealso a general sense , however reluctant , that the automobile will stay . If it is to come into wider use not only.must the Bermuda roads be rebuilt and the parking problems solved in advance , but the question must be faced whether or not the Island is to be opened to the ordinary type of high-speed car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sheer defiance of human nature . The theoretically perfect solution ? heaven knows whether it is practicable at anything but a prohibitive price ? would be for Bermuda to design and adopt its own kind of automobile , as unique to visitors as its previous horse-and-buggy status : a car light , quiet , and incapable of going more than twenty miles an hour . That would be fast enough for convenience and not fast enough to shrink the Island immoderately . Cheerful as the prospects for prosperity seem to be , the prospects for an even reasonable degree of economic independence look even less bright than before the war . The amount of Bermuda land given over to farming has decreased still further since 1939 ( why till the soil hazardously when you can make good wages working for the Americans ? ) . If the Island is to be able to feed itself even in part , there will have to be a big increase in agriculture ? especially dairy farming . A really thorough study of the fisheries might also be worth while , to sec whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Bermuda is , after all , an island . As for exports , there has already been one very specialized boom during the past two years , in the sudden growth of an industry curiously incongruous with war : when Japan and Holland were shut out of the western lily-bulb market , Bermuda stepped in . ( I expected to see war gardens in Bermuda , but was somewhat surprised to find the former fairways of the Frascati golf course white with lilies ! ) This lily-bulb industry may have continuing possibilities ; and perhaps there would be a future for a cedar-woodworking industry . But I do not know how many Bermudians are aware of the importance of developing such stripling industries . If I seem to emphasize them unduly it is because , as Bermudians are well aware , it is not good from any point of view for a community to become too wholly dependent upon serving visitors whose money has been earned elsewhere ; there is much to be said for the social health of a place where people know how to make things and hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Knollys said to the assembled Bermuda legislators , " I feel bound to advise you that it is impossible to contemplate the growing weight of taxation borne by democratic countries on whose resources the economic life of Bermuda depends without realizing how external opinion beyond your control may eventually operate to the detriment of the Colony , unless your economic and indeed your political structure is adjusted to the modern conception of a democratic country . " Translated from civil-service English into the vernacular , that statement presumably meant that Bermudians should adopt the income tax and broaden the suffrage . On such matters I have no intention of expressing " external opinion " ; but no one can read the joint memorandum on " Bermuda After the War " prepared last spring by the Economic Advisory Committee and the Trade Development Board without realizing that if Bermudian standards in housing , health , education , and the social services are to be lifted , and industry and agriculture are to be fostered , an income tax will be pretty nearly unavoidable . Whether the political structure can be " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without racial friction is not certain ; there is a new assertiveness among part of the Negro population , and there are many whites who would not want to see them get more political power . But if this problem is soluble without friction anywhere in the world it should be in Bermuda , since the dominant tradition has been one of impartial law enforcement and mutual courtesy and respect . One problem which will pretty surely become pressing before long is that of population . The number of Bermudians has just about doubled in the past twenty years . If it should double again the Island would be much too crowded forcomfort or economic health . The answer , presumably , is to be sought in education and birth control principally ; though if the United States , taking special cognizance of the value of the bases to its own safety , could facilitate emigration from Bermuda , that too might be helpful . But the future problem of closest consequence to us Americans is of course the one precipitated by the leasing of the bases . It is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An aggressively nationalist administration in Washington or a headstrong admiral in Bermuda might wreck overnight the whole code of Bermudian-American relations which is now being gradually worked out . I hope the Army and Navy will provide their newcomers to Bermuda , particularly officers , with valid information about the place , the people , and the local customs ? perhaps following the model of the current Army booklets on the various countries where our troops are stationed . I hope the problem of recreation for soldiers and sailors stationed in Bermuda after the war will be worked out with great shrewdness ; for by that time the average quality of the men in our services may not be so high , Bermudian disposition to entertain them and make allowances for their behavior will not be so strong , and unless there are areas where our men can work off steam without wide repercussions , the frictions of 1941 may be repeated in aggravated form . In general , if the Americans are to man the bases effectively without invading Bermudian independence , both parties will have to exercise friendly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight of responsibility will fall upon us ? for the very simple reason that we shall carry the heavy guns . When I was in Bermuda I asked a wise Englishman , long resident there , what he thought about the future of Bermuda . " Well , " said he , " I should like to see it become a demonstration of Anglo-American relations at their best . " It might also , very usefully , become a long-standing demonstration of how to occupy a military base without trespassing on the integrity of the surrounding community .                     