@@491185

THE charging infantryman suddenly stumbles and falls , his hip shattered by machine-gun bullets . In other wars , the best he could have hoped for was life as a cripple , with his torn hip joint . But today our armies have one medical man to every twelve infantrymen , ski troops , paratroops or shock troops . One of these hurries to the wounded man 's side and pulls out a syrette . Peace for the wounded soldier is in this small , sealed and sterile hypodermic needle . It is the soldier 's insurance against agony . The medical man tears off its protective covering and plunges the needle home with its single shot of quick-acting opiate . It is then thrown away , its merciful mission performed . There is no delay for resterilization or reloading . Drowsy , little more than half conscious , feeling no pain , the soldier is taken to the nearest dressing station , then hack to the field hospital behind the lines . That is the beginning  --  only the beginning , though  --  of what anesthesia in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this war . Time has always been the surgeon 's enemy . In the centuries preceding anesthesia , ropes or strong hands were needed to hold the victim , while the old-time barber surgeon hurriedly hacked off an arm or leg before death set in from pain or loss of blood . No real surgery , in the modern sense , was possible under those conditions . Even with the old anesthetics , a surgeon was rushed , because of dangerous aftereffects when the operation was too prolonged . Patients given gas or other respiratory anesthetics  --  the " breathe deeply " type  --  were often seriously affected , and were likely to collapse after any except the briefest operation . With shat-tered hips or shoulders , repairable only with painstaking operations that required hours , the choice often lay between hopeless disfigurement and amputation . Severe abdominal wounds , even in 1918 , were fatal in four cases out of five . Chest surgery , when the heart or lungs were damaged , was practically impossible . Today all that has changed . Instead of an operation held to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even four hour operations are commonplace , with brain operations running to eight hours and more . Abdominal wounds can be overcome in four cases out of five , instead of only one in five . Chest surgery is not unusual . Our soldier with a shattered hip can be repaired , after reaching a field hospital with full equipment , as carefully and as painlessly as a Swiss watch in the hands of an experienced jeweler . One of Jimmy Doolittle 's aviators who took part in the bombing of Tokyo was brought back from overseas wounded and taken to the Walter Reed Hospital at Washington . With other members of his crew , he had bailed out when his big bomber 's motors ran out of fuel at the end of the long Tokyo flight . His arm became entangled with the cords of his parachute and his shoulder was badly injured . After receiving temporary treatment to make him comfortable , he was flown to the Army hospital at Washington . To repair the damaged shoulder adequately and make sure there would be no crippling deformity in later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now hardly unusual operations . In preparation for it , the flier was first given a new drug called avertin . Then he was taken to the in-duction room and dropped , with a new gas , cyclopropane , into deep surgical anesthesia . Not until then was he trundled into the operating room . For nearly four hours , the flier was kept in the deep third stage of anesthesia . The anesthetist , Capt . Harold F. Bishop , made sure that an intratracheal airway  --  a safety-insuring improvement used in the administration of gas  --  admitted plenty of air to the lungs and saw to it that no more anesthetic was adniinistered than the flier 's system could safely stand . The operation , as far as the shoulder was concerned , was a complete success ; the flier would regain the full use of his arm . Later our pilot began to run a temperature . Fifteen years ago that would have been serious . It indicated the kind of lung congestion that used to be known as ether pneumonia . But Captain Bishop merely gave his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , following the operation itself , again has charge of the case  --  another mild anesthetic and drew out with a tube the trouble-causing matter that had gathered in the lungs . Within a few hours the flier 's temperature dropped back to normal . Fear of the operation used to figure largely in a patient 's condition . Fear can nearly double the blood pressure and that can make a decided difference in the chance of recovery . Soldiers wounded in action would sometimes struggle desperately against inhaling gas or ether , having to be held down until they became unconscious . They would relive again during the first minutes on the operating table , . excitement of the attack against enemy trenches machine-gun nests . Before they succumbed to the anesthetic they would often shout and fight and . waste valuable strength in their subsiding delirium . But today avertin and other drugs are used before the administration of the regular anesthetic  --  per*haps with an enema while the patient is still comfortable on his own bed . The name " avertin " was coined because it " averts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the patient is totally unaware of taking the final surgical anesthetic , given in the induction room . When he is wheeled into the operating room all the preliminaries have in most cases already been attended to . For fifty years anesthetists hunted for a drug that could be needled directly into the blood stream and carried at once to the brain to bring about easy unconsciousness . For patients unable to take a respiratory anesthetic safely , that might mean the difference between life and death in many borderline cases . In 1914 a list of more than 400 drugs with anesthetic properties was compiled . From one of them , barbituric acid , sleep producers like barbital , lumina and veronal were derived . And in the middle 30 's along came a new European barbiturate Called evipal , which proved to be the long-sought intravenous anesthetic . Pentothal sodium , or pentothal , is the American improvement on evipal , with slightly different properties . Its use has influenced the whole field of anesthetics . The aftereffects of all narcotics and opiates was for decades a serious problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later , a drug addict . For others , the working-off period meant prolonged misery , as well as danger . Pentothal and similar new drugs have changed the whole picture in that respect . Pentothal 's effect is of short duration . Its use is not followed by nausea or dopiness . It is noninflammable and easily transported . These qualities make it ideal for military advance stations . As a general or regional anesthetic where fast work most he done on broken hones it is unequaled . The British armies , as well as our own forces , are already using it extensively . Since 1934 , when it was first tried at the Mayo Clinic , and where it is now administered in more than a quarter of all cases requiring anesthetics , pentothal sodium has been used more than 40,000 times , with less than one death in 10,000 operations . Its effects are so slight and pass off so rapidly that in one Mayo Clinic case a young man , kept unconscious by pentothal for three quarters of an hour while a portion of his hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hungrily eating a good dinner . There have been big improvements in many drugs used for local or regional anesthesia . Cocaine , the local anesthetic that came along in grandfather 's day , was followed in father 's time by the European product , novocain , and its American equivalent , procaine . Procaine has been improved to meet particular needs . Intracaine gives more rapid action than procaine , while metycaine has longer action , Pontocaine , still more powerful , lasts even longer ; and nupercaine is the most powerful and longest acting of all . With these new drugs has come increased use of regional anesthetics for operations that formerly had to be done under a " general . " An arm or handoperation , for example , can he performed with one of the new regional anesthetics shot into the big nerve that crosses the shoulder , completely numbing the entire arm . The patient  --  perhaps one of those unable to take a general anesthetic without danger  --  can watch the entire operation without experiencing the slightest sensation of pain . Moreover , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muscular control can in certain cases be maintained even though pain is killed . A man with a bad wound in his wrist may he anesthetized through a nerve block that enables him to move certain muscles when he is told to , so that the surgeon is assisted in finding the ends of severed tendons which have to be brought together , yet the patient feels no discomfort at all . . A Hollywood dentist reports that intravenous use of pentothal instead of gas causes the patient , unconscious of pain or of what he is doing , to open his mouth when told to . He now uses pentothal for 90 per cent of his dental operations . Twilight sleep , that received wide publicity some years ago when produced by scopolamine , with the use of newer drugs has become commonplace at modern hospitals . Questions can be asked and answered by the mother , orders obeyed and necessary muscular action left undisturbed , although no pain is felt , nor is there any memory afterward of the time passed under the drug 's influence . What is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods . By means of a hollow needle with a pump attachment , the patient , already comfortably drowsy and unconscious of pain , is given minute doses of a powerful anesthetic like nupercaine . Just enough of the anesthetic to keep the patient properly under , without the danger of an overdose , can be pumped from time to time directly into the nerves of the spine . A New York business executive , fifty-three years old , suffered a sudden attack of appendicitis at his Westchester home . With the arrival of an ambulance from the nearest hospital , he was at once given a morphine injection to relieve the pain . That ended his suffering for the entire experience . At the hospital he acquiesced in the decision for a continuous spinal for the operation . Before he was taken to the operating floor , pentothal made him comfortably drowsy , almost to the point of unconsciousness . Afterward he remembered , dimly , being wheeled into an elevator . The same hazy recollection brought him the memory of a tickling sensation as of someone moving a finger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and of being asked : " You felt that ? " to which he answered : " A little . " Then there was a voice that remarked in a conversational tone : " Ruptured . " Then nothing more until he found himself once more in his bed , and even after that , through skillful use of new drugs , no pain whatever . It is in the administration of almost infinitesimal but carefully measured amounts of powerful anesthetics in such cases as this that the science of anesthesia has made one of its greatest advances . Far more is known now than even a dozen years ago , both of the effect of drugs on the system and exactly how much it can stand without danger , and the new techniques of administration allow precise measurements of whatever dosage the patient receives . The exact control of the amounts of gaseous anesthetics administered , possible only since about 1929 , has at last reduced danger to negligible proportions , when administered by properly trained technicians . Use of gas got its great impetus in 1923 , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ethylene is less irritating to the lungs than nitrous oxide and can be used with more oxygen , reducing the danger of suffocation . It first came to the attention of research workers when nurserymen complained that their carnations , when placed in greenhouses , would go to sleep and fail to respond to sunlight . Ethylene , present in illuminating gas that was used in the greenhouses , was found to be the cause of the trouble . Its usefulness as a practical anesthetic for humans subsequently was demonstrated in surgical operations . Cyclopropane is a greatly improved hydrocarbon gas with a rather pleasant , naphthalike odor . It was first used at the University of Wisconsin in 1933 . It is so powerful an anesthetic that it can be mixed with as much as 85 or 90 per cent of oxygen , insuring the patient the ample amount of air that his system requires . With the old-style nitrous oxide not more than 20 per cent of oxygen can be used if a patient is to be kept in even the lighter stages of anesthesia  --  and normal human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cyciopropane permits the use of more than four times as much oxygen as nitrous oxide , and only about one sixth as much gas is required . Ether similarly has been improved on with ethyl chloride . Vinethene is another improvement on ether that is quick-acting and powerful , with only minor aftereffects , like nausea or jitteriness . It is excellent for short operations . Cyprome is a later development , announced in 1940 at the University of Maryland . These gases and the needled-in anesthetics assure every soldier who reaches a base hospital of being made comfortable , with an excellent chance of complete recovery after as lengthy an operation as may be needed . They mean the repair and saving of countless arms and legs that , in earlier wars , would have been amputated . A gas machine now often replaces the old open-drop method of pouring ether or chloroform on cotton held under the patient 's nose , with a **27;2162;TOOLONG effect . Among the operations recently performed at the Walter Reed Hospital in Washington was one on the badly broken pelvis of an Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after hitting a bump and landed upside down on him during maneuvers . This case necessitated a four-hour operation . At the end of it the driver was given another new product , metrazol , which wakes a patient through tremendous stimulation , counteracting the effects of the anesthetic . Metrazol is used in minute doses , because the system responds to it as it would to a fire alarm , immediately alert to the need for strong self-protective action , Together , all these far-reaching improvements  --  better drugs and gases , intravenous administration , gas machines with intratracheal airways insuring a plentiful supply of oxygen , elimination of preliminary fear and reduction of aftereffects  --  have almost completely revolutionized the whole science of anesthesia . In one of the largest and best-equipped hospitals in America only one operation in ten , last year , was performed with any of the older anesthetics or with the older methods of administration . With war wounded being sent back to military hospitals from every battle front , such amazing but largely unheralded advances in surgery and anesthetics come as a boon that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              