@@475379

ness . To that end they are asking farmers to supply produce . That wo n't be easy at first . For a century nurserymen have been trying to breed fruits and vegetables that would withstand the gruelling journey from the farm to the urban retailer . For that reason , many of the more delicate-skinned and sweetly-flavored varieties are no longer grown . The airplane will help to reverse this trend . It will also add variety to the American menu by bringing us tropical offerings from Mexico and our Central and South American neighbors . As to costs , Chicagoans are now paying twelve cents more for ten ounces of airborne California spinach wrapped in cellophane than they do for locally grown unwashed and untrimmed spinach . It is believed that eventually California lettuce shipped by air to Chicago will cost only five cents a pound more than the same lettuce shipped by rail . IN 1939 there were fewer than 60 com-panics engaged in any phase of dehydration . By the fourth year of the war , some 600 dehydrators were producing more than 2,000,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war-born industry will survive the peace ? Perhaps ten per cent , in the opinion of most experts . While it is an exaggeration to speak of dehydration as the " graveyard of vitamins , " it is true that to date the dehydrators have failed to solve their basic problem , which is the retention of both vitamins and flavor . Dehydration got a bad name in the army in this war , as in World War I. The prevailing GI view was expressed by the parachutist who said , " The guy who invented dehydration of potatoes , milk , and eggs should also have invented cooks who know what to do with dehydrated foods , or soldiers who would like them . " Dr. Clive M. McCay , nutritionist for the Navy , did not invent dehydration . But he did find a good cook . As a result , he had a big contingent of Seabees standing in line for dehydrated foods . Apparently , therefore , the obstacle of consumer resistance will not be insuperable , when the food technologists have licked some of their current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dehydration to our food economy are still in the laboratory . General Mills has announced a five-year research program in dehydration . Many other food processors are investing large sums in dehydration research , most of it concentrated on the thus far unsolved problem of retaining Vitamin C or ascorbic acid . Because of its role in building resistance to disease , many nutritionists believe most people would benefit by consuming several times the daily requirement of Vitamin C given in the Food and Nutrition Board 's official " yardstick . " Fresh fruit and vegetable sources of ascorbic acid are relatively expensive , however , and most processing destroys it ? the pasteurization of milk alone destroys more Vitamin C every year than is contained in our entire annual citrus crop . Consequently , studies of low-income diets frequently show alarming deficiencies of this vitamin . Dehydration has already solved the problem in the laboratory , and at least one of the solutions is rapidly moving into the pilot plant stage . It is a hugely magnified , belt-line adaptation of the " sublimation " process by which blood plasma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dehydration in vacuum at low temperatures . This process can be used to dehydrate vegetable and fruit juices of all kinds , including sugar cane juice , which in its natural state is extraordinarily rich in both vitamins and minerals . In the laboratory of a Middle Western food engineer who has over fifty profitable patents to his credit , the writers tasted some of this new sugar . It is a light golden , non-caking powder , rich in retained vitamins and minerals and rather more exquisite in taste than premium maple sugar . What is even more startling , the engineer insists it will ultimately cost less to manufacture than the present vitamin-drained sugar , of which we in America eat perhaps four times as much as we should . ( The Army during this war has been.eating seven times too much , and the present writers remain unconvinced that Quartermaster General Gregory was acting in line of duty when he appeared with Eleanor Roosevelt in one of the sweetest broadcasts ever aired , sponsored by the National Confectioners ' Association . ) At least two other well-known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of dehydration process . Others have let it be known ? with prudent concealment of details ? that they are exploring various approaches to the problem of conserving Vitamin C , including the use of infrared lamps , radio frequency energy , and dehydration in inert gases and in vacuum . One of the most promising candidates is thc mega-therm process developed by the Federal Telephone and Radio Corporation . This process heats inside and outside simultaneously and removes 99 per cent of the moisture . Already it has been used successfully to advance the sub-zero revolution by supplying a practical defroster . ONE OF the most important food developments of the war is the increased use of mixtures in which vegetable proteins serve as complete or partial substitutes for the more expensive and less plentiful animal proteins . In 1935 German nutritionists devised the first of these mixtures ? the famous " bratling " ? as a part of 114Ter 's preparations for World War II . Bratling powder is essentially a food supplement rather than a food . As prepared by the quartermaster department of the Reichswehr it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and milk albumins , spired with various herbs . This mixture was used both as an emergency field ration and to extend the protein content of sausages and soup . In 1936 our own Bureau of Homc Economics devised a somewhat similar mixture for use after the Mississippi flood in feeding refugee families camped on the levees . This mixture was composed of one-third dry skim milk , one-third rice polishings , and one-third corn meal . It found considerable acceptance and was later used by the FERA in its early distribution of surplus foods to relief families . Systematic experiments with cereal food mixtures were conducted over a period of years by Robert S. Harris of the Nutrition Laboratory of the Massachusctts Institute of Technology . The Harris mixtures consisted of various combinations of whole cereals and legumes with soybean flour and dried milk . They looked and tasted like pre-cooked breakfast cereals , but were balanced and checked to assure a full complement of vitamins , minerals , proteins , and calories  - -   - -  sufficient not merely to support life , but to sustain a " buoyant " level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used by the Byrd Antarctic Expedition , and in 1941 Dr. Harris caused a considerable sensation by announcing that a day 's ration of his food mixture could be supplied at a cost of about six cents a person . One of the most tragic wastes of the cereal industry is the destruction in milling of the most vitamin-packed part of the corn kernel . Its removal from the diet of the Southern sharecropper , when the degerminated product of the milling industry displaced the whole corn meal and grits formerly turned out by the local water mill , was a major factor in the spread of pellagra in the South . Recently a process has been perfected for taking most of the oil out of the corn germ and thus preventing the meal from turning rancid . Consequently , the return of the vitamin-rich corn germ to the South ? perhaps in a cheap soup mixture ? promises to ease the burdens of back country physicians and health officers . A. noon new to America but long a staple in Russia , is sunflower seed , which is hailed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of protein , all of it available for human nutrition , as against the 40 per cent protein content of the soybean . Sunflowers grow readily and yield heavily on many American soils , and a sunflower harvesting machine has been invented which rivals the corn harvester in efficiency . Another excellent potential source of vegetable protein is grapefruit seed , most of which is now wasted . In the wartime search for the scarce animal proteins , one of the most important discoveries was the once-despised menhaden . Though almost as delicious as shad , this fish is even bonier ? hence in pre-war days no sensible fisherman would think of trying to sell menhaden for anything except chicken meal or fertilizer . In 1943 , however , government scientists , working with the fish industry , found a way of dissolving the bones by long cooking under pressure . Canned with tomato sauce , menhaden became " silver herring . " The British Food Ministry ordered it in quantities , and by the end of the war the annual pack is expected to reach over a million cases . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten cents a can . Another wartime sea harvest is the pilchard . Ground up ? entrails and all ? it can be made into a highly nutritious fish loaf . Other " trash " fish , formerly discarded by the fisherman , are the bur-but , blue runner , whiting , and the smaller sizes of spot , trout , mullet , squid , and croaker . Mixed in the same grinder , all these fish enter into a canned fish meal used for relief feeding in the occupied countries and likely to appear in some form on the domestic market after the war . WHERE ARE some quite sober and rep-A utable nutritionists who believe that we could largely eliminate hunger in both its " hollow " and " hidden " forms from the list of our postwar problems , merely by utilizing systematically the prodigious feeding potential of the yeast plant . To the average American , yeast is merely something that bakers use in baking bread and brewers in making beer . More recently , radio savants , with their pseudo-medical goatees wagging back of the microphone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yeast tablets and extracts at from three dollars to four dollars a pound at the drug store . You may be interested to know that in 1943 , through the efforts of nutritionist Clive M. McCay and the Grange League Federation Co-operative , the people of Ithaca , New York , were enabled to buy food yeast at their co-op store , not at three to four dollars but at forty-two cents a pound . But that is only a beginning . As soon as we regularly salvage , dry , and debitter all of the two hundred million pounds of brewers ' yeast that ordinarily has gonedown the drain pipe every year , the price should drop to perhaps twenty-five cents a pound . And once we begin making primary yeast out of molasses , as the British started to do in Jamaica , or out of hydrolyzed trash wood as the Germans did at the rate of 100,000 tons a year during the war , the retail price of food yeast should drop even farther . Yeast is not only our cheapest source of the B vitamins ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to grow our best vegetable proteins , such as soybean , peanuts and sunflower seeds ; it takes years to grow beef and dairy cattle . But it takes only hours to grow yeast . One acre planted to a starch crop ? such as grain , sugar cane , sugar beet , potatoes ? will yield only about 70 pounds of protein in the form of milk or beef , after it has been fed to cattle . But use the same carbohydrates to produce yeast , and you get 840 pounds of equally good protein and an even greater increase in yield of the B vitamins . Nor does the taste offer serious difficulties . Experiments at the Brooklyn Navy Yard proved that by adding suitable quantities of food yeast to such dishes as pork goulash , curry of veal , meat loaf , and beef-and-kidney stew , it was possible to increase substantially the workers daily intake of vitamins and proteins ? without their knowing anything about it ! The breakfast doughnut will absorb two grams of yeast without altering its flavor and with a distinct improvement in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sees her husband 's morale slipping for lack of B vitamins can help matters considerably by a littleculinary yeast-needling ; what the worse half does n't know is likely to do him a good deal of good . HROUGHOUT this survey ? we have adopted conservative estimates and have tried to err on the side of understatement . Some of these promising developments may be stopped by practical difficulties , some by vagaries of consumers ' taste ; others may be stifled in trade pressures . Even so , the prospect of a postwar flood of good food is real enough to afford the American housewife a good deal of satisfaction .                     