@@494304

What Italy 's Left Wants by Leo Valiani ALL OF EUROPE is moving toward the Left , but in only one of the Western European nations in the sphere of influence of the democracies has anything taken place , - both during and after the war , that deserves the name of a social revolution ? Italy . The standard-bearers of Italy 's social revolution were workers and younger intellectuals . The Italian working class had always turned a cold shoulder to the corporative experiment of the Fascist state . But as long as this class was isolated from the rest of the world , only its most daring members joined the underground anti-Fascist struggle , with its risk of years of imprisonment . The masses as a whole were dormant . Leo Valiani 's article was written before the Liberals forced the resignation of the Perri government , as the author predicted . Now editor of the daily , Italia Libera , and the magazine , Nuovi Quaderni di Giustizia e Liberta , Mr. Valiani was from 2943 to 1.945 a member ( Milan ) M of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is the author of A History of Twentieth-Century European Socialism : 1905-1944 . In 1941-42 the atmosphere changed . The younger intellectuals and the university students comprising the generation educated by Giovanni Gentile , the official philosopher of fascism , showed not only hostility to the war but also a clear-cut decision to do away completely with fascism 's dictatorial institutions and to build in their place a new social and political order . In all the Italian universities , groups arose and spread rapidly , some calling themselves liberal socialists , others professing a sort of humanistic Marxism . Thousands of young intellectuals flocked to these movements . The programs were extremely varied , but they had a common basis in a desire for peace , freedom and social reform . Some of these groups , notably the Unione dei Lavoratori Italiani of Milan , led by two young professional men , Cavallotti and Savio , managed to get directly in touch with a select group of factory workers . As a result , " revolutionary factory committees " were set up in all the industrial plants in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of employees . By March of 1943 , this movement , which had spread to other cities as well , was strong enough to induce the workers to carry out large-scale strikes for political as well as economic reasons . These were the first strikes to take place anywhere under a dictatorship . By October , 1943 , there were hundreds of partisan groups in the valleys of the Alps and the Apennines which made up a carefully chosen and active fighting movement capable of creating disturbances behind the German lines and of carrying out acts of sabotage . Since they were too few to shake off the Nazi domination , they looked to the masses of workers . in the factories , which were now turning out goods for the Germans , the revolutionary committees carried on a secret existence . In December of 1943 they tested the strength of the enemy by calling upon the workers to strike for increased food rations . In Turin , Milan and Genoa the workers staged street demonstrations . The Gestapo made arrests and mass deportations , but the workers held their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans that after a week they gave in , promising satisfaction of the striker ? demands . The first test had been successful . Just after the strikes which marked the end of 1943 , the Committee for National Liberation of Northern Italy , which was the general staff of the partisan army and of the whole underground struggle , made contact with the factory committees and proposed that they form into the basic units of the resistance movement . By the end of February , 1944 , the workers had so far achieved their transformation into a political entity that the Committee for National Liberation was able to call , for March I , an anti-Fascist and anti-German general strike in all the factories of central and northern Italy . Hundreds of thousands of workers , bank and business employees , bus drivers and others engaged in transportation held a general strike for ten days . The Gestapo was nonplussed . I N THE NEXT WEEKS , Nazi repression served only to drive thousands of workers into the partisan bands . Partisan warfare , which hitherto had been of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An enormous majority of the partisans declared themselves in favor of a democratic workers ' republic . Even Allied headquarters , which was in contact with the Committee for National Liberation , had to take this new fact into consideration and give up the original plan to reconcile the partisans with Badoglio . The factory committees , joined to the Committee for National Liberation , now were the dominant force in Northern Italy , still occupied by the Germans . These committees were militarized and built into armed anti-Fascist squads . Strikes went on in rapid succession and reached even the railroads and important German army transportation . In every city of Northern Italy , the winter of 1944-45 was marked by open anti-Fascist warfare . Thus encouraged , the partisan bands , beginning with the Giustizia e Liberta groups in Piedmont , started in January of 1945 to come down from the mountains into the plains and camp in the woods and hills near the cities . When , in April of this year , the Committee for National Liberation of Northern Italy summoned workers and partisans alike to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time to seize the wealth of those capitalists who had collaborated with the enemy and to set up management councils of workers in all important factories . This decision was instrumental in bringing about the splendid insurrection of the factory squads , whose prompt action saved the Northern Italian plants from the destruction planned by the retreating Germans . From April 25 , 1945 , until today , in spite of the rule of the AMG , the Northern Italian industries have been run by management councils made up of workers and technicians . This state of things , however , is experimental and temporary . With the arrival of raw materials and the increase of production ( which had gone down to one-third of normal ) , there arises the problem of putting the national economy on a sound basis . /TN HE Italian Communist Party , which has strong 1 working-class support , has come out in favor of an indefinite extension of the management-council system , such councils to have equal representation of workers and ownership . This proposal is opposed by all the other left-wing parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of production because of a permanent class struggle between the two factions . The Action Party , of which ( former ) Premier Parri is a member , proposed a solution consonant with the liberal-socialist conception of a bilateral economy , combining part state and part private ownership . This would mean that the big monopolies , beginning with hydro-electric power and mining interests , would be confiscated by the government until a decision on nationalization should be reached . This decision , however , is up to the Constitutional Assembly . In regard to other industries , the Action Party holds that the management councils should be replaced by control councils . A manager chosen by vote of the stockholders would once more have the right to run a business , but the workers would have the right to see to it that his management benefited national reconstruction and even , perhaps , fitted in with the theory of full employment . The Socialist Party has as yet taken no definite stand . Among its leaders , Pietro Nenni appears to favor the Communist view and Ignazio Silone that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this problem . The Liberal ( conservative ) Party , on the other hand , opposes all that has been accomplished by the factory committees and holds that ownership should be restored to business and industrial leaders , even to those who have already been censured for their past . Fascist activities . For this and similar reasons the Liberals threaten to provoke a crisis in the present coalition government , which includes all the anti-Fascist parties . Former Premier Nitti , who , in 1919-20 , was responsible for the aggravation of class conflict between the bourgeoisie and the workers which led to the success of fascism , is today an ardent leader of this party , which seeks to block all social reform . The problem will come up for settlement before the Constitutional Assembly , due to take place in April , r946 , It is closely linked with the question of what kind of government Italy is to have in the future . Those who favor a republican form also stand for social justice to the workers . The monarchists , on the other hand , throw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in an Italy where high tariffs have traditionally protected monopoly , has always been largely parasitic . This , then , is a surface picture of the left-wing movement and its problems in Italy today . There are other aspects ? the agrarian problem and the problem of the lower middle class , which has produced a new nationalist movement , and its journalistic organ , L'Uomo Qualunque ( The Average Man ) . These aspects are less apparent but equally fundamental . They require more spate for further discussion . 