@@491609

DISQUIETING reports emerge from Mexico . One hears that the country has gone Communistic and is grabbing oil wells and farm lands from their rightful owners ; next . comes an " expos ? , " purporting to show the alarming penetration achieved secretly by the Fascist powers and prophesying that America 's next-door neighbor will shortly be disclosed as a satellite of the Rome-Berlin axis ; also that , after decades of thinly veiled dictatorships , Mexico is at last corning of age and showing signs of becoming a healthy and sturdy democracy . Lastly , those whose oil wells and farm lands have been taken more or less agree that Mexico is still Mexico , and still at the old game of grabbing other people 's property which has been practiced there since long before anyone thought of present-day isms . No wonder that this welter of rumors , through which fact and fancy traipse arm in arm , has every one confused , even the . residents . It might be well to sift one from the other and , dismissing such obvious vagaries as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler 's Aryan chariot , proceed to look a few facts in the face and see what is really going on . For the probabilities of Mexico becoming Fascist are close to zero ; the mere thought of bands of Mexicans marching with uplifted arms and shouting " Heil " becomes ludicrous , in view of the fact that one third of us live on remote mountaintops in such a primitive way that it could be called semi-savagery without great exaggeration ; and as for the other two thirds , no way has yet been found to regiment them , although our local Napoleons have been trying for a good many years , and arc , in fact , working hard at it this very minute . In addition , an indispensable factor for a successful Puisrh of the Nazi type appears to be a highly developed race consciousness , which Mexico notably lacks , being , as it is , a thorough mixture of Indian and white . What , then , has alarmed a number of articulate lookers-on ? As we shall see , nothing more substantial than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have upon occasion found worth copying from the major leagues . Playing Red AS FOR Communism , it is LA a horse of a slightly darker color . We have adapted more than gestures from the Soviet ; we have translated the Maryian jargon , which spouts effortlessly and meaninglessly from the lips of our youth . Within recent years few tourists have failed to see the red flag waving in the streets of Mexico City as if it were quite at home there . At the moment , the most lucrative profession within our borders is that of agitator and propagandist of Leftist balderdash , and the One official political party sports the motto : " For a democracy of the proletariat . " Most of our bigwigs have made the pilgrimage to Lenin 's tomb . Some 30 per cent of the population is already on collectivist communal farms , confiscated from the despicable landowners , There are general strikes galore , and parades with clenched fists , and direct action by the proletariat in seizing factories and throttling newspapers . But dues all or this add up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? I doubt it . To anyone who cares to look back at what we have dune and what we have been since we took over from the Spaniards , no doubt will remain that Mexico is only being Mexico , and that the trappings of an exotic ideology with which we are masquerading today have no more significance than the plug hat and old-fashioned dress which children dig out of the attic when they play at being grownups  --  quickly discarded when papa thinks the children have played enough . Whatever Communism may be elsewhere , in Mexico it is an artificial growth , nurtured and sustained under hothouse conditions for purposes far different from those avowed , and which will wither and die not long after the head man so commands or the gardeners find it more lucrative to turn their attention to some other bloom . Even in the unlikely event that our Leftists overwhelmed all opposition and succeeded in establishing , the dictatorship of the proletariat , it is a safe bet that tho humble worker would do precious little dictating , and that things would he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been  --  that is , by one strong man , or at best a tight little oligarchy . Mexico 's past will explain much of its present . Our war of independence started in 1510 , but even before then the - United States had already sent the first of an uninterrupted succession of agents to preach to us the beauties of democracy  --  one William Shaler . His instructions , signed by Robert Smith , Secretary of State to President Madison , were " . . to diffuse , wherever convenient , the idea that the - United States is inspired by the sincerest good will towards the inhabitants of SpanishAmerica . . . which will subsist regardless of its internal system of governmeetl , or its relations with Europe . in which it is not our desire to intervene ; and that in case of a political separation from the mother country and the establishment of a system of national , independent government , it would coincide with the sentiments of the Visited States , in order to promote friendlier relations and a freer interehantie among the inhabitants of this hemisphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that monarchical-theocratical Spain did not permit its colonies to maintain diplomatic relations with the ' United States and , in fact , forbade its New World subjects to have any intercourse with their northern neighbors , fearing that they might become infected with the newfangled ideas of republieanism and independence , the purpose of Mr , Shiller 's trip can be construed only as hieing exactly the opposite of his instructions , so far as wishing to influence the system of government in New Spain . Mr. Shakr got only as far as Havana because our war of independence broke out while he was en route . Attempting to carry out a similar mission in ( ' sum , he was jailed and later deported . After the withdrawal of Spain , an empire was formed . It appears well established that America 's first amliassador , Joel Poinsett , had a hand in toppling this empire , even before his appointment , which did lint come about until several years later . In a speech by Josephus Daniels in Mexico City a year ago July fourth , the present ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called candor : " . . . as apostle for democracy and liberty , he Poinsettl took action to direct a movement that brought about a change in the Executive in Mexico . " A list of instances of American interference in Mexico 's purely domestic affairs would he interminable , so I will cite only a few of the most glaring . During the Taft Administration your ambassador , Henry Lane Wilson . took an active dislike to the most popular president that Mexico had ever had , Madero . It has now been conclusively shown that the plot that resulted in Madero 's murder was hatched at the American embassy . The ambassador then deliberately lied to President Taft and to the representatives of other countries in order to wangle the recognition of the murderer , Huerta , as provisional president . But it happened that President Wilson , inaugurated soon after , disliked Huerta as vehemently as Ambassador Lane Wilson had disliked Madero , so Lane Wilson was recalled , and the rebellion that in the meantime had started against Huerta was supported so decidedly by the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Veracruz in order to prevent a German steamer from landing a cargo of ammunition destined for Huerta . Unapprised of the beneficent intentions of the marines , two hundred citizens met death while attempting to defend the port . As far as anybody knew at the time , Ambassador Wilson was acting on instructions of the State Department , Little wonder , then , that Latin America looks askance at Waehington , for a sudden change of heart there may bring the dictators toppling like overripe apples in a breeze . The third instance will find verification in all essential details in a book recently published by Don Josf Vasconcelos , yelled El Proeonsulado . As independent candidate  --  the last such , way back in 1929 ? Senor Vaseoncelos was overwhelmingly elected president , running against a figurehead , Ortiz Rubio , hand-picked by Calles . The government counted the votes in secret , and blandly announced a landslide for the official candidate . Fearing Vaseoncelos might take the field , the house where he took refuge in Guaymas was surrounded by soldiers , who allowed no one to enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chartered a plane and flew to Guaymas to interview him . At the time , I worked for a press association and was much closer to the scene . I wondered at reporters who could charter planes so cavalierly , much like the movie version of the profession , when , in my own case , expenditures larger than it dollar were aggressively questioned . WhenVaseoncelos reached the border , we had the explanation : the reporter in question had been commissioned by Ambassador Morrow to offer Vasconcelos the secretaryship of education , provided he would accept defeat and congratulate the figurehead . It is interesting to record in this connection a remark typical of Vasconcelos , whom I consider the loftiest intellectual and moral figure that has appeared in the Mexican scene thus far . Someone asked : " Why did n't you accept ? After all , being secretary of education is better than being a defiant exile . " Vasconcelos replied : " I did n't accept because I know I would have been kicked out within ten days of being sworn , and I would have richly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make is that whatever Mexico is today , the United States is at least partly responsible , for its influence has been eonstant , and in many cases decisive . I feel sure , and so will anybody that open-mindedly reads the diplomatic correspondence between the two countries , that the United States has for the most part been sincere in its efforts to help a backward neighbor , and that the assistance it has tendered has been disinterested in more cases than the Mexicans believe . However , so often has a course of action been embarked upon without any real understanding of conditions in Mexico , that if the deliberate purpose had been to hurt us it could not have done us more harm . It is tragic indeed that , having a wealthy , powerful and generous neighbor , able and willing to help us , such help has been so baleful as to cause me to wonder if open enmity could have been very much worse . For example , Mexico started its independent existence as an empire . At once American influence was made felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the system of goverul ment that was hit upon by the framers of the American Constitution comes close to being perfect  --  for Americans . But in seeking to extend it to other countries inherent differences were overlooked , and the result in Mexico is a ludicrous farce . Apostles of Democracy America was colonized by different groups , independently of one another . Although one racial origin predominated , there were differences between the groups , religious as well as economic , so that upon independence they became free and sovereign states , but still bound together for the common good . How much of that sovereignty they have yielded since , in order to form a more cohesive union , is beside the point . A political entity composed of several states , each reserving certain rights , and a Federal union with still ot her functions , appears natural and logical in view of the circumstances that , prevailed when America came into being . Mexico was not colonized but conquered , and not by different groups but by a handful of men under Cortez . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A strongly centralized government appeared the most desirable system for us , but after American influence was exerted by Mr. Poinsett and other " apostles of democracy and liberty , " free and sovereign states were created  --  on paper . Thus began a fraud that has entered its second century of lusty existence . On their letterheads , on all official documents , the Mexican states style themselves " free and sovereign . " How much they are of either is shown by the fact that prior to election all aspirants to the governorship go to Mexico City and ask the president if it will be all right for them to run . The president makes his selection , which is final , and if , after the man is in , his actions displease the central government , he can be dismissed as easily as if he were a servant  --  more easily , in fact , because the servant can sue for three months ' severance pay . Washington 's Mexican Policy In effect , the president appoints the governors , congressmen and justices of the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The governors , in turn , hire and fire mayors and state-supremecourt justices . As an example , when President Cardenas broke with Mr. Calies and had him shipped to the United States , he found it desirable to eliminate some of the men in public life thought addicted to Mr. Calles , so he had Congress dismiss summarily three or four governors and as many complete state legislatures , and half a dozen national senators . Nor was this at all extraordinary . Every president has done it ; some far more frequently . Such are the results of Mr. Poinsett 's efforts to give us , ready-made , a form of government not in accord with Mexican reality . For the past generation Washington 's Mexican policy , subtler but no less noxious , might be termed passive interference . It consists of supporting against all comers the " constitutional " government  --  that is , the dictator found least objectionable by your State Department  --  and discouraging his opponents . Presumably , it is based on the assumption that Mexicans would forever be at one another 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nothing could be finer if Mexican governments represented the will of the people , but this is rarely the case ; and as each dictator holds on as long as he can , the net result of the American policy is to maintain in office a man or a clique long after the people wish they could discard it . I make the flat statement that Mexico will never have a democratic government while these conditions exist . If it were not so tragic , I might find it funny that , sincere as the American Government unquestionably is in wishing the blessings of democracy not only for itself but for all its neighbors as well , by its very efforts democracy , for us , remains an unattainable dream . To illustrate , imagine a similar situation in America . As things stand now , when the American citizen is dissatisfied with the way public affairs are being run , he goes to the polls and votes the officials out of office ; the men that get in , mindful of the fate of their predecessors , take precious good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humanly possible ; when they fail , usually it is because they are unable and not because they are unwilling to follow the dictates of the voters . Such is democracy as we have been taught to understand it . Now let us stretch our imaginations a bit . Let us suppose for a moment that sonic foreign power  --  Canada , let us say could effectively restrain Americans from voting ; they could go through the motions of dropping their // ( C  --  rs ttnu  --  al /rens Pogo 72 ) ballots through a slit in a box , but the eandidates have been picked beforehand. , and as an added safeguard the votes are counted by the governmental minions in secret . What would demoeratie America look like after a few years ? Human nature being pretty much the same the world over , we call make some safe predictions . To begin with , the party in power would perpetuate itself . Politicians would lose the healthy fear of being discarded al the next election , and would soon be running things as they jolly well pleased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and judicial officials not easily untenable , so that servility to the top man would become the rule , only it would not be called that ; it would be called loyalty . The division between the branches of government would gradually become inure blurred , until the Executive , having the funds and the armed forces , would over- shadow and later control the other two . All manner of erand hose but half-baked experiments would be blithely embarked upon . and such of the citizenry as objected would be dismissed us " reactionaries " or " hard-shells . " Off the presses would roll a steady stream of books and pamphlets proving conclusively that the current dictator is a genius , and that the nation is fortunate indeed in having entrusted its destiny to such a gifted son . Naturally , dissatisfaction would grow among the people , till a sufficient windier of them decided t hat they had had enough ; and since relief could not be had at the polls , they would retch for the old squirrel rifle . But just then Canada would step in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No rough stuff ! " And if the Canadians were able to enforce their dictum , there would he peace , sure enough , but there would also be an ever-growing resentment against the gang in office and the foreign power that was keeping it there , until the people 's fury reached the point of explosion . With but mild exaggeration , that is exactly the situation in Mexico today , and it has been , with but short intervals , fur generatiens . No foreign country prevents us from voting , of course , but since elections are a monstrous joke it might as well be the case . The point is that . Mexieens can not discard their officials by peaceful means , and are effectively prevented by the United States Governmemt.from changing them by violence . Calles and the Church There , in brief , you have the explanation of why the Calles regime burned churches and images and killed priests , and forced anti-religious propaganda into public ' schools , when the overwhelming majority of the people are deeply Catholic . Perhaps Mr. ( ' alles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off witheut churches . The politicians , as servile as might be expected under such a system , began spouting anti-religious sentiments forthwith . The next dictatorship lacks this bias , so churches have slowly reopened , and the politicians are silent on the subject . Obregen , who preceded ( ' alles , allowed some freedom of worship , but Carranza , before him , would have none of it . Thus we see that a man may or may not worship in Mexico , depending on the personal inclinations of the president . And what about the people ? They flock to the churches when they are open , and when they are closed they present 1e:taint 's begging humbly to lie allowed the use of the edifices , they reared . Occasionally a few of them take to the hills ; the dictator sends the cavalry after them , and is shortly able to announce , through his secretary of war , that the situation is well in hand . Nothing is said about the hones of citizens left to blesielt where they fell . The Nomenclature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of worship , and the country is crateful for it , in other respects it eon-forms to the pattern . The Cardenas regime has been expropriating land right and left , till private ownership has just about disappeared . The government can not possibly pay for all it has taken , but under pressure from the l'raled States it has agreed lo rompensate American landholders , while Mexico 's own citizens are thrown off their Intel without . payment or recourse . They not only have to stand by glumly while their properly is given to others , hut , in addition . they have to pay for what . is taken from foreigners , in the form of additional taxes and higher cost of living . In an independent tem try where votes are counted , no government would last ten minutes after sanctioning such a disgraceful edict . lbw does a man reach the presidency of Mexico ? By force , and by force alone . If this seems to contradict my statement that the Mexican people are powerless to change rulers by violence when so minded , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presidents hail to use bayonets to get to Chapultepee , the previous resident was so loath to vacate that he had to beevieted . In I he present-day world , force means aeroplanes , machine guns . artillery and currency eonvertible into foreign exchange . The United States is the souree of all of these essentials ; consequently , the power to smother an incipient revolution , or to nurse it to full flowering , resides ittWeshington . Remember that all revolutions are led by " bandits , " to start with ; if they gather steam , the leaders become " insurgents " ; if they are eon , - pletely successful , they are " liberators " and one of them becomes " constitutional " president . If unsuccessful , they do not progress beyond the first stage of this tradition-bound DOM enelatare . With the swift progress in the art . of killing fellow human beings , it is becoming increasingly more difficult for the common people to express themselves by the only means left them  --  armed revolt . trp to a generation ago , whenever I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a man could gather a few friends , get on horseback and strike for the hush . More than one ultimately successful revolution had such a humble beginning . But nowadays a scouting plane will spot the nonconformists before they have butchered is peaceful rancher 's cow for their first meal outdoors , and the chances are that they would be marched hark to town by nightfall with their hands tied behind their backs . Whether they were right or wrong in taking the field would have no ! searing nn I he outcome of their venture . That explains why , Madero and Juarez excepted , all our presidents have been generals or have been imposed by generals , and why not oftener than on cc in a blue moon does a eivilian wet into the cabinet ? the generals quali .. lying as experts in finance . vommuni-cations , foreign relations , avrieulture , et cetera , as soon as they enter Mexico City at the head of their troops . in Mexico a convention of state governors looks mere like a council of war ; the exceptional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governor 's chair through some quirk of fete is as self-consvious in a roomful of gold braid as a man in sport clothes who wanders into a formal gathering . The halls of congress have perennially har-bored snore army men than lawyers . Armed force has been the devilling factor in the selection of the ruler since the Aztecs ceased their wander-ings and settled down to club their neighbors into submission . ft would take a gory volume to trace the suc-cession of power , so I am going back only sixty years , and only because it help Americans to understand should h why we have unanimous iseedidential elections . Juarez had got rid of the French through devices which our patriots would rather not be reminded of , and had hardly settled to the rue-topiary reward of the victor , which consists of making the country over from top to bottom at-cord-line to his owns ideas of what a country should be , when Ile/nerd Diaz , rebelled , the pretext being " indefinite re-election of the executive " and that grim joke of Mr. Poinsett , state rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the exception of one term during which a henchman was allowed to act as figurehead  --  from IS7 ( 1 until Madt.ro'e revolt put . him out in H1111 , during which lime the United States had nine presidents , from Grant to Taft . As for stale rights . no stale or municipal official was elected anywhere in the republic within that period without the old despot 's approval . It is possible that people were fairly satisfied Linder Diaz ( hiring the first few terms ; we have no way of knowing aveurately , but we do know that they were mighty weary of him toward the end ; and as he showed no inclination to let go , the only thing left was to put him out .. Madero had luirdly installed himself when treneh  --  ry finished him and the most popular governs ment Mexico has had , Inc swoop . A revolution , headed I. eTranza , ousted the murderer . In is 1 , with tradition , an " eleeHoe " in wield ' he was the sole candidate confirmed Cerra in za 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no re-election that he lid not dare run again at the end of his term , but sought . if/ impose a puppet instead . Obregen revolted successfully , whereupon lie moved on to the presidency , via another unanimous " election , " and Carrauza went on to his grave . The Law of the Gun ( ) bream then imposed Calles , and there was the usual revolt , which surely would have been successful but fur the aid provided by the United Slates . Cnilles reciprocated at the end of his period . and again the country was drenched in blood . This time , to show that the country kept up with progress , one of the candidates candidates:uol his friends were rounded up at is party and polished off with meehine guns on a dark road . ( ) brevets. who had reaehed , the heights crying " No re-election ! " was re-elected without opposition , but here the unpredictable interveued in the form of a young religious fanatic , who emptied a pistol into 1 he president-elect 's midriff a day or two before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : IRO ! ' that . lie avoided Obregen 's mistake , following instead the example ( if Carranza , against whom he had rebelled a. few years before for seeking to impose a puppet . But Calles sue-everted , imposing not one but several peppels , MOO so insignificant that I can not recall their names without effort , General Cardenas was selected as one more amiable figurehead , and also ran without opposition , but it was scion evident that he had been grossly underestimated . Not only had he ideas of his own but also the ability to defy and smash a political machine that had been impregnable for inure than a decade . But the meritorious service of having rid us of the tyrant . Calles , does not make Mr , Cardenas ' government a dimmer:ley . I own readily that prior to his advent , this article could not have been written , except from exile . I own also t hast the public adulation given all Mex-ican presidents may in this ease be in mite mute sincere , since his administration has not shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But all of this , praiseworthy as it is , still does nut make us a demeerary . Let , me make myself clear . We have freedom to express our thoughts , but we have not woe this freedom ; it has been graciously ' conceded to us by a dictator who happens to be more liberal in this respect thew others who preceded him . If he should deride to muzzle our news-papers tomorrow , there would he nothing to stop him . Loud praise to hint who , having the power and the precedent to keep on its collective knees a traditionally subservient cress , has up to now refrained from diem ; so . Bin history is replete with examples showing how ephemeral is liberty when bestowed from alcove . 1 make since the dawn of the human race . But the superficial differences of which I have spoken , be they racial , geographic , economic , cultural , religious , or of any other nature , may cause one group to seek to satisfy the common urge to liberty by processes unsuited to another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impulse to step in and set the other right . However , in the ease of a strong nation , already experienced in stable government , such an impulse is evidently irresistible when a weaker and inexperienced neighbor is stumbling about , sometimes making grotesque mistakes , frequently getting off the trail altogether . That . such intervention , however well meant , is inexorably hound to defeat its own aims is frequently WI  --  thought of , and the result is a long train of woeful consequences which exasperate the would-he good Samaritan and humiliate the object of its solicitude without helping him in the least . The German Myth Not infrequently have I come upon articles in the American press giving as an excuse for its continued interference the fear that Latin America would become the satellite of Germany- were the Hinted States to relax its vigilance . This is nonsense . We have been struggling throughout our national existence to fight off the real danger of American domination , and it is silly to suppose that we are going to go begging for some more of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no station can afford to detach several hundred thousand men to remain permanently in Mexico , as would certainly be necessary to keep us subdued . Incidentally , these simple facts show up the consecrated Monroe Doctrine for what it is  --  a put-up job , in that a great fuss is made over the need of defending people who do not wish to be defended , from a danger that , does not exist , in order to keep strangers away from America 's twenty unwilling step-children , As exemplary relations between neighbors of different race . I point to England and France . Each in its own way has achieved a considerable measure of democratic rule . No doubt there must have been times when the statesmen of one of them felt sure that the other was being led to irreparable chaos , yet , at the end of such transitional periods , both emerged basically much alike . Now imagine how much the progress of both would have been retarded if either had attempted to rectify and amend the other 's methods at every point of divergenee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the diffibeen entirely due to high-mindedness culty in crossing the Channel has been a factor of importance . To my mind , a good stout fence between neighbors does more toward neighborliness , by eliminating numberless minor irritations , than any amount of honeyed pleasantries . For us , a like solution is not practicable , for digging oven a modest channel from the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of California is unthinkable at the present time , so I am deeding the scheme to future generations . An easier solution lies in the exercise of self-restrain ? where our neighbor 's affairs are concerned . To some it will seem much too simple a remedy to hiring about any change for the better in so muddled a situation , but it has never been tried before , and nothing else has given satisfaction , so why not give it a trial ?                     