@@485631

The campaign , with its attendant imbecilities , has begun . Not the least of the outrages we have to confront is the pretense that recent American cam- paigns have been serious . The results , of course , have been serious and that will be no less true of the election of 1980 . What vexes is the supposition that we live in a near suburb of ancient Athens  --  a supposition that enables many commentators to respond with pious horror when our politicians do not behave like characters from ThucYdides ( the alternative of Aristophanes usually escapes them ) . The supposition is particularly gratuitous since the commentators work for the communications industry , which has made a singularly large contribution to the trivialization of political discourse in our nation . Those who expect enlightenment from the campaign had better take advance precaution against disillusionment  --  emigration . For those of us who are staying , however , the situation is not entirely bleak . There is one chance , at least , that issues may be posed and clarified . The candidacy of Senator Edward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we want . The Senator is not only the heir of a familial tradition that fuses achievement , promise and sentiment . He is the leader of the only forces seeking to alter the shape and substance of mainstream politics from within . The remnants Norman Birnbaum , Mellon Visiting Professor of Humanities at Georgetown Law Center , is working with the Progressive Alliance , and has accepted an invitation to work in the Kennedy campaign . of the New Deal , Fair Deal and Great Society coalitions , joined . in very imperfect union with the ideological survivors of the 1960s and their successors , the new politics and public interest groups , should see in Kennedy their , Presidential candidate . Those Americans who wish for major alterations in our institutions , those who espouse a vision of our nation marked by freedom and generosity , moral spaciousness and cultural openness , must ask themselves : how much of the way with Edward M. Kennedy ? The Senator 's immediate task is to connect the old Democratic politics of the black , ethnic and urban blocs with the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will have to do well in regions like the South , Middle West and West , make substantial inroads upon the . suburbs and induce the opinion makers and technocrats to abandon the catatonic ideological slumber into which they have fallen . The Senator will have to assemble a coalition as a necessary step on the way to reassembling the nation . The Senator has been the spokesman for the left ( or social democratic ) elements of the Democratic Party , but they ( we ) should accept that he must attempt to broaden his appeal and reach . Our own weight in the electoral coalition ( and in the Administration which may emerge from if ) will depend less upon our quantitative strength thanupon the issues we raise , the ideas we generate . Our own deal with the candidate , then , has to be a special one . Without neglecting the concrete objectives we share with other groups , we shall have to insist on a new sense of political possibility , on the search for a qualitative transformation in the way we conduct our affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instincts led him in the first weeks of the campaign ? He has said that Jimmy Carter isnot adequate as a President , lacks inner certainty when dealing with the public , is poorly served by an indifferent staff and misreads the requirements of a modern Presidency . The times call for something larger than an engineer 's approach to our problems combined with bouts of evangelical fervor tempered by fitful recourse to a politics of patronage and spoils . But Kennedy has not followed up these initial criticisms with a coherent program . He has assailed the President 's energy program in specific terms and spoken of " leadership " in very general ones . He has declared that the 1980s call for responses different from those of the 1960s  --  a good point were it pot so widely used to defend the reigning stereotypes of a market economy . The Senator has also said that he favored private-sector solutions to as many economic problems as possible , without adding that there are essential problems that the private sector has been unable to solve . He has also told businessmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the charge that he is an enemy of business  --  although no one appears to , have made that charge . The.least that can be said is that he has not offered a large social design or vision . It is small consolation to recall that Franklin Roosevelt campaigned on a promise to balance the budget . ? The Senator confronts his programmatic ( or pedagogic ) task in miserable circumstances . A conventional move toward the center is precluded : the center is a large vacuum . There is a large body of " centrist " opinion in the Congress , operating with an abacus of advantage , opting now for one side , now for another , and making the word " independent " a further demonstration of the degradation of our language . The fault lies not with the usual venality of politicians , nor with the apathy of the electorate ( an apathy which may well be justified ) . It lies in some part with the party 's left , with us , for our failure to make a realistic assessment of both our opportunities and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopt a program that remains a promise and a project rather than a set of concrete proposals . The Senator may well say that he is being asked to fight a holding action , with little chance of immediate intellectual or political reinforcement from those who urge a forward strategy upon him . Certainly his Senatorial performance has been criticized on the ground that having established principled positions , he has frequently been obliged to negotiate compromises with those of different positions  --  who happened to command majorities . Kennedy 's Senate career has been marked by concentration on issues of immediate concern to millions of Americans : health care , the control of the health industry , the con , trol of science and technology generally . His campaign for national health insurance has focused attention on the distortions of our national social accounts . He has struggled against the medical-industrial complex , which has sought to market everything  --  including life itself . Kennedy 's role in the reform of the criminal code has been vigorously criticized , and I share the reservations of the critics . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces were mobilized . On defense and foreign affairs , Kennedy 's Senatorial record is excellent . He has supported arms control and a broad prOcess of d  --  tente , and has been outspoken on behalf of human rights in tyrannies of every sort . Above all , he has shown a grasp of the necessity of altering national attitudes in a new epoch of global politics . His Catholicism , and in particular his special interest in Latin America , will serve him well M a period in which the political role of the Roman Catholic Church in much of the world is important . What is of equal importance is that Kennedy has assumed the role of spokesman for those groups in Ainerican society that are systematically underrepresented in the current play of politics . There is a paradox . He has described the current Congress as the best that money could buy , and strongly supports campaign financing reform . Yet he is a legislator able to work within the system  --  and to cooperate with many who oppose him . The question is not whether he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is whether he has shown the capacity to promplgate an alternate vision of our society in concrete terms . To ask of him that he campaign as the leader of a progressive social movement that is , itself notably inchoate , and that has as yet to realize much of its own potential for redefining politics , is decidedly asking too much too soon . Next let me turn to the questions of character and personality that have so dominated the campaign debate thus far that it has been an educational disaster . For this Senator Kennedy can blame those of his advisers who urged him to make the theme of " leadership " salient . Leadership is also a matter of issues . No doubt the media bear their usual large share of the responsibility for the conversion of what should be a national debate into a happening . Perhaps the public has more acumen . The Washington Post has just reported , not without astonishment , that on the road the Senator , is not burdened with questions about Chappaquiddick . That event , of course , does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response to CBS correspondent Roger Mudd 's questions as to why he wanted to be President casts another one . About Chappaquiddick , why ca n't we say that the reconstruction of the tragedy is not likely to prove a fruitful Loqtetervft historical exercise ? The Senator has since given ample proof that , like most of us , he is capable of growth . It would be wise to judge him on his Senatorial performance , which does not seem to have been diminished by his personal troubles . As for the Mudd interview , I gather that the questions about the Presidency were filmed before Kennedy 's decision to run . In any event , his refusal to submit to Dr. Mudd 's psychic surgery contrasts pleasantly with the usual immodest public confessions of Presidential ambition . The office is terrible enough ; must candidates be subject to Nietzschean tests  --  administered by the spiritual everyman ( and everywoman ) who hold them to superhuman standards ? A women 's political leader has declared that because Kennedy is a notorious " womanizer , " he is unfit to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Republic have raised the issue , in a public debate over whether or not to publish an article dealing with it . The debate 's moral grandeur was only slightly diminished-ty the fact that the managing editor , having resigned on a matter of principle , was promptly reinstated with a raise  --  and by the fact that the dispute got more attention than the article would have received . In fact , the article ( printed in The Washington Monthly ) is vacuous . The women 's movement , for its part , continues to call upon the Senator for help with the statutory protection of women 's rights and with social policy generally . No doubt the Senator 's familial life is troubled ; he is not the only American in such circumstances . ' I suspect that much of the criticism of Kennedy as a person is cultivated by people who do not know him and who dislike his politics . Let us judge the public man by the public record . We might , at the same time , show just a bit of heart to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrifice we expect of Presidents . Are the Kennedys simply an incarnation of American myth , our own version of the House of Atreus ? Few societies are without myths of some sort , and there are aspects of the Kennedy family 's history that are compelling . The Kennedys , after all , have maintained a critical distance from that white Protestant elite which equates the pursuit of its own interests with a Calvinist God 's mission for the entire nation . Catholic , contentious and troubled , they have never confused the appearance of propriety and the substance of humanity . Senator Kennedy seems to have the gift of relating to the rest of us . It would be absurd to depict this simply as a , modern equivalent of noblesse oblige  --  but we may ask the family 's detractors if they prefer the version of ethnic politics offered by George Bush , John Connally or the Rockefellers . How much of the way , then , should we go with E.M.K. ? I would suggest that we go a large segment of it  --  but with our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the system , to be sure , but other alternatives do not dominate the horizon . Gov . Jerry Brown is credited by Francis Carney ( see " The Making of a ' Flake , ' " The Nation , December 1 ) with thinking that the bureaucrats and professionals are the new tyrants  --  and with being rather silent about the large corporations . Senator Kennedy has demonstrated his capacity to mobilize the bureaucrats and professionals on behalf of the unorganized citizenry  --  which seems a far more realistic program for a technological society . The logic of his positions could lead , sooner or later , to a collision with the organized political power of large-scale corporate enterprise . Whether it will do so depends not upon his leadership but upon the capacity of those who seek that conflict to provide him with a large following and specific programs . t the moment , the left of the Democratic Party is divided . Some of its elements are exploring the possibility , yet again , of developing a third party - the Citizens Party , which appears to unite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commoner ) with enthusiasts for themes enunciated by groups like Common Cause . Jerry Brown has his follow-ers . Tom Hayden , who apparently wishes to run for office on the Democratic ticket in California , does not envisage his Campaign for Economic Democracy as a separate party . There are some Democratic leaders , like Coretta King and Andrew Young ( as well as industrial states ' governors like Ella Grasso and unionists like Glenn Watts of the Commu-nications Workers ) , who are on President Carter 's side . A substantial segment of the party 's left ( consumerists , envi-ronmentalists , black and ethnic groups , women 's groups , some local and state government officials and large unions , including the United Automobile Workers , American Fed-eration of State , County and Municipal Employees , and the Machinists ) are in the Progressive Alliance . Indeed , the Alliance numbers some eighty organizations and seems the most likely forum for the transformation of the legacy of the New Deal , Fair Deal and Great Society coalitions into a program for our own times . I use the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until now has consisted of pro-tracted negotiations among and between the leaders of its , very diverse components . Its program has just begun to be formulated . The delay has a number of causes . The U.A.W. , which originally convened the Alliance , has its own preoccu-pations . Some of the Alliance 's components ( and their members ) will have direct links with the Kennedy campaign . There is , however , a more profound cause . The disparate interests represented in the Alliance will have to unite in a , new compact before the coalition can proceed to proposing a new politics to the nation  --  or present its own program to Senator Kennedy . ( The Senator did not attend the recent meeting of the Democratic Agenda , which has a large over-lap with the Alliance , and the Senator 's political representa-tive to these segments of the party was , apparently , also busy elsewhere when it met . ) DouglaS Fraser , the auto work-ers ' president , won unanimous assent at a recent meeting of the Alliance 's Issues Commission when he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Senator Kennedy . Indeed , he added , he thought it would do well to concentrate on a long-term political pro-gram  --  and eschew the kind of bargaining likely to be entailed by attempts to influence the Democratic Party 's 1980 plat-form . A Democratic President would need pressure from his left , a ' Republican one would require us to rethink in any case . He thought that the Alliance should take all of 1981 to do serious programmatic work . We do have new ideas of politics , if in fragmentary form . What these fragments require , as a bonding agency , is an alternative vision of our national community . That vision can hardly emerge as a result of negotiations among the components of the Alliance . A new vision will have to draw upon ideas conceived not at one remove from politics but at one remove from specific interests . The conceptual difficulties of the Alliance constitute a very large rebuke to our institutions of knowledge and to Our intellectuals . Their adherence to technocratic conceptions of the limits of public policy expresses a profound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the thought that ideas unaided do not generate new modes of politics but a search for a new politics can generate new ideas . The election of Edward Kennedy to the Presidency might give us either the last of a line of twentieth-century Presidents of a reformist sort  --  or someone who assists the nation to adapt to the new epoch which it has reluctantly and half-consciously entered . The very disappointments of his Presidency might catalyze the search for a politics that , would ' transcend the limits of our currently impoverished political discourse  --  and of our political possibilities . It is plausible , then , to support the Senator on the ground that he might well demonstrate the " truth " his critics so joyously proclaim , that a certain kind of American reformism , resting on a maximum of bargaining and a minimum of redistribution , is indeed out of date. , It does not follow , of course , that we live in the best of all possible worlds . It might follow that a good many of our citizens will begin to think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be . . As 1 write , ' these considerations seem curiously remote  --  as if we were recomputing the election of 1912 . The Senator 's campaign , is not moving either very fast or in a very promising direction . If that were not distressing enough , the Iranian crisis has immobilized everyone and everything except our very large reserves of national self-righteousness. , It has given new life to the Carter candidacy . Credit where credit is due : having acquiesced , ignobly , to pressure from Messrs . Kissinger , McCloy and Rockefeller , the President has for the time being shown the courage to resist the systematic fatuity of the hawks . I can not say for how long he will do so , or how the crisis will end . In the short run , it strengthens the most chauvinist and unreflective wing of the Democratic Party  --  and therewith opens the way for a deal between Carter and Senator Daniel P. Moynihan . Anything is possible , including the mutual elimination of Carter and Kennedy and a national ticket that would include Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be counted upon to act in their own best interest , but suppose they had an accession of intelligence , and nominated Bush instead of Reagan or Connally ? Combining Eastern elite credentials with Tekas money , a simulacrum of an appeal to the middle with experience of the national security state , Bush is the perfect servitor of much of our elite . The cowardice he displayed in resigning from the Council on Foreign Relations is , from their perspective , positive evidence for the kind of finesse their agents require . The Democratic Party is bitterly and deeply divided . If the division persists for ten months , a plausible Republican like Bush would have excellent chances to defeat Kennedy . These uncertainties weigh upon the Senator in ways both viscerally and visually evident . To win the nomination and the election , he has to mobilize his natural constituency  --  but to do so may divide not only the party but the nation , and induce the tensions that killed his elder brothers . It is monstrous , , in the circumstances , to deride him for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the groups represented in the Progressive Alliance , can exercise a large influence upon his campaign . Kennedy is a Presidential'candidate with whom we can speak , but we will have to recognize the constraints upon him , and speak clearly by proposing policies both concrete and imaginative . There is no reason to abandon the theme of productivity to the right ( or to Jerry Brown ) , for example . We can advance a new idea of productivity , in opposition to the vulgar crudity of those who think all units of account are alike . We can argue that participation may constitute a source of increased productivity  --  a theme that may appeal to a public demonstrably critical of its present elites . We can even connect with some of the enlightened elements in the economic elite itself  --  by insisting that planning is a precondition of our survival in the new international economy , postponing until later a struggle for the control of the planning process . Reason and sentiment alike , then , suggest that we support Senator Kennedy . The candidate himself will measure our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagination . We have the right to ask of him , in turn , that he refrain from thinking our support unconditional . He can not win with us alone , but.he surely can not win withOut us. ?                     