@@494290

Poll-Tax Third Round THE POLL TAX is up again , as it must continue to come up as long as it exists and we own a political conscience . We mean the poll tax that is used as a tax on voting in Virginia , South Carolina , Tennessee , Alabama , Mississippi , Arkansas and Texas and has held the people of these states under minority rule for the past half-century . Proposed federal legislation to remove this disability from citizens desiring to cast votes in national elections , has passed the House three years hand-running by overwhelming majorities . Action is being sought in the Senate before the year's-end recess . This year , as in 1943 and 1944 , passage of the bill ( HR 7 ) is recommended by the Judiciary Committee . In other years , the measure has failed of passage by the margin of the Senate 's unwillingness to overthrow a filibuster . This year a filibuster again looms , with Senator Bilbo of Mississippi dusting off his trusty telephone books , mail-order catalogues and other references from which he can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ docility endure . This year the poll tax is spotlighted not only as a barrier to our social progress at home , but as the bar sinister on the escutcheon we show to the rest of the world . President Truman 's foreign-policy address on Navy Day in which he went over " our responsibilities within the framework of our fundamental principles " was resplendent with declarations of our belief in the return of " sovereign rights and self-government to all peoples , " through the establishment of governments in accordance with the " freely expressed wishes of the peoples concerned . " In view of the fact that the people of seven states of our own Union have no way freely to express their political choices , and therefore no access to " peaceful democratic government , " all of the above falls a little fiat . As important as it unquestionably is that Bulgarians and Rumanians have a free vote , it is not less important , surely , that Virginians and Tennesseans have as much . But Congress mocks and dawdles . Its hands are tied by its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not have to give a hang about the people of the United States , but only about the miniscule electorates in their own estates that have survived the tax on voting and are only the fractional remainder of once-sovereign peoples . Six poll-taxers make an indigestible lump in the stomach of the House Ways and Means Committee . Five poll-taxers plus backward-gazing Cochran of Missouri and Erwin Of North Carolina out of 13 Democrats , and Clare Hoffman of Michigan , Judd of Minnesota and Rich Of Pennsylvania among the Republican members , make up the Unholy Alliance in the House Committee on Expenditures of the Executive , whose chairman , poll-taxer Carter Manasco of Alabama , wogs openly at the executive 's plea for legislation to bridge the nation 's road over the postwar perils of inflation and depression . Enactment of HR 7 would honor the constitutional guarantee of a republican form of government to the people of all the states of the United States . A majority of the members of the Senate have given their word to support the bill . Obstacles to its passage are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or broken by cloture , and a resolution by Sena ' for Joseph C. O'Mahoney that would wrap up the whole issue as a question of constitutional amendment . Whatever the Senator 's personal sincerity in this proposal , its effect , if accepted , would be ( beyond furDECEMBER 1 7 , I 9 4 5 nishing a bowl in which the Senate could wash its own hands ) nil in the foreseeable future . Thirteen states could block the amendment , and it is logical to suppose that many state legislatures would be inclined simply to pass back to Congress the buck Congress itself would have attempted to pass . In the poll-tax states , the legislatures can make only the most tenuous claim to speak the popular will , and this fact accentuates the absurdity of the amendment proposal . The very people most affected by the proposal ? the millions disfranchised by the poll tax ? would have no leverage upon it , one way or the other . Our nation can not hope to exert a real moral leadership in the world until it can beckon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the framework of a republic ; the basic principle of a republic is the right to vote . While the right to vote of ten million of our own citizens is abridged by a tax device , we can cut but the sorry figure of a busybody in instructing others toward democracy and in insisting that no other nation which restricts the suffrage shall be recognized as worthy of a place in decent society . The Moscow Conference The hopes of the world are hanging , to a terrifying extent , on the meeting of the Big Three Foreign Ministers in Moscow on December 15 . It is obvious that Messrs . Byrnes , Bevin and Molotov can not solve problems on which their countries are in fundamental disagreement ; but the breakdown of relations between the Russians and the Anglo-American bloc has lately been so complete and so ominous that any bridging of the gap is to be welcomed . The official announcement states that the subject of atomic energy is to be discussed ; let us hope that out of the discussion may grow a modification of present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atomic-bomb armament race . German administration , Eastern Europe , Iran , the control of Japan , and Korea , are other questions of the greatest urgency . On most of them it is the United States which at this moment is departing most seriously from United Nations principles . In his article in this issue , Thomas F. Reynolds shows clearly why UNO is not authorized or prepared to deal now with most of these issues ; President Truman , with what was probably the worst blunder of his career , has ruled out any further meeting of the Big Three . It is now the Foreign Ministers or nothing , with the future hanging on their ability to stand together and work toward cooperation and peace . Anglo-American Settlement The final terms of the agreement with Great Britain do not differ in any important respect from the predictions . Great Britain gets a " line of credit " with the United States , to be used for the purchase of goods here , amounting to $3.75 billion ; interest is at a nominal rate of two percent and amortization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the obligation will exist at any given time only in regard to that part of the credit already used , and payments are suspended in any year in which Great Britain can be shown to have an adverse balance of trade affecting her dollar position . In addition , surplus war property and lend-lease materials not already used up in the war , to the value of two or three billion , will be bought by the British out of another loan , for about $700 million ; these goods arz ' practically worthless to the United States if we tried to bring them back home and find some use for them . Lend-lease items already expended , to the value in the case of the United Kingdom of about $20 billion , will be canceled as America 's contribution to the war , as of course they should be . All this looks to the past ; a hundred times more important is the future . Both countries could easily cut themselves off from many billions of dollars of annual national income by squabbling over a few billions of real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement provides , in principle , for the lowering of restrictions against international trade , and further expansion should develop from the international economic conference planned for next summer . We hope that the bitter lesson that restriction means poverty has at last been learned on both sides of the water ; and that both Congress and Parliament will ratify the agreement without delay . If this is done , Parliament will also , no doubt , accept the Bretton Woods Plan , which is an integral part of the whole picture and for which the deadline is growing perilously near . UNRRA ? Another Step Forward The house of Representatives is to be congratulated on authorizing the additional $1.35 billion , the United States share for 1946 , to UNRRA , minus the so-called " freedom-of-the-press " amendment by which a group of Republicans tried to sabotage the program . Only 39 House members voted to forbid the use of our funds in any country which prevented the free functioning of American correspondents after Representative Herter ( R. , Mass. ) publicly reversed his position on the question . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requesting him to do everything possible to clear the way for qualified American reporters to report , without censorship , what is going on in countries receiving aid from UNRRA . The way is now clear for Senate action on our 1946 contribution to UNRRA . It is imperative that it approve the $1.35-billion authorization before the Christmas recess so that no time shall be lost in the fight to prevent starvation and suffering in Europe this winter . Hurley 's ? Hullabaloo General Hurley 's exhibition of anger before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee investigating his charges against a number of State Department em- 824 ployees has boomeranged against the former Ambassador to China . Hurley was not only unable to furnish proof of his charges that foreign-service officers had sabotaged American policy in China by supporting the so-called Communists , but his testimony was discredited by Mr. Byrnes , who came to the defense of these career men . As to Mr. Byrnes 's restatement of our China policy in this connection , one may disagree with him that the government of Chiang Kai-shek " affords the most satisfactory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it unmistakably clear that this country will not be satisfied with any government that does not include all political parties and groups of the Chinese people . This has also been the declared policy of the Chinese Communists . In spite of their efforts to come to an understanding with Chiang Kai-shek , there is good reason to believe that the latter has been the stumbling-block , chiefly because his maneuvers apparently had the silent approval of General Hurley . After Mr. Byrnes 's clear-cut statement , perhaps Chiang will realize that General Hurley 's interpretation of our China policy was that of one man only and not necessarily that of the American people . The Housing Emergency A few days ago President Truman told his press conference that he still had no emergency housing program to announce . Meanwhile , throughout the country , the shortage of moderate-priced shelter is growing steadily more acute . It seems clear that the President does intend to establish a priority system on scarce building materials , to channel them into low-cost homes for veterans and to maintain strict price control on existing houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not tell the press was that he is delaying any drastic action until Congress renews the Second War Powers Act , as he has requested . Meanwhile Representative Wright Patman is pushing a bill which would control real-estate prices . The real-estate lobby is fighting his measure with all its might . Price Administrator Bowles is one of the few Administration officials to come out for the Patman measure . If the President is sincere about wanting housing needs to take precedence over profit , he should put all his influence behind passage of the Patman bill to help relieve the immediate crisis . At the same time , of course , pressure to extend the War Powers Act and to pass the long-range Wagner-Ellender-Taft housing bill should be redoubled . A Platform for Republicans The badly split Democratic Party can take a wry pleasure in the spectacle of confusion that the Republican National Committee presented at its recent business meeting in Chicago . Republican Senate and House leaders had been promising for months that they THE NEW REPUBLIC would unveil at Chicago a basic Republican platform for the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on various drafts of the statement . Supposedly reliable Republican leaks to the press indicated that this would mark a big step forward . The platform the congressional leaders finally offered was a feeble , evasive effort . And such die-hards as Governor Dwight Green and Werner Schroeder of Illinois took out their hatchets against even that as a substitute for old-time GOP reaction . The result was a compromise ? " endorsement " by the National Committee of the House-Senate platform , which was actually a backhanded slap at it , and the establishment of a seven-man policy committee of organization men to " develop and augment " policies in line with the " ideas , thoughts and aspirations " of all Republican Party members . In other words , the sessions clearly indicated that the National Committee wanted a platform which would put the GOP more firmly on record on " the conservative v. radical " issue . The same men who rejected Willkie arc still rejecting any modification of their outworn ideas . And the same men , apparently , still control the Republican Party . Aid to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death to hundreds of thousands of Europe 's anti-fascists unless warm clothes and food are sent to them at once . These are the men and women who managed to survive partisan warfare , concentration-camp torture and dangerous work behind the lines of Hitler 's Reich . These ragged , crippled and emaciated veterans of the antifascist struggle are the beneficiaries of the International Rescue and Relief Committee , which knows their names and has worked closely with them since 1933 . During the past six months , in addition to food , medicine and money , the IRRC has sent i8 tons of clothing to these political refugees . Its goal for the next six months is 25 tons . The IRRC deserves the support of all Americans who supported the war against fascism . Its address is 103 Park Avenue , New York 17. 