@@491553

It is by the nature of their testimony , rather than by its volume , that the Quakers have been able to discomfit the princes of darkness and encourage the princes of light . Few major paganisms have been unloosed in the past 300 years which the Quaker conscience has not run afoul of . The consequences have often been visited more painfully on the Quakers than on the paganisms . But down to the present the conscience continues to operate very much as it always has . For that reason the Quakers ' current preparations for the next war can not be regarded as precautionary measures . They are , rather , the latest expression of the purpose of a meek but dogged people to be of service to a society with which , periodically , they are sure to be out of step . The Creed of George Fox T HEY have been out of step in some dangerous times and places . George Fox , the first Quaker , was a contemporary of Cromwell . Cromwell 's England was no place for rebels . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a protest . He wore leather breeches and an umbrella hat to mark his determination to have no truck with the foppish world . He wore his hair uncut for the same reason . At twenty-six . Fox went to Derby prison for his refusal to accept the captaincy of a company of Cromwell 's troops . His stiff neck got him frequently into jail thereafter . Brought , once , before Cromwell on a Charge of sedition , Fox refused to remove his hat  --  an honor due only to God . Instead , he gave the Protector a piece of his mind unsavored by honeyed words . Cromwell evidently liked the treatment . At any rate , he freed the preacher and sent him to dine with s. " ' " g't Fo . I F AMERICA 'S next war , like the last one , pro-duces no Quaker martyrs , it will not be because there has been any softening of the Quaker conscience . The first Quaker Training School for Conscientious Objectors was opened early in January . Others are due to be established . At these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-Quaker , will be schooled in the disciplines and services likely to be required of the wartime non-resister . The war , when or if it comes , will find the Quakers ' spiritual defenses repaired arid manned . Moral forehandedness of so high an order is in keeping with the traditional Quaker " testimony " on war . By volume , that testimony is not significant . Numerically , the Quakers are an impotent minority . typicalQualrer landscape  --  the Plymouth . feet . lag , Pennsylvania , meetinghouse , school and burial ground . All Friends are equal ' in death as in life . The gravestones are identical and bear only names or initials , and dates . In earlier days even headstones were thought a vanity . There are not many more than 010,000 of them in the United States , fewer than 1611,000 in all the world . Not Pennsylvania , but Indiana , is the Quaker center of the United States . Nearly one third of all American Quakers live there . The Indiana , Yearly Meet-Mg , at Richmond , is the country 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 100 local units , has a total membership of only 16,000 . Most of the rest , of the country 's Quaker population is scattered in numerically insignificant groups all the way from North Carolina to Oregon . Even in the area of Philadelphia , the historical capital of American Quakerism , the two Yearly Meetings have a combined membership of fewer than 16,000. the gentlemen of his entourage in the great hall of the palace . Fox balked . " Tell the Protecto ? . " he said , that I would not eat of his bread or drink of his drink . " To which show of imprudence , Cromwell replied : " Now I see there is a people risen that I can not win with gifts or honors , offices or places . " Fox 's followers were of like stuff with himself . At one time during his life they numbered 40,000 , But for sharing his contempt for the powers and perquisites of the world , more than one third of them were in jail . Not only jail but the gibbet was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , still out of step , to the New World . But the practice of nonconformity among them did not slacken . Moreover , their kind of nonconformity often worked . A cornerstone of William Penn 's Holy Commonwealth was fair treatment and nonresistance toward the Indians . That was a fantastic reversal of accepted colonial practice . But in the seventy-five years of Quaker ascendancy in Pennsylvania not one of them was ever killed by an Indian . Later , unsympathetic settlers moved in and Penn 's policy gave way to the sword . The Quakers , however , did not conform . When , as a. final seal to the new order of things , bounties were offered for Indian scalps , in a scale nicely graduated for males , females and children , the Quakers , who still controlled the assembly , resigned from all public offices . But long after Penn 's noble experiment , Quakers in outlying parts of the colony who were obliged to travel continued to entrust their children to the care of Indians and to do their journeying unarmed . As late as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hearing that the Indians in the ' Susquehanna Valley were on the warpath , went to their camp and , with no other weapon than his Quaker faith , turned aside their vengeance . In the American Revolution , sympathetic though most of them were to the colonists ' cause , the Quakers steadfastly refused to give aid or comfort to either side . When any of their number paid war taxes or mounted guns for the defense of their vessels or paid fines in lieu of military service , the offending parties were called to account . If they refused to mend their un-Friendly ways , they were quietly " disowned . " Al any of the most influential members of the society thus were lost . A vast majority , however , accepted the orthodox alternative and the imprisonments and ostracism that frequently went with it . But non-co-operation did not entirely satisfy the Quaker conscience . The war was scarcely under way before the Yearly Meeting for Pennsylvania and New Jersey developed a " concern " for peace . This concern was entrusted to a devout and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credentials , made his way to the British lines and , after a close brush with a hanging , to the headquarters of General Howe . There , his lint firmly planted on his head and his temper unruffled by the harsh handling he had had , he called on the British general to call off the war . Howe evidently was almost as much impressed by Mifflin as Cromwell had been by Fox . But he refused to ask for an armistice . Whereupon Mifflin , refusing the general 's passports , left with the parting injunction , scripturally fortified , that if the general could not call off the war , he could at least endeavor to wage it more humanely . In the Civil War , a considerable number of Northern Friends  --  their eonscienees assuaged because of the slavery issue  --  accepted military service . In fact . it was a Friend who wrote We are Coming , Father Abraham . Southern Quakers , partly , no doubt , because the defense of slavery appeared to he involved , uniformly refused military service . The Voice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ O out with the times 175 years before Emancipation . It was a Quaker , this same Warner Mifflin , who , in 1774 , was the first American unconditionally to free his slaves . But the Quakers ' opposition to slavery had begun long before that , Their declaration , in 16SS , condemning the institution was probably the first pronouncement of its kind in the New World . Quaker prosperity made the progress of actual abolition slow and painful . At one Yearly Meeting it was found that the Quakers present held more than 11,000 slaves . Nonetheless , in 1776 it was decreed that henceforth no slaveholder could continue to he a member of the Society of Friends . The Quaker conscience , thus , is the product , of a long process of fiery trial . Today , in most nations . it is more gently dealt with . Out the fact that , by both law and custom , society has generally come to terms with the Quakers does not mean that the Quakers have come to terms with t he world . On mat ters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he out of step as ever . Meanwhile , they do not mark time waiting for a showdown . On the contrary , they have proved , on a world scale , how useful their kind of an out-of-step minority can be . Even dictator regimes waging totalitarian war accept the Quaker service as an exception to their otherwise inexorable rules . The tenth of November , 1938 , has gone down in the annals of Nazi persecution as " the day of broken glass . " On that day a furious pogrom  --  of which the smashed windows of . Jewish homes , stores and synagogues were only the symbols  --  was launched against Germany 's remaining and largely poverty-stricken Jews . As part of the proceedings , every Jewish feeding center was either destroyed or temporarily closed . American Friends read in the press of the desperate prospect . Two days later , three Quakers called on the German ambassador in Washington with a request that they be allowed to lend a hand . The ambassador was helpful , but without authority to promise anything . In such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for authority . The only authorization which Quakers require and on which they wait is a " critic:ern . " In this instance , there was an unmistakable concern Fur the plight of Germany 's Jews . With that for moral armament and with ordinary American passports us their only official endorsement , the brie Friends sailed , a week later , for Germany . In Berlin they were told that the only agency which could hear their story was the secret state police . " We do not ask , " said their application , " who is to blame for the trouble which may exist or what has produced the sad situation . We do not come to judge or to criticize or to push ourselves in , but to inquire in the most friendly mariner whether there is anything we can do to promote life and human welfare and to relieve suffering . " That got them into a heavily guarded Gestapo office . Their request was simple enough : The right of American Friends to travel , unmolested , anywhere in Germany : to inquire , free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to bring them aid . At the end of two hours the request . was grunted without strings . The work subsequently established in Germany , like all official relief undertakings of American Quakers , is under the direction of the American Friends Service Committee . The way for the work of such an agency had been prepared , among Qua ker.r , by a long record of war-relief activities ( Continued on Page 35 ) which began , in England , with work among French prisoners in the Napoleonic Wars . The Service Committee came into being , as the organized expression of the conscience of America 's Quakers , twenty-four days after the United States entered the World War . In co-operation with the Friends Service Council of London , it has had a ministering hand in almost every human visitation since . In fact , out of the silences in which they worship , the Quakers appear to have developed a sixth sense for the apprehending of visitations . As a result , the committee generally arrives ahead of or neck and neck with them . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still being destroyed . They helped to rebuild 1606 of them . They had seeds and saplings and farm machinery ready for the refugees from the devastated areas before it was safe for them to return . Forty-six thousand French families started life again with Quaker aid . They were in Russia a year before the Revolution of November , 1917 . They returned ahead of the 1921 famine . In 1918 they sent an agricultural mission to Poland . It arrived just before the outbreak of a typhus epidemic and was speedilyreconstituted as an anti-typhus Lnt . They preceded every other relief agency into postwar Vienna . When they arrived there was not a gallon of milk in the entire city . They forthwith staged a roundup in the adjacent countryside , bought 800 cows , herded them into Vienna and , for some weeks thereafter , supervised one of the largest and most significant milking parties in history . A " concern " for service in postwar Germany was astir among Quakers a year before the Armistice . The committee 's first representative arrived there early in 1919 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the results of the Allied blockade . By 1921 , the committee was operating 8364 stations in 1640 communities and was feeding more than 1,000,000 German children every day . This work continued through 1922 , when the Germans took over . A small Quaker unit remained in Germany . It was there in 1923 when the inflation knocked the props from under the nation 's economy . On January 24 , 1924 , the first carload of American-bought food arrived in Berlin . By the middle of February , the Quakers again were feeding a million children a day . Samaritans in Spain When the civil war broke out in Spain in the summer of 1936 , the Quakers already had a representative in the field . He had gone to Spain to inquire as to the possibilities for a Quaker center of worship , With the war he soon found himself following the Quaker urge , with n. considerable company of refugee children on his hands . From then on until the end of the hostilities the Quakers worked on both sides of the lines , wherever the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with food for both loyalists and rebels , were allowed to pass unmolested through Franco 's blockade . Their supply trucks were among the first in Bilbao , Santander and Barcelona . With clothing , cod-liver oil and baby rations , they were on the heels of the conquering rebels when the Basque provinces were taken . They are still working among the Spanish refugees in Southern France . For the relief of Spanish children , the Quakers organized an international committee through which various countries , including Germany and Italy , contributed a total of $2,000,000 . From a few hundred children at the beginning of the war , they were feeding , at the end , more than 500,000 daily . In addition , they distributed 60 tons of clothing , 530 tons of milk , 600 tons of coffee , many tons of dried vegetables and meats and 220,600,000 individual rations of wheat dour . Stretching the Dollar This record of good works is remarkable , not only for its forehandedness but because of the material insignificance of the organizations behind it . The headquarters of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a two-story building that adjoins a Quaker meetinghouse . The place is dingy and cramped . No office , not even that of Clarence Piekett , its secretary , is much better than a cubbyhole . The average salary is about that of a moderately good bookkeeper . ? There are fifty-one employees on the administrative staff . The administrative budget is 890,000 . But with Quakers , as with leaven , a little goes a long way . That is true both with personnel and with money . At the peak of the wartime service there were only 600 Quakers in France . Lacking manpower for a job as large as theirs , they persuaded the French government to release into their custody a contingent of German prisoners . There were fewer than 100 Quakers in Germany during the time when the commission fed a million children a day . The hundred , however , managed to enlist the aid of 40,000 Germans . In Spain , for work on both sides , there were never more than thirteen Americans . They recruited assistants from thousands of civilian Spaniards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result , the eommittee sent a unit to pit itself against the appalling suffering in that unhappy land . There were only two men on it . But the Quaker leaven being what it is , those two by now probably have a minister-big army at their call . Money is used as cannily as men . It would not he in keeping with the Quaker tradition to use it any other way . For specific projects the committee spends , in the course of a year , several times the 890,000 of administrative outlay . Most of this larger sum is contributed by non-Quakers . It is scrupulously husbanded . Salaried workers in the field are few and far between . At present , in all the field activities of the committee , there are only fifteen . The rest are Quaker volunteers . A few of the volunteers pay all their own hills . The others receive expenses . That is , they receive third-class transportation , their board and room and , if required , ten dollars a month for pocket money . The total cash outlay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Spain was less than $51100 . Money for materials is similarly husbanded . At the end of the World War the American Government had five huge Army dumps in France . They contained , along with much war material , large quantities of tools , machinery , barbed wire and a little of almost everything the Quakers , in rebuilding the villages , had need of . The Army valued the lot at several million dollars . The Quakers bought all five dumps for 850,000 . What they could use they shipped to their centers . What they had no use for they resold to France , for a net profit of $400,000 . With that unexpected increment they built , and presented to the French nation , the monumental maternity hospital at Chalons , For Spanish relief , the Friends got their wheat from the surplus stocks of the American Government , at ten cents a bushel . The Brazilian government donated 25,00 ( 1 bushels of coffee ; Mill was wangled at less than cost from Great Britain : butterfals from the Scandinavian countries . By the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments had helped to stretch the Quaker dollar . These achievements with men and governments call for high-class salesmanship . For the thing they have to sell , the Quakers are master salesmen . They move in like oil on troubled waters . They wear no decorations and unfurl no banners . In a tight spot they are notable listeners . Through three centuries of Quaker Meetings , they have learned to wait patiently upon the Lord . Waiting for man comes easily . To that approach , an overaggressive and hypervoluble world appears to be peculiarly susceptible . The Siege of Silence Even Quakers are susceptible to it . John Woolman used it effectively in his early attack on slavery . When his verbal remonstrances with slaveholding Quakers brought no results , it was his custom to call at the home of the stubborn Friend and , with no word of greeting or of explanation , solemnly seat himself in the fireside settle . There , in protracted silence , he continued to sit . If one day 's sitting brought no capitulation , he would return to sit through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early days in Spain , before they had had a chance to get around , certain unbelieving military commanders threw several Quakers in jail . Quaker reasonableness got them speedily out again without . recourse to the State Department . One more-thanhalf-starved Spanish army broke into a Quaker warehouse and stole 8350,000 worth of foodstuffs . The army commander . sought out in the field and appealed to without countersigned credentials or official protests , made good every penny of the loss . But the Friends ' approach has to be of a high order , not only because they operate in the most unlikely spots but because they operate by the unlikeliest standards . Wherever they go they are meticulous to abide by all the rules  --  except the one about an eye for an eye . The French Government , when it as-signed German soldiers to the Quakers toward the end of the World War , stipulated  --  with an emphasis born of the period when war hate was at its worst  --  that . the prisoners should re-ceive no pay . The Quakers did not pay them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept a time card . Early in 1919 , long before the Allies released their prisoners , they computed each ( Conc4nued on Page 37 ) ( Continued from Page 35 ) man 's earnings and sent three Quakers into Germany armed with photographs , addresses and cash . Between them the three found the family of every prisoner , delivered a message from him and paid over his earnings . This far-reaching ministration to the world 's wounds is not regarded as an end in itself . The Quakers believe that their kind of ministering may help to set right the conditions out of which wounds come . Quaker service is not organized to meet disasters  --  floods , tornadoes , earthquakes  --  which are classified as acts of Clod . They only go in where human conditions are awry ; where the misery is of man 's own making and for man to end . The Quaker contribution , wherever possible , is aimed to help him end it . A large part of the prison-reform movement in England began among George Fox 's followers . So , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert Owens ' effort to better the lot of England 's textile workers was backed by Quaker money . Quakers established England 's first asylum for the decent treatment of the insane . The first comprehensive plan for unemployment relief was drawn up by English Quakers and put into operation  --  through the establishment ? of workhouses  --  for their own indigent . Through the nineteenth-century Industrial Revolution in England , very few humanitarian problems of any size , from the lot of the chimney sweeps to the relief of the farmer , escaped the helpful attention of the Quaker community . Charity Begins at Home This remedial tradition has been continued in the United States by the work of the Service Committee . In the early fall of 1932 , the committee opened several food stations for children in the hard-hit bituminous-coal areas of Kentucky and West Virginia . By early winter , such stations had been set up in 354 communities and were caring for 25,000 children a day . When , more than a year later , the relief work was closed out in this district . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem , had established the Mountaineer Craftsmen Co-operative Association . with woodworking shops in three mining camps . They are still prospering . Some time later , with funds provided by a number of industrial concerns , they resettled fifty poverty-stricken mine families on truck farms near Uniontown , Pennsylvania , as a self-liquidating demonstration of how , with supplemental incomes from the land , self-support is possible . To get at the same problem of economic maladjustment from the top down , the Friends , for the last six summers , have run twenty different work camps in which , for eight weeks at hard labor , undergraduates have been introduced to the country 's various economic-problem areas . The students pay fifty dollars apiece for the privilege . Similarly , more than conscientious objection and relief are involved in the Quaker practice in regard to war . Among students , at least , the Pence Section of the A. F. S. C. , is probably the most effective antiwar agency in the country . Save for two older secretaries , its staff is manned by recent college graduates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month . They are itinerant evangelists . On a maximum travel account of fifteen dollars a. week , they manage , in the course of each year , to visit most of the country 's campuses . In many places they leave organized peace groups behind them . From such groups , the Peace Section recruits . each summer , a company of some 150 undergraduates for more intensive work . After a period of training , these students are sent out , by twos , into the country 's rural areas  --  generally to a county-seat town  --  to give a summer-long demonstration in the arousing and organization of peace opinion on a community basis . By the usual standards , the extraordinary capacity of the Quakers to make headway against the world 's prevailing winds does not make sense . Neither , by the usual standards , do the Quakers . Their experience of religion is highly individualistic . Their practice of it is highly social . At one and the same time they are exclusive and democratic . In modern times , at least , they have belonged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most acute concerns have always been for those well down in the scale . In the accumulation of wealth . they are notably seamy . In its use , they are notably generous . By many sometimeslahored devices , they have sought to cut themselves off from the world . But few groups have struggled more zealously to reform it . These , to the believing Quaker , are not contradictions . They are the natural consequence of what- he believes . It is , therefore , only in the area of his beliefs and by the light of spiritual considerations that he can be understood or explained . The faith which George Fox preached up and down England in the mid-seventeenth century was as much at variance with the times as his apparel . The Puritan ministers whose ire he roused were religious totalitarians . Supreme spiritual authority resided , jointly , in the Bible and in themselves as its expounders . The contrary-minded were put down as blasphemous and summarily dealt with . Children of Light George Fox was contrary-minded . In 1646 , when he was twenty-two , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " a religious experience which made him , thereafter , England 's foremost foe of spiritual regimentation . Instead of the current doctrine of external authority , Fox , fortified by his own experience , preached that the only dependable religious authority was internal . This , Fox and the group of young men who early joined in his itinerant ministry called " the inner light " or " the light within . " The first association of his followers , formed in 1648 in a village in Nottinghamshire , called themselves " Children of Light . " Down to the present it continues to be a lassie Quaker belief that the knowledge of God and His current purposes are to be found , with a minimum of external aid , as a result of the individual 's own inward aspiring , and that that " light , " once found , is its own sufficient authority . It is that belief which dominates Quaker worship . Because of a desire to avoid what are held to he the externalities of religion , there are no sacraments . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music . The conventional meetinghouse is unornamented . Even clocks are banned . Music and decorations are regarded as diversions likely to distract attention from the essentially internal business at hand . In conservative meetings there is no preacher , lest too great a dependence upon Gad 's message from the pulpit interfere with Uod 's message from the pew . The Bible is revered . not as having the authority of God 's final word to man but as one of many continuing revelations . Traditionally , a service of worship begins without announcement or speaking . Three or four " weighty Friends , " pillars of the Meeting , take their places on the " facing benches " and , in the still-used phrase , those present " center down into the silence . " Silence is the most important part- of what follows . It is in silence that the Quaker expresses his belief that worship is a highly individualistic matter ; that God is in the still , small voice . The Quaker Birthright The period of silence may last through the entire service , or it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved by the spirit , a Friend rises in his place to speak . At- the conclusion of his generally , but not always , well-chosen remarks , the Wieling centers down again . Before the end of the service , a number of members may have been moved to speak . But too much speaking has always been discouraged . " A crowding time , " Thomas Story called an overaddressed Meeting which he attended in 1717 , " there not being , for the most part , one minute 's time between the end of one testimony and the beginning of another , an nideeency I have ever disliked . " There was a second part to the preaching of George Fox which was destined to leave its distinguishing mark on the Quakers . He not only proclaimed the " inner light . " He insisted that all men , slave or free , Christian or pagan , had it . There is , he said , " a seed of God in every soul . " Quakers of the present say : " There is that of God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is that- high regard for all personality which is the force behind the Quaker conscience . It is that which largely accounts for three centuries of testimony against inhumanity and , currently , makes it possible for the Quakers to be of use in situations where the average person , with less of an opinion of his fellows , would he swallowed up in bitterness . Together , these two basic convictions help to explain why the " birthright " Quaker , born to the faith and active in its obse  --  ance , is at once a rugged individualist and a model of self-effacement . He is the first because of the certainty of his own divine kinship and the second because his C011iideuce in the divinity of others restrains , as unseemly , any tendencies toward self-assertion . The zealous , sometimes stubborn and often sacrificial practice of these beliefs largely accounts for the Quakers ' extraordinary achievements . But it has made them a " peculiar " people . Some of the peculiarities of Quakerism have been modified or lost entirely . Most of those which rile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All of them , however , had their first roots in the Quaker conscience and in a painstaking concern lest , at any point , in speech , dress or deportment , that conscience fall short of its full expression . Since , in the seventeenth century , " thou " and " thee " were pronouns used exclusively toward inferiors , the Quakers , with conscientious perversity , proceeded to identify themselves with the lowly by rising " thou " and conttng.ert on Pap . 40 ) ( Continued from Page 37 ) " thee " toward everybody . Nowadays , they are still commonly used among Quakers , although as somewhat exclusive intra-fraternal passwords . One Quaker child , irritated at another , will say : " Thee little you , thee ! " In the " plain " speech , " Mr. " and " Mrs. " were and often still are shunned . Children learned to speak of their elders not as " Mr. Brown , " but as plain " . John Brown . " Other furbelows of expression were frowned upon . A communication to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to allow their children to say " papa " and " mamma " instead of " father " and " mother " ? " worldly phrases , not according to Scripture . " They spoke . not only plainly but with the utmost restraint . " We apprehend , " state the minutes of a Meeting in refusing membership to an applicant , " that it may not be improper to defer the application . " Elizabeth Fry , a Quaker historian , recounts that a dying Quaker  --  when the hope was expressed to him that he felt himself upheld by the everlasting arms  --  replied : " Measurably so , I trust .. " The taking of oaths was refused on the ground that , as William Penn expressed it , Christians " dare not swear because we dare not lie . " Even the calendar was not conformed to . The popular names for the days of the week and the months of the year , being of pagan ancestry , were discarded . Instead , the Quakers spoke of Sunday as First Day , Monday as Second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Month . That remains the official language . Not only the fancy language of the world but its fancy apparel was avoided . The issue , in the early years at least , was a decidedly moral one . An Epistle of Love and Caution , addressed to a monthly Meeting in 1749 , speaks  --  with none of the customary Quaker calm  --  about the current fashions : " Of all the giddy Modes , antiek and fantastick Inventions that ever old Satan or his Agents with respect to external Dress , bath hitherto vampt up , since the fall of Adam : was there ever any Thing contrived so much for the Ruin of Female Modesty and the Incitement to Sensuality and Corruption , as these immodest , indecent , odious , extravagant Hoops , calculated not for the strait , but for the wide Gate and Broad Way leading to Destruction . " .11 People J  --  part Traditionally , Quaker men wore black , broad-brimmed and undented beaver hats and collarless coats ; the women , long full skirts , shawls , often of Quaker gray , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As a protest against human distinctions , the men , following the precedent set by Fox before Cromwell , practiced a " testimony " against " hat honor " by refusing to uncover their heads in the presence of their superiors . A handful of American Quakers in certain Western Meetings still follow the " plain dress . " The younger generation broke away long ago . The transition involved some evasions . Young Quakers , desiring to go , unmarked by sectarian peeuliarities , to the theater , sometimes carried alung ordinary turndown collars which , safely away from the parental eye , they could fasten to their plain Quaker coats . For unorthodox social events , Quaker girls often kept a supply of hats , instead ofbonnets , at the homes of non-Quaker friends . Although these customs grew from the Quaker conscience , their result was to set the Quakers apart from the world . Down to the relatively recent past they relished the separation . The fact that they persisted in good works toward the world did not lessen their resistance to the world 's intrusions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disowned for accepting the spiritual guidance of non-Quaker ministers . The Sandwich Meeting of the " Eighth Month , " in 1751 records that an aged member had been placed " under dealing for asking an hired minister to pray for Butler Wing 's sick family . " There was a similar long-standing fear lest too much association with non-Quakers in public life might prove to be contaminating . An 1541 Epistle warns that " when we consider the seductive influence of popularity and the self-satisfaction consequent upon the successful efforts of the intellectual powers , even in a good cause , we feel bound , with affectionate earnestness , to caution our Friends against being led to take an undue part in the many exciting objects of the present day . " Marrying at Leisure This exclusiveness was enforced with special rigidity in the matter of marriage . Ceremonially , at least , marriage has never come easily for the Quakers . At one time it was necessary for a man , having announced his matrimonial intentions , to attend twelve different district Meetings for discipline , to repeat his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty times prior to the ceremony . The Quaker marriage service , even today , presents some difficulties . It is conducted without an officiating clergyman , like an ordinary service of worship , beginning and ending in silence . A few speeches generally intervene , and , at the conclusion , the bridal couple plight their troth . Excessive speaking by those present is sometimes guarded against by the choice , in advance , of two or three acquaintances whose brevity is dependable . But such unorthodox precautions occasionally miscarry . A recently married Quaker told me that , for his wedding service , he selected three " weighty " members of the Meeting , long friends of his family . They gave every indication of understanding what was expected of them . The first two measured up admirably . The last arose , faced the embarrassed couple and delivered It twenty-minute address on  --  as nearly as the bridegroom could recall it " the duality of the universe . " Down to relatively recent times , Quakers who married non-Quakers " married out " ? were disowned by their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at one time , a disastrous effect on the membership of the society . Perhaps 100,000 members were lost in this way in the early years of the nineteenth century . But it was not until almost the beginning of the twentieth century that the rule was entirely abandoned . The practice of the belief that they were a people set apart was greatly aided by Quaker education . Wherever they went , the Quakers established schools . They were pioneer coeducationalists . Their boarding schools , both in America and ht England , were forerunners of the public systems of ( Continued on Page 42 ) ( Continued from Paz . 401 ethic:Ohm . In 1 he United Slates , Cornell . Brown and Johns Hopkins universities were all of Quaker origin . There are eleven other American colleges which Quakers founded and still have a large part in rumiing , among them Bryn Mawr , Swerthinore and averford , all near Philadelphia ; Guilford College , North Carolina ; Earlham College , in Indiana ; and Whittier College , in California . They run , in addition , forty-one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to protect Quaker children from the " corruption " which , in an earlier day , was held to threaten them when they mixed with " children of a different sort . " At that time . the schools were " nurseries of Quakerism. " ln them ehildreu received what their elders were pleased to call a " guarded education . " They were taught , and obliged to practice , the gospel of plainness . They were kept away from " poisonous " books and magazines . They had no fiction , drama or music . The Bible was read every day and followed every day by silent worship , Such schooling was expected to prepare them to he members of a " peculiar people . " But Quaker peculiarities  --  whatever they cost by way of worldly pleasures  --  were no economic handicap . In fact , the care with which the Quaker shunned frivolous diversion made it possible for him to concentrate , with more than ordinary single-mindedness and success , upon his business affairs . Moreover , sound business procedure was a part of the Quaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guidance of the various Meetings contain paragraphs of prudent counsel on Trust Funds , Promises , Debts , Accounts , and The Accumulation of Wealth . Disciplinary ' questions show the same concern : " Are you careful to live within the bounds of your circumstance ? Are you punctual in promises and just in the payment of debts ? Do you avoid undue expansion of your trade or business ? " The Worldly Side The Quaker garb early in the history of Quakerism became thus a symbol for the almost-always-scrupulous practice of the economic virtues . A Midwestern Quaker , in the late horse-and-buggy period , is reported to have sold a mare to a non-Quaker , not mentioning in his sales talk that the animal had certain serious defects . The unlucky buyer returned a day or two later , with the horse in tow . " Thee bought the mare , " said the Quaker ; " thee ca n't return her . " " I do n't want to return her , " said the non-Quaker . " I only want to borrow your hat and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were among the pioneers of modern banking . While the banking system was still in its infancy , many people entrusted their funds fur safekeeping to individual Quakers . Among the Quaker banking houses thus established , the names of Barclays and Lloyds survive . More recently , English Quakers had considerable investment in the brewing industry . Today , in keeping with their " testimony " against alcoholic drinks , they are in chocolate . When , recently , an American traveling in the north of England asked in a local shop for a bar of chocolate , he was offered Cadbury 's , Rowntree 's or Fry 's . " They 're all Quaker , " said the shopkeeper ; " there 's a people who have n't sat still for nowt . " When Quakers fail to prosper , their indigence becomes a responsibility of the local Meeting . The Meeting . if the Deed warrants it , May appoint a COMmil tee on Necessitous Cases . There is probably no community in America that is more completely self-supporting . I heard of one authenticated ease . of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the leading overseer of the Meeting , when he found that it had so far failed as to permit one of its number to appeal ' on the WPA , resigned in chagrin . Small and peaceful as it is , the Quaker community in the United States has had its internal troubles . There are , in rage four more or less distinct types of American Friends . The conservative group closely follows traditional Quakerism in custom , worship and belief . Between 1827 and 1830 ? due to the preaching of Elias Hicks  --  a theologically more liberal group broke away and established their own separate Meetings . The differences between the orthodox and the Ilicksite Friends were entirely doctrinal . Today , although there has been no organic reunion , they are , for most practical purposes , reunited . Most Middle Western Friends belong to a third , so-called progressive category . Their customs have been influenced by the evangelical tradition . Their meetinghouses resemble those of their Methodist and Baptist neighbors . So do their services of worship . But they are chiefly distinguished by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourth , and much smaller runup , likewise Western , is ultra-fundamentalist . With the exception of a very few of the fundamentalist Meetings , which hold themselves aloof , all of these groups uphold the major Quaker " testimonies " and are affiliated in Quaker activity . In the Quaker hierarchs ' there are Yearly , Quarterly and Monthly Meetings . The Yearly Meetings , of which there are thirty-one in the United States , represent a varying number of Quarterly and Monthly Meetings . They are the supreme ecclesiastical authority . The rules and regulations they lay down govern the membership of the subordinate Meetings . The Monthly Meeting is the local unit , corresponding to the local church . The Quarterly Meeting , representing two or more Monthly Meetings , is an intermediate organization which considers problems of more than local concern and prepares business for presentation to the Yearly Meeting . In the Monthly Meeting . all the members , men and women , are eligible to participate . Items of business are arranged by the clerk . lie also does what little presiding is called for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their spiritual qualifications , and overseers , who do the pastoral work ordinarily expected of a minister . Like a service of worship , the business session begins with silence . Thereafter , it proceeds democratically but without benefit of Robert 's Rules of Order . No motions are made . No votes are taken . After ample time has been allowed for the pro-and-con discussion of a particular item , the presiding officer " gathers " what seems to him to be " the sense of the Meeting . " If his interpretation is agreed to , the Meeting moves on to the next item . If , however , a considerable and important minority is unconvinced , decision on the issue is generally deferred . In exact Quaker procedure there is no such thing as a majority or a minority . The Meeting moves as a unit or , generally , it does not move . A less homogeneous and experienced group , following that practice , would probably not move at all . In the matter of discipline there is an equal regard for the rights of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach to a doctrinal pattern is the " Quaker testimony . " A testimony is a conviction which Friends have held so long that it has become an accepted part of their faith . There are , thus , testimonies on war , on plainness and simplicity ; against " the manufacture , transportation , sale or use , either as medicine or for culinary purposes , " of alcoholic liquors ; for industry and frugality. " for payment of debts notwithstanding composition of creditors , " for " a spirit of Christian bountifulness . " These testimonies are set forth in a Book of Discipline by various of the larger Yearly Meetings . Each Yearly Meeting makes whatever formulations are called for . In the local Meeting , however , each Friend keeps his account with his own conscience . The accounting varies . The Meeting offers counsel and advice , but the procedure of disownment is nowadays seldom resorted to , The only formal effort that is made within the Society of Friends to get a composite picture of the spiritual state of its members is by means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ membership of the Meeting propounds to itself . It is solemnly discussed at Monthly and Quarterly Meetings and reviewed at the Yearly Meeting . The Queries do not call for action . But they are as near as the Quakers allow themselves to come to a public overhauling . " Are love and unity fostered among you ? Are members whose conduct or mariner of living gives reasonable cause for concern seasonably advised with for their preservation and recovery ? What is your Meeting doing for social improvement in your community and to better conditions under which men , women and children live and labor ? Do you individually maintain a spirit of good will toward all races and nations and do you labor for a just and generous policy toward them ? " The Leaven of Peace Because of their regard for the individual , even when they believe he is wrong , and because of the aversion to meddling and dictation which that belief induces , the Friends make few converts . The only arguments they offer for Quakerism are its faith and works . Of propaganda there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friends Service Committee has " public relations " assigned to him as the least important of a number of duties . An unofficial committee of the Society of Friends has recently begun to give some attention to publicity . But its activity was called forth by the belief that the society was getting too much of it . When , on occasion , a non-Quaker expresses a desire to join the Meeting , it is customary to make it as hard for him as possible . lle is called on , generally more than once , by a committee of overseers . The reasons for his desire are inquired into ; his understanding of Quaker practice probed ; his spirit assayed . In clue time , the committee reports to the Monthly Meeting . If the Meeting finds the report satisfactory , it may accept the new member . If there is any doubt , he is rejected or further inquiries undertaken , It he successfully comes through this period of investigation  --  which may last several months  --  the applicant becomes a Friend " by convincement . " Recently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A considerable number of Independent . Meetings have been established , many of them in university communities . This modest trend is unobtrusively fostered by the Wider Quaker Fellowship  --  an agency which has the approval of the various Yearly Meetings , and is time nearest Quaker approach to a department of self-promotion , But the Friends and the state of the world being , respectively , what they are , Quakerism is not likely soon to assume epidemic proportions . And if it did , it is probable that the embarrassment to the Friends would be no less than the inconvenience to the world . By volume they appear destined to continue to be no more than a leavening drop in hate 's cosmic bucket . But , by less tangible measures , what a drop ! 