@@494203

To Japan : The Answer Is " No " It looks as though Kurusu , the Japanese special envoy to Washington , might as well go home . Tojo and Togo , the Japanese Premier and Foreign Minister , have apparently blocked the way to any possible understanding with the United States by their speeches of November 16 , just as Kurusu arrived in Washington . Japan insists we must stop helping China and resume full shipment of war materials to herself , including oil . In return , she makes no promises of any kind . This is an ultimatum . It must and will be decisively rejected . It now seems clear that Japan is simply stalling for time , and the United States should put a stop to this game at once . The Japanese evidently still believe that Hitler is winning in Europe and that the longer they can wait , the better the terms they will be able to exact from us . No such thing must be permitted to happen . Our State Department , in spite of having ? at last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though America were afraid of the Oriental member of the Axis . There is no reason for fear and there is every reason for prompt and resolute action . Instead of waiting meekly for a Japanese diplomat to fly to Washington with an ultimatum , why did our government not send an American diplomat to Tokyo with final and drastic American terms and a demand for an immediate decision ? Those terms should be simple : let Japan leave the Axis , withdraw from every country she has invaded , and try in future to behave like a civilized nation . Any American agreement to anything less would constitute an inexcusable and disastrous Far Eastern repetition of Munich . Five-Ring Circus Japan 's new stand is best understood in relation to concurrent moves by Germany in Europe . As we point out on page 687 , a peace offensive is in the making and , like all Axis peace offensives , its aim is not conciliation but a strengthening of the Axis front . This front has been dented ? in Russia by military action , in the Mediterranean by increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the United States by revision of the Neutrality Act . Hitler 's response must be the straightening out of his line by bringing up reinforcements at strategic points . Japanese pressure must be exerted in the East , and simultaneously Herr von Papen must force on the Turks the idea that their function is that of a " bastion of peace " in the Mediterranean . The threat of a move into Spain is circulated once more . Above all , the relations between Germany and the Vichy government come up for reinspection and change ? perhaps the most striking evidence of the Germans ' concern over holding their African front without French naval and territorial assistance . The Vichy drama is an old one , repeatedly revived with almost the same cast . First you pretend that First Things First If a Gallup poll announced this week is at all accurate , there is a deep gulf between labor 's rank and file and those of its leaders who put the defense effort second to union grievances and claims . According to the Gallup poll , 67 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forbid strikes in defense industries . " A further poll was taken of all the principal occupational groups . In favor of forbidding defense strikes , they say , are 78 percent of the farmers ; 78 percent of the business men ; 72 percent of the white-collar workers ; 67 percent of the professional workers ; 64 percent of the skilled workers and 63 percent of the unskilled . Elsewhere in this issue The New Republic sets forth its proposals for dealing with the menace of defense breakdowns . The overwhelming opposition to such stoppages expressed by all classes of Americans encourages the belief that fair as well as effective means can be found to ensure an end of defense strikes . The majority of Americans still put first things first . A Labor Score Card The New Republic 's readers may be able to tell the difference between " closed shop " and " union shop " at the drop of John L. Lewis ' hat , but it might be helpful in this stormy moment to run over the list of forms which union status generally takes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who cry , " You ca n't tell the players without a score card " at football games , has compiled such a list , and we reproduce it : Closed Shop : Only union members can be hired and workers must remain union members to retain employment . Union Shop : Non-members may be hired , but to retain employment must become union members after a certain period . Preferential Shop : Union members are given preference in hiring or layoff , or both . Maintenance of Membership Shop : No one is forced to join union , but all present or future members must remain in good standing as a condition of employment . Exclusive Bargaining Shop : The union is recognized as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees , whether union members or not . Bargaining for Members Only : The union is recognized as the bargaining agent only for its own members . Heated Historians War broke out at the meeting of the New Jersey Educational Association at Atlantic City , when Dr. Ralph A. Burns , professor of Education at Dartmouth , fired a broadside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all lands not on the sight line of Boston , Cape Cod and the " tight little island " across the only ocean worth thinking about . Dr. Burns said that as a result of the Harvard preoccupation and the Harvard dominance ; r the textbook line , American . youth knows nothing , of " even Canada and Mexico , let alone any land south or north of those boundaries . " Columbia refused to let that be a private fight . Several Morningside Heights professors rose to say , in effect , that , good or bad , textbooks are written by Columbia men . Professor Arthur M. Schlesinger , Francis Lee Higginson Professor of History at Harvard , coldly reminded Dr. Burns that Harvard scholars did not attempt to write high-school textbooks , which made Dr. Burns mad . Harvard 's Prescott knew that Peru and Mexico lay south of the United States and he interested a great many readers in them . Harvard 's Parkman looked north from Cambridge and his readers saw Canada . Whether a statistician 's tally would show Harvard historians as a whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not know . But we agree with him when he points out that it is sad to find so many Americans wondering at this moment why on earth Russia , for example , should be considered our natural ally , when for years she has been labeled so unthinkable a land that teachers in federal district schools were forbidden by law even to mention her . And on general principle we like to see teachers get interested enough in their work to want to fight about it . The Army and a Rumor A rumor that the army was seeking volunteers for a new AEF spread so far and fast that the Chief of Staff has had to issue a denial . The rumor , which isolationists encouraged , had it that the army was asking selectees whether they would be willing to serve abroad , and in this was seen a secret move to prepare an expeditionary force . Africa , for some reason , was chosen by the gossips as the place where the new AEF would be cent . General Marshall has given a quite simple and convincing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft law forbids selectees to serve outside the Western Hemisphere and American continental possessions , the army has been seeking volunteers , who would enlist for regular three-year terms , to garrison outlying possessions , the new Atlantic bases and Iceland . If the army had explained its perfectly legitimate undertaking in the first place there would have been no rumor and no chance for the isolationists to raise a fuss . The government in general needs to be more straightforward with the public than it has been . Gut ter Journalism Apparently The Chicago Tribune and its friends must be badly frightened by the prospect of the new newspaper that Marshall Field III is preparing to start in Chicago . As evidence that this is true , we cite an article by Guy Richards in The New York Daily News of November 7 . If American journalism has descended to a lower level of unfair personal attack in recent years , we do n't know where or when . In brief , Mr. Richards charges that Mr. Field 's career in journalism is all the work of a New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this kind of mud-slinging is along the lines of Lincoln 's reply to those who complained that General Grant was too fond of whisky . We wish Colonel McCormick and his relative and supporter , Captain Patterson , would consult a psychiatrist . We are sure they would learn something to their advantage . Last Week Nations and individuals trying to escape from predicaments by pretending that they were somebody else had heavy weather of it . An Axis ship tried to make believe it was an American one and found itself under a genuine American flag but in the role of captive . . . . The Italians , playing tough , took over the Nazi hostage game , seizing 150 Yugoslavians from all parts of the country , for execution , in retaliation for an attack on Italian soldiers . But Yugoslav soldiers were reportedly in control of three-fourths of Serbia . . . . And Hitler , as the protector of religion , found his crusade getting an icy reception in all quarters , especially on the steppes of Russia . The British , being themselves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British life in the mildest fashion . The King will send no Christmas cards this year . Neither will anyone else in Britain . Christmas cards have been abolished , to save paper . This action will win many friends . . . . In Conway , Arkansas , a lawyer on a cross-country trip , his car packed with luggage , books , a radio and golf clubs , put his car in gear , set the accelerator and stepped out of it . The car landed in a creek . He said he was tired of all that stuff and wanted to get rid of it . He was prob- ably worrying about buying Christmas cards . 