@@475919

omF. months ago the town of Schwab-isch Gmtind , located in the province of Wurttemberg , performed cm exer-cise in the practice of democracy ; it held its municipal elections . Throughout the U. S. occupation zone in Germany other municipal-ities were doing the same . These were the latest in a series of elections which have been held , under our supervision and encourage-ment , since the fall of Germany three years ago ; and they represented pretty much the culmination of our Military Government 's program of " denazification , reorientation , and democratization . " When the quasi-state of West Germany , sponsored by the Western powers , is inaugurated this month or the next , it will be planned to be free from supervision in its own internal political affairs . For prac-tical purposes , the Germans in this territory are to be considered to have absorbed the les-sons taught by the Military Government and to have mastered the subject of democracy . The election in SchwThisch Gmiind aroused considerable interest . It is a town of thirty thousand population which , in ap-pearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an average German community , as typical of West Germany as Muncie , Indi-ana , is of the United States . A German Mid-dletown has a very different appearance from an American Middletown ; from a distance Schwabisch GmUnd looks as if it were curled up in an attitude of defensiveness or self-absorption . That effect is due mainly to the fact that its streets , unlike ours , do not cut straight through the town , aiming at infinity , but fold , whorl on whorl , about the Mark tplatz , heart of the town . Its buildings are of stone . There is nothing temporary or ramshackle about them . They are built to last . To the town 's inhabitants , many of whom have their living quarters in massive , large-beamed , and small-windowed structures dating back to the fifteenth century , such slogans as " the Reich that will last a thousand years " may not have seemed so fantastic as they did to us ; such durability is what they expect from " Deutsche Wertarbeit , " from good , solid German workmanship . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the streets , and consequently no parking problems . The traffic " rush hours " during the hour after sunrise and the hour before sunset are occasioned by the cattle-drawn carts going out to the fields and returning from them . Not only in appearance does a German town like Schwabisch Gmilnd differ from the average American town , but also in its way of life , its cultural institutions , mentality , aspirations , and responses . it should hardly seem necessary to point this out ; but , as Margaret Mead has indicated in her introduction to Shaffner 's recent book , Father Land , the failure properly to appreciate the differences between the Germans and ourselves has been one of the causes of the mistakes we have made and are making in our treatment of them . The main reason for the interest aroused by the Schwahisch Gmilnd election was that in the contest for mayor the electorate had been given an exceptionally dramatic choice . One of the candidates was a man named Franz Konrad , a former Nazi . He had been a fairly high-ranking Nazi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Nazi party , and had been the mayor of Schwdbisch Gmiind during the Nazi regime . But lie had passed through a denazification court recently and had got himself cleared as a candidate . The opposing candidate in this election was the incumbent mayor , Franz Czisch by name , a half-Jew . The number of citizens who exercised their newly-granted right to vote was gratifying . The town turned out en masse . The will of the people , expressed through the medium of the secret ballot , was most convincingly registered . There was no doubt about it , they wanted the Nazi . He received 74.9 per cent of the votes . T uns raises a fundamental question : Does the free oaKpression of the will of the people spell democracy when the will of the people is anti-democratic ? It 's a question which the Military Government has done its best to ignore . In a recent article entitled . " A Positive Achievement of the American Military Government in Germany , " published in the Columbia Journal of International Affairs , Charles E. Saltzman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " The pattern and machinery for the reconstruction of German political life on a democratic basis have been successfully established in the American Zone of Germany . . . . " James K. Pollock , who has been General Clay 's adviser on civil administration and local governmental affairs , wrote in the same issue , In my opinion , the outstanding success of our occupation has been the re-establishment of German self-government and the revival of democratic procedures . " General William H. Draper , Jr. , the Under Secretary of the Army . who was for some time the chief ofthe Economics Division of the Military Government and who has exerted considerable influence on such matters of policy as our leniency toward German cartels and our recent decision to return Ruhr coal and steel properties to German hands , expressed similar gratification and optimism . " Our greatest success , " he stated , in his evaluation of the occupation . " is found in the initial steps taken to insure the growth of democracy in Germany . " It will be noted that the emphasis is laid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and " procedures " of democracy . Our Military Government 's approach to the problem of making a democratic people out of the Germans has been mainly a mechanical one . The Germans were to practice nominating candidates and holding elections and running their city councils . etc. , under our watchful eyes . After a certain amount of such practice , it was to be assumed that they were proficient in democracy ; and they were no longer to require our supervision . Anyone who has been associated with the Army will recognize this method for teaching democracy as a variant of the " dry rnn " system , which the Army uses for teaching marksmanship and most other subjects . The soldier practices with an unloaded rifle for weeks ? taking position , aiming , squeezing the trigger and so forth ? until at last his technique is considered perfected and he is permitted to fire live ammunition . When one applies this approach to a nation , however , one should realize that one has no guarantee as to which way it is ultimately going to want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! expeditiously , the techniques and procedures customarily associated with democracy . They have shown skill in the mechanics of holding elections , aptitude in the copying of our constitutions and city charters , and a willingness to turn out and cast their ballots if doing so will please the occupying powers . But it can not seriously be contended that the Germans have developed any feeling for democracy or have made any basic changes in a way of life whose social and cultural institutions remain thoroughly anti-democratic . All that our Military Government has done is to attempt to superimpose the political machinery of our own democracy on top of HEIL FREE Germany 's old authoritarian way of life . It is not my intention to censure the Military Government for failing to revise the social patterns of German life . Such a revision most likely is required . As Erich Fromm has pointed out in Escape from Freedom , the Nazi ideology and practices can be considered as evidence of profound maladjustments within the patterns of German life , comparable in function to the neurotic symptoms by means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions . But such profound changes as may be necessary are , of course , not within the province or the competence of the Military Government . My point is simply that it would be realistic to remember that the pattern of democratic procedures we have just established in Western Germany not only has little in common with the other institutions of German life but is in contradiction to most of them . These procedures , therefore , can hardly be expected to survive a serious crisis . II T HE magazine Weekend , an American- owned periodical published in Germany , has recently printed some statistics regarding the return of Nazis to office . They are coming back not only into high office but into all the nooks and crannies of German bur aucracy : in the province of Hesse one-ha the top civil servants are former Nazi party members ; in the province of Bavaria sixty per cent of the judges , seventy per cent of the prosecutors , and seventy per cent of the teachers and professors were former members of the Nazi party or its affiliated organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pertaining to the recent municipal elections , but I would estimate , on the basis of partial statistics I have seen , that possibly as high as forty per cent of the newly-elected mayors and city councilmen were former members of the Nazi party or affiliated organizations . These men are , by and large , of the same stamp as Franz Konrad . They may be called " the respectable Nazis . " Konrad is a man of fifty-seven who has held one public office or another most of his life . He saw some service in both wars as a naval officer , and his body is still erect and well-disciplined . He first joined the Nazi party in May 1933 . At that time he was mayor of the small Wiirttemberg town of Laupheim , an office he had filled since 1924 . Sonie of his speeches which have been preserved seem to indicate that he was ardently convinced of the merits of National Socialism , at least during the early years of its regime . He asserted the Fiihrerprinzip in government , he thanked God fervently for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the rebirth of German military might , and he extolled the new direction the country had taken . ' ( When , in conversation with him during the controversy that raged around his election , I made reference to these speeches , he shrugged them off as " meaning nothing , the usual jargon of the times , " but later added , " It often shamed me very much to have to speak in that fashion . " ) Apropos of Konrad 's entrance into the NSDAP , one of his supporters confided to me the following bit of sophistry : " Herr OberbUrgermeister Konrad can be considered to be a victim of Nazism , " he said , " because joining the Party meant for him the sacrificing of his principles . " In November 1933 Konrad made a few more such sacrifices and joined the SA ( the Storm Troops ) . He was promoted through several grades until he reached the rank of ObersturrnfUhrer z . V. , a sort of honorary captaincy . Later he was granted the important title of NSDAP Kreisamtsleiter for Economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruling Nazi of the province ) appointed Konrad mayor of Schwfibisch GmCmd , after screening by the secret service of the SS ( the SS Sicherheitsdienst ) had satisfied the Party as to Konrad 's loyalty and his sincere devotion to the principles of National Socialism . He served as mayor of Schwithisch Gmiind throughout practically the duration of the Third Reich , from 1934 until the end of 1944 . As a counter to this evidence , supporters of Konrad assert that he always acted in a correct manner during his term of office ; that he had some differences with the leading Nazi of the town , Kreisleiter Oppenheim ; that in his heart he always wanted to protect the Jews : and that he was a good Catholic and in several instances , through strokes of bureaucratic procedure , was able to safeguard some of the town 's Catholic institutions . Above all , they stress that Konrad was not concerned with mixing into political affairs but was concerned only with running his city government efficiently . He thinks of himself as a city manager , an administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the tradition of career bureaucrats who in German satirical publications are sometimes caricatured as the bicyclist . " They are shown with shoulders hunched and head down , pedaling with furious efficiency God knows where . They will do almost anything to keep in office . They serve unquestioningly and efficiently . They believe in authority . Their blood is more apt to be aroused by Deutschland fiber Alles than by the Horst Wessel Lied ; but their vaunted non-politicality enables them to serve any master who comes along , without qualms , regard , or responsibility . Hitler needed both types of Nazis ? the street-fighter type and the respectable type ? in order to accomplish his destiny . The one enabled him to come into power , the other enabled him to hold it . He could n't run his regime with storm troopers . Men like Kreisleiter Oppenheim were not capable of running his cities . In turning control of West Germany over to these men we had better not kid ourselves that we are putting it into the hands of the trustees of democracy . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ffihrer appears will be the fight to keep their jobs . T HE defeated candidate , Franz Czisch , epitomizes the other side of the course of German political events since the end of the war . Czisch stands in contrast to Konrad in almost every respect . He is idealistic , vigorous , and adaptable ; and he was ? necessarily , perhaps ? an anti-Nazi . He had never before held office . ( As a young man he had studied law in Berlin , but being of half-Jewish extraction , though an ardent Catholic , had not been permitted to continue his studies after the promulgation of the Nuremberg racial discrimination laws in 1935 . ) Unlike Konrad , who looks as he is supposed to look , Czisch does not resemble the German idea of an Oberbiirgermeister . He is a tall man of forty , with a proud bearing and a dramatic head , whose features arefine although his face is badly scarred from burns suffered in an automobile accident . His appearance is striking but unearthly . During his term of office the most pressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in practically every town in Germany . The refugees are people of German blood from the lost eastern provinces and from the eastern countries bordering on Germany . Hitler once clamored to have them " home in the Reich " meaning that he wanted their rich lands as well ; and now , in accordance with the terms of the Potsdam agreement , they have indeed been shipped back home into the remnants of the Reich , to burden it with eight million more hungry mouths . So they have been the pawns of the settlement of the war as well as of its instigation . As its share , Schwabisch Gmiind was assigned eight thousand of these refugees , mainly from the Sudetenland . Czisch , instead of spending his time protesting that the town lacked space and trying to get the allocation cut , which is what the town expected of its mayor , spent his time in trying to effect the best adjustment to the situation , even though it meant requiring the old citizens to give up considerable living space . The days after the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for half-Jews , threw himself zealously into civic affairs , and was elected to be Schwabisch Gmiind 's first postwar mayor ? were days of chaos but they were also days of hope . The thousand-year Reich was shattered and past , a new millenium was about to begin . People have told me that a fresh breeze seemed to blow through the land . At that moment good , clean things seemed possible ; everything was going to be different , be better . It was in such a spirit that towns like Schwabisch Grni.ind elected their scapegoats to be their mayors . The spirit was too good to last , of course . By /948 it had passed . The chaos persists ; the hope and the good intentions have evaporated . That Czisch should continue on as mayor into these altered times the townspeople found unbearable . In analyzing the election results , one notes that a similar change of heart has occurred elsewhere throughout the zone . In most towns , the incumbent , if he happened to be a newcomer to office , was soundly defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types , men whose participation in public affairs would have been unthinkable in the old days . Some real anti-Nazis were to be Found among them . To be anti-Nazi , though , is not these days a recommendation in the eyes of the German voting public . The anti-Nazi presents too much of a challenge to the entire German personality , to the creed of unthinking obedience to authority . A public opinion poll conducted regularly by the Military Government since the end of the war reveals that the majority of the Germans who expressed an opinion still believe that Nazism was not a bad idea but a good idea badly carried out . It is not surprising , therefore , that the Germans prefer their elected officials to express only so much anti-Nazi sentiment as is necessary to keep the Military Government disarmed . The ranks of the newcomers who came into office immediately after the war included some adventurers and weathervanes ; but there were also among them some men of high vision , fresh attitudes , and passionate democratic feelings , who , had they been encouraged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new direction . The same turbulence of events which made their emergence possible , however , has made it impossible for them to sustain themselves , for in the mind of the German public , which is gasping for order like a fish for water , these men are inseparably associated with and blamed for the present conditions of disorder and disgrace . III K ONRAD prides himself on his respectability . He maintains , when questioned , that the people who voted for him were voting for him as a respectable man , not as a symbol of National Socialism . Yet there is no doubt that a number of elements in the town took him as such a symbol . For , during the week of the election campaign , there occurred a number of incidents , some of which , considered individually , seemed minor but which taken as a whole appeared alarming . A day or so before the election a large sign appeared along the sidewalk of a busy street . Its carefully painted letters read , " Do n't Vote for Czisch , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up here and there , inscribed with similar slogans . The most prominently located of these was a large one painted on the cobblestones next to the gilded , eighteenth-century fountain in the center of the illarktp/atz . A whispering campaign of like content was also reported but specific details are lacking . Posters issued by Czisch 's campaign headquarters , recommending him as the people 's choice , were torn down or defaced with a truly formidable dispatch and thoroughness . When Konrad 's overwhelming victory was first announced , jubilation in the town of SchwThisch Grniind expressed itself in ways which the Director of Military Government for Wurttemberg-Baden . Charles Lafollette , later described as " reminiscent of the Nazi era . " The Horse Wessel Lied was sung in the streets . Nazi salutes were exchanged , and greetings of " Heil " and " Heil Konrad " were heard . The intent of these may have been partly parody , but iF so it was parody mixed with defiance . The Schwahisch Grounders ' attitude as they performed these foolish actions was rather Iike that of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If they do n't work , he can say that he was joking . But who knows ? Perhaps they still have power in them . And in this case , they did have . The poison of slander directed against " the half-Jew " managed to engender the desire to wreak more substantial harm upon him . A couple of young men made off with his car in the middle of the night but were subsequently routed . And unknown malefactors smashed in the windows of Czisch 's grocery shop , a small place on the ground floor of a massive sixteenth-century building on the Marktplatz . Ironically , behind those windows , Czisch , with his romantic conception of fair play , had put one of Konrad 's campaign posters on display next to a poster of his own . It was at this point , after reports of these events had been carried by a number of newspapers , that Mr. Lafollette became disturbed . He is a conscientious man , an active liberal and one of the few men of stature in the American occupation Forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and more recently he was chief prosecutor at the trial of the Nazi judges at Nuremberg . He felt that it was manifest that something was wrong and that something should be done about it . But when he approached the matter , he found it extremely difficult to take any action within the framework of current military-government regulations and consistent with the present trend of our policy toward the Germans . At length he issued an order temporarily restraining Konrad from taking office , and he appointed a three-man commission which was to hold a public hearing in Schwabisch Gmiind . Its task was to ascertain the facts as to the incidents which had occurred and , particularly , to determine whether Konrad had instigated or approved these happenings . Peculiarly , because of inn-a-occupation politics and policies , the board was not to be permitted to take into account Konrad 's history or record as a Nazi . The banquet was to be held but it was not to be recorded that the ghost of Banquo had appeared . Iv T HE hearings , which lasted about two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few frame structures , a building known as the " Little Ntadtgarien Theater , " located in a small bare park just outside of the old town . In the front of the hall , behind a bench set on a dais , sat the three members of the American commission . An American flag was tacked on the wall behind them . To the left was a table holding stenographers and the indispensable interpreter , who in this instance was a mild young man , whose passionless , mediating voice rose and fell in gentle waves all day long ; to the right sat Konrad and his three lawyers . About four hundred townspeople crowded into the hall every day . In addition to the spectators inside the building , each of the four or five large open windows always held twenty to thirty men and women peering in from outside ; since the window sills were high , they stood tiptoe on boulders they had hauled up to the wall . The main expression on the faces of the audience ? even on those peering in over the window @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all obviously felt that it was they , the town , who were on trial , not just Konrad . They followed every word closely and constantly made their partisanship felt . One of their leaders in the outburst of partisanship which took place was a man who sat in about the eighth row every day , one of the most brutal-looking men I have ever seen . He radiated prejudice and was always the first to stamp his feet in approval or roar with disapproval . I enquired about him and learned that he was a teacher in the local high school . Whenever I looked at him , I could not help thinking about the significance of the fact that an amazingly high number of the Nazi party leaders had started their careers as school teachers . The profession of being a teacher in the German system of pedagogy offered them exceptional training in intolerance and the practice of sadism . From the ranks of this profession came the vilest Nazi of them all , Julius Streicher . The three Americans of the investigating commission were patient , sincere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert King , seemed extremely able . They made a good impression . But they were not at ease . It must have been apparent to them that the whole trend of our policy toward Germany rendered their actions futile . I T wAs apt that the hearing was held in an old theater , for it was a curious performance . Its keynote seemed struck from the start , when one of the first witnesses , on being told to raise her right hand and take the oath , addressed a Nazi salute to the tribunal and the Stars and Stripes behind them , and held it while Mr. King groped for the command which would get her out of it . Most of the commission 's fact-finding was completed in the first couple of days , when evidence was heard as to the events which had occurred during election week . The forty or so witnesses who followed , called by Konrad 's lawyer , seemed less to be giving evidence than striking postures in a charade , whose theme perhaps bore the title , " Toward a More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These witnesses , selected by the lawyer to show an eminent cross-section of the town , were not particularly disturbed by the incidents which had occurred . The testimony as to the incidents had been given , with one exception , by refugees ; and the town was mainly shocked that the Americans gave in H FREE credence to the words of these outsiders . Their attitude in this respect was well described by the local military-government officer , Captain Felton , in his intelligence report for that week : " The town feels that a person 's veracity is not established until he has lived several decades in Schwabisch Gmiind . " Few of the solid citizens who testified had anything factual to contribute . Almost with- , out exception Konrad 's lawyer would ask his witness whether or not he had personally seen Stars of David or anti-Semitic slogans . Almost invariably the solid citizen would firmly reply that he had not , he had seen nothing untoward whatsoever . The inference which one was supposed to draw from this line of testimony was that if such manifestly respectable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they must not have existed . Of course , whether any particular witness had or had not seen the defamatory slogans was completely irrelevant . Photographs of some of them had already been presented to the court and rested on the bench in front of Mr. King . It 's hard to believe , though , that the eminent citizens of Schwiibisch Gmiind were telling the truth in this instance . The headquarters of the Konrad committee , which most of them visited frequently during the campaign , was only about twenty yards from the large Star of David painted on the cobblestones of the open Marktplatz . If they really did not see it , then this must be recorded as another example of the extraordinary peak of perfection to which the average respectable German has brought his talent for not seeing what he does not want to sec . T o THE town 's most distinguished representative , Herr Dr. Hermann Erhard , scholar , factory owner , and city councilman , goes the credit for the greatest tour de force of the whole affair . Seated precisely in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible so to arrange his mind that it could carry on as if the Nazi epoch had never existed ; National Socialism was not merely forgiven , it had been clean forgotten . That being the case , it was simple to dispose of the incidents which Mr. Lafollate had found reminiscent of the Nazi era . Herr Dr. Erhard , too , found them rerniniscent , but not , good heavens , of National Socialism . " Heil , " he told the court , " is an ancient Germanic word . .. In my youth the bicyclists used to greet each other with ' Al ! Heil . ' The tumblers use the greeting Gut Heil , ' the skiers ' Ski Heil . ' So why can not one say ' Heil Konrad ' without being a Nazi ? " As for the Horst Wessel Lied , Herr Dr. Erhard reminded the Americans that this melody need not be considered solely as the Horst Wessel melody , it being , he had been able to ascertain , an old soldier tune from North Germany . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ear . Had there been swastikas in question , Herr Dr. Erhard would probably have begged the tribunal not to overlook the fact that the swastika is basically an old Indian healing symbol . Frequent references were made during the hearings to the " daring resistance " which Konrad and the town were said to have put up during the Nazi regime . When itemized. this " resistance " turned out to have been mainly in defense of the town 's Catholic institutions , and scarcely a very bold defense . The examples cited were of this nature : the city administration is said to have objected to nuns being replaced by Nazi-trained nurses in the local hospital ; Konrad at one time thwarted , through bureaucratic measures , the Party 's contemplated seizure of the St. Ludwig 's School building ; he had some differences with a Party official in regard to personnel procedures ; and as further evidence of Konrad 's resistance , it was stated , " he never concealed his openly Catholic convictions , he attended church with his family and took part in the processions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rather pathetic chronicle of the South German town which had gone along with the National Socialist program ? with some aspects of it eagerly and wholeheartedly ? and had hoped that its Catholic institutions would manage to come through unharmed . One has no right to ask for a more inspiring history than this , heroism being a virtue one may praise but not demand ; still it was surprising , and somewhat embarrassing , to hear this chronicle recited as if it were as stirring as the Song of Roland . Witnesses also testified that Konrad had been a friend of the Jews . In regard to the Jewish question , one might have supposed that the Schwabisch Gmiinders would have been gTatefuI for the chance to preserve a decent , abashed , or at least tactful silence ; but instead the respectable citizens of the town missed no opportunity to speak with pride of the meritorious treatment which Konrad and the town as a whole had accorded the Jews during the Third Reich . Their boasts , when one analyzed them , fell into two categories : first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from ninety to two during the course of the Third Reich in a quiet manner , without any of the obvious excesses which had been observed elsewhere ; and second , that the synagogue was not burned down , as in most towns , but had been confiscated by the city after outrages limited to the sack and desecration of the rooms used for religious purposes . In this respect Schwabisch Ground exhibits an attitude which is fairly common in Germany : it believes that the fact that it committed somewhat less crimes and more discreet enormities than its neighbor entitles it to feel not merely less blameworthy but positively deserving of praise . T HE defense 's prize witness on the Jewish question was a man named Steiner . He ( lid not appear until the last days of the hearings , but his name , spoken always as " the Jew Steiner , " was introduced with anticipatory relish several times during the earlier days . When he finally came forward to take the witness chair , one felt almost that he was being wheeled in , like a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schwabisch Gmander but had been brought over from the town of Laupheim to tell the court how much the Jews of Laupheim had loved and trusted Konrad during his years as mayor there and to persuade the court that Konrad had joined the Nazi party only out of concern for the Jews of the town , having reasoned that he might , otherwise , have to give up his office and be succeeded by a man who might do them harm . Steiner , a half-Jew by birth and of protestant faith , made a disagreeable impression . He is a puffy man with a grandiose way of speaking , who seems to believe that the best way to introduce himself is to name all the influential persons he influences . ( He even managed to get the nameof Mrs. Eleanor Gimbel read into the record as a former citizen of his community . ) At the conclusion of his testimony , Mr. Wyatt of the American board put but two questions to him : " How many Jews were there in Laupheim in 1933 ? " " About four hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there now ? " " None , " Steiner replied . Then after a hesitation , during which possibly he considered how to define himself , he amended , 41. . perhaps one . " Throughout all of the hearing Konrad sat in his place quietly and with an air of unassuming merit . When he finally took the witness chair , at the very end of the hearing , he answered the tribunal 's questions briskly and accommodatingly . The Americans actually had little to ask him . Everything had already been said . They asked him whether or not he had been in any way responsible for instigating the disturbances which had taken place . His reply was , no , he had not . The facts , as the commission had learned them , seemed to bear him out on this . Then Mr. King asked him whether he had , subsequent to learning of these disturbances , issued any public statement of disapproval or disavowal of them . Herr Konrad was rather puzzled by this question , but again his answer was in the negative . Shortly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the witness chair had come , actually , as an anti-climax . By this time one had forgotten that it was for just this one individual that the Military Government had set its machinery in motion . One had come to think of the hearings , as the town had , not as the trial of Konrad , but as the trial of Schwabisch Gmiind . V I T WAS not Konrad but the people of the town who created the disturbances , indulged in anti-Semitism , and flaunted the Nazi symbols . It was the people of the town who , given the opportunity , showed that they wanted to be led by an ex-Nazi , and who remain ? as do the majority of the Germans ? basically without any feeling for democracy . Yet the Military Government seems to have committed its policy to the myth that the German people are becoming steadily more democratic , improving with each elecLion like a rifleman with each session at the shooting range . The punishment in this affair , therefore , had to . fall on the individual . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and since , by the rules of the game , his past as a Nazi was not to be taken into consideration , Mr. La-Follette had to base his decision upon an old , almost forgotten phrase in an early directive of the occupation , one which required that officials possess " those positive qualities which will assist in the development of democracy in Germany . " ( Were this directive to be generally enforced , there would be very few officials left in office . ) The terms of Mr. Lafollette 's judgment were that the election was to be voided ; that Konrad was , for the period of one year , to be prohibited from running for mayor of any town in Wurttemberg-Baden or holding any office which permitted him to supervise the police forces ; and that Schw5bisch Gmiind was to hold new elections to choose itself a new mayor . Said Mr. Lafollette , at the time that he issued his decision , " A man who has observed the crimes of extermination based upon racial prejudice and now stands by without opening his mouth when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualities which will assist in the development of democracy in Germany . This is the standard by which Konrad was judged . " BUT what of the people who performed these crimes , and who now seem willing enough to embark on new ones ? Their punishment is to be the privilege of new elections , praise as to the substantial progress they are making toward the attainment of democracy , freedom from supervision in internal affairs , and aid from ERP . West Germany , when it is a going concern , is to be given a role in the cold war , as one of our satellite allies , an outer bastion of Western democracy . That seems to be what our strategists have in mind . There may be no alternative for us other than to adopt such a strategy . But the publicists , in selling us this scheme , should spare us the phrases about the progress of democracy in Germany . The propaganda we hear regarding the growth of democracy there , now that the western part of Germany has been enlisted as our ally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propaganda we heard regarding democracy in the Soviet Union when it was our ally against Germany .                     