@@487795

The Shape of Things THE . STRONGHOLD OF MILITARISM WAS breached last week , as . Berlin announced a successful Red Army offensive into East Prussia on a broad front . Ordinarily such Berlin . announcements should be treated with reserve ? Lone of the few ways of achieving victories , left the Germans is to report a withdrawal and then . a smashing counter-offensive which regains the lost territory , the entire process taking place in Dr , Goebbels 's inventive brain. , But in this case the report would seem true , since East Prussia is the most important remaining , flank position oth the eastern front , , and according to Red Army doctrine would probably be cleared or at least entered before the expected offensive in the center of the front gets under way . The southern flank is being cleared apace : the fall of Debrecen threatens the encirclement of a considerable body of German and Hungarian troops in Transylvania ; the- liberation of Belgrade embarrasses the ' withdrawal of the remaining Germans in the southern Balkans ; , and the crossing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile on the western front Aachen was destroyed as promised , and the Canadians continue the bitter work of clearing the Scheldt estuary approaches to Antwerp : the , fall- of Breskens , is encouraging , but even the breaching of the dikes by the ' R. A. F. does not seem to have budged the Germans . from Walchexen Island , . and they still hold the Beveland neck . Extremely heavy air attacks on Duisburg , Cologne ; Kleve ; Emmerich , and other railway switch , points dose .. behind the front are nevertheless going on , and if any one of the current local Allied offensives develops into a break-through , the Germans will experience great difficulty in moving troops to counter the drive . FROM THE PRESIDENT 'S EXCELLENT SPEECH to the Foreign Policy Association the other night we pull out four specific items for our readers ' serious attention . If the Republicans win in Congress , as they surely will if Governor Dewey is elected and as they may even if he is defeated , the following isolationists will ' be elevated to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Republican leader , will become Speaker of the House ; Senator Hiram Johnson will become chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee ; Senator . Gerald P. Nye will become chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations ; and Representative Hamilton Fish will become chairman of the powerful Rules Committee . It is hardly necessary to add the President 's warning that politicians who embraced the policy of isolationism in our days of peril " are not reliable custodians of the future of America . " SENATOR BALL 'S COURAGEOUS DECLARATION in support of the President throws a spotlight on Mr. Dewey 's undignified attempt to straddle the chasm separating the Republican isolationist overlords from the millions of American citizens committed to an effective world organization . We have long asserted that Mr. Dewey 's attempt was bound to fail . Now , an outstanding Republican leader , who has led the fight for international security on the ' floor of Congress , has risked his political life to warn fellow Americans against false leadership in foreign affairs . We honor Senator Ball for his stand . We think it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate issue of the election , but on the actions of Congress , faced with the grave responsibility of making a durable peace . It will renew the determination of the American electorate that this time there shall be no " little band of wilful men " to wreck the peace . It will point the way to thousands of liberal Republicans who have been desperately unhappy ever since Wendell Willkie lost his gallant fight against the old-line isolationists who-control his party . And it will spur to action the thousands of independent voters who owe allegiance to neither party but who want President Roosevelt to carry back with him an overwhelming mandate for continued leadership in world affairs . ' The NATION ered . It will go far to do-so unless the Allies should try to utilize the new relationship to turn the French government against the people . France is still in a stage of revolution and renovation ; conflicts of interest are inevitable ; but none of this will result in chaos or internal collapse unless the government attempts to resist the popular forces that brought it into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Allies , resentment in France will flame higher than ever . We say this in deliberate warning ; we feel forced to say it by the past record of the Allies , especially Britain and the United States , in dealing with the democratic forces in all the liberated areas . ' - * IN THE MEANTIME THE SPANISH MAQUIS IN France launched a real insurrection on Saturday against the fascist Spanish government . By Monday most of the Val d'Aran had fallen into its hands . The Spanish Republican flag was floating on the Spanish side , and Franco was obliged to send an entire new armored division to the border . The attack had immediate repercussions inside the country . In Andalusia and in Asturias , the Spanish guerrilleros ( maquis ) intensified their activity in order to prevent Franco from sending reinforcements to the Spanish-French frontier . No less interesting a development was the claim made by the Spanish guerrilleros that Germans had been fighting against the Republicans together with the Franquists in Spain This fact confirms reports that Spain is being used by the Nazis as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Hitler is preparing for the day when his regular armies are definitely beaten . RECOGNITION OF DE GAULLE 'S GOVERNMENT is payment of a political debt long overdue , a debt which has been piling up interest at compound rates ever since the Free French first threw their courage and their meager resources against Hitler . We welcome this belated act ; it should help to stabilize the French government at a time when rnuliplying problems of administration and political control beset it on every side . We welcome it ; but we say in the same breath that no one is to be thanked for it except the French people themselves . By their determination to run their own affairs and to choose their own leaders , they have forced the hand of the Allied powers . They have proved beyond question that they accept General de Gaulle and his ministers as their provisional government , while the government in turn has guaranteed them the right to set up their permanent institutions according to their own democratic will . And so at last France 's major allies have established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of justice can wipe out the resentment of the French people remains to be discovA NEW CONTINGENT , OF FRANCO AGENTS will land in this country at the end of the month . They will compose the Spanish delegation to the International Air Conference which opens in Chicago on November 1 . Most of the names of the delegates will mean little to Americans , but there is one which has been more familiar since the days of the Spanish war . Kind elan was the commander-in-chief of the Franco air forces . He personally delivered the Balearic Islands to the Italians , who transformed them into the main base of attack against Republican Spain . He made the headlines of the European press with his farewell speech to the Italian aviators at the end of the Spanish war : " Together we shall fly in the skies of the victorious fascists of tomorrow . " That was a clear reference to the second world war which was looming . Kindelan did not enjoy the pleasure of flying over France or Greece in a bomber , as did his comrades in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago . He will undoubtedly bring a message of friendship to America . He should , if Franco means to maintain his scrupulous " neutrality " until the very end . October 28 ' , . 1944 This week Franco sends Kindelan here ; last week he sent a. message of congratulation to Premier Szalasi , Hitle  --  s new Hungarian . quisling . IF ANY JEWS ARE TO BE FOUND ALIVE IN Hungary , the attacking Red ' Army will have to move fast . Only last week the Szalasi government announced a purge of anti-Nazi elements and Jews . Where Horthy was at least willing to bargain with the Allies- , in the hope of saving his Ain if not his power , Szalasi is wholly Hitler 's man . The Jews can no longer be rescued except by armed action ; thus the last surviving considerable number left in Central Europe will probably be lost . The horror of this fact can only increase the bitterness with which humane people everywhere regard Great Britain 's continued refusal to admit ' refugees to Palestine . It is reported that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of the White Paper are being withheld in order to put off the day when they will be exhausted and Jews will renew their demand for abrogation of the restrictions . Against this background the President 's recent message to the meeting of the Zionist Organization in Atlantic City was an immense encouragement . Mr. Roosevelt specifically indorsed the plank in the DemOCratic platform supporting " ' unrestricted Jewish immigration and colonization " in Palestine and the establishment there of a " free and democratic Jewish Commonwealth . " And he promised to try to find " appropriate ways and means of effectuating this policy as soon as possible . " At about the same time Mr. Stinson said that the War Department had withdrawn its ban on the Jewish Commonwealth resolution , held up in Congress last spring at the request of General Marshall . None of this activity will save Jewish lives in Flider 's Europe ; it comes too late for that . But if the ban on immigration into Palestine is removed , the prightmentat and material  --  of surviving Jews after the war will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Waves is a long-overdue step which will be welcomed by all who have been fighting against discrimination in the armed forces . It is announced that a Ihnitect group of specially qualified " Negroes will be commis , sinned immediately and that enlistments will start shortly after the first of the year . The colored Waves will be trained in existing establishments , where it is to be hoped no segregation will be practiced . The Navy has a good opportunity to attack Jim ' Ciowism by integrating new recruits , after they are trained , in existing units . The Coast Guard has announced that the Naval ruling in-chides enlistment in the Spars ; it is to be hoped that the Marine Corps will quickly follow suit and open its doors on an unsegregated basis to qualified Negro women . 5113 Why F.D.R. ? ? We think Lincoln 's homely parable about . not chang , ing horses while crossing a stream Is advice as good . in 1944 as it was in 1864 , and we believe the results on November 7 will show that a majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also for the reelection of Franklin D. Roosevelt because it believes his leadership best calculated to provide a solution of our two basic post-war problems  --  jobs at home and peace abroad . Neither party has a programthat is at all adequate to the achievement of full employment , but Mr. Roosevelt 's record , his sympathetic attitude toward popular distress and aspiration , his willingness to experiment are too valuable to lose . The strongest testimonial to the general soundness : of his domestic policies in the past is that the Republican platform in , 1944 , as in 1940 and in 1936 , , dares not question the great social and economic reforms of the Roosevelt era , although they were bitterly fought by the Republican Party. , Dewey 's principal line when stripped down to essentials is that he can carry on the New Deal more efficiently than the President . But the amazing series of errors and misstatements which have marked the Dewey campaign indicate that the Governor and his entourage are far from being as efficient as they say they are . And their sincerity is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from Hoover to Gannett . Repeal of the basic New Deal measures- is no longer a political possibility , but they could be nullified and rendered in , effective by shrewd amendment and hostile talraniniatra-                     