@@431227

 | I Was an Atheist Until Condensed from Christian Herald Orrin Keating , M.D. Up TO TIDE TIME I was in medical college I regarded myself as an unshakable , unconvertible atheist . I looked upon any form of religious belief as a childish superstition and an obstacle to all intellectual progress . My atheism was based on passionate conviction ; and with the brash self-assurance of youth I was not at all reluctant to express my views to anyone willing to listen . Then one day something happened that changed my life . David Grant , a noted anatomist , was dissecting a body and lecturing to our class . Suddenly he paused , turned to us and said : " Gentlemen , here in this human organism is a complete refutation of what is called atheism . No reasonable being can look upon the miraculous construction and arrangement of organs in this body without acknowledging that some Creative Power above and beyond human comprehension must have been responsible for them . " No one can deny that every creation must have a creator . There must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wish to call God , because the mere mechanics of human procreation do not and can not explain how a man 's body comes into existence . It seems to me that doctors , above all others , should be truly religious , dealing constantly as they do with this inexplicable miracle . When I say that doctors should be religious I mean they should be humble , prayerful men who recognize that a Supreme Power operates in human affairs . " If you were to delve deep enough into the human soul , " Dr. Grant continued , " I do n't think you 'd find a being on earth who does not possess some kind of spiritual yearning , some unformulated inner sense that there is a Power beyond any human power , to which he instinctively inclines in time of need . At times each of us seems to reach a dead end in the solution of his problems ; it is then that we begin to look outside ourselves for help . Lincoln once said , I have been driven many times to my knees by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to . ' Yes , there is a tonic in prayer , and I 'd be willing to wager with any of you that if you were to read the Sermon on the Mount every day for fifteen days you 'd find something definitely beneficial entering your life . Now let us get on with our work . " That night I could not sleep . Dr. Grant 's words kept coming back to me . The more I struggled to refute what he had said , the more difficult it became . " A creation must have a creator " kept echoing in my mind . By the time the sun had risen , my previous unshakable convictions had tottered . It is now 34 years since I decided to take Dr. Grant 's advice about reading the Sermon on the Mount . Today I am certain that the teachings of Christ provide not only the noblest guide to human conduct ever expressed but also the most practical . There are many professing Christians who say that it is impossible to apply Christ 's teachings in our complicated modern civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple needs of the first century can not be adapted to the complex requirements of the twentieth . But those who argue this forget that the fundamental problems arising from human interrelations are precisely the same now as they were when Jesus walked the earth . External conditions may change with the centuries , but principles do not . It seems to me that present problems ? the bitter clash of political ideologies , racial hatred , the unspeakable horrors of war and the threat to our entire civilization ? force us to admit that there is no solution for the world 's ills except the practical application of the simple truths that were taught to poor fishermen and Jewish peasants by one who , 1900 years ago , was crucified . Throughout history , periods of calamity or of materialism have in variably led to a renewed interest iii spiritual things . One generation advances mentally and morally . Then , later , humanity slides back again until some future generation repeats the pattern . But these advances and recessions do not leave mankind at the original point of departure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cumulatively upward . Today , other ways of life have broken down so badly that it is fitting we should seek guidance from God . We need to pray for wisdom and understanding , for spiritual strength that will bring to our hearts a clearer realization of human brotherhood as exemplified in the life of Jesus . We need to pray to be lifted above the level of material things into communion with divine power . There is power in prayer . It brings courage and a greater capacity for solving our problems . Dr. Alexis Carrel says : " If you make a habit of sincere prayer your life will be pro foundly altered . Prayer stamps with its indelible mark our actions and demeanor . A tranquillity of bear-  | ing , a facial and bodily repose , are observed in those whose inner lives are thus enriched . Within the depths of consciousness a flame kindles , and man sees himself . He discovers his selfishness , his silly pride , his fears , his greeds , his blunders . He develops a sense of moral obligation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the realm of grace . " Persons who dispute the efficacy of prayer remind me of those who would try to prove that a flower wo n't grow from a seed , by planting it in a dark cellar and never giving it water . The only way to prove that Christ 's teachings are practical is by putting them into practice . We tend to divorce religious and ethical evaluations from our " practical " affairs . We try to live in two worlds ? one of inspiration and aspiration and another which we call the real world of politics , society and business . We need the teachings of Christ to bring those two worlds together . To quote Dr. Carrel again : " Today , as never before , prayer is a necessity in the lives of men and nations . The lack of emphasis on the religious sense has brought the world to the edge of destruction . Our deepest source of power and perfection has been left miserably undeveloped . D f the power of prayer is again released and used clearly in the lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that our prayers for a better world will be answered . " The increasing tendency in the social , political and economic world to regard ourselves as our brother 's keeper is surely one proof that we are on the eve of a spiritual revival . The eagerness for self-sacrifice which men and women in all walks of life are displaying today is another proof . Millions of people everywhere have arrived at a point where they dimly realize that trying to satisfy themselves with material things is futile . Through dismaying disappointments they have discovered that man can not live by bread alone .                     