@@475120

AFTER the war there is going to be a vast migration of people . This migration is going to help solve the world 's problems . Most of the people will come out of Europe . They will include not only Jews and other victims of racial and political persecution . There will be millions of others who can not find jobs , who see no hope for advancement and who , therefore , will seek to better their lot in the less settled portions of the globe . There they will not only help themselves economically ; in freer air and in the open spaces they may find more desirable political and cultural conditions . Who says that this migration will occur ? Herbert Hoover , for one . Henry Wallace also thinks so . So do numerous other eminent orators and organizations . Estimates of the numbers who will be forced ? or choose ? to move out after the battles are over run up to 20,000,000 . That is forty per cent of the total migration from Europe during the 19th century . Of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were but 6,250,000 Jews in the whole of Europe in 1938 ? outside of Great Britain and the U.S.S.R. ? and , of the survivors , not all will want to go elsewhere . " It is possible , " says Mr. Wallace , " that in the tropics of Latin America , in the highlands of Africa , and in Siberia there will be a population growth similar to that experienced in the United States during the 19th century . " Such prospects cause the hearts of men of good will to swell with hope . Of course these migrants ca n't do the job all by themselves . It will take a great deal of money , but the trick can be done by oversight and the case-work method and by preparing the migrants , through vocational training , for the demands which the new frontiers will make upon them . They will have to be assisted , perhaps by one of those huge international bureaucracies charged with managing the new world in which , as Mr. Wallace has lately said , no man 's hand will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lamb will lie down together in a quietist universe . Are there any grounds for believing that this beautiful dream can be made to come true ? or is the dream just a pipe dream ? The idea that there is some magic in going to the frontier to make a new start in life is an integral part of the American mythology . A parallel idea is found among the people of the United Kingdom , who phrase it as going to the " colonies , " and also among other peoples with a tradition of emigration . The notion is that if life is hard at the center , flight to the periphery is the way out . The countries which have , or have had , frontiers have always entertained the notion that their frontier moved forward by virtue of national enterprise . Actually , the forward movement has been associated with adtails of farm practices ' . " The improvement of soils and pastures and of herds and flocks , the eradication of pests and diseases , the economic application of mechanical power , the perfection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature of the most economic farm unit , the utilization of by-products , the economic application of the principle of fodder conservation , the establishment of industries utilizing agricultural products and by-products , the introduction of first-class systems of marketing . . advances like these give a new productive value to land and offer inducements for bringing it under intense cultivation . " There is hardly an underdeveloped country in the world that would not welcome a chance to go ahead along these lines . Some progress is constantly being made in improving the position of farmers currently on the land . But real progress along this road depends upon markets , for intensification of Iand use invariably means heavier production for sale . So immense are the possibilities that an increase in the demand for foodstuffs and raw materials can be met more quickly and cheaply by intensified agriculture than by a renewal of the old method of dispersing production into absolutely virgin areas ? the frontiers . In the past the way to greater production in the land industries was to place new farmers in new areas a horizontal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation is a vertical extension of the farm plant , or the increase of production in already settled areas through the full use of modern knowledge of farm technology and management in all its phases . If needed ? if economic markets appear ? the world 's supply of farm products can be increased manyfold without any marked extension of the areas of settlement . The possibilities here are almost infinite . Such a state of affairs more than discounts the importance of frontiers . It forecasts also a reduction of the numbers already engaged in agriculture . in certain directions intensification is accomplished by an increase in the number of workers employed , their wages being guaranteed by the increase in production or the greater worth of the production ; but on the whole the increased employment is not so very great . In this connection it should be recalled that while the capacity to produce farm products has increased in all commercial farming countries since the First World War , there has at the same time been a steady drift of farm population away from the farms ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas for survival . Under conditions of economic health the farm plants of the world will probably continue to give up workers without endangering total production in the least . If demand warrants wide use of intensification the outward movement of workers may be arrested to a degree , but how far it will lead to an absorption of new workers is a difficult question to answer . There is small prospect that the farms of the world will ever again offer a way out for the millions who may feel it necessary to seek new homes and better economic conditions . Since the agricultural industries have been giving up workers it naturally follows that the urban industries have been absorbing them . This movement is known , from the rural end , as the drift to the cities . This drift is often sententiously deplored , especially by sentimental people who love the notion of farming as a " way of life " and who believe that there is something inherently fine in working the land . But deplorable or not , the trend toward urbanization is a phenomenon which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States but also in countries like Argentina , Australia , New Zealand , and South Africa . Even " Bedouins of the desert are becoming townsmen in the cities of Palestine . " In all these nations the cities are growing faster than the country , and at its expense . The world is moving into an urbanized age . The facts which support this conclusion stand as an insurmountable obstacle to those who would ship their millions to the frontiers , or even to already settled rural areas , If these millions are to move at all they are going to move into the urbanized areas where economic opportunities exist . But the urban areas are not necessarily the very great cities already in existence , is the state of development in the divisions of Europe ; but another of equal importance is the fact that in the former countries the populations are still rapidly expanding , whereas in the north and west the nations quite uniformly find themselves on the verge of population decline . It is not necessary of course to imply that no one will leave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some will , perhaps thousands . But it should be emphasized that the great contributions to the emigrant horde will be made by countries where the population is still on the upgrade and where the shape of the economies is unfavorable to the absorption of mounting numbers at rising levels of economic welfare . Indeed in most of them the opposite trend has been observed : thousands of persons are being pushed down to , or forced below , the level of subsistence , with a concentration of workers in agriculture which is almost Asiatic in character . It is incorrect to assume that the condition of these people can necessarily be improved by encouraging them to move elsewhere . Emigration taken alone will not solve the problem of these countries . Even in the great century of migration the movement of peoples out of Europe did not reduce the total number of people in Europe . On the contrary , the population continued to mount . It has been estimated that during the nineteenth century " the number of migrants leaving Europe was equal to about one-fifth the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Differently put , out of every hundred persons added to the population only twenty went abroad . The remaining eighty stayed at home . This was possible because the European economy was expanding at a tremendous rate , offering employment opportunities to the millions who felt no urge , or were unable , to go overseas . It was because the European economy was expanding that even the one-fifth who did go abroad were able to do so . The effects of the European expansion were felt overseas and allowed economic expansion to take place there and so provide the basis of life for the emigrants from Europe . We encounter here another paradox of migration : heavy migration out of Europe is hardly possible if Europe itself is in a depressed state . Or conversely , the ability of overseas countries to accept immigrants is dependent upon an upsurge of prosperity in Europe . It is however impossible to create prosperity in Europe merely by subtracting what , stacked up against population totals , is a handful of peoples from a depressed economy . European prosperity is a condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newer countries of the world . The first step toward a solution of the problem of the 20,000,000 is therefore to adopt sensible economic policies in Europe . The great necessity is to clean up conditions at the existing centers of population in the hope that rising demands there will provide a firm foundation for a gradual expansion at the peripheries . This was the procedure , probably unconscious , in the nineteenth century , and it worked . To try to force the pace at the peripheries after the war can only lead to disaster , can only result in creating chaos there . This is the gist of the matter : prosperity in Europe will cut down the need for emigration ; depression in Europe will cut down the willingness and ability of other countries to receive large numbers of immigrants . This is not to say that the overseas countries should do nothing to improve their economic positions until Europe has acted . Neither is it to demand that Europe keep all its 20,000,000 at home . It is simply to cast doubt upon the utility of planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the possibility of improving their condition within Europe . Unless Europe makes every effort to improve its own position the overseas countries will not be in the best position to absorb immigrants . How Europe can improve its situation is not a matter which can be indicated in a paragraph . There is no known formula for economic prosperity , no matter what you may read in the advertisements . But at least one point can be made which has direct relation to the population problem . It has been emphasized that the great excess of peoples is to be found in southern and eastern Europe . As is well known , many of the countries in these areas have lvEav journalist is entitled to write one piece about Washington in war- / time . I propose to exercise the franchise , though I have nothing to say about the bureaucracy . I spent a few days in Washington in early October , the first visit I had made there since about six weeks before Pearl Harbor . The town 's current clich &; held good for me in only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hotel room . I found the restaurant food excellent and I had no trouble getting taxis whenever I wanted one , several times traveling as much as five miles alone without a share-the-ride companion . Moreover , the Pullman car in which I forehandedly reserved a seat a week in advance had nine vacancies from New York to Baltimore and five the rest of the way . But I found the crossroads-of-theworld notion reasonably true . Three people from the Western town where I used to live sauntered up to me and restored a contact that had been broken for twenty-five years . As for Cambridge , it was everywhere in Washington ; I was out of sight of Harvard Square for only a few minutes at a time , and need never have been . Everybody 's home town seems to be there in force . Mr. Dos Passos was lately wondering in this magazine whether a new Greenwich Village may not be forming in Washington . Very likely , and a new Los Angeles too , or a new St. Petersburg . I can recall but little of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there for only a few hours at a time , passing through on leave from the Army . My most vivid memory is of a companion 's paralysis in the Union Station when we were on our way north after being discharged . We had come up from Richmond late at night in an early-nineteenth-century train . Our reflexes were military , we talked about our organizations , we were prepared to stand reveille in the morning . But when we came into the bright station an hour past midnight something suddenly made my friend realize that the war was over . Without a drop to drink , he was dead drunk in thirty seconds , so drunk that I had to buy his berth for him and support him out to it and call a porter to help me hoist him into it . His name was Tom but , walking the town 's avenues this month , I could n't dredge his last name out of the past . I kept remembering his big drunk , kept wishing the same intoxication for the thousands of young men in uniform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our allies ran to greens and golds , crimsons and scarlets . You would turn a corner and run into a Bersagliere captain who seemed to be coming downstage to sing something by Sigmund Romberg . He would seem the ultimate in decorativeness for a block or so ; then the red and gold and blue of a French staff officer would erase him . The Frenchman would n't last long either , for presently you would meet a British naval officer of high rank and diplomatic standing , heading somewhere in full dress . Now you can see the off-grays of Australians and New Zealanders , but most armies and even the navies have gone into khaki . It is not an operatic shade . I remember a furious resentment . Eventually I was a shavetail , and there                     