@@475377

By the middle of the ' twenties , profits were slipping markedly . Shortly before there had been a large-scale building of new lumber enterprises in the Pacific Northwest , particularly in the yellow fir , ponderosa , and sugar pine regions . A number of big operators , who had almost run through their acreage in the South and elsewhere , wanted to keep their organizations going by moving into new territory . Prominent among them were the Long Bell Lumber Co. , largest in the South , the timber division of the Central Coal and Coke Co. , C. D. Johnson , Edward Hines , Pickering , C. A. Smith , and others with both established reputations and capital . The problems such firms faced in their new locations were far different from anything they had known before . Because the country was so rough and mountainous , they had to sink a lot of money in high-cost railroads and logging equipment . These heavy investments were worth while only when spread over a large volume of timber ; so the companies had to invest still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the larger operators sank nearly all of their own capital in their new ventures , and in addition borrowed equal or larger amounts in the form of first mortgage bond issues on their timber and plants . Therewas keen competition for the bond issues among the few strong investment houses which specialized in such business ; their past experience with the big lumber companies had been thoroughly satisfactory , especially in the South where the rise in timber values had been rapid and loans had been liquidated promptly . Both the lumber companies and the investment houses which financed them were confident that this experience would be repeated . While they might have to pay as much as $1 to $3 per thousand board feet for standing trees , they expected that in ten years or so the same trees would be worth $10 a thousand or more ? and would then go higher . ' U NFORTUNATELY for them , history did not repeat itself . In the middle ' twenties good roads were spreading throughout the South , and trucks were able to haul both Jogs and lumber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to spring up in great numbers . As a result , a considerable volume of timber began to flow to market from farm woodlots and small tracts of timber which previously had been isolated . The quality of the lumber from these sources was not equal to the former product of the big Southern mills nor to the cut sulphate pulps from Southern pines . Here , too , there is reason to fear that the new mills will prove too great a drain on the available timber . Until their plants were in operation , most of the southern firms apparently did not realize the pulpwood limitations of their territories . Now , however , they are wide awake to their problem , and are buying all the acreage their capital will permit . In addition they are trying to teach farmers and small land owners the value of their woods when properly cared for ? particularly when protected from fire . Southern Kraft a subsidiary of International Paper ? alone has acquired a half million acres of southern pine-land , mostly cut-over . It is a safe prediction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the forests of the South the basis for that area 's greatest industrial expansion ? if they are well managed . If they are not , we may see a repetition of the history of many other forest areas : exhausted timber , dismantled plants , ghost towns . Iv W ECAN salvage what is left of our forests , and restore much that has been destroyed ; and we probably shall , simply because no country can afford to throw away a resource so vital to its industries and its national defense . It is not a theoretical problem . Commercial forests can be grown for profit . They have been grown commercially in Europe for centuries . We know how long it takes a tree to grow from seed to harvest-size , and we know what trees grow best in different locations . We have skilled foresters , and we can train as many more as we may need ? as the Civilian Conservation Corps program demonstrated . We know what it costs to plant trees and care for them ; and although the harvest is long in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sturdy profit . The main problem is financing . A study of the financial resources of the lumber , paper , and pulp industries as a whole proves conclusively that they do not have the capital to engage in scientific tree farming . If they had the large sums required , it would pay them to plant forestsand manage them carefully for fifty to seventy years in the South and from eighty to a hundred years in the Northwest , before beginning to harvest the crop . ( Even then , most of the trees would not be large enough to yield top-quality lumber . ) Only a handful of the richest operators have the money to embark on such longterm investments ; most of them also have timber reserves to keep them going during the decades before the new plantings mature . These firms should be lauded and encouraged but at best they can handle only a tiny fraction of the job . Other private companies could go into tree farming , if they were properly encouraged by the government ; and most Americans probably will agree with my conviction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to the very limit of economic possibility . A first step to this end might be long-term , low-interest federal loans to capable operating companies which want to engage in sustained-yield lumbering . The loans should be made payable , both principal and interest , only when harvesting starts . Estates , foundations , and insurance companies should be encouraged to offer similar long-term financing . Tax laws might be revised , as they already have been in some states , in order to postpone payment on growing forests until they reach the cropping stage . Farmers ? who own nearly one-third of all commercial forest land ? should be taught that trees can become one of their most dependable and lucrative crops , and state and federal programs for aiding farm forestry should be expanded . Even under the most favorable conditions , however , private enterprise could never shoulder the entire responsibility for conserving and rebuilding America 's forests . A large part of the job must be handled by the government , because in many areas it alone can supply the funds and management personnel and stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As the states build up the necessary capital and organization , they properly can take over large acreages . But for the beginning which is now ? it is a federal job . Today about 196 million acres of forest land are in public ownership ; federal , state , and local . Probably an additional 90 million acres should be acquired by the federal government and administered as national forests . Still another 50 million acres should go into state and community ownership . The cream of the forest land would still remain in private hands . Public agencies would buy up , in general , only that land which is so unproductive or inaccessible that private capital could not afford to grow timber on it . It would , of course , contain some pockets of good timber . Much of it , however , would be acreage which has been so completely stripped of vegetation that it can not hope to produce income for many decades . Such land usually is chronically tax delinquent . If it can be started back on the road toward producing some revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover , aside from the question of restoring timber resources , much of this land should be in public ownership to protect watersheds , in the interest of irrigation , city water supplies , and river navigation . 3 A business man ( and , I think , a con-l. one ) I am constantly aware of the burden of public debt , and the many demands on the federal purse which may be expected after the war . Therefore , it seems to me important to note that government operation to restore commercial forests will not impose an additional load on the taxpayer ; on the contrary , it should return a tidy profit . ( It will also be necessary , of course , for the government to reforest some land which has been denuded by fire or destructive cutting , not in hopes of a direct profit , but to protect vital watersheds . ) Since 1911 the government has purchased 18 million acres of cut-over land . Under systematic management by the Forest Service , this acreage now is worth far more than was paid for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinning and the cutting of mature second-growth . The raw material which it furnishes to local pulp and woodworking plants keeps many small communities thriving . An example is the Osceola National Forest in Florida , which has produced an average annual income of $43,270 for the last eight years from the sale of saw logs , poles , pulpwood , naval stores , and other products . Of this sum 25 per cent has been turned over to the local county governments in lieu of taxes for roads and schools . Another 10 per cent was spent for roads needed for fire protection and lumbering operations . Since there are about 158,000 acres in the forest , the annual return amounted to more than 27 cents an acre from land which otherwise would have been almost entirely unproductive . And this forest is still growing and largely immature . In the ponderosa and sugar pine regions of Oregon , Washington , and California , the government is a large owner and sells mature trees on a sustained yield basis to local mills and loggers . Only a few private owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices , with the result that many lumbering communities are short-Iived and there is a constant drift of population . These regions would continue to produce very profitably for an indefinite period , if the government could add both virgin and cut-over areas to its holdings and spread costs and income over the entire acreage . This type of forest is ideal for perpetual cutting . If such a program were put into operation promptly , it would mean a stable population and a permanent foundation for local forest industries . In the long run , it would probably turn out to be a paying proposition in the saving of relief costs alone . UNDER THE long-range plan which seems to me most practicable and economical , some 294 million acres of forest land would remain in private ownership . This would include the best and most easily worked commercial timber property , most of which would be held by the lumber , pulp , and paper industries . Aided by long-term financing , they would be able over the course of years to replant and manage it for a steady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if necessary . About a third of the privately-owned commercial timber land would still be held by farmers , who should be able to double or treble its output through better management . The remaining 336 million acres of forest country , including nearly all tracts with no commercial value , gradually would be bought up by public agencies ? federal , state , and local . Under this sort of arrangement , the sawmills and veneer , pulp , and paper plants would buy a large percentage of their timber from farm woodlots and public agencies . The lumber industry would stop depending on the speculative increase in value of its timber holdings ? its main source of profit in the past ? and would make a steady and reasonable profit out of manufacturing lumber and other wood products . The publicly-owned forest land would be managed primarily to restore trees to cut-over or fire-damaged areas , and to produce a gradually rising income as the new growth gets large enough to cut . But this acreage also would be handled with a number of other important objectives in mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to control run-off in the watersheds which are vital to irrigation , flood control , electric power , navigation , and domestic water supply . At the same time , the public forests would insure for all time an ample opportunity for camping , hiking , hunting , and fishing ? the kind of outdoor recreation which is growing increasingly popular . As the restored woodlands come to maturity , we would reap an important indirect benefit in lower freight costs . For example , the cost of moving Northwestern lumber to Chicago , one of its greatest markets , is $17 a thousand board feet . When a considerable part of our timber once more is produced close to the areas which use it , the saving in transport expense may run into the millions every year . This program will need to be rounded out by protecting our forests much better than we do today against their two greatest enemies , fire and insects . Every year some two hundred thousand forest fires destroy GO to 70 million dollars ' worth of commercial timber and lumbering equipment . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire wipes out the seed and small growth which is the foundation of a new forest . Sometimes they even burn into the soil itself , so that reforestation is almost impossible . Tree-destroying insects are less spectacular but almost as deadly as forest fires , since they do up to $150 million worth of damage annually . At the end of the war , this country will have an unparalleled opportunity to stop these losses and to begin replanting our forests . The job is a big one . It means building thousands of miles of roads and fire-fighting trails , plus bridges , air fields , radio stations , and telephone lines by the hundreds . It means the construction of dams to control run-off and create pools and lakes for fire-fighting . It means cutting fire-breaks and clearing inflammable material away from thousands of miles of highway and railroad track . It means setting out billions of seedlings-800 to the acre ? for which seeds should be planted now . Most of the equipment needed for this work bulldozers , trucks , concrete mixers , tractors , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What is more important , we will have thousands of young men trained to use this equipment and experienced in building everything from roads to air strips on the most difficult terrain . A pattern for the undertaking was established by the Civilian Conservation Corps , which carried through the first large-scale reforestation in our history . Statistically its accomplishments sound impressive ? nearly two and a half billion trees planted , 126,000 miles of road built , 506,000 miles of trails and roads improved ? but in fact it made only a fair beginning . Perhaps the most important thing it did was to hammer out the methods and the type of organization ? welding together the know-how of the Army , Forest Service , and Interior Department ? which will enable us to go on with the job on a bigger scale after the war . Much of the old CCC housing is still standing in forest areas where it is most needed . Some army camps are located where they might be used as supply bases and repair centers . Tents , portable housing , bedding , cooking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Army 's leftovers . The Forest Service has the plans ready ; there can be no hesitancy about what work is most important , or what to do first . In short , there would seem to be no reason why a really big forestry program could not be thrown into high-gear un short notice . P-pHIS POSSIBILITY may prove welcome indeed , if unemployment becomes a major problem during the demobilization period . Probably as many as two million men could be employed to good advantage . We must not make the mistake , however , of classing these workers as dependents or relief cases . They will be doing skilled work , which eventually will yield a profit any businessman could be proud of , and they should be paid regular wages . Not all such work need be directed by the government . Much of it could be done under contract , with whatever regulation may be necessary to insure preference to veterans and decent working conditions . Forest management also would provide part-time jobs for many nearby farmers and industrial workers , who could spend their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And it would be work with a future ; an experienced forester is a well-trained and well-paid man . We will need more of them , together with scientists and research workers specializing in this field . Small business also might be expected to benefit from any program to put our forests on a permanent producing basis . As the lumber industry shifts into smaller units , it will provide opportunities for operators with small capital in milling , logging , and finishing . More important will be the new industries using wood as their primary raw material . It is one of the most versatile of materials , since it can easily be shaped , machined , distilled , or put through a whole series of chemical acrobatics . Consequently , the already long list of wood-using industries is growing ? their products already range from fine fabrics to prefabricated houses , laminated trestles , furniture , and fiber board . Most of these items should be manufactured near sawmills and pulp plants , for economy in transport and to utilize scraps and sawdust . There is no more excuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are unheard of . In the past the industries dependent on wood and the public in general rarely worried about the depletion of our forests , largely because lumber prices were not excessive and did not rise in step with the exhaustion of the timber supply . The market was kept low , primarily because the great lumber companies were forced to keep cutting at little or no profit in order to meet the interest and maturing principal of their huge indebtedness . In the process most of their timber reserves were used up . The day of low lumber prices and apparently unlimited supply is almost over . When businessmen and home-builders demand vast quantities of lumber for the post-war housing boom , they probably will have trouble getting it and the prices may provide an unpleasant shock . And at that point , the nation may finally decide to do something about its forests . ir AST fall the Board of Regents of the University of Texas dismissed the president , Dr. Homer P. Rainey . Since then a violent fight over academic freedom has been going on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such struggles usually do and , in fact , has spread all over the state . Even at this distance it is clear that Dr. Rainey was fired because he was precisely the kind of president a good university would normally want and had been administering Texas according to the ideals of liberal education ? so one 's first desire is to classify this particular suppression . Is it a kind with which we are all too familiar up North but which has gradually been growing less common and more easily withstood ? an isolated , sporadic attempt to get rid of one particular thorn in the side of someone , a single individual whose ideas had pruved offensive to a particular person or group ? Or do the tactics used against Dr. Rainey and more particularly the character of the opposition to him indicate that this may be suppression of a more sinister kind ? Is the University of Texas , that is , belatedly making the routine fight which most universities have had to make in order to get the academic decencies established there ? Or is the episode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be made on many educational institutions as the United States rounds into the postwar era ? Here in the North it is sagacious to realize that the fight in Texas is complicated and that it involves issues specific to Texas and others specific to the South as well as the basic issues of freedom common to all colleges . No Northerner knows how much to allow , for instance , for the vested interests of Galveston in the medical school , whose proposed removal to Austin helped to precipitate the showdown . None of us knows how much of the trouble may be due solely to gang friction in Texas politics ? though if such full-blown roses of Texas politics as come to national attention are concerned at all , probably we do not need to know more than that . But at any distance anyone can recognize a state of mind , and we may begin there . Testifying before a committee of the state legislature , one of the regents said that no particular harm would be done if the American Association of University Professors should blacklist the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from outside the state would join the faculty ? but that unfavorable action by the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools would be " quite serious . " That may be a clue and perhaps it is reinforced by the remark of another regent that " powerful forces " working from outside the state were responsible for the whole affair . Those vicious organizations turned out to be the AAUP and the American Civil Liberties Union . Asked if he believed that a professor should never question any law , a regent answered , " I do n't think anyone has a right to question or violate the law . " He told Frank Dobie , a distinguished member of the faculty who was just back from representing American education at Cambridge University , that " we should be non-political in our views , which of course precludes any faculty criticism of the Board of Regents . " One of his colleagues said for the record that " if he an instructor in economics did not think the sit-down strike the most damnable thing in American life , he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Another one believed that all faculty members should be subjected to a " patriotism test " and prepared a questionnaire which was to reveal their economic and political beliefs . Conceivably it would have protected the University from hearing about one " most damnable thing in American life , " but it develops that in Texas there is more than one . The author of the questionnaire held that a novel to which young Texans had been exposed was " the dirtiest , most obscene , most perverted book ever written in the English Language . " This was John Dos Passos ' U.S.A. , the last third of which had been put on a reading list in the engineering school . This regent , a professional lobbyist currently working for a chain of movie theaters , was the one who told Dr. Rainey that as president " he was just an employee of the Board of Regents ? as senators are employees of the state ? and should follow the regents ' leadership . " A po.Anv a state of mind has been defined . When such men attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or too dishonest . They invariably invoke mass prejudice and mass fear , and they invariably discover that the college involved is a hotbed of homosexuality and of communism . So of course our professional lobbyist found that homosexuality was " a cancer . . . gnawing on the vitals of the University " and he and his gang found communism everywhere . Every once in a while one of the unfortunates called inverts does get on a college faculty but in attacks on academic freedom homosexuality is a gift from the gods to the attackers ; a homosexual is simply anyone who can not be brought to heel and a communist anyone who holds ideas which the suppressors do not like . Such terms are sheer mob incitation , and this particular gang , being in the South , had available others just as useful . Thus Dr. Rainey had been working to widen the educational opportunities of Negroes : he belonged to an organization which tried to bring about better race relations , he was trying to improve Negro colleges , he had said in public that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemies were able to wave the banner ofwhite sup4macy and invoke against him the deepest terror in the South . Again , though the regents might seem to be arguing that boys elsewhere have better minds and girls elsewhere less fragile virtue than in Texas , only in the South could the use in an English course of a Dos Passos novel be made a weapon of terrorism . That one is worth lingering on . From any point of view U.S.A. is one of the most revealing and most significant novels ofour time , and from any point of view it is a work of art and a moral book . It is hard to see how any college that wants to instruct its students in either the life or the literature of modern America could fail to assign them U.S.A. , and in fact it is assigned to college and prep school students , regardless of age or sex , all over the United States . But to one of the regents it was " the filthiest book in the English language , " and his gang tossed it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of beating down not only Dr. Rainey but all intellectual inquiry . One of them distributed a six-page mimeographed pamphlet throughout the state , a pamphlet composed of extracts from the book and designed to show Texans the vileness their children were exposed to at the University . This may be the only case on record of a university official 's distributing wholesale what he thought , or at least said , was obscenity . The allegation of obscenity was a powerful weapon in itself , but it was a preliminary one . Scattered through the pamphlet 's quotations of profanity and allusions to sexual experience are other quotations , revealing ones . These are taken from the book 's well known reflections on the economic and social system ; socialism and communism are mentioned ; it is suggested that justice may sometimes have economic roots ; Russia is praised ; the sufferings of the exploited are alluded to . And here is the real offense . The regents were trying to shock the citizenry with profanity and sex , but what they were afraid of was education in the facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education . Thus , over Dr. Rainey 's efforts to safeguard his faculty , the regents had fired three economics instructors ? fired them , the regents said , because they had been discourteous to the chairman of a rigged public meeting and no Texas teacher could be permitted bad manners , but really because they had been teaching economics . Another member of the faculty , who could not be fired unless the system of academic tenure were broken down , had been trying to lead his students to find " ways of making democracy work in the then unusual time of the progress of the New Deal . " Another had discussed " the reduction of inequality of income , such as progressive income and inheritance taxes , profits taxes , social security taxes , and the like . " Still another had lectured on other forms of government besides ours , including " the underlying philosophies of fascism and communism . " Several were known to have supported the administration of President Roosevelt . It was recalled that Dr. Rainey himself , besides being a " nigger-lover " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " had come to Texas under suspicion to begin with . The president of a powerful life insurance company had warned the regents that he was " a little liberal . " In a word , Dr. Rainey was administering a university ; he was maintaining the freedom of discussion and inquiry which alone makes a university possible ; he was permitting the students of his university to be educated . That was exactly what the regents would not stand for and so they fired him . And , determined to root out the evil forever , they broke down the system of academic tenure . Henceforth the regents would subject every faculty member to scrutiny of his ideas and behavior and would fire him when they did not like either . Henceforth a professor at the University of Texas would teach only what the regents told him he could teach . Henceforth a student there would hear about only such ideas , theories , and principles as the regents might think safe , taught in such ways as the regents might think proper . 11 A CROUF of unscrupulous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University of Texas as an educational institution ? destroyed it , at least , for so long as they or anyone who represents their point of view may remain in control . Mr. Frank Dobie does not scruple to call them native fascists . He is using the word carefully : they have faithfully repeated the Nazi attack on the central mechanism of democracy . The service of the regents is to entrenched wealth , privilege , powerful corporations ; they are agents of ruthless industry and finance . But clearly they could neither have won nor maintained their victory if they had not succeeded in getting the support of many Texans who want no truck with fascism and are not enlisted on the side of privilege . Many thousands of profoundly troubled Texans honestly believe that the regents have been defending their state from outside . domination , that they have struck a triumphant blow for individual freedom , that they have saved Texas from terrible evils ? that in a way the Republic of Texas has been renewed . To an outsider it is clear that instead they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wall against modern government , modern thinking , modern literature ? in short against the modern world . But there lingers in Texas the ghostly memory of an unindustrializcd society . Of a frontier where lack of economic and political safeguards actually worked against the hardening of class lines . Of pioneer simplicities when frugality and enterprise and minding your own business were enough in themselves to make life excellent . To that golden nostalgia the wall against the modern world seems a defense against all that has proved grievous in the experience of our generation and a promise that Sam Houston will come again . That is a powerful sentiment , and one easily polarized by a rabble-rouser or an honest deluded man . The communists were responsible for the New Deal and they intend to inflict a labor dictatorship on us . They want to debauch your daughters with free love and marry them to Negroes . They want to destroy private enterprise and white supremacy . They want to destroy initiative and profit , business and freedom , the individual and the United States . And for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are responsible . Get rid of the communist professors ? who are all homosexuals and New Dealers anyway ? and everything will be all right once more . We will be back in the days before there was a depression , before the New Deal conspiracy was hatched , before labor unions had to be dealt with , before the sacred rights of corporations were invaded , before socialists and bureaucrats in Washington could tell us Texans what we had to do and whom we had to hire and how much we had to pay him , before the foundations of our society were undermined by atheism and bolshevism . . . . Before Texas became the greatest producer of cotton in the United States , before there were oil wells there , before the most rapid industrialization any American state has seen got under way . Before the modern era began . H ERE is a naked form of the old terror : thinking is dangerous . Here are subversive , clear-minded men winning the support of honest , troubled men to another panic-stricken attack on education in the belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guide of change , is the begetter of change . In more hopeful times we used to believe that such an effort could never succeed ? that truth must eventually win , that education could not finally be controlled , that freedom of thought and inquiry were in the end irresistible . We were wrong as hell itself . We have seen the forces of suppression win time after time , destroy a dozen nations , and come within an inch of destroying the world . They can still destroyit ? and now we have seen them win here at home , in Texas . Education is no longer education in Texas . The University of Texas can no longer seek the truth , discover the truth , or teach the truth . It has been taken over by a dictatorship . So the attack on it was not an attack old style on academic freedom : it is the first of a new model . As the waves of reaction gather strength in the years immediately ahead of the United States , this same attack will be made repeatedly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men representing the same interests and forces , employing the same or equivalent means . What has happened to the University of Texas has happened to us all . A Texan , in acute fear of democracy , making an assault on the academic freedom that is one of its implements , assaults everyone who does not fear democracy . That Texan has not only attacked the University of Texas , he has put Yale and Stanford in peril too ? and there will he many others dressed in shirts of the same color to take up where he leaves off . The academic community is one , the world of inquiry and appraisal , of the search for truth and progress , is one . When Texas has lost its freedom we have lost ours . Dr. Rainey has been fighting our war . So have the thousands of Texans who have been roused to support him . It is an excellent thing that this struggle has not been passed off in Texas as a trivial squabble among pedagogues , but that the state has been deeply shocked and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sounded an alert to the Republic , notifying the rest of us that we must be on guard .                     