@@494180

878 when they think of it , are thankful that the resources of Tennessee power are being expended for public , rather than private advantage . . . . " Heptisax , " who writes a Sunday letter for The New York Herald Tribune which expresses the furthest reach of the Re ? publican mind , explained that President Roosevelt 's approach to big problems is " political and evasive . " He wants FDR to stop playing politics . The official Repub ? lican line is apparently to be that anything which does go wrong on land or sea this year is the result of politics . New Year 's Resolutions A T THE START of the new year we are deep in war . We have felt the losses of war ; we recognize that there will be no easy victory . In another two years we may come to rely on our superiority in weapons ; today we must rely on strength of spirit as Britain did when she rose to her finest hour . We can not turn to hope of initial success . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on it This year may be one of the hardest of all years to face , not for lack of food or shelter , though we must lack many comforts , but for the lack of any vision of victory which success could bring . Every day our endurance will be tested by doubts and discouragements . We shall see our families broken up , our security destroyed , our friends lost ; we shall learn to listen for the bombers at night ; we shall come to know what it means to live in fear . At every moment , our courage and our patience will be on trial . As the war sets in , and the going becomes heavy , voices will rise in America to exploit our hardships . They will offer an end to the war by compromise , and though they offer an end , not to the war , but to life itself , their voices will be heard . In this year many of our men may be scattered throughout the world , fighting wherever democracy fights , relying on our store of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we shall need a sense of a binding force ; we shall want new rules to live by in wartime . For 1942 The New Republic offers six such rules : x . W e must never underestimate the enemy . ? Every disaster that has been suffered in this war stems from underestimation of the Axis . France and Britain under ? estimated Hitler 's ambition ; so France fell and Britain barely escaped . Russia underestimated the force of the German armies ; so Hitler was freed to crush Norway and Greece . We , in turn , underestimated the scope of German strategy ; so we were caught unprepared . We and the British underestimated the craft of the Japa ? nese ; so today the Pacific is in danger . Still we have not learned the lesson . We are , fighting the cruelest , most ruthless powers cn earth . We must meet , with our armed force , the THE NEW REPUBLIC strongest armed force ever created . We must match with our war effort a nation whose organization for war is immensely superior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power if we look for victory . 2 . We must never tolerate any barrier to our utmost effort . ? Today there are many such barriers ? barriers of jealousy and fear of executive power in Congress ; of tradition andbureaucracy in the armed forces ; of selfish interesCin industry ; of short-sightedness and incompetence in administration . In all fairness to men whose lives are at stake we can not afford any longer to tolerate these barriers . 3 . We must never cease to be vigilant . ? Our rela ? tions with one another demand that we achieve unity ; but it must be formed around ends , not men . We may hope , but we can not assume , that forces which a few weeks ago acted on a belief in the victory of the Axis are now acting in the service of democracy . For a few hours the weight of the disaster which they have brought upon America , and which itself has united our people , has silenced them . But their voices will rise again . In every corner of America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We must never fear our own people . ? " Con ? fusion , indecision fear ? these , " Hitler said , " are my weapons . " Today we are no longer chained by our indecision ; we are ridding ourselves of our confusion ; our fear remains , the last weapon in Hitler 's hands . Fear the growing power of Russia as Hitler is driven back ; fear of our fortunes in America if the Com ? munists over here in turn are strengthened . That fear is based , not upon the power of the Ameri ? can Communists , but upon fear of our inability in the future to fulfill the hopes of the American people through our democratic institutions . If by our failure those institutions are discredited , then the American people will find their own solutions in their own ways . Once we fear our own people , then all hope of victory dies . 5 . We must never compromise the principles for which we fight. ? These equalitarian and libertarian principles are our weapons of war without which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be determined not by the principles which we have lived by in the past , but by those which govern our actions at the war 's end , they must be kept in force throughout the conflict . 6 . We must never lose faith in ultimate victory . ? For the peoples of all the world , America 's entry into war has meant the end of all doubts of the coming victory of democracy . More than we ourselves , they value our incomparable resources . They know that these resources , of youth , of will and of materials are so great that whatever initial mistakes we make , what ? ever defeats we suffer , we have the power , if we use it , to win the war .                     