@@487839

IN SO FAR AS THE FRENCH ELECTION WAS A choice between Soviet Russia and the United States , rather than a mere choice of city officials , the United States won , hands down . Whatever else they voted for , the people who piled , up De Gaulle 's big total voted for American aid this winter . Few of them may have read Senator Bridges 's report of his personal warning to Premier Ranaadier that " we would not tolerate communism " in Franc ; but they know , just the same , that a Communist victory at the polls would have endangered the chance of large-scale help from America , both now and when the Marshall Plan comes up for discussion in Congress . By comparison with this stake , Russia 's offer of wheat to France looked too little , too late , and too expensive . The final returns are not available as we go to press , but three things are already evident : First , the De Gaulle movement has grown , in a matter of months , 11 from an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by throwing its support to the Gaullists , the M. R. P. has practically voted itself out of- existence . And , finally , the combined vote of the working-class parties ? Socialist and Communist  --  exceeds De Gaulle 's by nearly 500,000 . The latter factor will have no conczete meaning if the Communists and Socialists continue to fight among themselves . On the other hand , - if the two parties abandon their present hostility and adopt a program of common action , it may have a decisive influence on the future course of French politics . Otherwise , polit , or ical logic indicates that , in the coming months , De Gaulle will solidify his gains , with strong backing from Washington , and perhaps return to power . FRIENDS AND ENEMIES OF THE MARSHALL Plan will both find ammunition in the report of the committee of government experts headed by Secretary of Interior Krug . Assigned the task of exploring the state of our resources and reporting on their adequacy to contribute to foreign reconstruction , the committee has gathered a lot of interesting fads together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production and consumption in the United States , it tells us , are causing a strain on our productive facilities and resources . However , supply difficulties are not " generally attributable to exports , " which account for only a fraction of our gross product . On the other hand , the report declares , a foreign-aid program would have a two-fold impact on our economy : it would intensify certain current shortages and it would enlarge the drain on natural resources , which are already subject to a dangerously rapid rate of depletion . The committee seems to believe that a program of foreign aid involving four to five billion dollars annually for four years would not merely continue existing strains on our economy but add to them . Yet even with loans on this scale , it is almost certain that our exports to foreign countries in the next four years will decline in comparison with the past nine months . That record volume was only sustained by loans and grants at least equal to the amounts likely to be made available in the future , plus prodigious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not mean an increase in the dollar spending power that has been available to Europe this year ; they will mean , at most , its partial replenishment . WHAT IS TRUE ? AND THE KRUG REPORT discusses this point at length  --  is that foreign demand will tend to be concentrated on a few commodities of which there is a world shortage : The result will be a succession of supply problems which . will be complicated by the jamming , of one bottleneck into another . Thus , Europe could increase its own food production if it could get nitrogenous fertilizers , and it could expand its nitrogen output if it could get more coal . We have huge coal resources , but production is being checked by lack of freight cars , the output of which is in turn held back ' by insufficient steel supplies . In more ways than one , steel , it seems , is the key bottleneck , but the experts approach the subject of breaking it in a very gingerly manner . An increase in steel capacity , they point out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any case , it is doubtful whether raw material would be available to feed new furnaces . They express the hope that output from existing capacity will be increased by technological improvements , and they call for industry-government cooperation in expanding raw-material supplies , particularly scrap , and , in channeling finished steel to meet the most urgent demands . In his foreword , Mr. Krug does something to offset the rather negative The NATION tone of the report . It proves , he says , that the American economy is physically able to undertake " a considerable program of foreign aid " without jeopardizing national security or living standards . While some strain might be experienced , the war had shown that the American economy had great flexibility and strength . In short , the Secretary concluded , " what we as a nation can do depends in great measure on what we set out to do . " That is the real answer to the question whether we can afford to meet Europe 's most urgent- need as set forth in the sixteen-nation report : if the will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ JACKSON 'S PROPOSAL THAT THE Supreme Court hand down a clear-cut decision on the validity of divorces granted in the various states  --  a decision that " simple people can understand and live by " ? served at least to dramatize an absurd and very troublesome situation in which an American 's marital status may change if he crosses a state line . At the time , the court was hearing two cases in which Massachusetts courts had invalidated divorces granted in Nevada and Florida . The Justice urged the court to do something definite , since previous rulings were conflicting and confusing . Justice Frankfurter took up the cudgels for precedent . " The people who wrote these opinions may be in their graVes , " he said , " but the wisdom of their opinions lives on . " This argument seems misplaced , if the opinions contradict each other . We are not sure that the Supreme Court should or could bring order out of this chaos , but certainly order should be made . Theoretically , the best solution would ' be the passage of uniform divorce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where , for better or worse , divorce has ' become an accepted device for the pursuit of happiness . The trouble is that the end-products might be laws which would make divorce uniformly difficult and so encourage devices , legal and illegal , for getting around them . Perhaps a more sensible idea would be to press for a convention by which each state agreed to recognize the divorces granted in ' every other state . BESIDES THE MOMENTOUS SQUELCHING OF John L. Lewis  --  and even that should not be taken as definitive  --  the conventions of the two great labor organizations reflected sentiment but made no history . The A. F. of L. , it is true , for the first time in its long life set up a. political agency to replace its traditional , hit-or-miss technique of rewarding a friend here and punishing an enemy there . But the odds are against its " educational and political league " achieving much in the way of a coherent campaign , . inasmuch as the federation 's top men are as divided as they ever were between Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 , 1947 cal Action Committee , which has had the advantage of being nearly solidly Democratic , is to be overhauled for a more comprehensive job of campaigning than it has ever undertaken , But it , too , is now assured of political headaches , as the thinly veiled struggle over the convention 's foreign-policy resolution-revealed . Philip Murray achieved the phenomenal by getting surface agreement on an indorsement of a " sound program for post-war rehabilitation " in which the Marshall Plan was not so much as mentioned . Communists like Irving Potash , of the Fur Workers ' Union , professed to see in the statement " not Marshall Plan , or anybody else 's ' plan , but a C. I. 0 . plan . " And George Baldanzi , who has no use whatever-for the Communists , supported the statement with the explanation that " we are for the ideas enunciated by Secretary Marshall , no matter how the bell we write them in this resolution . " But no one was deceived into believing that either side found the resolutions to its liking or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murray made his own attitude clear by the simple device of inviting Secretary Marshall to address the convention , thus affording him a C. I. 0 . platform from which to reply to Russian charges that he speaks for Wall Street . ON AT LEAST TWO OTHER COUNTS , THE representatives of the left must have found the convention a sore trial . First , Jack Kroll , speaking for P. A. C. , told the delegates that " a third party is definitely out , " that " there 's nothing worth while for us in a third party in the immediate future . " And , second , K J. Thomas , bitter opponent of ' Walter Reuther in the United Automobile Workers , lost the support of Murray , which he enjoyed last year , and as a result lost his seat as one of the nine vice-presidents . A factor in Murray 's switch , aside from his own apparent drift to the right , was the charge that Thomas was flirting with John L. Lewis , who has long been- attempting to wean the automobile workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union . In this sense , Lewis was defeated at Boston as well as at San Francisco , where the A. F. of L. met . In his own organi2ation , Lewis 's fortunes are at a low ebb . He was soundly beaten in his effort to keep the federation from having any truck with the National Labor Relations Board ; branding his colleagues as " cravens " and " fat and stately asses , " he as good as dared them to carry on without him , and they dropped him from the council ; and , finally , he beard his catch-all District 50 denounced on the floor for raiding . other federation units . He did succeed in averting a resolution to this effect , but only by having it referred to the council . Should the council find against him , ' he threatens once more to walk out on the federation  --  only this time he will go out as an embittered lone wolf rather than the leader of the most advanced forces in- the labor movement . It is understood that a place on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , after a proper period of sulking , he may decide to take it . X -- IN ADDITION TO ITS OTHER ADVERSE SCORES , the Eightieth Congress may claim the record of being the Congress which was kindest to the groups seeking to loot what is left of the American public domain . A House Public Lands Committee , headed by a chum of the big ranchers , Frank Barrett of Wyoming , has just recommended that the United States Forest Service lose , for three years , its right to reduce grazing permits in the National Forests . This will mean that , until 1950 , rangers can not prevent sheep and cattle from chewing off the bunch grass which anchors the topsoil . Floods , drought , erosion , and ugly hillsides will be the inevitable results of such a policy . The public will lose ; the sole beneficiaries will be the handful of ranchers who graze their herds on land belonging to the government . This is of a piece with Mr. Barrett 's bill to abolish the Jackson Hole National Monument . The monument protects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belonged to them since the days of Lewis and Clark . Abolition of the National Monument would revoke their rights , for the land then would be available to Mr. Barrett 's ranching friends . Sheep and cattle would graze on mountain pastures now reserved for campgrounds and for such big game as deer and elk . It is adding insult to injury to graze the beef now selling at epic prices on land belonging to the men and women who are victimized every time they visit the butcher shop . A New Loan to China ? S ECRETARY MARSHALL is , expected to make his long-delayed announcement of a new policy toward China within a few days ; possibly before these lines are read . Details of the policy , like the report of General Wedemeyer on which it is to be based , have been a closely guarded secret . But Washington rumors and well-authenticated reports from high Chinese officials in Nanking indicate that Wedemeyer has recommended a billion-dollar loan to bolster up Chiang Kai-shek 's sagging forces , with a proviso that the civilian and military uses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these funds are to be used , it is said , for expansion of the American military mission in order to train and equip ten Kuomintang divisions to be used in " sealing off " the Cominunists in North China . While there is no certainty that Secretary Marshall , will accept General Wedemeyer 's recommendations , it is difficult to see why such a strong supporter of Chiang Kai-shek should have been chosen for the " fact-finding " mission except to find justification for aiding the Kuomintang. 434 The long delay in acting on General Wedemeyer 's report suggests , however , that the State Department , and possibly General Wedemeyer himself , are far from happy about the probable results of stepped-up American assistance to the Kuomintang regime . They are aware that no constructive results have been achieved by the more than three billion dollars ' worth of equipment and other goods that has been poured into China since the closing days of the war . They have seen international relief supplies diverted to political ends and sold in the open market for the enrichment of Kuomintang officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that slackness , incompetence , and corruption in Kuomintang ranks have increased rather than diminished as the economic and military situation has grown worse . And they have seen Chiang 's glowing promises of increased civil liberties and democratic rights wither before a succession of political arrests and drastic new censorship regulations . Nor has this fresh wave of terrorism been directed primarily against the Commu- ' nists . The Democratic League , the most important of China 's middle parties , has been suppressed in some areas , and most of the hundreds recently arrested in Peiping for alleged opposition to the government were members of the liberal wing of the Kuomintang . In view of these facts , it is idle to pretend that American assistance will be given out of pity for the Chinese people or to aid in reconstruction . If the loan is given , it - will ' be a political loan of the crudest sort . As Wedemeyer himself phrased it recently , it will be designed to keep China from moving into the orbit of Soviet ' Russia . No one knows this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and groups have issued statements urging the United ? States not to send further military or financial help t &; the Nanking government . Just this past week , Marshal Teng Yu-hsiang , China 's " Christian General , " who has ' held ' high government posts and is second in military tank only to the Generalissimo , declared in New York that further American aid could-only intensify the civil ' war ' and delay reconstruction . He characterized the Chiang Kai-shek regime as " a bottomleSs pit " which can not possibly be filled , and expressed the hope that Americans would see this and make their views known before ' it is too late . He stated that the Nanking government had ' ' deliberately spread the story in zones devastated ' by recent-fighting that the anti-Communist expeditions had ' been ordered by the United States . This had fostered anti-American feeling among the innocent victims of the civil strife . Granted that- the United States is determined to_the use its financial resources in a gigantic campaign to check the advance of communism , we can think of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its money than in China . ' Many more billions of dollars than Americans are will The NATION ing to spend would be required to insure Chiang 's position against attack . A billion or even two billions would , like the billions already spent , fail to fill the hole . Meanwhile , the popularity of communism in China is bound to be strengthened rather than weakened by the perpetuation of the corrupt dictatorial regime that holds power . Nor are superficial reforms imposed by American advisers likely to win the affection or confidence of the intensely nationalistic Chinese . Hardhearted though the advice may seem , the most effective aid that can be given to China at the moment is no aid at all and the maintenance of a policy of strict neutrality in its revolutionary war . Line-up on Palestine W ITH Britain firmly insisting on its new role as " neutral " in the Palestine debate , the play passes definitely to the United States and Russia . The - speech- by Colonial Secretary Creech-Jones has been attacked as obstructive and hostile to the solution his government invited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations . And so it was . But it was wholly consistent with the position he took at the start of the present session , and so merits no new abuse . It leaves England on the sidelines , hands in pockets , while the Big Two uneasily carry the ball . And it has one positive virtue : it may force the other powers to act promptly , before the British walk off the field altogether , for by this time no one doubts that Mr. Creech-Jones meant business when he announced that his government would shortly pull its troops and civil servants out of Palestine . What comes next ? Will Russia and the United States actively support the policy announced in their respective Statements ? The issue hangs on this question . Ai Sumner Welles says on a later page , " Whether we shall now see a Palestine settlement of the nature recommended to the Assembly by the majority of the Special Committee on Palestine depends primarily on whether the Soviet Union and the United Stat ' ' s will permit the settlement to be carried out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are being heard in the corridors and committee rooms at Lake Success . Suspicion is chiefly ditected toward the United States , which is said by many persons on the spot to be preparing for a defeat instead of working for a victory . Latin American delegates report an attitude of ostentatious indifference regarding their position on Palestine ; seldom has the United States insisted so warmly on their complete free- , dom to vote as ' they please . China , too , has consistently baCked the United States on major issues , but its state-merit on Palestine , while avoiding open repudiation of the majority report , was unexpectedly hostile . The United States delegation is also urging the prompt appointment of a subcommittee to make a detailed plan for submission to the Assembly . The composition of this subcommittee , already decided upon by the Americans , would insure a half-hearted attitude on partition . It would also reverse the usual Assembly procedure , which is to appoint a subcommittee after amendments have been moved in order to reconcile differences and come 5ack with a report representing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in advance of the debate . By the time this issue appears , the facts may be known ; but if a subcommittee is voted before the plan has been discussed ; we shall have reason to suspect the purposes of the delegates who execute this maneuver . If it does not happen , the prospect of honest American support will look better . As for Russia , its views were put plainly and well . What make us wonder , in spite of this , how strong its interest may be in seeing them carried out is Yugoslavia 's support of the minority plan , recommending a hi-national federal state in Palestine . It is true that the Yugoslav member of the United Nations committee favored this solution from the start . But experience suggests that the Yugoslays would probably accede to any serious wish on the part of the U. S. S. R. on this point  --  as the Latin Americans would in the case of similar pressure by the United States . Perhaps Russia merely does not care how its proteges vote on Palestine ; but if this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncertain . The picture is further blurred by French silence . France has plenty of reasons for tiptoeing as lightly as possible over the thin ice of Moslem susceptibilities ; but its influence as a member of the Big Five 18 inevitably diminished by such extreme caution . At this moment of suspense , what seems likely to be laid before the Assembly is a modified partition plan , scaling down the area allotted to the Jews and restricting their control over immigration at least temporarily ? this to satisfy the British as well as the Arabs  --  coupled with a renewed plea to the Arabs to exercise moderation and restraint and to the British to stay on the job during the interim period  --  assisted , probably , by some sort of U. N. token police force . This is a guess . It may be proved wrong before these words are in print . But it jibes with a good many facts and also , alas , with our knowledge of the mixed state of mind in official Washington . Such a plan , of course , would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestine and bitterness in the U. N. But it might easily look to the engineers of the Truman Doctrine like a handy way out of a dilemma ? a way to give a little to the Jews and a little more to the Arabs and keep British soldiers on guard a little longer in an area we have so recently discovered to be a segment of the American frontier that we are scarcely prepared to defend it ourselves .                     