@@475347

Mr. Grattan 's first article for Harper 's , analyzing the social and economic costs of unemployment , appeared just ten years ago this month . OF ALL the advocates of full employment were laid end to end it would be a good thing . I do n't mean I 'd leave them prone for long ( something has to be done to minimize unemployment after the war ) but certainly if they were horizontal and silent for two or three weeks , the innocent bystanders who allegedly are going to benefit so hugely from their socio-economic schemes would be able to gather their wits together for the task of passing judgment on a vastly complex subject . As long as they are on their feet the full employment boys insist upon maintaining an incredible clatter and bang about 60,000,000 jobs , 60,000,000 jobs , 60,000,000 jobs , as though their vocal cords had become incapable of any more complicated feats of articulation . It all begins to sound like a campaign of slogans designed to produce , not judicial judgment , but automatic response . Though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three basic documents to which most of the writing and argument must sooner or later return . These are the **30;227;TOOLONG bill ( S. 380 , 79th Congress , 1st Session ) ; the United Kingdom 's White Paper , " Employment Policy " ; and Sir William Beveridge 's book , Full Employment in a Free Society . Behind these looms the body of economic theory associated with the name of John Maynard Keynes , now Lord Keynes , especially his book General Theory of Employment , Interest , and Money . The debt to Keynes is usually freely acknowledged , though sometimes it is obscured by a writer 's dependence on the work of Keynes ' American epigone , Alvin H. Hansen . The bible of the full employment movement is now , however , Sir William Beveridge 's book , even though it came along after a good deal of study and propaganda had been done . The book sums up the whole case more adequately than any other single document and elaborates it luxuriantly . However others may have arrived at their opinions , it is certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference to Beveridge . Individual Americans may repudiate particular opinions of Beveridge 's ? I 'd think they 'd want to ! ? but the attitude toward him of the advocates of full employment is so deferential that they must be assumed to accept the larger implications of his general line . That , surely , is burden enough . Ha first thing to be noted is that while the propaganda for full employment is usually dogmatic ? often fiercely and aggressively dogmatic ? and supported by all the tricks of the propaganda trade , including doubletalk , the whole position is founded upon hypotheses usually deductive in character . The more scrupulous students of the subject frequently complain that the needed statistical data are unavailable or incomplete . The theories , that is to say , can not be tested against the facts of past experience , about which the figures have never been collected ; nor , more importantly , can the factual data needed for the formulation of forward policies be found at the present time . Indeed it has even been alleged , lightheartedly , that one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the collection of the statistics now so obviously missing ! A close reading of the basic literature of the subject makes one realize that few policy proposals in recent years have had a less solid factual foundation . I do not say this to disparage all theory , but to indicate clearly that dogmatism is totally unjustified by the current state of inductive knowledge in this field . I should add , of course , that the worst dogmatists are popular writers for the agitational press who are not notable for scrupulosity of statement about any subject . In no field I have lately explored are the reprehensible consequences of sloganeering more clearly visible . In one of his rare lapses into common sense , Henry Wallace remarked very correctly that the full employment issue was a matter of " high policy . " It is indeed . Acceptance or rejection of the policy will profoundly affect the future of the United States . All the more reason , in my view , why it should be debated on the highest possible level of understanding , rather than to the accompaniment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . SIR WILLIAM BEVERIDGE arrived at his ideas in this field chiefly by way of a lifetime of study of unemployment . He is a world-famous expert in this field . He is not , however , an expert in economics . His basic economic ideas ? which emphasize the importance of the volume of investment in determining the state of prosperity ? he has taken over from Keynes . The Murray bill has a different genesis . According to Henry Wallace the background is this : James G. Patton , President of the National Farmers ' Union , concluded from studying national income data assembled by Simon Kuznets of the National Bureau of Economic Research that to reach a stable national income of 200 billions annually after the war , a regular annual expenditure of 40 billions on capital goods would be required . Patton handed the suggestion to Senator Murray of Montana , chairman of the War Contracts Subcommittee , who submitted it to various government agencies for comment . After being buffeted around , the idea was embodied in the form of a bill . There are several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in more or less significant particulars , but all based fundamentally on Patton 's original conception . S. 380 is merely the most highly developed version of the idea . It seems to me that the reason Patton 's idea survived to become a major public issue is that it is so obviously related to the Keynesian emphasis on the effect of the volume of investment on prosperity . The third of the three basic documents , the United Kingdom White Paper , which represents the views of the Churchill government , makes proposals for Britain which likewise turn fundamentally on the question of the volume of investment . An ironic point emerges here . Sir William Beveridge says flatly that the White Paper proposals are " an anti ? cycle policy , not a full employment policy . " Since the Murray bill is closer in character to the White Paper proposals than to Sir William 's own , he would probably condemn the Murray bill as insufficient also ? though he would concede , I believe , that it is an advance beyond the United Kingdom proposals . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about full employment , only one of which is wholeheartedly accepted by Beveridge himself , the super-expert on the subject , as adequate to the purpose ? that one being his own ! The free use by propagandists of all three as equally supporting the full employment position simply confounds confusion . When Alvin Hansen concludes his review of Beveridge with an ambiguous reference to the Murray bill- - he suggests " careful study " of it ? he is simply talking loosely . When the White Paper is cited as showing that the Churchill government supports a full employment program , the reference has a strong propaganda utility , perhaps , but it is painfully inexact . Only the Beveridge program ( according to Beveridge ) is a full employment program . This has implications of a very important character , as we shall see . II 1 ' T Is my understanding that the crucial points about full employment arc : ( 1 ) The need to guarantee employment for all members of the national labor force able and willing to work . ( 2 ) The need to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide the required employment . ( 3 ) The need to iron out the business cycle to keep the national income permanently high and the labor force continuously employed . I have here placed the three essentials in the order favored by the popular writers . Jobs are more meaningful to the average man than the means of creating them , or insuring their continuity . Yetwhen it comes to dealing with the problem it is the last two items which are of crucial importance . This is where the argument focuses . When Sir William Beveridge says that the White Paper merely outlined an anti-cycle program , he is saying that it does n't go far enough . Ile is not saying that it does something that need not be done , or is not worth doing . On the contrary . But the downswings of the cycle might be eliminated without keeping the national income high enough to provide work for the total national labor force . The favored method of counteracting the downswings of the business cycle ? the method common to all parties here cited ? is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that government outlay ( to use an omnibus word of great utility ) can compensate for the decline in outlay from other , chiefly private , sources . This diagnosis and prescription come from Keynes . He locates a weakness of the economic system at the point of investment , and it is therefore argued that governmental action at this point will bring the economy back to its former level . This is not a fact , but a theory ? a theory of high respectability , but still a theory . As a matter of fact there are excellent reasons for supposing that government spending is only in the loosest way comparable to private investment of equivalent amount ; and equally excellent reasons for thinking that far from correcting the condition which Keynesian theory posits , namely , oversaving , it merely palliates it . As a matter of fact , moreover , the business cycle , with its upswings and downswings , is not yet understood , in spite of the immense labor expended in studying it , and the Keynesian prescription is but one of several possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an expert on business cycles , recently re-marked : The number and diversity of the diagnoses and prescriptions offered , long a reproach to economics , stems from the inability of investigators to determine how adequately their own and one another 's explanations account for what actually happens during a business cycle . Even the " theories " most fashionable today are really untested hypotheses . Yet some of their advocates offer practical guidance to government and public with an assurance that contrasts painfully with the caution of responsible physicians in treating imperfectly understood disorders of the body . Even Sir William , whose book as a whole breathes an Olympian assurance , remarks on " unsettled theoretical considerations " in this area . That is why the White Paper stated : " The Government recognize that they are entering a field where theory can be applied to practical issues with confidence and certainty only as experience accumulates and experiment extends over untried ground . " You 'd never guess that there was any need to be tentative from the popular propaganda on this subject . But there most certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tentative , I foundation that the next leap forward is made . If government outlay can compensate for the downswings of the business cycle , why can not it also raise the national income to any required level ? The question is no sooner asked than an affirmative answer is returned . Thus the Murray bill states : " To the extent that continuing full employment can not otherwise be achieved , it is the further responsibility of the federal government to provide such volume of federal investment and expenditure as may be needed to assure continuing full employment . " It is " otherwise to he achieved " by the action of private capitalism . The important point here is this : to raise the national income to the level defined as necessary for full employment , government outlay is the required weapon . Thus government outlay becomes not only a means of correcting a downswing in the business cycle , but a weapon to be used at any time , or continuously , to keep the national labor force fully employed . According to this reasoning , the national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national labor force always at work . We are back again at our 60,000,000 jobs . ET us now consider some of the 4 elements hitherto implied but not yet mentioned . All three of the schemes I have listed here are based on the continuance of private enterprise ? or , better , private capitalism ? as the mainspring of the economic system . The heft of the load of supplying the needed jobs is to be carried by private enterprise . But the proponents of these schemes return a pessimistic verdict on private capitalism . They say ( 1 ) that it can not reach the level of employment at which they aim if it is left to its own devices ; and ( 2 ) that the employment burden must therefore be shared with the government in the future . This pessimism is a psychological key to the understanding of this whole school . The free way in which they declare their allegiance to private capitalism is of less importance than their pessimistic verdict on that system . The Murray bill , because of the climate of opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " It is the policy of the United States to foster free competitive enterprise and investment of private capital in trade and commerce and in the development of the natural resources of the United States . " And it goes on to lay down the proposition that " free competitive enterprise " is to be encouraged by the federal government through the pursuit of " such consistent and openly arrived at economic policies and programs as will stimulate and encourage the highest feasible levels of employment opportunities through private and other non-federal investment and expenditure . " It even says that only when " private and other non-federal i.e. , state and local government investment and expenditure " fail to reach the level required for full employment will the federal government intervene with its own outlay for this purpose . But one does not need to be cynical ? one merely needs to be informed ? to realize that this is a tactical maneuver . The boys want desperately to jolly private capitalism along , but they do not really expect it to reach full employment levels on its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dogma that although investment opportunities exist , private capitalism wo n't , or ca n't , avail itself of them . It is not based , as some suppose , on any pessimism about investment opportunities . The doctrine does not assert that expansion is no longer possible . It rather argues that expansion is necessary , indeed obligatory , but says private capitalism can not provide expansion on the scale and at the pace adequate to the necessities of the nation ; and that much of the required expansion must therefore come through government investment in non-profit areas into which private capitalism can not be expected to enter . In other words , the traditional stimulants of private investment in this country have been territorial expansion at the frontier , rising total population ( natural increase and immigration ) , and technological change . Of these the first no longer exists , the second is of declining significance , and the third is unlikely to open up opportunities of vast enough magnitude . Hence government action is obligatory if the required investments are to be made . Passing over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be emphasized that here as all along the line there are sharp differences of opinion ? we come to the question of where the government outlay shall be made . Shall it be confined to the areas occupied by PWA and WPA during the Great Depression ? Or should the government seek to occupy more extensive territory ? The Murray bill is ambiguous on the point : " Such investment and expenditure by the Federal Government shall be designed to contribute to the national wealth and wellbeing , and to stimulate increased employment opportunities by private enterprise . " One can only throw up one 's hands at such a loose statement . But on other evidence there seems good warrant for stating that while in the beginning the federal government would keep to its traditional area , this area would tend to become exhausted , and the temptation would soon arise to overstep it . As we all know , the line between legitimate governmental activities and those of private capitalism is a wavering one , differing from country to country , and from time to time within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be drawn once and for all . For this reason the psychological attitude toward private capitalism entertained by the full employment boys isallimportant . As I stated earlier , they are pessimistic about it . I strongly suspect , therefore , that they rather expect that through government outlay , especially investment , they will be able soon to move to occupy fully areas which the government now occupies partially ( e.g. , electricity generation and distribution ) , and to invade other areas as the political state of the nation allows them to . In this country they are naturally circumspect in their statements on this point . But Sir William Beveridge is in a different situation and his book is full of evidence that he expects rapidly to widen the area of public investment . He is , as a matter of fact , overtly hostile to private business . If his particular program should be adopted in England private business will exist on sufferance and be displaced if it fails to behave itself . Sir William is obviously seeking to surround private business , and he aims to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to the rank of a servant of the state at best , if not to eliminate it ultimately . This raises the question of where the full employment theoreticians think they are going . It is generally agreed that this is an age of transition . Transition from what to what ? There is little prospect of universal agreement on a definition of either wing of the question . But if the full employment program is accepted we will at minimum be moving toward a mixed economy , at maximum to comprehensive state socialism . Most American writers today stop short at the mixed economy station . I sometimes suspect that this is not in their minds a terminus but an uncomfortable way station . Sir William insists that his program leaves the socialism versus capitalism argument open . I can not agree . I 'd say that Sir William , and many of his admirers , are socialists who flatter themselves that they are really too bright to be socialists . Why do n't they frankly say where they are going instead of talking rubbish about free enterprise while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I for one retain an old-fashioned respect for blunt honesty and a strong distaste for the currently fashionable doubletalk and pretense. r us now retreat to pick up some loose ends . First , that 60,000,000 figure . It has no particular sanctity . It is a political slogan , not an exactly determined figure for the number of jobs required after the war . The actual figure may turn out to be 55,000,000 , or 57,500,000 . A variety of figures have been put forward by reputable guessers . Senator Murray , who likes to wave the 60,000,000 figure around , was smart enough in his bill to leave the determination of the exact figure to the President . The arbitrary selection of too high a figure would be a disaster , for it would open up the possibility of excessive government expenditures to reach it ? it might cause a disastrous inflation . We know what full employment meant in 1929 and 1944 , but we do n't know what it will mean in 1950 . Any figure determined in advance must necessarily be an hypothesis . We do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working population will or should be unemployed at any given moment . Sir William Beveridge says 3 per cent for England ; Alvin Hansen suggests 4 or 5 per cent for the United States and adds that this is a crucial issue . ( Some unemployment is required to avoid a paralyzing rigidity in the labor market . The mobility of labor must be preserved . ) Similarly we do not know what total national income is required to give the national labor force full employment . ( In this respect Mr. Patton evolved his idea by studying the wrong end of the problem ; hence my feeling that Sir William 's book will become the real arsenal of arguments . ) All relations offered are hypothetical and tentative , subject to revision as the wealthproducing power of the community increases . Government outlay will increase rather than diminish the uncertainties . As a matter of fact the figures cited for national income are themselves the hypothetical results of a series of hypotheses or assumptions . " All income statements are expressions of opinion , " says a Department of Commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Furthermore , we do not know what effect government outlay will have on our economic affairs . It may cause stickymaldistributions of the labor force ; or it may cause distressing overinvestment in certain kinds of public works ; or both . Badly handled public investment can stifle private investment rather than supplement or stimulate it . In such a contingency , will the policy be corrected , or will private enterprise be crowded into a narrower area of operations ? The answer would depend on the outlook of the " experts " in charge of operations . Another thing : we know little about the effect of public debt on the economy , and this whole program involves the accumulation of debt . We do know , however , that the effect of debt is important , especially when it achieves the magnitude now confronting us . Writers who blithely ignore it are peddling dangerous drivel . In short , there is no point in the entire range of problems associated with the full employment schemes where dogmatic certainty is warranted . Propagandists who assert otherwise are misleading the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Murray bill calls the National Production and Employment Budget . This is supposed to contain the necessary information for the operation of a continuous full employment scheme . If any such scheme is to be adopted , such a budget will presumably be required . But one point should be noted . Under Senator Murray 's bill this budget is to be prepared by the executive branch of the government . This is probably the logical place to have it done ; nevertheless it should not escape our notice that this will immeasurably increase the power of the executive . It will give the executive a power over the economic system which we have hitherto allowed it only in time of war . We shall , I should imagine , have a permanent Assistant President , with the powers , and more , of a war-time economic stabilizer . If we are worried about the constant aggrandizement of the powers of the executive in our democratic government , here is genuine cause for alarm . But let us go on to another phase of the matter , the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economic system . It is a delusion to suppose that the government will merely invest and spend . Willy-nilly , it must do many other things because of the investing and spending program . It is at this point that Sir William embarks on a far more comprehensive program than is provided for in either of the other major schemes , perhaps because he has more conscientiously worked out the details . And it is precisely because he feels that many additional controls are necessary that he feels that the rival schemes are more anti-cycle than full employment policies . The question immediately arises : is he right ? Does a full employment scheme really involve the comprehensive controls he advocates ? I believe it does ; and I therefore conclude that if we accept the Murray bill and if the United Kingdom implements the White Paper , both nations will move fairly rapidly to the full program Sir William demands . HIS is obviously not the place to repro- duce Sir William 's book . But let me select a few items . He would control investment by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character and the timing of investment , private and governmental , according to a master plan of national development . He would control the location of industry , telling men where they may and may not build factories , not so much within cities ? that is taken care of by zoning ? as in the nation . This would be to avoid maldistribution of the working population . ( In this country this might mean , for example , playing down investment in the great industrial cities of the Northeast and encouraging investment in the South and West ? regardless of private wishes . ) He would , of course , control the banking system in accordance with the needs of full employment . He places great emphasis on a cheap money program to encourage investment . He would control foreign trade ( income from which is a " wild " factor in the total national income ) , especially imports of foodstuffs and raw materials , since he believes that depressions tend to originate in countries producing such goods . He thinks bulk government purchases under long-termcontracts would stabilize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ producers , thus fending off " cyclical decline . " He would control prices permanently , especially of the necessities of life , including furniture , to insure that wages in all industries would remain stable in purchasing power . He would expect the trade unions to be cautious in their wage demands so as not to upset the delicate balance of his elaborately planned system . ( So also Alvin Hansen : " Control of wages must be achieved through enlightened union-management cooperation and collective bargaining . " ) What this really would lead to , it seems to me , is that wages would be tied to a cost of living index and increases would be made dependent upon expert determination of the improvements in productivity in each industry ? a fruitful source of rancorous arguments . Anyhow this would involve a revolution in the thinking of the trade-union leadership and inevitably lead , in my opinion , to the increased dependence of the unions on the state . They would become more and more mere vehicles of economic control . There is in these schemes no particular concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The immediate effect will be to freeze present-day relations , though there will be more claimants at the wage and salary levels , Yet it seems to me that one of the vital necessities of our time is a redistribution of income in favor of the groups now getting small returns . This would increase consumption through increasing effective demand ? in itself a vast help in keeping the economic system on an even keel . Sir William dislikes wholesalers . He would move in on them to prevent speculation in stocks of goods , especially foodstuffs and raw materials . The state would become the most important wholesaler . And so on and on . What animates Sir William is this : he firmly believes that if you are to have full employment you can not leave the market to its own devices . He says , " The policy of full employment . . . attacks directly the central weakness of the unplanned market economy of the past ? failure to generate steady effective demand for its own products . " Once you grant that central premise , interference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Sir William is nothing if not logical . But capitalism without the market as a regulator is like a clock without a spring : I do n't clearly see how it can be said any longer to exist . Why not say you are discarding it ? Sir William is so logical that he is very obviously an economic nationalist new-style . His trend of thinking points toward a closed economy , though he recoils from it . His views on foreign trade , which can not be explored here , are decidedly nationalist in character . He hates the idea that the United Kingdom is dependent on foreign trade and squirms amusingly between a pro- and an antiforeign trade attitude . His thinking on this subject supports the fear entertained by some State Department advisers that full employment programs can lead to a world of carefully insulated economies , a result they can not fail to view with alarm . Properly read , Sir William 's book is full of odd and disquieting ideas and attitudes . There is a phony rationalistic strain in his thinking which betrays him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If left to their own devices men are irrational and disorderly . Sir William has a spinster 's passion for neatness and order . But society is n't a syllogism . And though he protests that he is all for the " essential " freedoms , he can also write as testily as in the following passage ( my italics ) : From the point of view of full employment , the decision as to what the state will have to do depends largely on how private citizens use their liberties . If trade unions under full employment press wage claims unreasonably , maintenance of a stable price level will become impossible ; wage determination will perforce become a function of the State . If the private owners of business undertakings under full employment set out to exploit consumers by organizing monopolies and price rings , or abuse their economic power for political purposes , or fail , with all the help of the State and in an expanding economy , to stabilize the process of investment , the private owners can not for long be left in their ownership . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undisciplined in industry , that will show either that they are not sufficiently civilized to be lcd by anything but fear of unemployment and are unworthy of freedom , or that the control of industry must be changed . All liberties have their responsibilities . The greater The sense of citizen responsibility , the greater can be the measure ofliberty and the scope that is left for agencies independent of the State . What incredible state-worship ! The State , on his accounting , is the supremely and exclusively rational factor in the social complex . It alone can make no mistakes , do no wrong . But the unruly , semi-civilized population which this supremely rational organization is good enough to try to benefit can commit all sorts of gross errors of judgment . The state owns the jam-pot of freedom and doles out the jam ? if we are good boys . That such nonsense should be piously and solemnly peddled in this day and age ! S THIS where a full employment program must inevitably end up ? I wish I knew . For the oppressive fact is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burden of unemployment without endangering the welfare of all its citizens . Continued heavy unemployment can ? and probably will ? provide the social basis for a revolution ? or more war . It can not be disputed that the unemployment question is a fundamental issue of our day . Action must therefore be taken to insure that unemployment is kept at a minimum . But what action ? Must we ineluctably move , step by step , down the road Sir William Beveridge favors ? If so we may get rid of unemployment ? and a good deal else besides . Confronted with such a dilemma I for one can sympathize with those who fall into what Dr. Johnson called the " middle state of mind between conviction and hypocrisy . " They will escape it only when unemployment is mastered and the old freedoms demonstrably remain . I swear I can not see this guaranteed under the schemes thus far propounded . The only honest presentation of a case for full employment is one that is tentative . We arc entering an era when contrary theories will be advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very hard to come by . This is a time for skepticism and for careful , open-eyed experiment . We must do something but it is no time for open-mouthed , empty-brained , unquestioning belief .                     