@@487488

T RNI THAT gentle , even-handed , and indulgent spirit -L . THA no one but ourselves has ever noticed in our pages we extend the greetings of the Christmas season to all those whose achievements and peccadillos we have with zealous good-will recorded during the year . Among many others we send words of cheer To Thomas E. Dewey , who rose in one leap from Young Man in a Hurry to Grand Old Man of the Party , his ' record unmarred by the compromises of Presidential power ; To J. Parnell Thomas , for whom " constitutional rights " are not just an abstraction dreamed up by subversive Communists but a Living , vibrant hope for an indicted politician with a foxy lawyer ; To Francisco Franco , whose fouls are no longer to be held against him now that they have been expunged from the record by former Boxing Commissioner James A. Farley ; To Whittaker Chambers , distinguished spy and editor , who has not been indicted for perjury because his possibly perjured testimony is needed to prove the perjury of others ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of whether a personal despotism on its last legs is worthy of our support against a Communist despotism that appears to be a sure thing ; To Juan PerOn , whose spreading influence in Latin America shows the advantage that a close neighbor , good or bad , has over a distant neighbor , indifferent ; To Joseph Stalin , thanks to whom Berliners who once could only vote la may now vote Da ; To William Jansen , Superintendent of Schools , but for whose timely intervention few New York high-school students would ever have heard of The Nation ; And to Charles Philip Arthur George Windsor , born of old Socialist stock , his grandfather having personally requested Parliament to nationalize the mines . These are only a few , of course , of those who are in our Yuletide thoughts . The Eighty-first Congress is there , too , and those wonderful " Do n't Know " voters who in the end knew more than Joe Martin and Herbert Brownell thought they knew . And then there 's Herbert Evatt , who rather than see the small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senseless tug-of-war would have them gang up on the giants and snatch the rope from their hands . To all these and many others we say Merry Christmas ? and not least to the Common Man , who much to the chagrin of Henry Wallace turns out to be none other than Harry S. Truman . The Shape of Things HOLLAND 'S ATTACK ON THE REPUBLIC OF Indonesia , assured of success through its overwhelming superiority in modern , American-made weapons , may have guaranteed the end of Queen Juliana 's empire . By demonstrating that a moderate Socialist regime can not hope for cooperation with The Hague on terms not dictated by the Royal High Commissioner , the Dutch will drive millions of embittered nationalists to look for a political philosophy more likely to succeed . The United States , acting with Australia to bring the emergency before the Security Council , has at least recognized the fact of Dutch aggression . But our previous failure to back up the Australian mediation plan undoubtedly encouraged Holland 's intransigence . Our policy was presumably influenced by the hope that exports from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so lessen the need for Marshall Plan aid . But the urge for independence , so powerful in the swarming islands , will find expression again . Next time it is almost inevitable that the leadership will be Communist , for that party 's consistent demand for absolute separation will have made many converts . The result will probably be a violent struggle with world-wide repercussions . There will be no argument then as to whether a threat to peace exists . There should be none now as the Security Council considers this act of aggression . * THE STATESMANLIKE ANALYSIS OF THE Greek situation by former Foreign Minister Sofianopoulos , appearing in this issue , should be studied in Washington before Congress votes on the proposed increase in American military aid . Here we have a Greek leader , a liberal Republican with wide experience in international affairs , warning us and the world that foreign intervention will only perpetuate chaos and prevent an internal settlement . The civil war , in his view , will end only when the cold war , which finances and instigates it , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to settle the dispute between Greece and the Balkan 710 The NATION states , he urges that they be extended to take in the whole East-West conflict as it affects his country . As a concrete solution he proposes a big-power agreement " to guarantee the territorial integrity and the independence of Greece . " Whether or not Russia and the Anglo-American allies would accept such a solution , we agree with Mr. Sofianopoulos that any less ambitious plan is unrealistic , for big-power rivalry now overshadows , and controls , the local struggle . Meanwhile the Truman Doctrine is running into the difficulties this journal predicted for it from the very start . And so , inevitably , we throw in more money and effort as our venture heads closer to bankruptcy . After a talk with the President , Ambassador Grady announced in a press conference last week that Congress will be asked for a " 30 or 35 per cent Increase " for next year over the $150 million military-aid allotment made in the current year . Mr. Grady was asked whether the President favored the policy outlined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is the Truman program . " But a program can fall and that is what is happening in Greece to the Doctrine so belligerently and unilaterally proclaimed on March 12 , 1947 . It is high time for the President to begin to look for a road back , before American policy collapses of its own mistakes as it has in China . THERE , AS A DRAMATIC WARNING , WE SEE the inevitable result of the policy of subsidizing reaction to defeat communism : the democratic elements in China have been reduced to impotence and the field left to the cohorts of Moscow . Every correspondent reports that the collapse of the nationalist armies has been due to a lack of will rather than a shortage of arms , men , or training . Soldiers do n't want to risk death for a government interested chiefly in holding power and lining the pockets of its top men and their backers . The officers , too , prefer to quit or sell out at a good price to the Communists . And the people want only a chance to live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oppression . To back the war against communism in these circumstances is to win the hatred of the whole people without any hope of a constructive or stable solution . This Secretary Marshall knows , and while he was in China he advocated a middle course . But his efforts were sabotaged by the crowd in power , who stood to lose everything once affairs began to move toward a democratic solution . Now the chance of a workable compromise has been minimized by Chiang Kal-shek 's failure and the sweeping successes of the Communists . There is just a possibility that a coalition may be formed in which non-Communists will have some effective voice , if only because they speak for a section of the population whose support is necessary to any government . is possible , too , that even the Communists would welcome continued American aid in view of the desperate December 25 , 1948 state of the country 's economy . And so , for a time at least , Washington may exercise some influence in China even if a Communist-controlled government comes to power . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free institutions " it might get aid from the E.C.A. was an undiplomatic warning of things to come . Though disowned by the State Department , it obviously represents the present dominant attitude in Washington . We welcome it as a forlorn hope , recognizing at the same time that it is about a year too late . REJECTION BY THE SECURITY COUNCIL OF Israel 's application for membership in the United Nations was a setback rather than a defeat . The vote was five to one for admission , with Syria casting the negative vote . France and Canada , though basically favorable , finally abstained on the ground that a Council recommendation might interfere with the efforts of the new Conciliation Commission to end the conflict in Palestine  --  a decision which deprived Israel of the necessary two additional votes . The contrary conclusion would have seemed to us a more valid one ; further concessions to the Arabs are the single factor which may stiffen their resistance to a reasonable settlement with Israel . But even though the vote was disappointing , its effect will be minor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damaged by a mere delay in gaining admission to the U.N . A more serious obstacle would be the appointment of a Conciliation Commission controlled by the same doubts and commitments that influenced Count Bernadotte . In view of the hesitation of the French and the hostility of Turkey , it is essential that the American member should honestly represent our government 's official policy  --  rather than that of Mr. Bevin 's allies in the State Department . IF ALGER HISS IS AS INNOCENT AS WE SHALL continue to assume he is unless and until a jury rules otherwise , he should welcome his coming trial . It will be an ordeal , no doubt , but if he is acquitted he will be cleared more effectively than he would have been by the mere failure of the grand jury to indict More important , he is assured the prescribed rights and privileges of a defense , which were not available to him under the curious procedures of the House Un-American Activities Committee . His attorneys can cross-examine his accuser , Whittaker Chambers , to their hearts ' content , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inconsistencies in his testimony before the committee . Whether or not Chambers stands up under this kind of cross-examination , it is good to have the matter in the courts , where it belongs . That it has finally landed there is in no sense an argument for continuing the Thomas committee . The fact is that if Chambers , 711 acting in good faith , had ten years ago turned over to the FBI or to any federal attorney the material he has since disgorged from pumpkin shells and laundry chutes , the case would long since have been forgotten , and the spy ring , if any , dispersed . For this failure alone Mr. Chambers owes the country a heavy accounting . NOT SINCE " THE MIKADO " WAS FIRST produced have the Japanese been presented to the Western world in so rollicking a mood as that reflected by " the Izumiyama incident . " It seems that while the Diet was thrashing out a budget , Mr. Izumiyama , the Finance Minister , was having a spot of sake with friends in an outer office . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was ten before the legislators , eager to question the Minister on fiscal matters , learned that the party had taken a lively turn . At that time a woman Representative put in the mild complaint that Mr. Izumiyama had persistently tried to hold her hand , and two hours later a sister-legislator informed the Imperial Diet that he had progressed considerably in his amorous ambitions . When she suggested that he would do better to take part in the debate , he is said to have remarked with some warmth , " With me you come a long way before the budget , " a point he demonstrated ardently enough to Fdraw a peremptory slap . Subsequently found happily asleep on a bench in an anteroom , the Minister was awakened and promptly turned in his resignation . The expressions of outrage in the Japanese press , according to Burton Crane , New York Times Tokyo correspondent , are designed solely to impress the Americans . In fact , " the Japanese have always viewed with affection the alcoholic peccadillos of their public men . " All of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happier day were it not for Mr. Crane 's further characterization of the incident as " another illustration of the Imperial Diet 's growing cynicism over being merely a rubber stamp for occupation policies . " THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN QUICK TO BLAME President Truman for the mediocrity of his appointments would do well to get behind a bill now pending in the Senate Civil Service Committee . The purpose of the measure is to boost the salaries of the 218 top men in the federal service , many of whom work for less than a quarter of what they could command in private enter -- prise . In the circumstances the turn-over is appalling , and living costs being what they are , vacancies in these top-bracket jobs have become a grave problem . It is reliably reported that literally dozens of openings now exist at the $10,000-a-year level . It is all very well for a Forrestal or a Lovett to serve at $15,000 a year , but if Mr. Truman is ever to shake off the Wall Streeters and 712 draw back the men who made the New Deal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraction of what they have been making since they left the government . In many cases these men served for years at a heavy sacrifice . Some would no doubt be willing to do so again , given the conviction that a second New Deal was in the making , but others have gone to great expense to set themselves up in private business or legal practice , and it is too much to expect them to return to Washington at the absurd salary schedule that prevails . Without mentioning ball-players , screen starlets , and other such members of the financial elite , we can suggest the absurdity by reporting that the Secretary of State , charged with saving us all from atomic war , draws exactly the same pay as the Borough President of Staten Island ; that the Secretary of the Treasury is the pay-roll equal of the Bronx County Clerk . If former President Hoover can call ' this bill " a definite measure of economy , " the million dollars involved should not be too much even for Representative Taber to appropriate . THE TRUTH ABOUT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain , Belgium , and the Netherlands can not yet be ascertained . But what does seem clear is that E. C. A. Deputy Administrator Howard Bruce made his charges against these three countries without checking with his mission chiefs in London , Brussels , and Amsterdam . In his first statement Mr. Bruce said that the three countries had been buying aluminum at 16 cents a pound in Canada and reselling it as scrap in the United States at a large profit . Vigorous rebuttals from the accused governments were supported by Thomas Finletter and Dr. Alan Valentine , chiefs of the E. C. A. missions in London and Amsterdam respectively , who issued statements declaring that they were convinced no improper shipments of metals had been made from either of these countries . At this Mr. Bruce partially backtracked , saying he had not suggested bad faith but merely the need for tighter controls in view of the increasing shipments of aluminum scrap from Britain . ( Significantly , he did not repeat the charge that Canadian virgin aluminum was being sold as scrap . ) Then the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purporting to show British exports of aluminum scrap to the United States this year totaling over 34,000,000 pounds  --  ten times 1947 shipments . Against this the British Ministry of Supply insists that not more than 20,000,000 pounds of remelted scrap , described as " token shipments " to keep established markets open , have been exported this year . Obviously the discrepancies in the various figures need to be reconciled by further investigation . It is too bad that such an investigation was not made before Mr. Bruce  --  not for the first time  --  rushed incontinently for the headlines . The NATION Defense and Waste MUCH as we may desire disarmament by interna- tional agreement , few of us are prepared to advocate unilateral disarmament at this time . The present state of the world and the extent of American commitments make inevitable a much larger military establishment than before the war . That can not be provided cheaply . The cost of modern weapons grows by geometrical progression , and for the services , as for the rest of us , ordinary " housekeeping " expenses are inflated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay heavily , for necessary defense , they do want value for their money . The strong suspicion harbored by many ? particularly the millions with first-hand experience of the army and navy  --  that the services are fantastically wasteful of public funds has now been confirmed by the Security Advisory Committee of the Hoover Commission on reorganization of the executive branch of the government . The committee , headed by Ferdinand Eberstadt , former vice-chairman of the War Production Board , declares that the reorganization of the services in a unified Defense Department is basically sound but in many ways is still working badly . It refers to the difficulties that have arisen in formulating integrated policies and singles out for special criticism the branches dealing with intelligence , research , planning of war mobilization , and psychological warfare . The most devastating passages in the report , however , are reserved for " inter-service rivalries " and for defects in defense budgeting . The first of these problems is among the causes of the second . As the Alsops , loud pluggers for bigger defense appropriations , admitted recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sort of ' keeping up with the Joneses ' psychology . " The contest is particularly bitter between the air force and the navy , each of which regards itself as the major strategic offensive arm of the future . When the air force asks for ten more bomber squadrons , the navy insists on another super aircraft carrier , and the only compromise which the Joint Chiefs of Staff seem able to effect is to approve the claims of both . Apart from the high cost of such squabbles , there is the continual drain of money resulting from sheer inefficiency and conspicuous waste . The Eberstadt report comments sharply on the inadequate means that exist for checking , auditing , and controlling the military budget . As an instance of the kind of thing that occurs all too frequently they mention the fact that the army could only account for 16,000 of the 25,000 tanks which its own records showed to be on hand at the end of the war . Another example just come to light is the " gold-plate " executive-type Constellation recently delivered to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " presDecember 25 , 1948 ent " to Mr. Dewey on his entrance to the White House . The story is officially denied , but explanations of the genesis of this super-luxury plane , which must have cost upward of $11/2 million , are quite unconvincing . The Eberstadt report points out that the original service estimates for the coming fiscal year were no less than $30 billion ? a figure which " indicates a lack of realization of our economic position and capabilities on the part of many highly placed military people . " On the recommendation ' of the Bureau of the Budget , the President has cut this sum in half , which means some $21/2 billion more for defense than in the current year.713 intense propaganda campaign for more money . la many far-flung columns we r ea d obviously inspired prophecies of dire disaster if the Administration continues to " starve " defense . This new report is going to strengthen the President 's hand in resisting the pressure being put upon him to permit an upward revision of the service estimates . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order . By intro-ducing better budgetary methods and by cutting out some of their money- and man-power-wasting practices , such as the empire building of rank-conscious " brass , " they should be able to save large sums without reducing national security . Until they do so and Secretary of Defense Forrestal seems to have accepted this decision loyally . But apparently he is unable to prevent his service subordinates from carrying on an provide evidence that they are giving the taxpayers full value , their pleas for a still larger share of the national income are not likely to be heeded .                     