@@172218

Dressed warmly , his radio turned low , Astronomer Gustaf Strmberg of the Mount Wilson Observatory spends night after night looking up at a great curved slit of the heavens . Born at Gothenburg , Sweden 57 years ago , a student of physics , mathematics and celestial mechanics , listed and starred ( voted outstanding by his scientific colleagues ) in American Men of Science for distinguished research in stellar motions , statistics and luminosities , Gustaf Strmberg is nevertheless not the kind of scientist to pore myopically over tables and spectrum slides while taking the stars for granted . During the long nights on the mountain overshadowing Pasadena , he has done a lot of unorthodox thinking about the human mind , the human soul , the World Soul , Cosmic Consciousness , Cosmos , God . Now he has published the result of his pondering in a book , The Soul of the Universe* a calm treatise calculated to make the flesh of hardheaded materialists crawl . He starts with straightforward scientific exposition , but soon plunges into intuitive extensions ; then into metaphysics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the book is to examine the findings of modern science for light on the domain commonly accepted as beyond science . Quantum Mechanics ( mathematics of the atom ) finds that a subatomic particle , e. g. , an electron , is accompanied by immaterial waves of energy which seem to guide it . Indeed it is only by analysis of its " pilot wave " that the speed and position of an electron can be determined , and then only probably , not certainly . Immaterial waves need not be tangled up with matter at all . Like radio waves , they can exist in or travel through nothingness . <P> Take something immensely more complex than an electron : a living cell . When the cell is " ready " to divide , the centrosome separates and moves to opposite sides , the chromosomes line up in the middle and then split evenly ; then some thing nips in the sides of the cell to a wasp-waisted constriction , and finally the cell divides into two healthy duplicates of its original self . Biologists have the devil 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Strmberg 's view , it is initiated and controlled by an " immaterial wave of organization . " Though immaterial , the guiding wave has a structure in spacetime . Strmberg calls it a " genie " ( plural , " genii " ) . <P> A developing embryo , far more complex than a single cell , has a commanding genie and subordinate genii for each organ , each cell . So has an adult organism . Even colonies of individuals may have a commanding genie , as when the marine animals called Portuguese Men-of-War gather in a cluster which behaves like a single animal , with groups of individuals told off to perform various organic functions . Finally , the whole universe , which is in constant evolution , must have a supreme genie-the Cosmos or World Soul .                     