@@494275

Academic Freedom in Texas Real-Estate Values v. Education RIEFLY TOLD , the trouble at the University of Texas is an old story . A liberal and progressive president finds himself caught in an ebb tide of reaction . The chairman and dominating figure on the board of regents that appointed him , a man of broad vision and wide experience , is not reappointed to the board by the new biscuit-passing Governor , who in ? stead appoints three new regents with no obvious quali ? fications but those of wealth and " influence . " One of them appears at his first board session with a demand for the immediate discharge of certain " radical " professors . Two years later the succeeding Governor , another exemplar of the old formula , " poor man 's candidate and rich man 's friend , " makes similar use of his ap ? pointing power . Death and resignation still further alter the complexion of the board until the president finds himself confronted by a solid phalanx of re-pressive conservatism except for one courageous woman member , a lonely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five years , this president INS found himself obliged to oppose repressive measures initiated by this board . At last he decides to take his case to " the sovereign people , " whereupon he is dis ? charged on the old ground of long continued refusal to " cooperate " with the all powerful board and the new one , that of involving the university in " futile controversy . " But old as it is , the Texas story has a new angle . In fact President Rainey has been guilty of a far more serious crime , one which if carried out would affect real-estate values in Galveston and even perhaps the portfolios of Houston banks . He has proposed to move the medical school ? and not to Houston ! When the university was founded , Galveston was second only to New Orleans as a Gulf port and was the DECEMBER 4 , 9 4 4 largest city in the state , while Austin was in the literal sense a small town . Consequently the medical school was quite properly located in Galveston . But with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only has Galveston been passed by several other cities , including Austin ; the ship channel has enabled Houston to supplant Galveston as a Gulf port . Thus Galveston has been dwindling while other cities grew . This change has inevitably raised the question whether the medical school should remain in Galves ? ton . Obviously its removal would be a severe blow to the business interests of that city . Indeed this seems to be dearly indicated by the fact that only recently the Galveston chamber of commerce has retained a former state senator to oppose any and all attempts to move the medical school . Now a medical school is a very different proposition from a college of liberal arts . It has been the custom in the past for medical schools to permit the doctors who make up their staffs to engage in private practice ; and since professors of medicine and surgery are pre ? sumably at the top of their professions , their private practice is likely to be among men of substance . Even ? tually it may even endow the doctors themselves with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That such men should assume a propri ? etary attitude toward the school from which their fortunes stem and to the endowments of which they themselves have often made substantial contributions is not surprising . The situation in Galveston has been somewhat of this character . Furthermore its institutional pattern has been singularly complicated . The hospital in which the work of the medical school centers was built by a private foundation . Whereas the medical property of the state is valued at $4 million , the property owned by the Sealy-Smith Foundation and used by the medi ? al school is valued at $z3 million . This situation was severely criticized by a legislative committee in 1920 . Nevertheless in 1929 Dr. Edward Randall , chairman of the board of John Sealy Hospital , vice-chairman of the Sealy-Smith Foundation and professor of Thera ? peutics since 1891 , was appointed to the board of regents of the university . In 1937 Dr. Randall became chairman of the board . Hs was then 77 years of age . For some years the position of dean of the medical school had obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed wise to provide for the succession ; and so a new dean was brought in and installed in office . Apparently this was done by Dr. Randall with very rale assistance from other members of the board . The new dean of course was not immediately invested with all the varied powers by which the medical school was ruled . In addition Dr. Randall himself retired from the chairmanship of the board immediately after this incident and from the board itself in T 94o. ' 741 Obviously the situation in which the new dean found himself was a highly explosive one , and it promptly blew up , not without assistance from the dean himself . When Dr. Rainey became president in 1939 , the medical school was already in turmoil . The tale of President Rainey 's efforts to deal with this situation is both the most fantastic and the bitterest chapter in the history of his administration . It is much too complicated for rehearsal here , but certain facts invite serious reflection on the part of anyone who wants to understand recent events . Thus it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rainey has been at loggerheads have been appointed since the Galveston issue , with its back ? ground of considerable financial interests , became acute ; and that issue has been the major issue of policy throughout this five-year period . After the appointment of the first three of the new regents by Governor O'Daniel in 1941 , two of them went immediately to Galveston where they joined the third , who was a Galveston man , in making a two-day " study " of the situation as a result of which they called for the imme ? diate discharge of the dean . When the embroiled dean was finally removed , the board ignored President Rainey in its search for a successor and consulted in ? stead with a committee of four physicians selected for this purpose . Last July , after five years of service , President Rainey presented the regents with a report on the future development of the university . In this report , along with other recommendations , some of them look ? ing twenty years into the future , he advised the imme ? diate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the main university . There is no need to go into the pros and cons of this recommenda ? tion . It is an issue on which an honest difference of opinion is certainly possible . Since President Rainey 's dismissal , the medical students have voted , 319 to 4r , in favor of his proposal . However , the important point is this . The location of the medical school is stipulated in the state constitution and moving it would require a constitutional amendment . What President Rainey proposed , therefore , was that the issue be submitted to the sovereign people . The regents ' answer at their first meeting after receiving this report was to reject this proposal and instead to accept the offer of $2 million from the Sealy-Smith Foundation contingent on the school 's remaining in Galveston . The medical-school faculty has gone farther in the opposite direction . In a. statement released to the press on Wednesday morn ? ing , November 22 , they have expressed confidence in the " judgment and wisdom " of the university board of regents , meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was rumored in September that a majority of the regents planned to remove President Rainey at that 742 same meeting , after which they would submit their own resignations to the Governor , who would express his confidence in them by reappointing them , and that they were persuaded by the Governor to postpone this action until after the election . President Rainey was not removed in September . In October other events occurred which prompted him to make a public state ? ment charging the regents with a series of actual and attempted restrictions of academic freedom and intru ? sions into the internal administration of the university . For this he was dismissed , after which three regents resigned . They have not been reappointed , and no others have resigned . The restrictions of academic freedom have been seri ? ous enough . As everybody who cares already knows , they have included the dropping of three economics instructors for seeking ( unsuccessfully ) to correct the declaration that " while our boys are dying on Bataan , " etc. , etc. , we have a law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense industries should not work more than forty hours a week . " ( This declara ? tion occurred in a full-page advertisement in The Dallas News by which citizens were summoned to a tivrE WANT ACTION ! " mass meeting . This occurred in the spring of 1942 when similarly " spontaneous " mass meetings were being held in many cities as the result THE NEW REPUBLIC of an effort led by the then president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States to obtain the passage of amendments to the Wages and Hours Act , then be ? fore the Smith Committee of the House . The Dallas meeting , though spontaneous in appearance , was suffi ? sufficiently well organized in advance so that the in ? structors were informed by its " chairman " that no volunteer speaking would be permitted . ) Another simi ? lar action of the board was the emasculation of the " tenure rule " which stood in the way of summary dis ? missal of radical professors . These attacks on academic freedom have united students , faculty and alumni @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such assaults shall cease forever ? a demand of which the reinstate ? ment of President Rainey is the only adequate expres ? sion . It seems impossible that the people of Texas should desire anything else . Nevertheless the fact should not be overlooked that of the four new regents whose appointment has just been announced , one to fill a vacancy caused by death , two are prominent and substantial big-city physicians who were members of the regents ' advisory committee of four . Both are long since publicly committed to retention of the medical school in Galveston . One is a Houston man .                     