@@492611

The . Czechs Take the Big Step 1 By DEMAIIEE BESS Avast socialist experiment is afoot in Czechoslovakia . Private property has been confiscated , industry nationalized ; Germans deported in one of Europe 's few quiet revolutions . . A T 'S no exaggeration to say that Czechoslovakia is the one friendly country in Europe where the United States and Soviet Russia have literally met each other  --  and on even terms . As a result , the Czechs and the Slovaks are settling down now under a brand-new form of government , a form which gives promise of being the first workable compromise between American and Russian models . Nobody knows today what might have happened if Czechoslovakia had been liberated by the Red Army alone . But it seems significant that Americans have not been very happy about what has occurred in countries liberated wholly by Russia , such as Poland , Bulgaria and Rumania . However , the results have been satisfactory both to the United States and to Russia in Czechoslovakia , where Americans and Russians contrived to strike a military balance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spring , and then , after half a year of waiting , both armies simultaneously packed up and returned home . It was during this six months ' interval that a new kind of government was created here . I happened to be at United States Army headquarters in Pilsen last November ninth , when Moscow abruptly announced that every Russian soldier would leave Czechoslovakia before the first of December . This announcement came as a complete surprise to American military commanders , who had begun preparations for keeping our troops in Czechoslovakia all winter , but they immediately understood the importance of this Russian move . One of our officers promptly said to me , " If the Russians pull out of here , so do we . " And this was officially confirmed in Washington the very next day . Why was it our policy for American soldiers to hang around Czechoslovakia as long as Russian soldiers remained here  --  and not one minute longer ? The two armies had entered the country with the common purpose of liberating it from the Germans . But all the Germans had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why had we not then withdrawn our forces early last summer ? Instead , the Americans and the Russians had dug in , both in their own carefully defined military zones , as if waiting for something more to happen . All summer long and far into autumn , these American and Russian soldiers continued to mark time . They drilled every day and made sure that their guns and aircraft and ammunition were kept in good condition , which is what well-regulated armies always do , in time of peace as well as in war . The two armies , confined to their respective zones , rarely even saw each other , and our homesick soldiers became bored and restless , complaining that they were being kept in far-off Eastern Europe for no purpose . But there was a purpose in that military assignment  --  an international political purpose . The Russians were determined that postwar Czechoslovakia , like all the other smaller countries along Russia 's western frontier , must he in amiable agreement with Moscow . We Americans were equally determined that Czechoslovakia , which has always been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a genuinely representative government which could be master in its own house . The Russian and the American armies stood guard until both were satisfied that they had achieved their purposes . The compromise government which evolved under this jealous supervision has been cordially approvednow by the Russian and the United States governments . The new administration came into power here with fewer disorders than have occurred in any other country in Eastern Europe . It includes men who are friendly to the United States and men who are devoted to Russia . These statesmen are sponsoring radical changes , but they are doing so with the support of the majority of the , people . The new government is setting a pattern here which is bound to influence developments throughout this part of the world . It would be grossly unfair to the sturdy citizens of Czechoslovakia to imply that their new government has in any way been thrust upon them by Russia and the United States . Rather , the two alien armies provided an orderly atmosphere during the first critical postwar months here , so that Czechs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During those first turbulent days of the liberation , there were men who would have Liked to seize power here , to impose dictatorship of one kind or another . The Nazis had devised a variety of schemes to divide these people into hostile groups , so that they would fight each other instead of the Germans , and they were more successful in this policy than the citizens here now like to admit . The Nazis had created so much bitterness that Czechoslovakia was confronted at the moment of liberation with the danger of civil war and violent revolution . But no uprisings broke out in Prague ; nothing more serious than a few isolated instances of individual lawlessness . The transition from Nazi control to Czechoslovakian self-government was accomplished very smoothly . War Wounds Beneath a Tranquil Veneer O N the surface , Czechoslovakia appears so orderly IL land cheerful today that it is difficult to appreciate how completely this country has been scrambled by the war and its aftermath . When I arrived in Prague on this trip , after a long automobile journey through dismal Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had changed since my last visit here six years ago . The lights of the city , certainly one of the most picturesque capitals in all Europe , were twinkling brightly as we drove up to the hotel at dusk , and we were further heartened when the reception clerk casually provided us with clean rooms without requiring any credentials at all  --  no military orders , no priorities , no special permits , no identification photos , no ration cards , not even cigarettes . My bath was private and the water was hot , and for the first time since the Munich Conference in 1938 I think I felt peace . But before I had finished dinner that night , I could see that Czechoslovakia has been through a long , hard war , and that all is not over here yet . True , most of the buildings have not been scratched ; the farmers have never stopped cultivating their fertile fields . Yet , in a country famous for its hearty food , the meals now are monotonous and meager ; Pilaen beer , once superlative , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clothes , just as are all other Europeans . And , deeper and more painful than this external shabbiness , I soon saw evidence of much more serious war wounds . The Nazis had tried to conquer this country not only by military force and political guile but also by bribes . They had held out all sorts of temptations to induce the Czechs and the Slovaks to work with them , and a great many people badyielded to these temptations . In this population of 15,000,000 , it is estimated that the Nazis confiscated property belonging to at least 2,000,000 unfriendly citizens and used a large part of this booty to reward their friends . When the Nazis were defeated last spring , the tables were reversed here , and property has been changing hands again on a wholesale scale . When I came here in the summer of 1939 , I saw what the Nazis were doing . The country was calm and orderly on the surface then , just as it is now , but underneath this tranquil veneer , millions of people were losing their liberty and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in transforming these lands into a German colony , and in this project they were helped enthusiastically by many of the 3,000,000 local Germans and 700,000 Hungarians . They also were supported by some Czechs and Slovaks who picked Germany as a sure winner , and who were tempted by big bribes . As I wrote in an article in The Saturday Evening Post at that time , patriotic Czechs probably were the only people in Europe who were praying and working for another world war before hostilities finally broke out . They yearned for a great war because they knew they could regain their own independence by no other means . The Nazis had fastened such a firm clutch upon all their country that the Czechs realized that it would require the combined might of the world 's greatest armies to destroy Nazi Germany . Among those who were waiting and hoping for a great war which would restore the independence of Czechoslovakia was Dr. Edward Benegi , the most renowned of living Czech statesmen . I have known Doctor Bench for many years , and have great respect for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a remarkable career , unmatched by any other government leader today . Twice in his lifetime he has been driven into exile , and during each of these periods abroad he utilized his time to .150 Masaryk , Czech Minister of Foreign Affairs , 19 plan careful programs which he later succeeded in putting into effect in his own land . The first time was during World War I , when he helped to create the original nation of Czechoslovakia and to obtain American , British and French support for it . The second time was from 1938 to 1945 , when he worked to regain for Czechoslovakia all it had lost to Germany and much more besides . Doctor Beneg was one of the first European statesmen to recognize the growing importance of Russia in the affairs of the Continent . I first met him in Moscow in 1935 , when he went there to conclude an alliance with Soviet Russia . That was the year when Britain and France also were negotiating with Russia in the hope of making a deal against the Nazis , but after some dickering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appease Germany than to establish an understanding with Russia . Czechoslovakia itself became the most important sacrifice necessitated by this appeasement policy , and after his country was donated to Germany at the Munich Conference in 1938 , Doctor Beneg fled to England . Beneg Was Not Outraged T HERE he rented a small suburban house in Putney , London , and there it was that I went to rail upon him in December , 1939 . The Russians had just made their first attack upon Finland , using the same crude pretexts which the Nazis had previously used in their invasion of Czechoslovakia . Sentiment in England and the United States was outraged at this second display of a great military power ruthlessly attacking a small democratic country , but Doctor Beneg did not participate in this emotional outcry of the hour . On the contrary , Doctor Beneg " told me that he was much disturbed by the denunciations of Russia which had just been proclaimed by President Roosevelt and Winston Churchill . " We must keep calm concerning Russia , " Doctor Beneg explained to me , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are all lost . " He added that he was using his own modest influence to dissuade the British and French from sending troops to aid the Finns against the Russians . Earlier that year , in May , Doctor Beneg had lunched with President Roosevelt at Hyde Park , but the meeting had been kept secret because the American people were so opposed to being " dragged into a European war " that the President feared his invitation to Doctor Beneg might be misinterpreted by his political foes . The President was particularly interested then in what Russia would do , and Doctor U.S. Ambassador Laurence Steinhardt supported moderate Czech leaders against the extremists . THE CZECHS TAKE THE BIG STEP ( Can t inflect from Page 19 ) that the Russians must fight the Nazis sooner or later , because Stalin realized that German victory would eventually mean Russian subjugation . Toward the close of this luncheon with the President , Doctor Bene3 remarked , " And you Americans also must go to war against Germany , because Europe  --  even with the Russians  --  can not win without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not hope to defeat Germany unless it received the aid of American munitions , the United States Navy and " possibly your boys too . " History has justified Doctor Beneg ' cold-blooded devotion to his own country . Partly as a result 0f his single-minded statesmanship , the Czechs , who were among Germany 's first victims , are now among the greatest beneficiaries of Germany 's defeat . Today they once again are independent in their own country , in a better position than ever to construct a solid and prosperous community . But the Czechs have lost faith in many of the ideas which they upheld a quarter of a century ago . They no longer believe in capitalism of the 1919 vintage  --  so now they are inaugurating drastic socialistic changes . They no longer believe they can live peaceably in the same state with Germans and Hungarians  --  so they are expelling these peoples from their country . They no longer trust Britain and France to support Czechoslovakia , as they did prior to 1938 ? so they are devoting more attention to Russia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable for the vast socialist undertakings being started here now . The position of Czechoslovakia is much simpler than the case of England , for example , where the Labor government must compensate everybody for the properties which it nationalized . The Czechs are entering upon the socialist road without a great burden of debt . Instead , they began by seizing without compensation all the German-owned farms , factories , homes and shops , and by confiscating German holdings in banks , insurance companies and all other business enterprises . When the Nazis occupied Czechoslovakia they took over all the largest industries and all the banks , nationalizing some of them and Germanizing all of them . As Doctor Bene ? puts it , " The Germans themselves automatically prepared our economic and financial capital for nationalization . " At the same time , the state also seized the assets of its own " collaborators , war profiteers and traitors . " Simultaneously , the Czechs and Slovaks began forcibly expelling their German and Hungarian populations  --  millions of people who had lived on these lands for generations . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , giving absolutely no compensation for it . As a result of the various measures which it has imposed , the new regime has become tremendously rich and powerful , directly controlling about four fifths of all the property in Czechoslovakia , including all the big enterprises . Certainly it would have been extremely difficult to unscramble the economic tangle created by the Nazis by attempting to restore individual property to former owners or to parcel out the recently expropriated German and Hungarian property to new individual owners . So the administration decided simply to convert all these resources into state property . Beginning thus with a huge working capital , the state was in a good position to compensate the relatively small number of Czech and Slovak owners who had been unquestionably loyal , but whose property , nevertheless , also came under the new nationalization edicts . These nationalization edicts were promulgated only after several months of debate , during which the Czech socialists and communists argued that the inevitable confusion of the liberation period was the golden hour for expropriating all large industries and financial interests , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ October , government leaders agreed to socialize all big business , leaving only minor enterprises to private ownership . In adopting this revolutionary procedure , Doctor Bene 'S and other leaders frankly admit that they were influ enced by the fact that Czechoslovakia is a next-door neighbor of Soviet Russia , whose fundamental policy is state ownership of everything . In fact , Kopecki , the Communist Minister of Information , recently announced that Czechoslovakia will " associate " herself with Russia 's next five-year plan . But the Czechs point out that they have not slavishly followed the Russian model , wherein everything is absorbed by the state and everybody works for the state . The Czechs have reserved for private enterprise all co-operative societies , all farms and all small factories and shops . The number of employees is the factor which determines which enterprises should be taken over by the government and which should be left in private hands . For instance , the state has nationalized engineering concerns and clothing factories which , in prewar days , averaged 500 workers each ; even sawmills and porcelain factories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough for nationalization . As one shrewd American economist remarked to me , while we were inspecting one of these establishments , the new Czech state has made things easy for itself by socializing only those properties which already had proved profitable . Doctor Beneg admits that events have pushed him faster along these lines than he wanted to go at first . During his many years in exile he had meditated upon the forms which revolution might assume in his own country , but he says that his ideas on many of these matters have been changed by the events of the last seven years ; he believes now that the entire European continent is in the midst of a violent revolution which will eventually affect every country on the continent . Doctor Bene " 4 and his associates therefore decided to execute a thorough revolution in Czechoslovakia immediately . In fact , they think that what is happening here today gives a preview of what is likely to happen elsewhere in Europe ten or twenty years from now . As one of them said to me , " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and It 's believed here that the Russians originally intended to keep large armies in Czechoslovakia all through this winter , in order to feed them without having to draw upon Russia 's own restricted supplies . The decision to evacuate these troops , which was announced so abruptly last November , is credited to Russian intelligence reports which indicated that Czech sentiment was turning against them . The Czechs had to feed several hundred thousand Russians from the moment they arrived in May until they finally pulled out in December , by which time it was estimated that the strength of the Czech Communist Party had dropped to 25 per cent . Czechs undoubtedly were delighted to see the Red Army come , but they were overjoyed to see it go . All occupation troops are a bother , and the Czechs were also pleased to bid farewell to American soldiers . But our soldiers brought in their own supplies , and the memories they left behind them were generally agreeable . Where-ever I have traveled in this country I have found only the most open-hearted friendliness toward Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moravia we had two blow-outs in rapid succession and were left without a spare tire . We were in an area occupied still by the Russian Army , and a Russian colonel kindly stopped his car when he saw our plight and volunteered to take our Czech traveling companion into the nearest village to get help . After several hours , our Czech friend reappeared in a tiny car driven by a Czech garage owner , who had contrived , after a prolonged search , to find a new tire for us and then had used some of his own precious ration of gasoline to bring it to us . Moreover , he informed us that he had reserved two warm rooms in the village hotel for us , since it was too late to travel farther that day , and that his wife was preparing dinner for us in their own home . She gave us a stu-pendous meal  --  soup , roast pork , dump-lings , three vegetables and pastry . Yet the next morning , when we asked the garage owner what we owed him , he insisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  not for the dinner or his services or even for the new tire . In addition to winning such warm friendliness for Americans , our Govern-ment 's " liberation policy " in Czecho-slovakia also gained something else for us  --  something urgently important . This was an agreement with the Czech government on how to dispose of the German population which the Czechs were determined to expel from their country . These Czechs and Germans never have been able to get along well to-gether . One of the chief pretexts which Hitler used for invading Czechoslo-vakia was that the Czechs were mis-treating the Germans who lived within their borders . Independent observers disproved most of those Nazi charges , but many German citizens of Czecho-slovakia , nevertheless , sided with the Nazis against the Czechs in 1938 and afterward . They are paying a heavy price now for their conduct in the occupation years , the price of permanent expulsion . But these Germans could not be ex-pelled into abstract space . There was only one place for them to go  --  Ger-many , the land of their ancestors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American zone of occupation . After some discussion , Presi-dent Truman agreed at the Potsdam Conference that the United States would accept into our zone 1,750,000 of these unwanted Germans . The Czech government , for its part , agreed that it would not push these people out until we were ready to receive them . The Czechs have kept their agreement with us , although the Poles , who made a similar pledge , expelled their Gernunis in disorderly fashion . The exodus of Germans from Czechoslovakia into the American zone began last December , when the first 225,000 were dumped into our lap , with another 182,500 scheduled to follow in January . The peak will be reached during May and Juno , when 450,000 Germans will depart each month , and July will see the completion of this enforced migration . The Russians also agreed at Potsdam to accept some selected Sudeten Germans from Czechoslovakia into their occupation zone , and they have provided them with farms , houses and shops vacated by German fugitives or those working in Russia . A number of these Germans have reportedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ruthless , inflicting bitter hardships upon millions of human beings , some of whom deserve a better fate . The American go-slow policy has given the Czech government an opportunity to debate whether all Germans should be driven out or whether some of them who have good political records and are skilled workers should be retained . It is doubtful , for instance , whether the Czech government can operate its newly nationalized glass and textile industries without substantial help from German technicians . But it is probably true , as several Czechs assured me , that " Germans have no future in our country . " I spent a few days in the Sudetenland while this area was still occupied by American troops . This is the border area where Germans were concentrated . Some of our soldiers told me how shocked they were to see that the Germans were compelled to wear white or yellow arm bands , in much the same manner as the Jews were banded in Hitler 's Europe . One group said they had watched some of these Germans being driven from their homes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such incidents , however , were isolated . American officials who made a close study of this question assured me that the Czech government has done everything possible to discourage individual mistreatment of Germs ns . Whether the official policy of expulsion is just or unjust is a different and controversial question . During the course of this trip to Czechoslovakia , I also visited Munich , where I saw what is happening to Sudetenlanders when they arrive in Germany . They are temporarily accommodated in twenty-five huge refugee camps near the Bavarian capital , camps which have been condemned by the United States Army as unsuitable for other foreign refugees . They spend a few days , or even weeks , in these dwellings , which are barely habitable , with little or no heat . But they keep their quarters neat and orderly , and get one hot meal per day in the public kitchens . We Americans merely supervise this huge migration ; the Germans in Bavaria have been ordered to care for the refugees and to see that they are permanently settled . Each town and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and feed and place in some kind of work , if possible . Since most of the Sudeten Germans are Roman Catholic , they are helped by Bavarian Catholic organizations . A similar exodus of the Hungarian population of Czechoslovakia also has been arranged , although it has not thus far proceeded so smoothly . The present Hungarian government , in fact , has angered the Czech government by describing it as Fascist . Nevertheless , the Czechs are determined to complete these mass expulsions . This means that Czechoslovakia will become a purely Slav state . Here , as in the neighboring Slav countries of Jugoslavia , Bulgaria , Poland and Russia , the Germans are being thrown back into their original lands , reversing the tide of German emigration which has pushed steadily eastward for centuries . This strong racial movement , plus the socialization of industry in Czechoslovakia , is now bringing fulfillment to the program which Doctor Beneg and his associates have planned for their country , completely justifying the name " National Socialist , " which Doctor Beneg long ago invented for his own political party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German Nazis , who adopted it for their own party . But the Czech National Socialist Party is still one of the strongest political parties in the country , and its name accurately describes the kind of state which is being organized here . It is not a Nazi state ; of course it is a national socialist state in the literal sense of that phrase . This postwar Czech state certainly is not communist , though communists have a share in it , but neither is it a true parliamentary democracy . For one thing , the wholesale nationalization here was the result of arbitrary decrees applied before any postwar elections . It is still an open question w hethera socializedeconomy planned on this scale and imposed in this arbitrary manner will not lead to dictatorship . For the present , however , the Czechs have successfully avoided a political dictatorship . They have displayed a great deal of originality in working out a four-party system , as distinct from the one-party monopoly in Russia or the two-party system in the United States . Since Czechoslovakia 's liberation , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a combination of four selected parties which were able to agree upon basic issues , such as the decrees for nationalization , These parties can be relied upon for continued support of these socialistic experiments , but they differ widely upon other matters , and they are free to express these differences in their ' own newspapers and on the radio . The four groups which make up this newly consolidated government are the National Socialist Party , originally founded by Doctor Beneli ; the Social Democratic Party , consisting of moderate socialists ; the Communist Party , which frankly aims at an eventual Soviet republic ; and the Catholic Party , a moderate group resembling the political group which supported De Gaulle in France . These four parties were selected not only because they shared many ideas in common but also because they represented consistent resistance to the German occupation Several prewar parties were outlawed and have disappeared altogether , including the Agrarianl Party , which once had more members than any other . The leaders of this group were convicted of collaborating with the Germans , All American observers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present National Front fairly represents a substantial majority of Czechs and Slovaks . So what are the prospects for this new Czech state which the American people have helped to create ? Is it possible to preserve American ideals of democracy in a country where big business has passed completely into the hands of big government ? Are Czech leaders justified in their confidence that experiments which they are making here now foreshadow the shape of the future European revolu-1 tion ? It is too early yet even to attempt to answer such questions . One thing , however , is certain : the Czechs have created a vigorous and self-confident postliberation government . There is much less uncertainty about the future in Czechoslovakia today than there is in most other European countries .                     