@@471155

s , r the classification staff can blunder so badly , " concluded my dear friend and colleague , " I find myself actually embarrassed by my advisory connection with the Service . Indeed , I almost despair of our winning the war . " Hell hath no fury like a professor who thinks his favorite pupil has been put upon . My friend had heard indirectly that an Americanized immigrant whom we shall call Zukowski , taken from his advanced seminar by Selective Service , was now hammering his thumbs as a carpenter 's assistant at a medical training center . Without more ado he had written an indignant letter to me as Chairman of the National Research Council 's Committee on Classification of Military Personnel , pointing out that his protge , having spent his boyhood in the Far East , spoke Japanese and Chinese almost as fluently as English and Russian ; that he was an expert draftsman and a good mathematician who had taught navigation ; and that when he entered the Army he was within a few months of completing his studies for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is received I am obliged to examine three possibilities : first , that the classification service really has slipped up , as it sometimes does ; second , that the man in question is n't as good as his sponsor thinks he is ; third , that the complaint is based on incomplete information . This time , in some agitation , I called in Major T. , chief trouble-shooter of the service . " How about Zukowski ? " I asked after reciting the allegations . " D. ( the writer of the letter ) would n't go all out for a gold-brick . Have we anything in the files on that man ? " We had . Within five minutes Major T. came back grinning . In his hand was a folder with the necessary information . Zukowski , on arrival at the reception center three weeks before , after going through the routine General Classification Test , the Mechanical Aptitude Test , and the regulation first interview where his qualification card had been made out , had been properly classified as a psychologist and had been so reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered that on completion of his basic training as a soldier he was to go on duty as an apprentice interviewer , and then be assigned as an assistant psychologist in the classification section of the Seventy-umpth Division . I heaved a sigh of relief . Certainly the Army classification system has its faults . But the chances of a really good personnel man 's getting lost in the shuffle are probably less than one in a thousand . The classification officer and his aides had spotted Zukowski instantly , and since this Reception Center processes a good many first-generation Slav immigrants from a nearby industrial city , they had promptly earmarked him as a potential interviewer . Like other selectees , however , he had been sent first as an enlisted private to a training center to get his basic military training , without which every Army career , but especially an officer 's career , would be seriously handicapped . It should be noted , incidentally , that Zukowski himself had not complained . Neither did Private L. , a brilliant young Negro psychologist , who wrote from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons for believing that he could serve his country effectively in the classification service . Private L. gave as a reference Dr. Lewis M. Terman , of Stanford University , who , as I subsequently found out , had years ago selected him for study as one of a group of schoolchildren whom tests placed in the " genius " category . Check-up revealed that , quite without influence or prompting from on high , the routines of the classification service had correctly analyzed L. 's potentialities , and orders had already been prepared pointing him toward officer candidate school and an eventual job assignment in the classification section of a colored division . Outstanding men are of course rather easy to spot . But how well does the classification service do with the run of the catch ? the average registrant who has his qualities and his defects , and who can be made or broken in the Army not only by his own behavior , but in some degree by the skill , care , and imagination with which the Army sorts , processes , and assigns its man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families back home , there is no aspect of the war experience with which they are more deeply concerned . It should reassure them , therefore , to know that the concern of the Army equals their own , and that this concern is exercised with respect to every man , good , bad , or indifferent , who dons the uniform . When fathers and mothers write apprehensiveletters about what the vast impersonal classification machinery of the Army may do by way of mislaying their carefully nurtured offspring I am tempted to tell them the story of Bert M. Nobody would have believed that the Army would get a bargain in Bert . You know him probably , or somebody very much like him . Bert 's father is a successful corporation lawyer and an extremely dominating person . Perhaps that helps to explain Bert . At any rate , the record shows that he took five years to finish college and four years to graduate from law school , after which he flunked his bar examinations . At this point nobody , including Bert himself , knew quite what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end Bert solved the problem after a fashion by carving out a modest career as a kind of bush-league playboy in the Southern city where he was born . Since the role was not natural to him , he tended to overact it a bit , after the manner of John Barrymore in his final phase . But a year ago when Bert got his draft number the pouches under his eyes were real enough and his waistline was definitely out of control . Indeed , everybody who knew him was sure that the Army would get no bargain in Bert . They were quite wrong . Bert earned his sergeant 's chevrons only three and a half months after his induction . True , he is n't going to officers ' candidate school immediately , but that is because he declined to apply , for a proper and sensible reason : he wanted first to ground himself more thoroughly in the elementary techniques of his specialty . No , his specialty is n't the law . Lawyers are a dime a dozen in the Army . To be precise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overages " that runs up to 192 civilian occupations . Bert has said good-by to the law for the duration and , so he says , forever . Instead , he began serving his country by climbing telephone poles and stringing communication lines for the Signal Corps , which turned out to be just what he needed at the moment . Soon he was a section boss , lean and tough and brown as a rifle butt , and happier than he had ever been before . As for getting lit up , it simply did n't occur to him . When I asked him how he came to get his stripes so quickly , he explained without cracking a smile that his sergeant made room for him by going on a binge once too often . One must be careful of course not to read too much into the story of Bert . The Army does not welcome neurotics or ne'er-do-wells . On the contrary , it tries earnestly to keep them at home . By eliminating in advance or in the early stages of training the town fool , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men who are likely to break under stress and spend the rest of their lives in the mental wards of veterans ' hospitals ? our medical induction boards and personnel consultants are probably saving the country many millions , if not billions , of dollars as compared to the last war . But Bert was never a crackpot . He was merely miscast in an uncongenial life role . The Army has helped him to find himself , as it is helping thousands of others . Let us follow Bert through the successive stages by which the Army processes and sorts its man power and undertakes , with more or less success , to find square holes for the square pegs . One day last fall Bert arrived with a consignment of some two hundred registrants at one of the thirty-seven big Reception Centers that fill and empty every four or five days , like feeder reservoirs serving the requirements of our fastexpanding Army . As they tumbled out of the buses , dragging suitcases and parcels that were like the severed roots of their civilian lives , a visitor would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; some were pretty drowsy after all-night parties celebrating their induction into the service . Bert , in particular , whose farewell had been a notable one , seemed a long way from home . He was marching side by side but out of step with a gloomy Mexican cow puncherwhose answer to all questions was " Huh ? " He was being helped with his baggage ? a little patronizingly ? by a tough Swedish tractor-operator who had either been in the Army before or acted as if he had . Bert suspected that nobody in his roster was listed in the Social Register . He had the feeling that nobody within hailing distance knew that he was papa 's son or would care particularly even if the fact were established . All this , coupled with the obstinate hangover of that farewell celebration , made Bert very sad . Fortunately even a hangover has a way of evaporating . Next morning , when Bert sat down with the others to take the Mechanical Aptitude Test that constitutes one of the first steps of the Reception Center 's standard processing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good head , as Bert 's puzzled parents have always known . Moreover , the tests made sense to Bert ? more sense than the law books through which he had pretended to wade in his father 's office . For Bert is an out-of-doors man and by nature a tinkerer . Since childhood he has known which rope to yank on a pulley block and how to assemble parts from a blueprint . In his school days , before the demands of his career as playboy became too engrossing , he had even built an amateur radio set . Bert went to town on the Mechanical Aptitude Test . Then , on the General Classification Test which followed it , he scored 110 , which is just high enough to qualify eventually as an applicant for officers ' training . He might have done even better on the GCT if he had n't tried methodically to lick every one of the hardest problems , forgetting that speed counts as well as accuracy . The Army is trying to determine chiefly two things by that test : first , how difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second , how fast he can be expected to learn the things he has to know in order to be an efficient soldier in this new , highly organized technological Army of ours . The next step in the processing saw Bert in a cubbyhole with Sergeant McCollum ( naturally , that 's not his name ) , chief interviewer of the classification section . Bert did n't know it , but McCollum had come into the Army with three university degrees , including a Ph.D . in psychology , plus five years of experience as clinician and parole officer of a large State prison . Before the war two psychoanalysts had broken their hands on Bert and departed swearing into the Freudian night . But McCollum had one important advantage over his predecessors ? he was working for the Army , not for Bert 's father . In twenty minutes McCollum had drawn out the facts of Bert 's experience in and out of school , and had determined to his own satisfaction that Bert would never be any good as a lawyer or in fact as any kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he might conceivably become a pretty good technician ? possibly a gang boss in the Signal Corps . On the score of personality , the notation on Bert 's card might be translated as " maybe . " Bert had definite leadership potentials but could become either a nugget or a gold-brick , depending largely on himself . The day the initial processing was completed , the overworked classification officer of the Reception Center ( all classification officers are overworked ) was confronted with a requisition from the Corps Area commander calling for a big complement of specialists , including 18 linesmen and 53 radio technicians . Good radio men are more precious than nuggets in this Army . They are diamonds , rated No. 1 on the list of 181 shortages . Not too hopefully , the assignment crew stabbed the big file of intricately punched and scalloped qualification cards with the steel-pronged McBee Sorter . Only 37 cards fell out , and Bert 's was not among them , since it showed aptitude only , not definite training and experience . Very well , the Signal Corps commander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limits , the assignment officer is permitted to substitute , just as the grocer is . On the second screening ofthe file , this time entailing careful inspection of each individual card , Bert looked good enough to help make up the quota ; so off he went next day to the nearest Signal Corps training center . There , with the qualification card before him , another interviewer gave Bert a second going-over . Then , for thirteen weeks , Bert received the basic military training that should be considered a privilege by every recruit , no matter what his ultimate role in the Army is to be . During this period Bert 's superiors , from the camp classification officer and the personnel consultant down to his platoon commander , continued the job of finding out what Bert could really learn to do . You can be sure that he would not have got that chevron if the appointment had not been given the nod all down the line . The qualification card is a guide , not an order . The data first entered on it are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the training center had not confirmed the findings of the original interview and the test scores , both Bert 's Army career and his qualification card would have undergone radical revision . When Bert becomes an officer ? which is likely to happen before many months , since the Army needs leaders even more than it needs communication technicians much of the information on his original card will appear on a new officer 's qualification card . This , with its accumulating notations of duty assignments , efficiency ratings , promotions , etc. , will accompany him all through his Army career , down to the moment of his transfer back to civilian life . III Ours is a young science , especially in its military applications . Prior to the First World War the American Army was a small enterprise and , like other small industries , it trained its personnel pretty much by the apprenticeship system on the job . Little attempt was made to ascertain and classify by advance testing the huge range of individual differences in aptitude and experience . One man was considered as good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared in 1917 we were not much farther advanced with respect to personnel classification and assignment than the British colonel in the Boer War who stood at the gangplank of a troopship in Capetown and tapped each descending recruit with his riding crop , diagnosing by some process of occult divination : " Infantry ! Cavalry ! Artillery ! Er ? Medical Corps ! " But even in 1917 we were an advanced industrial nation engaged in a fairly technical war . Hence the initial failures in assignment of men with special skills soon resulted in tragic waste . Not only did the Army deplete the skilled man power of vital war industries ; the Army itself had to break up newly organized units to obtain specially qualified individuals who in the rush of mobilization had been improperly assigned . Meanwhile the War Department had summoned to Washington a group of men ? the writer among them ? who helped to develop and to adapt to military use the modern personnel testing and classification practices which a few American industries had already adopted . We originated the famous Army Alpha intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge of his trade . We prepared descriptions of all the most essential occupations , military and civilian , and drew up tables showing the occupational requirements of the many kinds of companies , batteries , troops , squadrons , and regiments . A plan was introduced for clearing information about the rare birds ? airplane repairmen , meteorologists , watch makers , engineers to hold the throttles of the locomotives that the Army had to take over and run in France . Before the war ended we had established in every cantonment and in the replacement pools of the Expeditionary Force a comprehensive personnel classification and assignment service . After the war the Army again became a small industry and tended to resume itsearlier apprenticeship system . But meanwhile steady advances were being made in every phase of aptitude testing and personnel work . Employment practice and vocational guidance became recognized professions for which the universities were turning out increasing numbers of trained graduates . Hence , when the demand came two years ago to streamline the Army classification system which had been created during the First World War and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mobile , mechanized army , we were far better prepared than before . The Army had the tested techniques of a more mature science and the nucleus of a specialized professional group with which to staff its personnel services . A few figures will indicate the huge scale of the task . Starting in October , 1940 , with only 34,405 officers on active duty and 483,218 enlisted men , the Army had to plan for an expansion that would triple these numbers within a year , and in two more years would reach a wholly unprecedented size . Efficient classification of this multitude was absolutely necessary , not only to conserve man power , but also to expedite training of both officers and men . America 's technological society had come of age since 1917 . The Dictionary of Occupational Titles , compiled by the United States Employment Service , lists and defines seventeen thousand different civilian jobs , occupations , and professions . From this huge stockpile of skills and experience would be drawn the personnel with which to staff the 2,000 and more military occupations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for every eight civilian jobs ? although of course jobs tend to come in " families " within which transfer and adaptation is relatively easy . The Army is a huge world in itself ; but it is relatively a lean and stoic world , with no luxury fat on its bones and with a single focus : the winning of the war . What , for example , does the Army want with a tea taster ? Or a movie scout ? Or a corset salesman ? The answers to these questions , in order , are : ( 1 ) The tea taster turned out to have had experience also as a news photographer , and as such was nugget No. 60 on the list of Army shortages . ( 2 ) The movie scout got a high mark on the Mechanical Aptitude Test and was assigned to an engineering training center , where his quick intelligence and adaptability soon won him an appointment to an officer candidate school . ( 3 ) The corset salesman , a hearty , energetic type , is now sergeant of a machine-gun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more complicated than the vocational tag that he happens to be wearing when he comes into the Army . Sometimes it is n't the right tag at all . It is the business of the classification officer and his staff to get back of the tag to the person behind it . A large number , perhaps a majority of the men now going into the Army , belong to the so-called lost generation that graduated from school or college during the nineteen-thirties . During this period only 35 per cent of the engineering graduates got jobs in the fields of service for which they had been trained . They took what they could get and too many of them stewed helplessly in their frustrations for years . In peacetime we could afford this kind of human waste ? or thought we could . But the Army is not having any more of it than it can possibly help . A recent survey indicates that , even with its relatively narrow range of employments , the Army places more of its people in jobs for which they have real aptitude and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the war . That brings to mind the episode of the cooks ? an example of how the classification service sometimes falls down and has to pick itself up . Real cooks are pure gold from the Army 's point of view , which rates them No. 2 on the official list of shortages . It was natural , therefore , that the classification staffs at the training centers should have grabbed hungrily at all the recruits who had said theirmain occupation was cooking . Promptly they were detailed to the nearest School for Cooks and Bakers ? where a startlingly high percentage of them flunked out . It needed only a little investigation to disclose that these children of the depression had never wanted to toss flapjacks in roadside diners , which is what most of them had been doing . Consequently , as cooks they proved to be just as bad in the Army as they had doubtless been in civil life . After that the word went back to the classification officers of the training centers to look all future " cooks " in the mouth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had ever wanted to be cooks . Incidentally , most of those ex- " cooks " who flunked out of the cooking schools are now reported to be doing well in the combat services . The Army has its own kind of semantic troubles and often is moved to exclaim : " What 's in a word ? " Take , for example , the job-tag " Mess Sergeant . " Experience proved that certified public accountants and auditors were likely , after thorough training , to make better mess sergeants than men who had been employed as club stewards . But why not , since the heaviest end of the mess sergeant 's job consists of requisitioning and accounting ? Similarly , is it surprising that really good musicians have done better at radio-code work in the Army than some who had been egregious radio " hams " before the Army beckoned ? Is it surprising that men whose mental and physical characteristics , as determined by suitable tests , equip them to become truck drivers , and who are then scientifically trained as truck drivers ? is it surprising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and accidents as men who , largely by force of circumstances , had happened to become truck drivers in civil life ? Some months ago a large manufacturing company learned what the Army was doing about its truck drivers and installed a similar system of selection and training ; and it has already achieved a drastic reduction of accidents . The best time to see the Army personnel system in action is when a new division is being born , or " activated , " as the process is called . The Army builds divisions the way a contractor-builder erects a skyscraper , or the way Henry Ford builds bombing planes ? swiftly and efficiently , by assembling pre-tested and pre-fabricated parts at a given point . Toward this point there must converge on an exact time schedule the man power of the new division classified in precise quotas of the various military specialists , together with its fire power in terms of ordnance and ammunition , and its transportation in terms of trucks , jeeps , etc. , not to mention its variegated quartermaster 's supplies . With respect to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vertical fission . A fully formed division splits off ? to serve as the nucleus of a new division ? about 7 or 8 per cent of its man power , carefully selected to include a balanced proportion of cooks , bakers , motor mechanics , company clerks , gunners , range-finder operators , and other specialists . There must also of course be a full complement of officers and warrant officers , a nucleus of non-coms , and a percentage of " pace-setters " ? men who rated 100 or better in the GCT . The parent division takes pride in its child and gives of its best , the more readily since the officers and enlisted men who form the nucleus around which the incoming man power is poured , like concrete around a form , are rather likely to be promoted as the division trains and matures . During the activation of a division the classification officer and his staff , which has been augmented for the occasion , are furiously busy . Man power pours in upon them at the rate of a thousand men a day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Replacement Training Centers comes a file of qualification cards , one for every man . At this point machine-sorting is not fine enough . Each card must be studied and often the man himself must be re-interviewed so that each regiment , battalion , company , and platoon may have its balanced quota at every rank and in every specialty . Upon the efficiency with which the classification officer and his aides do their work depends in no small measure the speed with which the division matures , and its later effectiveness in action . In a very real sense these personnel officers are the working architects and builders of the modern Army , yet they do not always resemble the typical professional officer . Many arc , or were , personnel men with experience in private industry , school administrators , or executives of the United States Employment Service . In some cases they are former business executives who had become interested in personnel work and had supplemented their practical experience with scientific study . One of the most rapidly and deservedly promoted men in the operations unit of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency . Another was for many years the principal of a high school . A third had directed vocational guidance work in a Western college . It should be noted , however , that , without exception , they had for years bccn active members of the Officers Reserve Corps . There are now some 5,000 officers and enlisted men engaged in personnelclassification work under the jurisdiction of the Adjutant General 's Office . More are being trained as rapidly as possible in the permanent classification cadres of the Reception Centers and the Replacement Training Centers and at the Adjutant General 's School at Fort Washington . The classification officer is to Army man power what the tool-maker is to war industry . His work is basic and of necessity is given a high order of priority . To-day one whole wing in one of the temporary buildings of the War Department in Washington is occupied by a team of twenty-four of these white-collar tool-makers and their assistants . Most of them have Ph.D . ' s in psychology and their number includes some distinguished names in the scientific world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of machinery is absent from the silent room in which they work . With pencil and paper they are constructing additional aptitude tests that are urgently needed to save precious time in the sorting and assignment of American man power to war service . Already the Army has in regular use tests for clerical aptitude , for radio-code operators , for mechanics in ground forces , for bornbardiers , navigators , and pilots in air crews , for scouts and other militaryintelligence personnel , for applicants for officer candidate schools ; also for truck drivers , range finders , and thirty different varieties of warrant officers . The qualifying examination used by the WAACs ? the Women 's Army Auxiliary Corps ? as one of the sieves in selecting from among some 30,000 applicants 1.100 candidates for training as officers of the new Corps , was designed , constructed , tried out , standardized , and calibrated by this group . When a new kind of aptitude test is demanded ? for use in selecting men to be trained as aerial-photograph readers , for instance , or instrument men , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first step is to study the job in detail , to make certain just what abilities it requires . Only after analysis of the duties and the job requirements is a tentative battery of " predictors " constructed and tried out . If the tests are found to differentiate the successes from the failures , or those who can learn the job quickly from those who need longer training , they are forwarded to the classification officers for use as supplemental aids in selecting the soldiers who are to go to the specialist schools . No one is thrusting all this psychological service upon the Army unasked . On the contrary , the official demands on the staff of the Personnel Procedures Section have steadily tended to exceed its capacity to deliver . During the last war it was different . Twenty-five years ago I recall a hardboiled cavalry Colonel Who gruffly dismissed the idea of aptitude testing and systematic classification of skills as stuff and nonsense . Then one morning the Colonel 's horse interfered embarrassingly on the parade grounds as a result of a badly nailed shoe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had done the job , there were four highly trained horseshoers in his regiment of whom he was quite unaware . In general , during the last war the classification service had to " sell " itself , whereas to-day it enjoys acceptance in every department of the Army , despite its acknowledged limitations . No description of a new service is complete without a realistic confession of its defects . When you hear stories about premedical students learning to build pontoons in an engineering camp , or skilled motor repairmen pounding headquarters ' typewriters , or pharmacists toting machine guns , they are not necessarily enemy propaganda . Some of these stories are undoubtedly true . We have as yet no exact estimate of how high these initial misplacements run , but my own guess would be in the neighborhood of ten per cent , owing variously to speed and pressure , to the limited capacity of a training camp at a given moment , and to plain human fallibility . It is each commander 's responsibility to correct serious misassignments when they come to light . Not always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the classification service . The pre-medical student may have a strong mechanical aptitude . The motor mechanic may have had two skills , of which the Army needed one more than another . The pharmacist , as occasionally happens , may have deliberately concealed his occupation in order to get into combat service . What is particularly unlikely is far a born leader to languish in the ranks , unheeded and trodden upon . For the nugget of nuggets , the shortage that transcends all the others , is the shortage of superior officer material . Not that we have any lack of educated young men . The average soldier of to-day brings with him into the Army three years more of schooling than the soldier of the First World War . Instead of having finished only the sixth grade of elementary school , he has had at least a year in high school . Forty-one per cent of white selectees have finished high school and more than a quarter of these have gone to college , while in the First World War only nine per cent had finished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be expected to have any better native intelligence than his father , but in the abilities acquired at school and at work he is definitely superior . He is better equipped to meet new situations , to solve practical problems as they come up , and to learn new responsibilities quickly . But does all this make him a leader ? Not necessarily . Leadership ability does not correlate strictly with either intelligence or education , although these are important assets . It requires also those personal traits which make it easy to get prompt co-operation . It requires the ability to teach men , to train them , to secure their instant and willing obedience . One essential is willingness to assume the responsibilities of leadership . The generals commanding divisions and Replacement Training Centers are regularly called upon to supply their quotas of recommendations for officer candidate schools , and not always do they have enough candidates whose applications the company officers are willing to " endorse with confidence " or " endorse with enthusiasm . " So the classification officer combs his cards again . Pep talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidence or are genuinely in love with the technical training and experience they are getting and want to continue it . The classification sergeant mentioned earlier in this article is an example . McCollum could have gone to officer candidate school any time he chose during the past year . He prefers to stay in his present job where , as hesays , he is handling the biggest and most variegated case load that ever fell to the lot of a student of personnel management . When the war is over this man believes that some large corporation will want to use his experience . But McCollum is not the only man who will emerge from the Army equipped and geared for a better career than he had hoped to have when he donned the uniform . The painter in camouflage learns a great deal about materials ? after the war he may become a muralist . The engineer who could get nothing better than a filling-station job when he left college is now learning the complex technics of gas-engine maintenance ; there may well be a maintenance job for him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The man who proved to he good at clerical duties may follow his commanding officer out of uniform and into a job as office supervisor for his former Army chief . All of these men will have advanced greatly in training and competence . The Army and the country as a whole will also have advanced . In terms of teamed and integrated productivity the America that comes out of this war will be a far greater country than the America that went into it . Shall we willingly relinquish this greatness ? What kind of a people are we if we permit ourselves to relapse into the needless frustration , the shocking human waste that characterized pre-war employment and unemploy-ment ? The war will have taught us the obvious necessity of classifying and testing our man power at least as carefully as we test the physical materials and machines of our complex technological world . When demobilization comes we shall have functional descriptions and records , checked against performance , of the cream of American manhood . Rarely have personnel men dared to dream of such a thing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace , just as it is helping us to win a terrible war .                     