@@487514

N December 26 , 1948 , Andrew Roth , The Nation 's correspondent in the Far East , wrote from Shanghai asking the editors to apply for his admission to Japan . He warned us that a similar request made by him in 1947 had never been acknowledged by the army and that only upon his arrival in Shanghai , a few weeks earlier , had he learned that he had been denied entry because he was not a full-time correspondent of any one publication . His own guess as to the real reason for his exclusion was that his book , " Dilemma in Japan , " had become " somewhat of a bible to the progressive opposition to General MacArthur . " He went on to say that he did not believe that the ban could be upheld . Roth was to be proved wrong . He has been banned by MacArthur ; there is no present likelihood of his admission into the new Mikado 's domain . After fighting a running battle with the authorities for the better part of a year , the editors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full disclosure of the disgraceful incident , On January 6 , 1949 , The Nation wrote to the National Defense Establishment requesting Roth 's clear-. ance . The Accreditation Branch sent the necessary forms on January 11 , assuring us that " as soon as the processing of the forms has been completed we will notify the Department of the Army of Mr. Roth 's accredita7 tion . The liaison section ... will then ask the Head quarters , Far East Command , to clear your correspondent for entrance into Japan . " The forms required a declaration that the correspondent was a full-time employee of the publication seeking his accreditation . Although Roth was under contract to file regularly , he was not a full-time employee of The Nation , and we so informed Washington . The Nation , . however , did assume full responsibility for Roth . On February 15 Donald S. Davis of the Accreditation Branch wrote us regretting his inability to consider Roth 's application because he was not a full-time employee . ( To go ahead a bit , Roth was to write on April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been accredited , although not a full-time employee . " HoweVeC continued Roth , " he is a guy who ? . . sees Communists under every bush . In Indonesia he was describing the , Republican government as ' Communist ' a week before ? - the Communist revolt against it . " ) Realizing that the technique of the gentle brush-off had begun , we wrote at once to Roth asking for his I have done journalistic work in twenty-five countries during the last three years . This is the first time I have ever been declared persona non grata before entry ... I believe that fundamentally the refusal to accredit me to Japan arises from my having written in 1945 a book entitled " Dilemin- a in Japan . " ... " Dilemma in Japan " - was a warning , written in 1945 , against some of the policies which seem to be followed now by the United States In Japan . I was particularly , fearful that the United States would link itself with the Zaibatsu economic monopolists ) , the authoritarian bureaucracy , and large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accurate prediction of what has happened . I have not written upon developments in Japan since 1945 because I wanted to see conditions there under occupation for myself . I do not expect that It will he stated that I am being kept out of Japan because my views are criticat . The popular tradition of free speech , free inquiry , anda free press Is too strong In the United States for assaults to be made on them directly . I believe that This Is an attempt to dredge up the famous " Case of the Six . " In June , 1945 , when I was a lieutenant In Naval Intelligence and a few days after I had submitted a draft of " Dilemma in Japan " to the naval authorities for dearance , I was arrested with five other people , allegedly for conspiring to take government documents . The others were Mark Gayn , newspaperman and author , Philip Jaffe , editor of Amerasia , Kate Mitchell , co-editor of Amerasia , John Stewart Service and E. S. Larsen , of the State Department . The charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guilty to having government documents in his possession , and Mr. Larsen did not contend the charge he had given them to Mr , Jaffe . Both were fined , but the government made it clear that few if any of the documents had any real importance in the national defense or in the war effort , that no criminal intent had been established , and there was no evidence that any of the documents was ever put to any use harmful to the conduct of the war . Perhaps the most infuriating thing about these smears and implied smears is the assumption that conservatives and reactionaries have a monopoly on patriot- , ism or loyalty . Actually recent world history has shown not only that there is a group in most countries whose first loyalty is to Moscow but that there is also a group whose loyalty is to their class and not to their country . As for myself , my whole and entire loyalty is to the United States , to the American people , and their democratic tradition , including the United States Constitution and its Bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harbor , and if we are in peril I 'll volunteer again . My undivided loyalty to the United States does not mean that I think everything the United States does Is correct . . . . As the citizen of a democracy I will-battle for the right to criticize Truman as well as Stalin. , to attack American policy in Greece or China just as I have criticized Soviet policies in Persia or Communist putsches in Malaya and Indonesia . As a reporter abroad I have felt it my responsibility to report objectively in order to further international understanding . I have used as a yardstick the democratic aspirations of the majority of the people in every country for a fuller and freer life . Because I have attempted to use this yardstick of appraisal uniformly I have been attacked both from the right and the extreme left . ... Actually my own preference Is for a democratic form of socialism . One of the ways in which the world judges the United States is by whether our deeds are as golden as our words . ... I trust that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to attack the iron-curtain restrictions on press freedom it will not be possible for someone to ask , " What about the ' nylon curtain ' around Japan ? " ' December 24 ; .1949 We heard nothing from the Defense Department from May 19 until June 8 , at which time Colonel Roberts 's indefatigable efforts on behalf of his client finally bore fruit . Reversing the earlier decision , the National Military Establishment granted Roth full accreditation . This was confirmed in a letter dated June 10 from William Fry , assistant to Secretary Johnson . We felt that our troubles were over . They had only begun . It seems that , in our gratification , we had overlooked the last sentence in the letter of accreditation : " Headquarters , Far East Command , clearance and a valid military entry permit will be required to enter Japan . " We had ignored similar terminology back in January because we felt that it was merely a technicality and that admission following Defense Department accreditation was almost automatic . We now learned that this language was , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power over decisions made in Washington . But at the moment Roth in Hongkong and we in New York were exulting over our victory . Roth wrote from Hongkong on June 15 : One of the reasons I feel the subject of the clearance is so important is because of the implied slur on my loyalty as an American and honesty as a reporter . To do any good any liberal or progressive must have the confidence of the people in his own country whom he is trying to reach and persuade . The letter of accreditation had been sent to Seoul , but our peripatetic correspondent had moved to Hongkong , and in that crowded city he waited anxiously for receipt of the all-important document . Accommodations were so scarce that he had to move several times . In preparation for his impending trip he wired Tokyo late in June for future accommodations . Then our house of cards collapsed . For SCAP , put on notice by Roth 's request , wired the Hongkong consulate to hold clearance pending an investigation . Foreseeing further delay , he started to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Batavia on August 4 : So far as I know the principle was established in the Compton Pakenham case that the Department of Defense has the final authority to clear correspondents . If SCAP has turned me down we 'll have to make a public protest ... ? O N August 25 Andy cabled that he had been refused a permit to enter Japan . We wired Colonel Roberts , whose assistant , Charles F. O'Neal ! , wrote back the same day recounting a conversation with Major C. W. Hinkle , who had replaced Davis in the Accreditation Branch : Major Hinkle states that he had never heard of an accredited correspondent being turned down , and even after a full review of the Roth story , he was inclined to believe that entry would be possible . He indicated 611 that the matte ' could be brought to the attention of Steve Early , if necessary , but he thought that by stretching the wording of an official cable to MacArthur 's headquarters , such a development would be unnecessary . Major Ifinicle is , of course , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be that he is overoptimistic . I think , however , that there is some chance that it might work out . I have emphasized the time element and feel confident that we can get some kind of action out of that office within a few days . The attorney advised us to write to Major Ffinkle , who answered that " the army is making every effort to expedite the required information through necessary channels . " On September 10 Mr. O'Neal ! wrote us that the National Military Establishment 's final word was that Roth would not be admitted to Japan . In accordance with the request contained in your letter to Major Hinkle ) MacArthur 's headquarters was asked to submit Justification for the refusal to admit Mr. Roth , and it is my understanding that the matter was reviewed by General MacArthur personally before it was forwarded ' to Washington . In Washington the matter was reviewed personally by the Chief of Staff of the army , and the position of MacArthur 's headquarters was found to be acceptable to him . This decision was conveyed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no statement could be made as to the grounds for refusing Roth entry beyond the " explanation " that it was not in the interests of national security . After conferring with Colonel Roberts we decided to make a last appeal to Secretary Johnson . Roth , who had been kept apprised of all the clevelOpments , wrote on September 28 from Batavia passi4g on information he had received from a friend of his is Tokyo , Hugh Dean . Dean , a correspondent for left4 wing papers , indicated that SCAP intended to clean out all left sympathizers and did n't want a Nation correl spondent around to report on such a purge . Roth concluded : " They ESCA do n't mind so much having Dean around because he can always be labeled as the Daily Worker correspondent . " On October 31 we received our last direct word from the National Military Establishment , confirming the ban on the basis of autonomy granted to theater command . ers : " Current regulations covering accreditation holds commanders responsible for the security of their command . " After some further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of personal contact with high-ranking officials in Washington , we can no longer hope there will be a change of heart in Administration circles . We are publishing the facts because of our confidence that loudly voiced public indignation can still obtain An-drew Roth 's admission to Japan .                     