@@493009

Taft as a Candidate for President 0N MANY OCCASIONS I have said that peace was the dominant issue in the 1948 campaign . My conviction has been so strong that several times I have said that if the only choice were between a Truman advocating compulsory military training and military aid to reactionary regimes and a Tap strong against compulsory military training and shipment of arms abroad , I would vote for Taft . I have made this statement because I wanted to emphasize the supreme importance of peace in the strongest possible way . My remarks have been taken all too literally by people who have read what I said , in the newspapers , minus the big if . For clarification , let me add explicitly that I shall never cast a vote for Bob Taft for President . Taft is against compulsory military training , not because he is interested in the effect of such training on the outlook for peace , but because he is against increased federal expenditures . It is true that he is not as violently anti-Russian as are most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vandenberg " get tough " policy in so far as he could practise it without spending very much federal money . Though he is the Republican least likely , among all those seeking the presidential nomination , to pursue a foreign policy backed with armed force , and thus to sharpen the chances for war , his domestic program , if it were ever put into effect , would lead to worldwide depression , which in turn increases the danger of Conflict . There are two types of Republican candidates today . One conforms to the Henry Luce , American Century type , and the other is Taft . The American Century type of candidate believes first , last and all the time in the " menace of communism . " With arms full of machine guns , he rushes to fortify every bastion of reaction from Salonika to Suchow . He uses the horror of world domination by Russia , which his financial and publishing friends have raised to the level of hysteria , as a means of generating enthusiasm for world domination by America . Billions are appropriated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole world against communism . But for what ? Certainly not for human welfare . The men who fought the Roosevelt New Deal and all it stood for in the way of social security , health , housing and relief now want to appropriate far more for armaments and foreign aid than they were ever willing to see appropriated for Americans . They deceive no one . They are fighting for markets and profits ; they are not fighting for humanity . These are the men who operated through the State Department to kill UNRRA , to circumvent the UN in giving aid to Greece and Turkey , and to ignore the UN Economic Commission for Europe in rebuilding from the devastation of war . Imperialism is an old and ugly word , but the concept of these men is also old and ugly . And the term sticks to them . The American imperialists who masquerade as defenders of American democracy against the Red Menace are interested in extending not the area of human happiness but the area of human exploitation . This group , and their candidates , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first-hand knowledge of present-day Europe , I know that if we give this group unlimited power they will earn for America the hatred , not the gratitude , of the rank and file of ordinary working people all over the world . While these people most certainly fear Russia , they are sure that the US is moved , not by humanitarian reasons , but by political considerations . They are disgusted with the role of serving as cat's-paws for two great powers . Taft reacts to this situation as an America Firster who fears the encroachment of the federal government in business and who believes that that encroachment can be delayed if our government has no active role to play overseas . Just as in the time of Addison and Swift there were great debates on a " Big England " and a " Little England , " so today we have Taft standing for a " Little America " and the whole Luce stable of presidential hopefuls standing for a " Big America . " President Truman belongs to the " Big America " group just as certainly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority , whose real ambitions have no place in the hearts of Americans . For this reason they can never extend democracy in America . They must always seek to resist the advance of true democratic expression . If any of this group should win , it would be possible to say , " Never have so many been dominated by so few . " I am beginning to wonder if we should call the buccaneer proponents of the " American Century " reactionaries . They are not going back to anything in tradition but rather onward toward an imperialism which will make the British of the eighteenth century look like pikers . The essence of their nco-fascistic program is heavy armaments , universal military training , less democracy , and arrogant interference in the affairs of other nations in the name of protecting freedom , democracy and free elections . All over the world they suppress people 's movements SO as to make the position of monopolists and finance capitalists safe both at home and abroad . Unlike Taft , they have no inhibitions about using a strong federal government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deal . They are suited by temperament and ambition to build a strong and expensive mechanism to run the world . Compared with the " American Century " adventurers , Taft is a troglodyte of prehistoric vintage . Slowly he has crept out from his dark cave to enjoy the Imperial American sun from time to time . But to him it has been an expensive luxury , because in the final showdown everything virtuous with him is summed up in saving money and cutting down the functions of government . He fought the Truman Doctrine , but finally voted for the $400 million Greek-Turkish appropriation . So it will be in 1948 , when he will no doubt vote Marshall Plan aid to Europe after trying to lop off several hundred million dollars . True to " Little America " principles , he will fight softly and be defeated easily . Like Harry Byrd and Torn De-vvey , he will talk about greater efficiency and will end up merely making " peanut " savings here and there . Taft is probably worse hated by labor than any other man in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single word in the South , so " Taft-Hartley " has become a single name to labor . But Taft 's over-all philosophy gives him his appeal . Unlike the American Century candidates , Taft has real roots in the American past . Taft is so thoroughly old-fashioned in his approach to problems that he has a much wider appeal to small-town people and even to ordinary liberals than most leaders of labor realize . The purpose of this editorial is to prove that Taft must be fought on a much broader base than " TaftHaitley . " For he also represents a real danger . He is 3 a smaller , more negative man than Calvin Coolidge . He did his best in 1943 to send the country back to Hawley-Smoot high tariffs . He and six other Senators voted against US participation in the UN . He voted against the British loan and denounced the Nuremberg war-crimes trial . He is against spreading either democracy , the four freedoms or government loans abroad . Domestic consumers will remember Taft best for the way he killed the OPA and prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living . Taftism has long been well entrenched in southern Ohio . One after another , the Tafts have made money . One after another ? with the exception of Charles ? the Tafts have held to the doctrine that the well-to-do people should run the country and that the only way to help the poor is to help the rich people first . In justice to the Senator , it should be said that he has been mildly liberal both with respect to housing and health . Yet even here he is playing politics . ( In his recent " Public Welfare " speech , he envisioned a total expenditure for his health , housing , education and social-security program of $1 billion a year out of a $30 billion annual budget . ) And because of his overriding smallness , most of his programs collapse when they are put to the test of present-day needs . One thing that really jarred me after I had said some kind words about Taft was to discover that Colonel Robert R. McCormick thinks Taft is a great man and , so it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the MacArthur influence eventually to Taft after MacArthur has served his purpose in heading off Eisenhower and Dewey . I believe in all Americans , progressive and non-progressive , working together for common aims . But we must keep our own aims clear , and understand the real aims of others . I ca n't see myself working with Taft , McCormick and MacArthur under any conditions . I ca n't believe an alliance of this sort , direct or indirect , really adds up to peace no matter how much Taft opposes UMT . We who believe in peace , One World and a higher standard of living for all peoples everywhere do not believe in either Taftism or the American Century . We develop our own programs for self-liquidating loans at low interest rates from the World Bank to start the backward areas of the world to producing , not for the sake of the American Century but for the sake of humanity . For the good of our positive program we shall fight Taftism and the American Century . We believe that history will confirm the correctness of @ @ @ @ @ 