@@470738

WORKABLE and lasting organization of the peasant countries between Germany and Russia is a vital condition of a lasting peace . The Mid-Eastern problem should be the first concern of all who discuss the conditions of the future peace and of the future organization of Europe . The fervent interest in the conditions of the future peace not only in this country , but even in the European democracies which are engaged in a fight for their existence , is the most hopeful perhaps the only hopeful ? sign in the present international situation . The general realization that it is futile to win the war unless one also wins the peace is , if not a guarantee of a just peace , at least a promise of honest effort . The proposals discussed publicly in England and France and endorsed to some extent by the British and French governments confine themselves , however , to economics and disregard the social and political problems and trends . This of course is a reaction against the neglect of the economic factor at Versailles . But the present overemphasis on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmful , than the political overemphasis of twenty years ago . Even less realistic and considerably more dangerous are the proposals of Clarence Streit 's Union Now which are in the foreground of public discussion in this country . Streit 's naive legalism , which believes as firmly in the constitutional shortcut to utopia as Dr. Townsend believes in the monetary one , grotesquely oversimplifies half the problems and overlooks the remaining ones . These defects are but minor compared to the failure to recognize the true importance of the Mid-East for the European peace problem . Mr. Streit , Mr. Chamberlain , and M. Daladier seem to think that by reorganizing the West they can reorganize Europe . They simply disregard the countries between the Baltic and the Adriatic and Black Seas : Poland , Slovakia , Hungary , Yugoslavia , Bulgaria , and Rumania . They ignore the problems inherent in the fact that in each of these countries at least seventy-five per cent of the people are peasants . But the future organization of this area will determine the future relationship between Russia and Europe . It will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now that the " cordon sanitaire " with which the peace-makers of Versailles separated Russia and Germany has revealed itself as pitifully inadequate , the Mid-Eastern problems will have to be recognized as central . It is not only more real but perhaps more important than the rather futile question : what after Hitler ? To find a workable solution for the Balkans and Poland is perhaps the most difficult task which European statesmanship will have had to perform since the Congress of Vienna following the Napoleonic wars . But such a solution would be the key to the settlement of the major problems of the Continent . II Seen from a continental-European point of view , the World War was primarily a Balkan war fought for the succession to the disintegrating AustroHungarian and Turkish empires . Austria-Hungary , Italy , Turkey , and Russia ? four of the six principal belligerents on the Continent ? entered the war to defend or to enlarge their holdings and interests in southeastern Europe . The defection of the Slavonic nations from Austria was one of the principal reasons for the collapse of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Balkan peace . Its symbol was Wilson 's Fourteen Points which proclaimed the right to independence of the small nations of the Mid-East . And the one important territorial consequence of the World War in Europe was the establishment of the new independent states of Poland , Czechoslovakia , and Yugoslavia and the elevation of Rumania to the rank of an independent great power . The present war is even more of a Balkan war than was the World War . The main aim of Germany and one of the principal aims of Russia is to obtain control of the Mid-East . Strategically , control of the Dardanelles ? the key to the Balkans ? and of the Lower Danube may well decide the outcome of the war . And not only was Hitler 's attack eastward the immediate cause of the war , but in Mid-Eastern peasant-Europe lie also the remote causes of the present conflict . Hitler became a European menace largely because the internal weakness of the small Versailles-created eastern countries made them fall easy prey to German aggression . Austria had twice , Czechoslovakia four times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each of them was infinitely wealthier . If any of these countries had had as much internal cohesion and stability as Finland the Nazi government would hardly have dared to attack them . Of course this internal weakness of the small peasant countries is no excuse for Nazi militarism . But it must be realized that as long as this weakness continues the attempts of the neighboring Great Powers ? either Germany , Italy , or Russia ? to conquer the Mid-East will also continue and will make peace impossible in Europe , irrespective of the legal forms of European organization . The importance of the Mid-Eastern peasant countries for the future of Europe greatly exceeds , however , these territorial and political considerations . They are Europe 's frontier . They contain the only fast-growing population in Europe outside of Russia . In 1810 their population was less than a sixth of Europe 's total . To-day it is a fourth . During the past twenty years their population has increased by almost twenty-five per cent while that of the European countries to the west has remained almost stationary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mid-East already outnumber both the Anglo-SaxonScandinavian group and the Germans ; and in another twenty years they should outnumber also the Latin people and should have become the largest single group in Europe outside of Russia . In addition , continental European history during the past sixty years has been dominated by the problem of integrating this frontier into the European order . Up to the middle of the 19th century the Mid-Eastern peasant nations were politically , economically , and socially shut off from Europe . Austria-Hungary and Turkey kept them outside the main currents of European development in a state of semi-oriental , semi-tribal isolation . They furnished soldiers for the Austrian , Russian , and Turkish armies , unskilled labor for the young industries of western Germany and Bohemia , grain for Vienna and Liverpool . But any native who wanted to escape his tribal isolation had first to give up his national identity ; in order to learn to read and write he had not only to learn German , Hungarian , or Turkish , but to become a German , Hungarian , or Turk . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century . Since then ? beginning with the Hungarian revolt of 1848 and the War of the Crimea six years later ? the Balkans have been the " powder keg " of Europe . The peasant people have been drawn increasingly into the European orbit . The more they strove to assimilate themselves to Europe the more Europe was forced to attempt to integrate them by war , economic ex-pansion , or cultural penetration . From this point of view the Little Entente ? not the League of Nations ? was the main feature of the Versailles organization of Europe and the principal result of the World War . The Little Entente was the principal instrument to maintain the 1918 settlement and was conceived by France for that purpose . It proclaimed the principles of national democracy and capitalist economy which had proved so successful in the West and victorious in the war and which were now to furnish the basis for the Mid-East . The Little Entente was the symbol of the first systematic attempt to make the peasant countries an integral part of Europe by organizing them on European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final explanation for the failure of Versailles to establish a lasting peace . The post-war order did not take root in the peasant countries ; the new states in the Mid-East did not succeed in integrating themselves into nations . Their democratic governments degenerated within six or eight years into dictatorships of a small clique ; their economy collapsed at the outset of the Depression . And their weakness made possible Germany 's attempt to establish hegemony in Europe , which doomed the high hopes of lasting peace that had been entertained by the twenties . III The Mid-Eastern peasant is a sincere democrat . Centuries of oppression and of foreign rule have imbued him with a strong desire for liberty and civil rights . His one defense against the Austrian and Turkish rulers lay in the cohesion of hisfamily and tribal councils ; and he has thus a long tradition of local self-government and co-operation . He is passionately eager to become a living part of Europe ; nowhere were the Fourteen Points received with greater hopes and greater enthusiasm than in the small peasant communities on the Danube and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lasting peace , the hatred of war deeper and more sincere than among the peasants who had been cannon fodder and victims of other peoples ' wars for centuries . The Mid-Eastern peasant has the same thirst for education and the belief in the power of knowledge that the pioneers on the American frontier had a hundred years ago . He has a long tradition of skilled craftsmanship which makes the Mid-East the largest reserve of skilled labor in Europe . There are considerable raw-material resources in the Mid-East , navigable rivers and easy access to good harbors , and an almost untapped reservoir of latent purchasing power for industrial goods . Socially , the Mid-East seems to offer ideal conditions for democracy . Even before 1918 the economic differences were small ? smaller than in any part of Europe except Scandinavia ; after the War the social structure was leveled even more by the expropriation of the big landowners everywhere but in Hungary and eastern Poland . The overwhelming majority of the people are small owner-farmers to whom aristocracy and social privileges arc hardly known . It is simply not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for democracy . And it is also not true that they failed for want of trying : they tried desperately hard and sincerely . Yet democracy collapsed within a few years politically , socially , and economically . It has been fashionable during these past fifteen years to blame the territorial settlement of the peace treaties for this breakdown . But there is little substance for this charge . Whatever mistakes were made in western Europe , the frontiers drawn by the peace makers in the MidEast were on the whole remarkably fair . Anyone who should try to-day to re-draw the frontiers in peasant Europe on the basis of the principle of national selfdetermination would arrive at approximately the same territorial settlement ; the only changes of importance would be to correct the Hungarian-Rumanian and the former Hungarian-Czech border lines in Hungary 's favor . Otherwise the Versailles frontiers in the Mid-East contained no provable major violation of the principle of national self-determination . Even the obvious hybrid of the Polish Corridor did not , as German propaganda charged , owe its existence to disregard of national boundary lines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observance of them which made the peace-makers refuse to incorporate German-speaking East Prussia into Poland , thus subordinating the political , economic , and strategic strength of the new Poland to national considerations . Of far greater importance than the problems of minorities and territorial injustices for the development of postwar peasant-Europe was its overpopulation . The Mid-East is the most densely populated agricultural part of Europe . Consequently , individual farms , divided and subdivided through generations , have become too small not only for efficient production but , in many cases , for the maintenance of a subsistence farmer , especially as the soil over large parts is poor . Population pressure , intensified by the high birth rate of the past twenty years , certainly played a part in the disintegration of these countries . And it is at least conceivable that the Mid-Eastern countries would have succeeded had there been large-scale opportunities for emigration for their peasant surplus population . Nevertheless , population pressure can have been only a contributory cause . Up to 1927 the peasants were on the whole more prosperous than before the War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had broken down in every Mid-Eastern country before then . The real cause of the collapse of the post-war order in the peasant countries can not be found in technical deficiencies of the peace settlements , or in bad government , poverty , or ignorance . It lay in the very principles of the post-war organization of peasant-Europe . Although enthusiastically adopted by the peoples themselves , the principles of national democracy and industrial capitalism proclaimed by the Fourteen Points were at variance with all the realities of the Middle East and could not take root in the peasant soil . The best proof of this is the development of Czechoslovakia . The Czechs , who traditionally , culturally , and socially belong to the West , adopted the principles of the Fourteen Points with the greatest success and built a strong happy nation upon this basis . But in Slovakia , the eastern part of the country , which belongs by tradition , culture , and social structure to the peasant-East , the same government and the same principles failed completely ; the Slovak peasants , though nationally one with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first crisis , thus rendering it incapable of self-defense . They repudiated national democracy and industrial capitalism just as vehemently as the Czechs had accepted them . To be workable , national democracy needs first a nation . But there is only one nation in the Western-European sense in the peasant countries : the Hungarians . Hungary incidentally was the only Mid-Eastern country that did not adopt the principles of the Fourteen Points but continued as a semi-feudal oligarchy of the " great families " and their " connections . " Consequently , social tension between the ruling class with its large estates and the land-starved peasants is nowhere greater than in Hungary ; and when the Nazis two years ago started to preach social revolution in the Balkans they found nowhere more willing listeners than in Hungary , where semi-official estimates at the end of 1938 gave sixty per cent of the people as favorable to the Nazi program . Yet to-day Hungary is the strongest internally of all the Mid-Eastern countries . For when with the German occupation of Bohemia last March the Nazi program revealed itself as one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hungarian national independence , the national unity of the Hungarian people asserted itself above all social dissensions . Elsewhere in the peasant countries , however , the nation is not a political reality . National consciousness is a newcomer in the peasant countries , where it was unknown till the middle of the last century . In these countries , most of which had no written language and no literate culture until after 1848 , national loyalties are not regarded as supreme ; they have to compete with the much older and firmly entrenched loyalties to religion and social class . Most of the peasant nations have been divided for centuries among different empires with different cultures and traditions ; and in character and tradition the different parts of each peasant nation have developed differently according to their history . The gulf between Czechs and Slovaks ? both speaking the same language and professing the same religion ? is due entirely to the fact that the Czechs under Austrian rule became a " Western , " the Slovaks under Hungarian rule an " Eastern " people . The same historical accident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and former Austro-Hungarian subjects , regard as foreigners the Serbs ( orthodox and former subjects of the Sultan ) and the Bosnians ( who turned Moslem and became full Turkish citizens ) . Yet all four speak the same language . And even among the small Croat people there is a noticeable difference between the Croats of the plains who used to look toward Budapest and Vienna , and the Croats of the Dalmatian coast who , under the influence and over-lordship of Venice , became almost Latinizcd in culture , and who definitely belong to the Mediterranean civilization . In Rumania there is a tremendous gulf between the people of the " Old Kingdom , " where the leaders are French- or Russian-trained and where popular tradition is that of the Turkish rule , and the Rumanians in the former Hungarian provinces who obtained their culture , civilization , and laws largely from Budapest and Vienna . Even in Poland , which was under foreign yoke for only one hundred and twenty-five years and which maintained during this time a fierce patriotism , the provinces governed respectively by Russia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the post-war Poland after twenty years of hard work had not yet assimilated the three parts to each other . In other words , the pattern of life in peasant-Europe is primarily a tribal pattern in which national consciousness is only one of many conflicting and competing factors of cohesion and division . According to the standards of national distinction prevailing in Western Europe , such as language or common extraction , three-quarters of the Mid-Eastern population should belong to one Western Slavonic nation ; the differences in language between Poles on the Baltic shore and Croats on the Adriatic are considerably smaller than those between Highland Scots and Cornishmen , or between a man from Berlin and a Bavarian . Only the 10,000,000 Hungarians and the 18,000,000 Rumanians stand out as separate linguistic or racial entities . But actually the peasant countries are peopled by a very large number of small units whose individuality is not primarily that of nationality . This explains the minority problem of these countries . The peasant-East is not any more mixed in its racial or national origin than England or Germany . But in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foreign origin were rapidly absorbed and integrated into the surrounding national unity . In the peasant countries there was no such national unity into which a small group could dissolve itself . And so every one of these groups was forced to preserve itself intact and to assert itself against the other groups . The French Protestants driven out by Louis XIV were settled in western and northern Germany at about the same time that the so-called Swabians ? German peasants mostly from the Rhine ? were settled on the Hungarian border in what is now Rumania . The French Protestants became German within a generation or two ; even their names were mostly Germanized within a hundred years . But the Swabians have retained up to this day their German language , their customs , and their architecture , and have never even intermarried with the surrounding Hungarians and Rumanians . Nationality in peasant-Europe exhausts itself therefore primarily in the negative ; it is a factor which sets one man apart from another . But it has very little affirmative force ; it does not bind people together in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Croats , Czechs and Slovaks , " old " Rumanians and " new " Rumanians will make common cause , although perhaps not before the foreign rule has been established . But otherwise the non-national factors that separate them will appear to them as important as their common nationality , if not more important . In this region of multiplicity the Versailles settlement set up states based on the belief in the supremacy of the national above all other ties , and on the assertion of national uniformity . The result was inevitably a widening of the traditional and tribal demarcation lines within the state as each small unit , not without reason , felt itself threatened in its individual existence . To aggravate the situation , the new states took over , together with the doctrine of national unity , the theory of centralized government ; not only because centralization had been the general European trend for a hundred years , but also because the model upon which the new countries tried to shape themselves was Francethe most centralized country in Europe . But for the small peasant groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had opposed the Austrian , Hungarian , Russian , or Turkish rulers as much because they were foreigners as because they governed from far-off Vienna , Budapest , Petersburg , or Constantinople without knowledge of and regard for local desires and traditions . All the local co-operatives , religious fraternities , gymnastic associations , and patriotic societies which had carried the fight against the foreign oppression had had as their main objective the re-establishment of local self-government in political , economic , religious , and social affairs . But the new states were fully as centralized as the old foreign regimes had been ; actually , in many cases , as for instance in Croatia , Slovenia , southern Poland , and western Rumania , the new states imposed a greater centralization than the former rulers had done and destroyed whatever local self-government there had been . It was , however , not only in the political sphere that the new principle of national democracy proved unworkable . It could not grow roots socially . For national democracy presupposes a middle class and a middle-class mentality . It grew in Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expresses their political convictions . In peasant-Europe , however , there was no such middle class ; nor was there any social or economic function for it . The new national states in the peasant countries were therefore left hanging in the air ? without the social substance that would have been necessary to enable them to fulfill the task of making a united nation out of the multitude of tribal groups . The other basic principle of the Versailles settlement ? that of industrial capitalism ? did not fit any better into the peasant realities . The Mid-Eastern peasant is certainly not anti-capitalist in the sense of being a socialist ; he believes firmly in the private ownership of land . But he is anti-capitalist in so far as he opposes concentration of wealth and the tendency to make money the yardstick for the whole economic life . Above all , he opposes the creation of a landless mass of factory workers . To the peasant who measures his wealth in tangibles ? land and currency ? and his income in terms of foodstuffs , the landless proletariat appears as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the program of the Croat Peasant Party ? the intellectual leader and the most articulate and best-organized of the Mid-Eastern peasant parties . This program demands public ownership of all public utilities under control and supervision of local boards ; development of industry on co-operative lines with ownership or control of the local plants vested in the local peasants ; and a settlement of all industrial workers on the land as subsistence farmers and part-time workers . The peasants of course gladly accept factory work in lean times ; and most of the Mid-Eastern peasants make excellent skilled workers . But they oppose the system and deny the very beliefs on which industrial capitalism is based . The industrialization of the peasant countries and the invasion of finance capitalism after 1918 appeared to the peasants therefore as a brutal assault upon their hard-won liberties and as exploitation fully as bad as anything done by their former foreign rulers . The result of this clash between the new principles and the political and social realities of peasant-Europe is the deep gulf which separates not only the people and their rulers , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moot question whether the peasants in 1938 were worse off or better off than in 1913 . But it is certain that the peasants resent what they regard as treachery of their own rulers more than the ill-treatment meted out by their former oppressors , of whom , after all , nothing better was expected . As for the rulers , they are a small group out of contact with the people , the exception being Hungary . In most countries dictatorship prevails openly . The dictators with their retinue of court officials , officers , bureaucrats , bankers , and industrialists are as much foreigners in their own country as the Lombard bankers were in medieval England . They have therefore to fall back upon one or two of the many tribal groups , with the result that there is real discrimination against the members of other groups . Before the recent settlement in Yugoslavia all the one hundred and thirty generals of the army were Serbs ; there was not a single Croat , Slovene , Bosnian , German , or Hungarian among them , although the Serbs are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland , where the Ruthcnians accounted for at least twenty per cent of the population , they had no representation at all in the senior branches of the civil service , in the higher courts , the army , or the large private and public banks . The rulers of the peasant countries tried fervently to develop middle classes in order to create social support for the national state . The growth of the cities in the peasant countries during the past twenty years has been phenomenal . That the new middle classes fulfill their national function was shown convincingly in the German attack on Poland , where Warsaw alone offered resistance to the German army . But these middle classes , however necessary politically , have no economic and social roots . They have to be artificially fed ? either through enlargement of the bureaucratic machine or through enforced industrialization which creates white-collar employment in private business . The one has bred sloth and corruption , the other the economic nationalism which made the tariff harriers , industrial prices , and industrial costs in the peasant countries the highest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is impossible to say ; but together they certainly offset whatever advantage accrued to national unity from the growth of the middle class . One can hardly blame the rulers in these countries for these developments . They had little other choice , for the peasants had no alternative to offer . The overwhelming majority of the population being peasants , no government could maintain itself in these countries against their organized opposition regardless of police terror , election maneuvers , and ballot-stuffing . And in every one of the peasant countries except Hungary the peasant parties actually ruled for considerable periods . But they had no workable programs and fluctuated between a hopeless romanticism and a sterile negation of the fundamentals of the state which they had to rule . They could not find a synthesis between their own beliefs and the principles of the new states ; to be true to one was to betray the other . In spite of their numerical superiority and of the enthusiastic support of their followers , the power simply slipped out of their hands . Although peasant unrest and revolts have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new taxes , there an attempt to burn down a new factory or to drive out a hated official ? the peasant governments were overthrown without any resistance ; a royal decree was sufficient in Yugoslavia and Rumania , the revolt of a handful of officers in Bulgaria and Poland . Since their fall the peasant masses have had no share in the government and no influence in the shaping of their own destinies . They are a sullen , bewildered , and embittered opposition in their own countries , which are run on principles which from the peasant point of view seem to deny the rights and even the existence of the human being known as peasant . Iv It is perhaps an exaggeration to say that the war will be won by the side which first offers a workable solution to peasant-Europe . But it is certainly true that that side will win the peace . Fortunately for England and France , both Germany and Russia missed their chance to develop such a program . As late as last spring Germany could have rallied the peasant opposition under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nazi leaders were consciously working in this direction . The conquest of Bohemia and Moravia and the subsequent invasion and rape of Poland destroyed , however , whatever chances Germany had had to win the allegiance of the MidEastern peasants . Totalitarian fascism may still spread to the Danubian countries and may still be embraced by the peasants , but it would be directed against Germany herself and would be based upon the old hatred of the German conqueror which had almost been forgotten before 1938 . Russia had even greater chances of producing a solution for peasant-Europe and of extending her ideological and political influence over the Middle East . Pro-Russian sentiment was very strong among the pan-Slav peasants of Bulgaria and Serbia . Russia is a peasant country herself , and the Soviet Revolution claimed to set up a peasant regime . Finally Russia could have opened up Siberia for immigration and settlement , thus attracting the Mid-Eastern surplus population . But Russia abolished private peasant property and persecuted religion , thus fighting the two main pillars of peasant society . She put all the emphasis upon industrialization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tzars . She closed her borders rigidly ; but even if she had invited immigration into Siberia , the MidEastern peasants would not have come without reliable guarantees of private property , civil liberties , religious and cultural freedom , and local self-government none of which the Soviet regime was prepared to grant . Before the Russian invasions of Poland and Finland the great majority of the Mid-Eastern peasants had therefore already come to regard Russia not only as hostile and reactionary , but also as Asiatic , and as the greatest threat to their own desire to become a living part of Europe . Yet , although neither Nazi Germany nor Soviet Russia can organize the MidEastern countries on a permanent basis , the Allies can not hope to win the peasant countries by default . Nor is there any hope that a second attempt to organize peasant-Europe on the lines of Western national democracy and industrial capitalism will be any more successful than the first . The absence of any constructive program for the peasant countries constitutes therefore the weakest link in the Allied armor . An economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed just now , could not solve the problems of peasant-Europe . The peasant countries are not complementary economically ; they all produce the same goods for the same export markets in which they fiercely compete . There is little trade among them to-day . And there would not be a great increase in their mutual trade if they abolished the trade barriers between one another . After all , in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy all the trade of the peasant provinces was with the industrial provinces in the West , not with their peasant neighbors , as any Danubian railroad map shows conclusively . Nor would a European economic and customs union , however desirable , in itself be effective as the solution of the peasant problem . This applies even under the improbable assumption that the industrial countries in Central and Western Europe completely abandon their agricultural subsidies and tariffs , and that the products of the peasant countries receive preferential treatment in Western and Central Europe at the expense not only of the domestic farmer but also of the low-cost overseas producers in the United States , the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would open up new markets for the peasant countries it would put their prices and purchasing power completely into the hands of the economically strong Western powers . And the ratio between the agricultural prices which the peasants receive and the prices for industrial commodities which they have to pay would unfailingly move against the peasants . In other words , the development would parallel that of the free-trade area of the old Austria-Hungary where the resultant economic discontent of the peasants proved to be fully as much a disintegrating force as the national opposition against the foreign rule . Or , to use a contemporary example , a European freetrade union would throw the peasant countries as much at the mercy of the West as their present trade agreements with Germany throw them at the mercy of German industry . As long as the peasant countries are economically weak , free trade must lead to their exploitation . For the cause of their weakness does not lie in trade but in the absence of capital ; and such a weakness must , according to all rules of economic science , depress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Any program for peasant-Europe must therefore first provide for cheap and plentiful capital for the peasants , to be used for the improvement of production methods , the development of producers ' and marketing co-operatives , and the construction of co-operatively-owned small local industries . It will be said , and with reason , that loans made on such a basis will hardly be repaid in full , and will , at least in part , turn into subsidies . But the loans made by the United States , Great Britain , and France to the peasant countries during the twenties proved just as much subsidies ; and to-day the Allies are ready to grant open subsidies to prevent the collapse of the peasant countries into the arms of Germany ; they are willing , for instance , to pay $45 for Rumanian oil against a world market price of $18 per ton ! Moreover , the loans of the twenties , as well as the subsidies of to-day , are not only lost economically more completely than loans to the peasants would be , but they are also a complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as fifteen years ago ? go to the rulers and are used up in a futile attempt to build up large-scale , centralized industries which can never hope to compete with the West , and a middle class which has no roots in the country . These uses are not only regarded as harmful by the peasant masses but their results can be maintained only through further and increased subsidies either from abroad or out of the purchasing power and income of the peasants . Loans to the peasants , on the other hand , would at least be productive socially and politically . That a peasant society on a co-operative basis can be strong , prosperous , and well-integrated if it only has sufficient capital has been demonstrated by the Slovenes in western Yugoslavia who justly call themselves the " Scandinavians of Southern Europe . " Second , there must be systematic and organized emigration and resettlement of the surplus population of peasantEurope . Such a program would incidentally solve also the pressing Jewish question in eastern Hungary , Rumania , and Poland where the Jews have , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they used to fulfill , while , on the other hand , the pressure of population makes the people envy them the few positions they still have in business life and in the professions . Finally , the political organization of peasant-Europe would have to base itself upon decentralization . A nation can be united in peasant-Europe only if local self-government is strong . After all , it was no less a statesman than Thomas Masaryk , the founder of Czechoslovakia and the greatest political genius the Slavonic race has yet pro duced , who proclaimed Switzerland with the strong and proud self-government of its small cantons to be the political model for the organization of the peasant countries . All such measures would , however , be only a first approach to the great , basic problem : how can the agrarian civilization and society of the peasants be integrated into a Europe that is predominantly industrial ? Ultimately the peasants themselves , who want to maintain their society and to belong to Europe at the same time , will probably have to find the answer . The present war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their danger and has persuaded them to approach one another with more tolerance , as shown in the recent Serbo-Croat federal settlement . But even under the certainly optimistic assumption that the peasant countries can develop their own form of life and of political and social structure , if only left alone , the problem of peasantEurope will remain a general European one . Its solution will not only profoundly affect the European political and economic structure but will also require considerable sacrifices , concessions , and adjustments on the part of Central and Western Europe . At Versailles it was possible ? and perhaps inevitable ? to overlook the existence of the problem of peasant-Europe . But the intervening twenty years have proved the truth of the old Austrian proverb : " Either the Balkans become a part of Europe , or all Europe will become a part of the Balkans . "                     