@@475069

iv December 21 , 1942 , from ten in the morning until three in the afternoon , a Bolivian army force poured a deadly fire with a trench mortar . machine guns , and rifles upon a defenseless crowd of eight thousand men , women , and children hemmed in a hollow called La Pampa . La Pampa lies between two barren Bolivian mountain tops , fifteen thousand feet above the sea . Here are located two of the richest tin mines in the Americas ? Llallagua and Twentieth Century . Both of these mines are owned by a great corporation ? the Patin ? Mines and Enterprises , Consolidated , Inc . There was a strike in progress at the mines , and at the time of the shooting , the crowd was holding a demonstration . The United States government had no contract with the Patin ? mines , though under the pressure of war necessity it had tried strenuously to make one . Even so Bolivians were not slow in pointing out that a director and vice-president of the Patin ? company was Mr. Joseph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of Nelson Rockefeller 's assistant co-ordinators of Latin-American affairs . This " Catavi massacre , " as it is called , ignited a series of publicity bombs which are still exploding from La Paz to Washington and which have reverberated through the hushed corridors of the Inter-national Tin Cartel in London . Indeed , the upheaval has been powerful enough to alter abruptly the character of the relations between the United States and Bolivia . It may even upset the longstanding tin monopoly of the world . When the United States began to rearm in 1939 , one of the essential minerals that war industry had to have was tin . The largest deposits of tin in the world are in Malaya and the East Indies ; the other great deposits are in Bolivia . When , early in 1942 , the Japanese captured Malaya , that left Bolivia as practically the sole Source of tin . This circumstance led to a very peculiar and ? in the end ? explosive situation . Ever since 1933 our government has been pursuing what it called the Good Neighbor Policy . Presumably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Latin-American republics in such a way that the people of those countries will lose their fear of the United States as the Northern Colossus ; that we shall become better acquainted and buy and sell more from one another . Since the larger number of the people in most Latin-American countries are both illiterate and bitterly poor , they offer no rosy prospects as a market . The notion grew that if American manufacturers expected to find a wide sale for their products in Latin America the various nations would have to be helped along in getting industries of their own established . In this way , perhaps a middle class would accumulate , jobs would multiply , and , with better incomes , the Latin Americans would buy more from us than once they did . At all events , numerous loans have been made with this general idea in mind ; technical and scientific missions have gone back and forth and , in general , there has been much inter-American activity . But when our government came to deal with Bolivia it had a problem . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact ? although the fact was important ? that poverty in Bolivia is perhaps more widespread and more intense than in any of the other republics south of us . It was the fact that the controlling influence in Bolivian affairs has not been the Bolivian government at all . The main boss of Bolivia is a tin-mining corporation and this corporation is a member of the International Tin Cartel and the headquarters of the persons who boss this cartel are in London and New York . How do you carry on a Good Neighbor Policy with a cartel ? II MEM country of Bolivia in some respects A is one of the most distant in the world . About twice the size of Texas , it is shut away by the Andes on one side and by the Brazilian jungle on the other . Long ago this region was a stronghold of the Indian empire of the Incas ; in their time there was a closely knit civilization with roads , suspension bridges , and aqueducts . The Spanish Conquest smashed this civilization and it was never replaced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became the impassive and helpless hewers of wood and drawers of water who handed down to their descendants a hatred for the Spanish families which has endured to this day . The population of Bolivia is something over three million , about half that of New York City . Ninety per cent of this population is Indian ; three-quarters of the population is illiterate and never far from the edge of starvation . The rest are descendants of the Spanish or of later immigrants . The half-breeds are known as cholos . It was the mineral that attracted the Spaniards , and before they were through they had taken out two billion dollars ' worth of gold . Later other minerals attracted other people , but ? like the Spanish gold ? the mineral wealth was always carried out of the country . Money never lingers in Bolivia save in the coffers of a handful of landholding families . But the tragedy of Bolivia , never overcome , lies in the fact that nothing has ever happened to pull together the scattered fragments left by the Spaniards . It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; it is split into three regions that have practically no communication with one another . Its politics have been raw , bloody , and violent . Over a long period a series of incompetent or bungling or rapacious rulers repeatedly plunged the country into bootless wars . More recently the Chaco struggle with Paraguay in the thirties lasted more than five years and cost more than eighty thousand Bolivian lives . Brazil and Argentina have constantly meddled in Bolivian politics , along with the Vickers armament interests , the oil companies , German airlines , and God knows what else . It is as unhappy and bedeviled a country and people as there is on earth . Occasionally ? but not often ? there have been fitful rebellions on the part of individuals who sought to get the country out from foreign domination . This was the apparent aim of the young dictator German Busch , who managed to last a year before the hopelessness of his task drove him to suicide in 1939 . The power in Bolivia is never , by any chance , behind the ancient Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of office there is brief and uncertain ; administration in actual practice means mostly a desperate effort to hold the country together by armed force . General Enrique Peilaranda , who for the moment is President , is only the most recent of the series of come-and-go rulers who have followed in quick succession since the defeats of the Chaco War . Perlaranda is a bulky cholo with enormous shoulders , much calm joviality , and a great lust for life and its pleasures . His brow slopes back to a conical skull ; the bridge of his nose is deeply sunk between piercing black eyes ; his nostrils arc broad and flaring and a wide jaw sticks out bony from soft protruding jowls . How long he will last at his job no one knows , for the forces constantly pulling and hauling at Bolivia from within and without were never more confusing than to-day . It is not that there is n't the wherewithal to build a prosperous nation . The southern Bolivian region of Santa Cruz is a potentially rich agricultural one ; sugar and tobacco and cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , besides the oil wells close to the Argentine frontier , the whole Santa Cruz district floats on a sea of oil . Toward this region there are now being driven three lines of communication : a railroad from Corumba , Brazil ; another railway up from Argentina ; and a highway down from the town of Cochabamba on the plateau . The Brazilian railroad , thanks to Vargas 's being well heeled with American Lease-Lend and having access to American supplies , seems likely to reach the goal before the Argentines do . The sevenmillion-dollar highway from Cochabamba , built with a loan provided by the American government , also seems likely to beat the Argentines . The Argentines , who have been frozen out of Lease-Lend , are stuck fourteen miles south of the border because of a lack of steel rails . But the Argentines have made a deal with the English for the rails and equipment and have n't given up the struggle yet . These are some of the factors in the struggle for power in Bolivia , but perhaps the greatest power factor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Waldorf Astoria where lives Simon I. Patifio , tin king of he world , once a poor ignorant cholo who took a supposedly worthless tin claim in payment of a bad debt . To-day the Patifios arc reputed to be worth anywhere from half a billion to a billion dollars . The children have married nobility . The Patiflo income from Bolivia , which is only a part of the vast total , is greater than the combined revenues of the whole country . Patiiio has been its tax-free Ambassador to Spain and France ; his son Antenor has been its tax-free Ambassador to the Court of St. James 's . Though Patiflo is the great influence in Bolivia , he has set foot in that country only once in eighteen years . " Bolivia is Patifio " is the traditional saying ; until recently no other force seriously contested his dominance over the rude politicos of La Paz and aver the industrial life of the country . There arc signs now that Patifio 's grip may be slipping , but till still remains the real rajah . It accounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he who controls tin still controls Bolivia , whatever misadventures may befall the country in other ways . This man Patiflo is a dominant figure in the International Tin Cartel , over which an official of the British government presides . Patifio 's participation may he analyzed as follows : The Patifio Mines and Enterprises , Consolidated , Inc. , was incorporated in Delaware , July 5 , 1924 . National Lead Company controls a ten per cent interest and supplies several directors . The Patifio company owns all the best grade deposits of Bolivia ; in 1941 Patifio 's mines turned out twenty-one million kilos of tin , or about fifty per cent of Bolivia 's total export for that year . The Patin. ? interests are not however confined to Bolivia . Prior to December 23 , 1939 , the Delaware company owncd all the stock of General Tin Investments , Inc. , of Great Britain ; but on that date the stock was distributed to the Patiflo holders . On the board of directors of bath companies are Simon Patina and his son Antenor . General Tin Investments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ltd. , which in turn owns thirty tin-mining concerns in Malaya and has a large interest in Consolidated Tin Smelters , Ltd . Of the last-named company Simon Patifio is President and Director . Antenor is a director in all these concerns and also in British-American Tin Mines , Ltd. , in the Arnhem Smelting Company of Holland , and the Thailand Tin Mines , Ltd. , of London . These ramified possessions and relationships make the Patifios the strongest single power in the mining , smelting , and refining of tin , and hence the strongest power in the International Tin Cartel . This Cartel determines the amount each country of the world may produce . What it says about the world price goes . It maintains the British-Dutch monopoly over the refining of tin . That monopoly is further buttressed by a forty to fifty per cent export tax on tin ores or concentrates from the Dutch and British empires ? a procedure certainly not in line with the Roosevelt proposal for free access to prime materials by all countries . The Germans have now taken possession of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Japanese have taken over the two refineries in Penang and Shanghai . If the Germans had succeeded in invading England after the thrust into France , the United States would have had no place in the world from which it could obtain refined tin . The Patino interests thus far have blocked all efforts of the United States to gain free access to ore supplies , even though Mr. Rovcnsky of the Chase National Bank was both a director and vice-president of Patina ) Mines and Enterprises , Consolidated , Inc. , and , until recently , prominent in Nelson Rockefeller 's office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs . One more exhibit is necessary to complete the picture of tin in Bolivia . Most of the ore that is not produced by Patifio comes from two sources . The first is Mauricio Hochschild , a man of Austrian-Jewish extraction who , with his two sons , controls five companies . In 1941 the Rothschild companies produced nearly 11,000,000 fine kilos of tin . 2,600,000 fine kilos came from the second source , the Aramayo group , organized as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1941 ? slightly over 8,000,000 kilos ? came from smaller mines , among which the Guggenheims and the Grace interests have some holdings . Toward the end of last December this industry , with all its international ramifications , was rocked by a diplomatic earthquake . III HE explosive publicity over Bolivia was first set off by a letter to Under Secretary of State Sumner Welles by Ernesto Galarza , chief of the Division of Labor and Social Information of the Pan-American Union . In the letter , sent December 21 , 1942 , the very day of the wholesale shooting in Bolivia , Galarza accused American Ambassador Pierre Boal at La Paz of bringing undue pressure on President Pefiaranda in support of the mine operators against the tin workers . It was clear , wrote Galarza , " that the Ambassador 's observations were intended to diminish the prospects of passage of the labor code . The Ambassador clearly agreed with the position of the large mine operators that the new code would impose disagreeable administrative expenses on the companies . . . the attitude and point of view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Bolivia and in other parts of Latin America as well . The physical reserves of the Latin-American workers , especially in the vital industries , are already so low that the systematic opposition to better housing , higher wages , adequate medical attention , efficient training . . . will drive the workers to adopt every form of active and passive resistance . " Galarza 's charges were denied by Secretary Hull in a press statement ; they were denied also both by Ambassador Boal and Sumner Welles , who , in a letter , publicly rebuked Galarza . But Galarza stood by his guns . He offered to accept the verdict of any impartial tribunal ; he demanded a Senate investigation ; he offered his resignation as an official of the Pan-American Union . A few days later , on January 9th , I. F. Stone , the Washington correspondent of the Nation , published excerpts from the cabled interchanges between foal and Hull . The documents gave weight to Galarza 's charges . In a five-page cable to the Department Boal reported on his representations to Penaranda and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the various inconveniences of the labor code ? a code , incidentally , which contains few provisions not generally accepted in civilized and democratic countries . The code over which all this argument was made actually had been decreed several years ago by President Busch in his fruitless attempt to curtail the power of the Patina interests . But though it had been decreed , it had never been enforced . At the time that Ambassador Baal made it the subject of discussion with President Penaranda the code was being revised by the Bolivian congress and was to have been enacted in revised form in December , 1942 , At the time Ambassador Boal sent his cable to Mr. Hull the tin-mine strike was pending and various mining companies were strengthening their armed forces , buying machine guns and rifles , and preparing to ship in strikebreakers . The condition of the miners in some of the more remote mines was not unlike that of Mexican peons of forty years ago . By the utilization of enganchadores or labor recruiters , working in conjunction with corrupt army officers , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been supplemented by straight army roundups and the dumping of workers into barracks under armed guard . Some mines are so remote from the towns that food can be obtained only from the company stores and , through the accumulated debt of the miners , the operators have still another hold on the men . The miners demanded a hundred-percent increase in wages . Living costs had jumped eleven hundred per cent since the war started and have since risen to about fourteen hundred per cent of the prewar figure . The miners also demanded abolition of dependency on company stores and the prompt payment of wages in full . This last was one provision of the labor code to which Boal particularly objected . " They are now paid tardily , " he explained to the Department , " deliberately in order to maintain them on the job and give them a stake in their next month 's pay . " In his cable replying to Boal , Hull asked the Ambassador to " discreetly express to the President or other appropriate authorities your government 's hope and confidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the creation of situations which would inhibit the full performance of contracts . . . . The agencies of this government have entered into important contracts for the purchase of various strategic materials , particularly tin , tungsten , antimony , and rubber . . . The uninterrupted flow of these items is essential tothe optimum prosecution of the war . It is consequently hoped that no action will be taken which might jeopardize hemispheric security . " The Galarza exposure brought quick and significant results . As already stated , the code that caused all the argument had been decreed in the time of President Busch . On December 8 , 1942 , in spite of Boal , it was largely enacted by the Bolivian Congress . This was caustically pointed out to Mr. Galarza by Mr. Welles . What Mr. Welles did not say was that on December 12 and 27 , 1941 ? a year before the strike decrees had been issued in Bolivia suspending most of the essential rights which the code recognized . And in December , 1942 , at the very time that the code @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nullifying once more practically all benefits of the code . The right hand gave , the left hand took away , and the Bolivian tin workers were left almost precisely where they were before . The strike broke a few days later . Martial law was declared . Labor leaders from all over Bolivia were seized and shipped off to the island prison on Lake Titicaca or to prison jungle camps . Confronted by a first-class crisis , the Bolivian government in desperation resorted to the expedient of saying that the strike was Nazi-inspired and was intended to overthrow the government . Then came the Catavi massacre . The Bolivian government admits nineteen dead and forty wounded . The workers claim that four hundred men , women , and children were shot down . A member of the Coordinator 's office admitted to me that there had been at least three hundred casualties . The whole truth may never be known , for a subsequent State Department investigating commission was forbidden to probe into the matter . In the Co-ordinator 's office , from which it was believed Galarza had obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to try to find out who had given him the data . Shortly afterward Mr. Rovensky took a month 's vacation and resigned as assistant co-ordinator to return to his duties in New York , though at this writing he is still an adviser to another government board . It must not be supposed that Mr. Rovensky was a stranger in Latin-American affairs . For three years he had been in the Co-ordinator 's office and from time to time had made public addresses about its policy . " Become a disciple , " he told the New York Board of Trade on February 19 , 1942 , " and as far as your influence reaches , go out and talk for it and promote inter-American relations so that when the war is over the new Americas will set the pattern and prove that progress only comes with decency and peace . " But he had been familiar with the vicissitudes of Latin-American finance long before there was a Co-ordinator 's office . The reader may recall that it was to Mr. Rovensky that the famous " Dear Joe " letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Investigation in October , 1933 ? was addressed . The letter , written by Mr. James Bruce , who at that time was also an official of the Chase Bank , was concerned with " whether it was not in our interest to keep as tight a hold as we could on the fiscal policies of Cuba . " The boss of Cuba at the time was Gerardo Machado , who was later ousted . These circumstances were recalled by numerous persons at the time of the Galarza letter . Whatever the reasons , the State Department smoothed over the affair rather than precipitate further controversy and a Senate investigation . When the annual report of Patina Mines and Enterprises , Consolidated , Inc. , appeared in May , 1943 , the name of Mr. Rovensky was no longer listed among the directors . Galarza 's resignation was not accepted and an American commission was hastily organized to investigate labor and social conditions in Bolivia . Now the importance of Bolivia in the war effort had been recognized even before our entrance into the conflict . During the past few years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intention of helping that country to diversify its industry and to increase its output of rubber , quinine , and other tropical products , of tin and strategic minerals . In December , 1941 , our government sent down a mission headed by Mr. Met. - win Bohan , a capable commercial attach ? who was brought up in Mexico and speaks Spanish perfectly . He conceived the establishment of the Bolivian Development Corporation to handle funds provided by the United States and supervise the development of new industrial , transportation , and other projects . Also we have arranged to take for a varying period of years practically all of Bolivia 's copper ( plus whatever silver content ) , tungsten , lead , rubber , all antimony ( except that controlled by Great Britain ) , and all tin ( except that controlled by the Patinas ) . But one important factor apparently had been forgotten , and that was the condition of the Bolivian workers who were producing these needed materials . It was forgotten that Bolivia is " high , cold , and hungry . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partly by the coca drug which induces outbursts of energy and then presently ruins the brains and bodies of those who use it . It was this story that the new commission , hastily gathered together last January , was to investigate . The commission was headed by Judge Calvert Magruder , a man of great probity , and with large experience in labor matters . It included representatives of the A F of L , the steel industry , the Department of Labor , the Board of Economic Warfare , and the State Department . Belatedly Mr. Martin C. Kyne of the CIO was added to the delegation . Bolivia named four government officials . The American commissioners arrived February 2nd and submitted their report to the Bolivian government on March 13th . The report fully bore out the contentions of Galarza and the workers , and it recommended even more drastic labor and social legislation to cope with the crisis . " The real wages of mine workers have declined , " said the report , " in spite of substantial increases of cash wages . . . 41 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bolivares a day ( slightly over 80 cents ) . " Mine company houses are mostly " miserable , dark , one-room hovels unfit for human habitation . " In the mines there is much " human wastage due to respiratory diseases . . . lack of safety appliances . . violations of the child labor law . " As for hacienda workers , the report found that most of them , held in " farm tenancy little short of feudal serfdom , " receive no cash wages at all . Although the commission did not report the fact , labor leaders in Bolivia arc not permitted at present to go from place to place without a permit . Undoubtedly the Bolivian government hoped that this unusual report could be utilized to oblige the United States to raise the price of tin and other minerals now being purchased ; in fact this apparently was the main objective of President Pefiaranda 's visit to the United States in May . The Bolivian argument is that better living conditions will impose heavier costs on the company managements , and also that a larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price-raises in the past , even if accompanied by wage-raises , have brought no real benefit to the workers because of the rise in their living costs ; what price-raises have done is to increase the per cent of profit to the larger companies . Simultaneously with Pefiaranda 's visit , Martin C. Kyne , the CIO representative on the Magruder commission , came out with a minority report which he presented to the CIO executive committee for approval and for recommended action on the situation . The Magruder report had stated that the commission had taken every opportunity to confer separately with management and workers on labor problems . The Kyne report said that all requests on the part of the American members of the committee to talk with the imprisoned mine leaders had been refused by the Bolivian authorities . Kyne , contrary to State Department instructions , went into the whole record of the tin strike , including the Catavi massacre ; he restated the harsh local attacks on the commission by the Bolivia press , mostly Patifio-controlled ; he delved more deeply into wage and price statistics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Departmentand the Co-ordinator 's office to prevent the publication of the Kyne report at the time of Pefiaranda 's visit , which official Whshington did not wish to see marred by any untoward events that could damage good-neighborliness . Mr. Kync , in answer to my queries on that score , felt that , on the contrary , President Peillaranda , while here , should not only feel the weight of enlightened American public opinion but should be put on public record here in this country as pledging himself to take steps to rectify certain crying abuses . Pefiaranda paid his due respects to Washington officials , visited war factories , had five days of consultations with American business executives , and also had dinner with Simon Patifio at the Waldorf Astoria . When a labor delegation called on Pefiaranda he received it affably , readily promised to permit civil liberties and liberty of political action , free labor association , collective bargaining and mediation and conciliation , and agreed to push the enactment of legislation toward these ends . In somewhat vague terms , Pefiaranda also agreed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which henceforth would accept only voluntary workers and would merely provide them transportation to working points where they would receive the prevailing wage . As a result of this pressure and publicity , the labor leaders in Bolivia were released from prison , Fortner Presidential candidate Jose Arce , the leader of the main opposition party , who had been arrested at the time of a tin strike the previous year and exiled to Chile and is now a refugee in the United States , working in the Coordinator 's office , also called on Penaranda , and they exchanged letters in which the President promised to allow political freedom . A further result still has been a series of agreements reached by a conference between Sumner Welles and CIO leaders . A commission will probably be appointed to go to Bolivia to implement the Magruder report , and the State Department will follow the lead of Mexico and Great Britain in appointing labor attaches , chosen from the ranks of labor itself . In many other countries of Latin America government officials or private interests or both have been advising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce their standard of living , abandon their unions , lose their civil liberties and their land because Uncle Sam demands it for the war effort . The presence of labor attaches , it is now argued , will help prevent such abuses as led to the Catavi massacre . The Board of Economic Warfare , it is reported , will henceforth write adequate labor provisions into all contracts for foreign materials . This is important , for actually the nature of the postwar world , of which there is such animated discussion , is being anticipated right now in every move we make in Latin America . Down there no Nazis control our destiny , and what we do becomes a yardstick that measures the sincerity of our loftier declarations . V nROTIABLY the most important result r therefore has been the fact that the fresh wind of publicity has blown through the corridors of in ternational secrecy . This airing of Bolivian and official affairs came none too soon , and it reveals how neglectful or self-important officials , in their unimpeachable wisdom , may harm the war eflort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than simply an effort by the United States to still any charge that our tin supply was being produced by a species of " slave labor , " worked as the Nazis work the people of the conquered countries . In 1941 Bolivian tin production by great effort was boosted to more than 42,000,000 kilos . Galarza 's prediction proved to be accurate for in 1942 , despite the increase granted in the price of tin , production slumped badly . Because of the low wages and intolerable conditions in Bolivia , workers have been fleeing across the border into Argentina and Chile , slipping hack to their villages or down to the oil fields . Production has also been cut by a growing spirit of passive resistance . Behind all this of course lies the pressing need , existent in the First World War and still more pressing to-day , to secure a satisfactory source of tin for this country . Thus behind the Bolivian upset is themajor and little known struggle to break the world tin monopoly . It is too long and complicated a tale to be introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Tin Committee to get higher quotas in order to secure ore for the new tin refinery that the government has had built near Houston , only lower-grade concentrates come our way . The best ores still must cross the sea to England , at great cost of needed shipping and danger from submarines . The only high-grade tin still comes from Patifio and other refineries in England , and must be shipped back again across the same submarine-infested seas . Even were it otherwise , the refinery in Texas , from the standpoint of efficiency , techniques , ore supplies , and hemisphere planning ? as well as for other reasons ? may be of very dubious value . And when our war-buying comes to an end Patifio will still have the best mines in Bolivia . The marginal producers we are now expensively subsidizing will be the first hit , whereas the Patifio empire will remain intact . Is it too much to say that one aspect of the four freedoms will not have been implemented ? Thus in the United States ' urgency to obtain such essential war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no assurance necessarily that the good neighbor policy will be permanently fortified or that the future economic independence and prosperity of Bolivia or the full development of its potential resources in guarantee of permanent economic security will be attained . Certainly there is in all this no assurance of any satisfactory postwar solution . The Bolivian tangle presents other aspects of far-reaching importance . The immediate problem in Bolivia has been to change the formula " tin versus human welfare " into " human welfare plus more tin . " But if we write extensive labor provisions into our contracts for foreign materials , is there any way of seeing that they are lived up to except by utilizing American government inspectors ? Any such move promptly runs afoul of national sovereignties . Are we , in addition to military , economic , diplomatic , and other missions of experts , to put social-welfare commissions to promote labor legislation in every land on the face of the earth ? How long can we support such world-wide welfare undertakings ? And what if the Bolivian economy collapses with the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last war ; after that Bolivia wallowed in the trough of hard times until the onset of the present war . The benefits of these booms accrue mostly to the absentees ; the country and most of its people scrabble along in their bleak and remote poverty , the prey of politicians at home and landlords abroad . What is going to happen to the recommendations of our high-minded mission ? What is going to be the fate of the Good Neighbor Policy ? What can that policy accomplish that will leave the Bolivians less riven , less at the mercy of the powers that now dominate them ? These are not questions asked in a flood of sentimental tears . A policy that in the end will leave Path-10 still master of Bolivia has not helped the Bolivian people ; nor has it safeguarded our own supply of tin . Patiiio and the Cartel have won the game up to now .                     