@@431260

A GREAT increase in the production and distribution of art has taken place in the United States during the past ten years . Political , economic , and technological events have resulted in the establishment of a number of agencies which sponsor and disseminate art in various ways and for various reasons . An ever-widening public awareness of and participation in art have been the logical result of this process , which many have characterized as the beginning of a great American renaissance in art . However retarded by the war , it is certain to be accelerated with the coming of peace . A vast machinery for popularization of art is now available , and we face the question : who controls it and to what ends ? As we must define our political and social objectives as we prosecute the war against fascist reaction , so it is appropriate to discuss our cultural direction in relation to them . George Biddle has already covered this subject in Harper 's . In two articles entitled " The Victory and Defeat of modernism " and " The Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its aesthetic , social , and economic aspects . Knowing that a great many artists and other interested persons have reached conclusions different from Mr. Biddle 's , I believe that some of these should be formulated to round out the discussion . In particular , his conclusion that the Modern movement has run its course involves arguments that go far beyond any mere quibble about styles in painting . Taken as a premise , it colors his attitude toward all the other aspects of the matter , involving the whole question of the artist 's role in society . In brief , his thesis is that Modernism in art eventuates in Ivory Towerism , an escape from life , incapable of meeting the challenge of contemporary reality ; that " the most momentous event in the world of art since the Italian renaissance " is now under way ; that we have developed agencies and media for mass art distribution which make an " art for the masses " possible and necessary , and that this art must speak a common language ; that in totalitarian countries this apparatus will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear " ; but that in a democracy the artist " has the uncensored privilege of expressing a social faith . " These are very definite conclusions . It is chiefly on four points that I differ with Mr. Biddle . These are ( 1 ) his estimate of Modern Art ; ( 2 ) his claim as to a contemporary renaissance in American art ; ( 3 ) his argument that art must speak a  | common language ; and ( 4 ) his confidence on the question of censorship . In the first place , it seems to me that the term " Ivory Tower " is inappropriately applied to an art movement that has had repercussions in all parts of the civilized world on a ; sthetic perception and industrial design . In the second place , anyone who predicts a renaissance because the apparatus for broad art activity is now available should be reminded that power can be used to subvert as well as to implement human welfare . In the third place , anyone who discusses the question of " an art for the masses " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in mind the fact that Modern Art does speak a common language to thousands who have had the opportunity and the will to cultivate it . It will become part of the common art language of the masses as opportunity for participation in authentic art experience is made available to them . But that language can not be formulated in terms of their relative illiteracy in art and the prejudices resulting from it . Opportunity will bring new terms to clarify and extend the scope of their present understanding . Increased understanding must certainly involve ultimate knowledge of the most advanced forms of contemporary Modernism as well as the art forms of past epochs . To assume incapacity on the part of the masses for the fullest cultural growth is incompatible with belief in the democratic principle . Finally , Mr. Biddle 's belief that the artist in a democracy is free from censorship or coercion requires certain reservations if it is to check with the facts . Between the artist and the public there are the agencies of sponsorship and distribution , in whose policies the artist has little or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create public opinion , react directly on the economic status of the artist and on his aesthetic orientation . Mr. Biddle perceives that in totalitarian countries the artist is coerced into " converting the masses to sadism and fear , " but apparently he does not see the possibility of coercion here . While examples of outright suppression or destruction of art in the United States are infrequent , there have been a number of them . The most spectacular was the complete destruction of Rivera 's mural in Rockefeller Center by the management in 1933 . In this instance Mr. Rivera , whose work Mr. Biddle admires and who definitely had a " social faith , " discovered that a very active censorship could operate in a democracy . ( The adjacent murals by Sert , expressing the social faith in international Academism , were not destroyed . ) But overt suppression is only the cruder form of censorship ; the preferred instruments of coercion are propaganda and economic attrition . I share Mr. Biddle 's hope that a great renaissance in art is at hand , but am less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II TO DISCUSS the matter further we must first of all try to define what kind of art we are talking about . The field of art is broad and includes many valuable activities other than the painting of easel and mural pictures , or the creation of sculpture . But our interest in folk arts and crafts , commercial art , political and literary illustration , applied design , etc. does not preclude us from wishing to create works which have no such immediate utilitarian function , works which proceed from and satisfy spiritual needs . It is this order of work which is commonly meant by the word " art . " To-day the word connotes a certain level of emotional and intellectual values which have been sought and realized by men at different times and in different historical environments . Art is not a mere reflection of reality , but rather a revelation of subjective values as integral with all its aspects . It is expressed through a dimensional structure ? art form ? which is always different from the natural forms that inspired it . Art is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and communicates his personal realization directly through its form . Art is not the recording of the impact of natural forms on the retina ; it is the synthesis of all the perceptive faculties in emotional equilibrium , objectified in a language of form . Emotional response to nature does not create art except when it is integrated with an interest in imaginative construction for its own sake . The act of painting  | is not a duplication of experience , but the extension of experience on the plane of formal invention . Such an activity takes time and space for its realization , and is not an automatic by-product of other activities . He is an artist who not only is inspired by reality but extends its scope by creating a new reality shaped by his imagination . We perceive this personal spiritual realization in art works of the past and cherish them for that reason without regard to the limitations of their subject matter . Modern art brings to its subject matter the new spatial concepts of our epoch that are being realized in all the forms of accelerated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modern social and technological concepts and their spiritual equation in the advanced forms of Modern Art . It is on the basis of the considerations noted above that questions of art must be discussed today if we wish our art facilities to be used creatively . Although the " formalist " concept of art and the concept of " an art of ideas " are at opposite poles , it is obvious that whatever the " ideas " may be they must be visualized in terms of " form " to exist as art . It is also clear that verisimilitude to natural form and appearance does not make a work of art . A flesh-colored cast of the human head is not art , although it may express a number of physiological and psychological ideas . Norman Rockwell has all his facts straight but his work remains in the category of illustration . It is agreed by both theories that art must have form ; even those people who cur. rently demand an art of cogent political and social directives agree to this . But if it is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of its telling ? Mr. Rockwell 's illustrations certainly have their own kind of form , even though it is not art form . Even if he changed his subject-matter from middle-class anecdotes to cogent ideas , would his work become vital art ? In such a case it would express vital ideas through form . But we know very well that it would remain illustration , because his style shows more concern with imitation than invention of form and thus is barren of the creative formal realization which characterizes art . It should be clear from this that the quality of art does not depend on subject matter or story . And there is no existing principle of design which merely awaits an overlay of important ideas to materialize into art . Art design , art form , is precisely the " important idea " which we get from a work of art , and the real importance of a work of art stands in no direct ratio to the importance of its subject matter or ideological references . But painting , we are still told , must in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes " abstract " it is said to be " craft " art . Mr. Biddle supports this view , and says that the philosophy of abstract art asserts that " meaning in a work of art detracts from its beauty . " I have spoken with a great many abstract artists but have never heard them put it that way . On the contrary I have received the impression that they eagerly sought " meaning , " even though they refused to limit " meaning " to a literary connotation . The fact that ponderous Wagnerian operas exist does not somehow deprive Bach 's " Art of the Fugue " of meaning . Nor do Rivera 's more identifiable images preclude meaning in the more creative forms of Picasso 's " Guernica . " But while Mr. Biddle argues that the philosophy of Modern Art is unsuited to American needs , and is dead of its own sterility , he does n't leave the matter there . He finds that it still lives on as " a school of design " in the works of " our best artists . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contradiction here . It involves the rather difficult maneuver of separating design from subject matter , form from content . It suggests that the skeleton of Modern Art is still alive even though the body is dead . It implies that the emotional content of art lies in the recognition of natural objects which tell a cogent story , but that underneath or behind this story lies an inert structural device called " design . " This must be what Mr. Biddle means , because he finds the design of those modern pictures , which he says are lacking in meaning or content , as an active principle in the work of " our best artists . " This can only mean that something new in the way of subject matter has been added to  | give American work that art content which is lacking in the work of modern artists in Europe . It suggests that it is only European Modern Art that is dead , and only American artists who are modern . I can not accept this view for two reasons . First , because my concept of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it impossible to borrow the " design " of a work which you pronounce empty of content and get something which will not in its turn be empty of content ; and second , because you can not borrow the " design " of a work of Modern European Art without contracting its philosophy as well . I know of course that certain mechanical structural principles of design , innate in the nature of the materials , are common to all graphic expression . These are necessarily transferable . But Mr. Biddle 's use of the word refers to an emotional design , even though his argument seems to contradict the idea by placing emotion in the subject matter . His argument , although I am sure not by intention , would in effect allow the enemies of Modern Art to clothe their nakedness with its prestige . III Mr. BIDDLE 's implication that only European Modernism is defunct has suggestive connotations . I am reminded that there are currently living and working in the United States a great many exponents of this same " defunct " Modernism . In addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are direct products of that philosophy which Mr. Biddle 's analysis finds frustrated in the face of contemporary reality . Are these artists to be regarded as essentially unAmerican , and remote from the possibility of inclusion in the category of " our best artists " ? The logic of Mr. Biddle 's argument suggests that possibility , in which case I should find it hard to distinguish his view from isolationist views in general . If the different approaches to the art problem evidenced in the work of artists such as Milton Avery , Paul Burlin , Byron Browne , Balcome Greene , Carl Holty , Jacob Laurence , Jan Matulka , George L. K. Morris , Walter Quirt , Abe Rattner , Niles Spencer , Joseph Stella , and other American modernists ? not to mention such European artists now in the United States as Jean Helion , Fernand Leger , Andre Masson , Piet Mondrian , and Hans Richter ? can play no part in our renaissance , except in its application to " craft design , " we might do well to make the decision now . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the activities of Mr. Biddle 's proposed national Bureau of Fine Arts in case it is set up . It would prevent artists , innately craft-designers but holding delusions of grandeur , from wasting the time of the Bureau 's functionaries with misguided demands . Democracy in culture is dependent on the free exchange of ideas , which isolationism seeks to frustrate by constantly working to perpetuate local racial , national , and cultural prejudices . In America there is a tendency to look with suspicion on " abstract " ideas or creative innovations when they occur outside the field of technology or commerce . Although we live in an industrial society built on abstract ideas , " professors " in politics and " abstractionists " in art are generally held to be crackpots . We do not call the radio an " abstraction , " and we do not put bird feathers on the wings of our airplanes or artificial dentures in the radio loudspeaker . We regard synthetic quinine and sulfa drugs as very real and desirable despite their foreign origin and " unnaturalness . " But where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be adequate . In science the word " abstract " is identified with progress ; in social philosophy and art , with the Ivory Tower . This fallacy could be cleared up in a week by the advertising agencies of big business , granted an extremely hypothetical motive . Instead , business puts its weight behind glorifying an art , supposedly founded on sound American traditions , which exploits the American Scene in terms of traditional and provincial ideology . This cultivated cultural backwardness of the public is reflected directly in any large cross-section of contemporary American art , and deprives its forms of any real contemporary quality . The familiar , the literal , or the " folksy " is reiterated to the exclusion of new vision and new synthesis . The public hears much of  | creative business executives of vision , but it seems to want its artists ' vision in traditional form . Creative bathrooms and kitchens are eagerly desired , and we are told that it will soon be possible to bring home the dehydrated soup from the A &; P in a helicopter ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tends to dim out the new frontiers already in view . Any desire to realize the real spiritual values of contemporary industrial society is frustrated because we look for them in the wrong direction . But this cultural situation , while historically determined in one sense , has been created , cultivated , and exploited as a matter of policy in a more important sense . In much the same way that Mr. Biddle extracts the skeletal design of Modern Art to clothe it with ideological meaning , so the authors of these policies find a way to separate form from content . They also want not only " ideas " but " art form " as well . So they sponsor artists with gallery and museum reputation ? that supplies the " art design . " This design is then clothed with a " meaning " of commercial import , or , for other purposes , with middle-class psychological palliatives . As examples , take the series of " genuine oil paintings " in the Lucky Strike advertisements , or the International Business Machines art collection and exhibitions . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Biddle 's predicted renaissance will be financed by big business . Through cultural endowments , direct commercial investment , and advertising subsidy of publications , the interests of business are already reflected in the field of art . In these and other ways are established numerous agencies for the dissemination of art which are directly or remotely affected by the political , social , and financial interests of business enterprise . From the evidence at hand one must judge that the general character of this influence is notable for uncreative literalism on one hand and nostalgia for past formulations of spiritual values on the other . The latter constitutes the American business man 's surrealism . Art has a good reputation even among those who can not discriminate in it , and the draping of large enterprise in robes of art creates a good impression . But if in creating the good impression " dangerous thoughts " were generated in the public , a wrong impression would have been created . Business approves of art , yes , but an art of the status quo to soothe the public mind and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glorified familiar and spiritual nostalgia in reverse . And by all means a onehundred-per-cent American art purged of the dangerous thoughts of foreign isms , an isolationist art singing the American Way of Life . But outside of its cultural interests business is not always isolationist ; in many cases it is very cosmopolitan and cultivates an international language when seeking commercial purposes . But it fears that a public fed too rich a diet of creative art might develop creative ideas of its own , and might find that " creative " business has failed to create the best of all possible worlds . Modern Art is not useful to this program because it contains the " dangerous " thought that isolationist culture is historically outdated . I do not mean to suggest that there is a totalitarian conspiracy by big business to control and subvert American art . But that there is among business-minded people an increasing concern about matters cultural there can be no doubt , however unformulated it may be and however variously idealistic , naive , opportunistic , or conscious . Any cross-section of American art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Congress reflect it in the expulsion of " professors " from government posts as suspected of " dangerous un-American thoughts , " and their replacement by business and advertising men . It is reflected in the fact that the advertising agencies of big business now determine the character of our war posters and the cultural standards of the National Association of Manufacturers hold sway . Congress took away the funds from the Graphics Division of the Domestic Branch of the OWI , which had idealistically hoped to produce posters with some artistic merit as part of their effectiveness . Similarly , Mr. Biddle 's own sponsor in painting war-front pictures , the War Department Art Advisory Committee , has been shot out from under him by  | Congress . The magazine Life now pays his expenses . I assume that Peyton Boswell , Jr. , expresses the general attitude of Life toward art in his book , American Art Today . Its illustrations consist of a collection of Life 's art color plates , with elucidating text by Mr. Boswell . He says , " Because of our Anglo-Saxon heritage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little room in its pattern for such a ; sthetic detours as cubism or nonobjective painting . " From this I gather that artists with other racial origins or those tainted with foreign isms have to get in the Anglo-Saxon groove if they want to be American . IV Mr. BIDLE does not seem to fear that the flowering of our renaissance in art might be obstructed by censorship or diverted by other pressures . His freedom from fear is apparently based on his faith in the inexorable workings of a certain cultural law . After noting that " frequent surveys made by the hard-headed editors of various magazines . . . establish the amazing fact that the people prefer the best , " he formulates this law . It states that " when good art and less good art are indiscriminately offered in large quantities to a large audience there is an ever-increasing demand for the best . " He sees this law quietly delivering the goods through the apparently " indiscriminate " activity of such agencies as Life , Esquire , Fortune , International Business Machines , N. W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defunct government Art Projects , and others . I am willing to grant Mr. Biddle his law , with the reservation that other counter-laws may , in certain situations , inhibit its flawless operation . Granted an aesthetically uncoerced public and a group of benign and " indiscriminate " cultural donors , possibly his law might work if given plenty of time . But the exploitation of art through mass media does not now offer the scientific conditions essential for such an experiment . One of the reasons it does not , in addition to those indicated above , is that a number of people feel that such a test is unnecessary and have jumped the gun by revealing the secret that the American Scene is " the best " and that the search is over . Sentiment for an isolationist culture has been rallied round the slogan of " The American Scene . " Through institutional and individual propaganda a school of illustrative painting has been created and patronized and has attained an almost official status . An appropriate slogan for it would be , " The Academy is dead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the democratic international spirit of Modern Art , this " official art " fosters regional and provincial concepts and flatters public prejudice . Isolationist culture is reactionary and undemocratic in character in that it seeks to suppress that free exchange of ideas which alone can develop an authentic modern American art . It exercises a censorship in our channels of art communication which Mr. Biddle apparently does not detect . It is not that the American artist is prevented from painting any way he chooses , but that he faces a public preconditioned to look with suspicion on anything beyond the literal , the sentimental , or the academic . He is not coerced into leading the masses to " sadism and fear " ; he is coerced into leading them to complacency . The American Scene philosophy parallels political isolationism in its desire to preserve the status quo of the American Way of Life . For many years past such men as Thomas Craven , Peyton Boswell , Jr. , editor of Art Digest , Forbes Watson , and many others have been propagating their versions of the American Scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lectures they reach a vast audience which is told that Modern Art is unAmerican and devoid of content . The Modern artist is outlawed and deprived of cultural citizenship , and the idea of democracy in culture goes down the drain . The relations between art and politics are devious , and often obscure , but they exist . The American Scene ideology has in it germs which the fascist-minded among us may find it profitable to cultivate . V WHEN the New Deal was new , Federal subsidy of art became a reality . The WPA Art Project , organized and  | directed by Holger Cahill , and the Section of Fine Arts , headed by Edward Bruce , employed between them many thousands of artists . The WPA employed them on a broad basis of abilities and skills and produced much valuable work . In general , there was fair approximation to democratic procedure , and the artists gained considerable voice in the determination of the Art Project 's policies , up to the point of its political decline . The Section of Fine Arts , on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its original purpose , which was to employ " the best artists " to embellish government buildings . In both cases a great number of the artists employed had already been softened up by American Scene propaganda , which determined the general character of the output . But under the WPA some modern art was produced , in mural and easel form , without undue censorship . Sincere efforts were made to allocate and give it social currency . The policy of the Section of Fine Arts , by contrast , effectively censored such work with few exceptions , as a survey of their several hundred murals will show . In the eyes of the Section , Modernism was not a matter for concern by " our best artists , " which its competitions were designed to lure from obscurity . However this may be denied by pointing to " open competitions " and juries of artist judges , the facts as to the works chosen support my statement . The participation of artists in the policy of the Section 's program , on the basis of its results , suggests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " principle and the " company union " idea . Whatever causes lay behind this situation , it is not irrelevant to note that the late Mr. Bruce held both Modern Art and the more democratic artists ' organizations of the period in low regard . Another contributing factor may have been the presence of Forbes Watson , writer on art and proponent of his own version of the American Scene , as an active member of the staff in publicizing its policies and activities . Nor does it seem out of place to recall , in view of his recent frank expression of beliefs , that Mr. Biddle himself was closely associated with the activities of the Section from its origin . The idea that our government should be concerned with the cultural welfare of the citizens it represents seems self-evident . And that efforts to revive its now-withdrawn support of art should be vigorously pursued is beyond question . What remains to be decided is the form that such support should take and how it should be organized . Mr. Biddle 's proposal for a national Bureau of Fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public . The practical question of how this Bureau is to be integrated in the hierarchies of governmental bureaus is beyond my scope . Also its internal structure and the scope of its activities are matters requiring much fuller discussion by all those whose interests are most directly involved . But Mr. Biddle 's proposal that the director of the national Bureau of Fine Arts be chosen by presidential appointment seems to me highly debatable . Such a bureau will be of no service to our cultural advancement unless guarantees for a broad policy in its functions are written into its administrative program . Such guarantees can be made real only by direct artist representation in its continuing policies as they develop . Such representation must somehow be available to artists who have the confidence of their sponsoring organizations . Federal guarantees of the right of collective bargaining for artists ' organizations are as essential in a matter of this kind as they are in other labor relations . Without them the isolationist culture of the American Scene , and Academism , will automatically take over and subvert the possibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artists ' voice in government affairs is not new is evidenced by Report No. 198 to the 35th Congress , dated March 3 , 1859 ? over eighty-four years ago . Addressed to the Senate and House , this document began : " The memorial of the artists of the United States , in convention assembled , respectfully represents : " That your memorialists appear before your honorable bodies to solicit for American Art that consideration and encouragement to which they conceive it to be entitled at the hands of the general govern- ment . " Their purpose was the establishment of an Art Commission which should function to " the great end proposed , " namely , " the advancement of art in the United States . " This Commission , they went on to say , should be " composed of those designated by the United Voice of American artists as competent to the office . . . . " The report was signed by 115 important artists of the time , from many different States , headed by Rembrandt Peale of Philadelphia . The Commission was duly established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " idea was changed in the Act , as passed , to " the President . " It was the President who had the power to appoint the seven members and to fill all vacancies . The scope of the Commission was limited chiefly to an advisory function and in no sense fulfilled the intention of the memorialists ' proposal . Since an ultimate concern of man is man , there must be an enormous spiritual potential in our epoch . It must find its objectification in political , social , and cultural forms , or the spiritual equilibrium essential to civilized progress will be destroyed . In the field of art , freedom for creative realization must be established and maintained . Currently the narrow views of isolationism are inadequate to create such freedom . In contrast to them I want to end by quoting from another statement made by American artists , thirty years ago . Although much has happened in the interval , I think the ideas it contained are still a sound ideological antidote for the American Scene concept . Organized exclusively by artists , the International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Armory in New York City in 1913 , and subsequently in Chicago ( where students of the Art Institute burned a Matisse painting in effigy ) , and later in Boston . They formed the Association of American Painters and Sculptors , Inc. , and gave their reason in the preface to the catalogue : " The American artists exhibiting here consider the exhibition as of equal importance for themselves as for the public . The less they find their work showing signs of the developments indicated in the Europeans , the more reason they will have to consider whether or not painters and sculptors here have fallen behind , through escaping the incidence through distance , and for other reasons , of the forces that have manifested themselves on the other side of the Atlantic . Art is a sign of life . And to be afraid of life is to be afraid of truth , and to be a champion of superstition . This exhibition is an indication that the Association of American Painters and Sculptors is against cowardice even when it takes the form of amiable selfsatisfaction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1859 became a whisper , but the 1913 version of that " Voice " has a more clarion note , and can still be heard through the more nasal sounds of the American Scene . But it is not enough for the " Voice " to be heard . What it says must be translated into action by our modern painters , who through their work keep the channels of cultural communication free , and constitute the promise that " the most momentous event in the world of art since the Italian Renaissance " may yet realize its potentialities.  |                     