@@485317

THE outstanding war news of the past few weeks concerns the developing American offensive in the Central and Southwest Pacific . Though they have been cautiously conducted in order to avoid heavy casual  --  ties , the recent thrusts in these areas are the most impor  --  tant moves made by the United States in a year . , The offensive is two-pronged . In the Southwest Pacific the forces under General MacArthur have been moving west and north in the general direction of the Philip  --  pines . The story of their progress repeats itself : heavy air bombardment of a strong point is followed by an advance on land and sea from one base to another . Un  --  fortunately , at each step stubborn Japanese resistance and the obstacle of the jungle cause a long delay which gives the enemy a chance to strengthen the base to which he retires . The desirability of this method of getting to Tokyo can not be justly gauged at the moment , for we have used only small contingents in our attempt to ad  --  vance . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not our choice but was forced on us by the necessity of defending Australia and New Zealand . Since the limited forces then available did not permit diver  --  sions elsewhere , we were obliged to wage war in an unfavorable area , where two years of fighting , though they have inflicted large losses on the enemy , have not brought us much closer to the Japanese mainland . The Solomons  --  most of them  --  a few outlying islands , and a third of New Guinea are piker profits from so long a struggle . At this rate twenty years might well elapse be  --  fore our soldiers marched down the streets of Tokyo . The snail 's pace can not be attributed to defective direc  --  tion , for our leadership in this area , with some lapses , has been sound though exceedingly cautious . Greater boldness may come with the greater military might we can now supply . The length and difficulty of the southern road to Tokyo lend significance to the recent venture into the Central Pacific , by which the Gilbert Islands were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an experiment with a different technique of war in a new and promising area , though it was aided by the bases so laboriously obtained farther south , which supplied many of the planes for the preliminary softening by air . The lessons learned from this experiment should enable us to shorten the Pacific war . The details of the expedition , reported far better than has been the navy 's usual practice , are of interest . After neutralization of nearby air bases , a huge fleet , covered by its own planes , moved in for the kill . Unlike the Japanese in similar cases , we did not send a boy to do a man 's work but provided a naval force more than ade  --  quate for the purpose . There were two good reasons for its size : first , nothing short of the main Japanese fleet could have challenged us with any prospect of success ; and , second , a large force could do the job more quickly and with smaller loss . The last step , the landing of marines to mop up resist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrated the limitations of both air power and sea power . Despite the most intense bombardment from land and sea Japanese pillboxes had to be cleaned out the hard way . Inevitably losses at Tarawa were large , though well below those of the enemy . While better management in the future may reduce such losses , we must expect to pay a substantial price for further gains . Nevertheless , the Central Pacific route to Japan has many advantages over island-hopping in the southwest . It avoids the long circuitous approach through the South  --  ern Hemisphere , and it presents fewer natural obstacles . Most of the atolls of the Gilbert , Marshall , Caroline , Marianas , and Bonin groups are small , flat , and rather barren . Operations are hindered neither by the dense jungles of the South Pacific nor by the weather troubles of the Aleutians . An invaded island can be won in a few days , or even hours . Finally , a success would place Ameri  --  can bases on the flank of all southward Japanese com  --  munications . Before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the Central Pacific was regarded as the best if not the only feasible way to attack Japan . In one respect operations in the Gilberts and Marshalls have been disappointing : the navy has failed to ex  --  ploit fully the element of surprise by mounting other in  --  vasions immediately after seizing the Gilberts True , the-delay has allowed us time for the consolidation of gains and for making any tactical changes suggested by experi  --  ence  --  in other words , it will help to keep down future casualties  --  but it has also afforded breathing-time to the enemy and given good notice of American intentions . However , the flexibility of our war plans in the Pacific makes a shift of attention to a new area always possible . On the other side of the world , the Russian front has reached something approaching temporary stability , and it is possible to weigh the results of a year of fighting . During 1943 the northern part of , the front has remained thiCeMbit Wand will therefore fight to hold their present positions . Far more important are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offensive is a very remote possibility , they no longer have an incentive to hold huge armies in reserve as during former years . On the contrary , in 1944 the Red armies have every reason to attack relentlessly in an effort to win the complete military decision which so narrowly escaped them in 1943 . Reserves may be thrown in now for another reason also . Stalin has certainly been promised in very definite terms the long-demanded Anglo-American assault on Western Europe . Only the time and place of the attack and its relationship to a Russian offensive remain uncertain . It is very possible that either the Anglo-American zero hour will be moved up or the Russian time-table slowed down to assure a . simultaneous attack from many directions and prevent much shifting of enemy reserves : While the main European front has been compara  --  tively quiet , the Allies have scored tactical gains on the Atlantic and in the air over Europe . In both theaters Germany 's widely heralded new weapons have been un  --  able to reverse the trend toward defeat . The leveling-off of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production , tells a story which is confirmed by news releases on submarine sinkings . Submarines are now a major nuisance , not a major threat . Improved German defense against air attacks has been met by an alteration in bombing tactics . Feints , the use of cloud masses to hide attackers , the splitting up of fleets to attack several objectives , the repeated saturationbombings of an especially valuable target ire not but they have recently been employed with sin imagination and effectiveness . The percentage of losses on R. A. F. raids has ' actually gone down in recent weeks , The losses of the American Eighth Air Force on its day  --  light precision raids , on the other hand , have mounted . However , there is little doubt that we can still afford the price exacted . With most of its forces tied up elsewhere Germany continues to be in a singularly unfavorable position to meet air attack . The constant pounding has certainly weakened German industry and eased the path of invasion . We should be on our guard , however , against expecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - German industry has yet to be bombed , and the repeated raids on Essen , Cologne , Emden , and other targets are admissions that some of the earlier attacks did less dam  --  age than was thought . The Italian campaign continues to get the headlines , but it does not deserve them . The Germans have made no real attempt to defeat the Allied forces since they failed to do so at Salerno . Instead , they have waged a very suc  --  cessful delaying action , aided greatly by mountainous terrain and heavy rains . Both sides have fought cautiously and refrained from committing themselves too deeply , and neither has recently been guilty of many mistakes . As the United States enters its third year of war there are many portents of success . The United Nations have moved far along the path to victory and are justifiably confident . But the war has not yet been won . Final tri  --  umph waits at the end of a long and bloody road . Diary of the Future BY VERNON BARTLETT ( This is the concluding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rash attempt to write history before it has hap  --  pened , " by a distinguished British journalist and mem  --  ber of Parliament . In the preceding issue Mr. Bartlett outlined some of the problems with which the various commissions of the Washington Peace Conference were engaged . ) VII . The International Police Force NOVEMBER 4 . Several days of sensation and bad temper . The Armaments Commission has been meeting in even more somber secrecy than the other commissions . It has been able to use the argument  --  ment that since the war against Japan is still on , secrecy is necessary for reasons of security . The reply to that one is that no plan for the general control of armaments , as against the unilateral and perpetual disarmament of anaggressor state , is likely to encourage the Japanese to fight with greater vigor or to give them valuable military information . Then the secrecy merchants trotted out the argument that all the conference needed to do was to regulate the disarmament of Germany and the other European aggressors , to which the reply is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making war against us must fit into the general pattern . The Czechoslovak delegation had taken the lead in preparing a scheme for an international air police ( cf. diary , September 17 ) and had won for it widespread support among the smaller European nations . Very cor  --  rectly they had kept it secret until they could obtain the commission 's agreement to its publication . There was a row last Tuesday because that agreement was not forth  --  coming , despite their argument that no international police would ever be established until public opinion had                     