@@475267

THE fight against venereal disease in the United States has been hailed as a success story . Ever since 1936 , when Dr. Thomas Parran , Surgeon General of the United States Public Health Service , startled the nation by asking , " Why do n't we stamp out syphilis ? " the control program has been forging ahead . Officials , publicspirited citizens , the press , and the radio have all pushed it . Hard work behind the scenes and ballyhoo in public have kept it moving fast . And recently the discovery of penicillin has seemed to promise a quick and glorious victory . But doctors and laymen working on the program know better . They know that penicillin is n't the complete answer . They know that the minute they relax their efforts anywhere , venereal disease rates soar again . They know that the education of the public has only been started , although people in social gatherings now use the words syphilis and gonorrhea without an atom of selfconsciousness . They also know that it 's still a tough job to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation , and another tough job to keep these people under treatment until they are noninfectious , let alone keep them until they appear to be cured . And although workers on the programrecognize that venereal diseases are having a wartime boom , they are certain that the end of the war is n't going to bring the end of their battle . On the contrary , they are worried about the postwar prospect . In this article I shall try to show the most serious problems that confront us . Some of the material in regard to methods of control is controversial and no statement of the problem will satisfy all the men and women engaged in the work , for they db not all hold the same theories . While this fact may cause some confusion at times , it is reasonable to suppose that differences of opinion develop vigorous methods , and it is a heartening commentary on the U. S. Public Health Service that a person does not have to subscribe to a set theory in order to have power within the program . These workers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to eliminate VD ? as they call it ? from the United States can not be accomplished without the informed assistance of the millions of citizens who comprise the communities of the nation . They know that no community can afford to be complacent because its own control work is conscientiously done ; the infectious people of all communities are knotted together in a gigantic , tangled mesh that covers the country . In war or in peace , Americans are much given to traveling around on short or long trips . Suppose a man ? or woman ? acquires VD in one state ; before the symptoms appear and he receives enough treatment to render him noninfectious , he may pass the disease along to pickup , prostitute , or wife in another state . An indication of the seriousness of this interstate problem lies in studies the Army Third Service Command has made of the sources of thousands of venereal disease infections reported by men of the Command over periods of several months each . Although the 5,899 men covered by one study were stationed in Pennsylvania , Maryland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where their exposures occurred involved all the states of the Union except Nevada and North Dakota . IV . THE beginning of the national control program three problems were foremost : ( 1 ) pulling the subject out into the open ; ( 2 ) organizing the work ; and ( 3 ) getting money to run it . These things have been accomplished and now about twenty million dollars flow into the program each year from federal , state , and local treasuries . Briefly , the setup is this : The U. S. Public Health Service is responsible for leadership in VD control and furnishes guidance , personnel , and funds to the states . States and local communities add to these funds and invest them in their own programs . The U. S. Public Health Service , the Social Protection Division of the Federal Security Agency , the Army , the Navy , the state health departments , and the voluntary American Social Hygiene Association work together under an Eight-Point Agreement made in 1939 . The Army and Navy treat VD in their personnel and furnish civilian health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infections . Civilian authorities follow up these contact reports and treat these infected women as well as other infected civilians . The police are charged with repressing prostitution . The Social Hygiene Association studies conditions andhelps with education . The Social Protection Division acts as liaison office and prods the program along . So far , so good . The whole plan is neatly lined up on paper . The confusion and wasted effort that hamper the program arise mainly from three things : First , the U. S. Public Health Service has to work through the states , which means getting results through forty-eight different sets of laws , many of them passed by legislators who are remarkably misinformed . Second , though syphilis and gonorrhea ? like smallpox ? are listed as dangerous communicable diseases and though health officers are not officially concerned with morals , nevertheless an awareness of the manner in which VD is acquired does have a subtle , negative effect on the aggressiveness with which these officials act . If smallpox is reported , a health officer makes no bones about isolating the patient and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is purely a medical one . But when VD is reported , he tiptoes about his work for fear that anything he does will start an uproar about constitutional rights , because most people think that in such matters what they do is strictly their own business and a matter for secrecy . Actually , then , stigma does still attach to VD despite the emphasis that in recent years has been allowed to rest on accidental infections . The purpose of the emphasis in the first place was to smoke the subject out of the deep secret burrow in which it had holed up for centuries . This has been accomplished ; but now virtually every VD specialist thinks that the time has come when the public must be given the undiluted facts . For the third cause of confusion in the program arises from the existing mass of public misinformation , particularly in regard to the manner in which these diseases arc spread . II MHE facts ? upon which experts in syphilis and gonorrhea agree ? might be summed up in the words of one doctor who characterized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. son already infected transfers pus from his own genitalia to his own eyes . ( Blindness in babies who have been infected during the process of birth is prevented nowadays by the routine procedure of dropping silver nitrate into the eyes of newborn children . ) Prompt detection and proper treatment render gonorrhea also almost immediately noncommunica ble . THE result of popular misinformation is that persons with VD are now subject to senseless discrimination . Factory workers have been known to strike because a fellow worker was believed to have syphilis . Women have dismissed cooks and nursemaids who were attending VD clinics . Most states in the Union deny jobs to infected food-handlers . This practice has given rise to a common crack among workers on the program ? " Yes , you can get syphilis from a waitress , but not in the dining room . " Many industries actually refuse to hire persons with positive blood tests . Follow this procedure to its logical conclusion and see what you get . An infected person applies for a job and is rejected because he is considered dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and develops syphilis during the first week . Presumably his employers do not know this , but they must be aware of the possibility . Do they think the fact that he is already in their employ nullifies the newly acquired spirochete ? If they really believe that a person with syphilis is a danger to his fellow workers , the only way to protect the personnel adequately would be to have a daily blood test . Reductio ad absurdum , But since , as a matter of plain fact , infected persons are not a workday danger to their companions , the use of the blood test as a specific safeguard for personnel is a cruel and stupid discrimination . On the other hand , to include the blood test in a complete physical examination for the purpose of providing treatment for all sickness and raising the general level of health of all employees is sound policy . Since December , 1942 , for example , the Army has inducted more than 150,000 men with uncomplicated cases of VD andthen given them treatment . Complicated cases naturally introduce other factors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should n't be hired to drive a bus any more than a man with some other form of heart disease should be hired for the job . But a blood test wo n't pick him out of a crowd . The correct place of the blood test in the diagnosis of syphilis is another point on which there is much popular misunderstanding . People think of the test as a monitor that unerringly divides the sick and the well . Actually , it merely points to a tentative conclusion that must be carefully examined in the light of other conditions before a final diagnosis is made . Doctors trained in VD explain that there are both false positives and false negatives . Sometimes poor laboratory techniques affect results erroneously . A person with an early primary lesion may have a negative test . On the other hand , a person who has had malaria may have a positive one . A person with late , noninfectious syphilis or even one with adequately treated syphilis may have a positive test all the rest of his life , yet be dangerous to nobody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the positivity or negativityof a blood test and the infectiousness of the disease . The blood tests are less important in controlling the spread of disease than is popularly imagined , as they detect , very largely , infections that have passed the communicable stages . But these infections , too , must be treated in order to prevent congenital syphilis and the disaster of late syphilis . Despite its shortcomings , then , the blood test is valuable . It is best interpreted by experts , because it is not always easy to recognize syphilis , which has been called the great imitator of other diseases . Gonorrhea is also difficult to detect , as no good diagnostic technique exists for it . Dr. Nelson declares that health departments themselves are to blame for much of the popular confusion regarding VD , inasmuch as they have published pamphlets that contained misleading information and have not always resisted passage of unsound laws . He suggests that one reason for this strange official behavior is that they wanted to find infection so that they could treat it , and they thought the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grim tales of danger . R. J. R. HELLER , director of the Division of Venereal Diseases of the U. S. Public Health Service , says , " If we could find 75 per cent of the cases of VD and treat them adequately , we 'd have the problem licked . " This reduces control to its simplest terms ? finding the cases and then holding them for adequate treatment . But in trying to do either of these two jobs the health officer runs into the secrecy that is like a fortification to protect venereal diseases against attack . Obviously , not even the most energetic health officer can control a disease if he does n't know who has it . The person who has VD knows how he got it and keeps it secret . Moreover , private practitioners are remarkably lax about reporting cases , even though they are allowed to use numbers instead of names in order to protect the privacy of their patients . And too often , neither the infected person nor the practitioner bothers to see that the individual who caused this particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of finding infected persons who do not present themselves voluntarily : the proper use of the blood test in industry , laws requiring premarital and prenatal examinations , examinations in prisons and jails , epidemiological tracing of sources of known infections . All these methods have their advocates and their opponents . Dr. Nelson , for example , believes that examinations made merely to conform with law tend to be careless and to produce erroneous results and that such laws imply that blood testing is enough . Intensification of all these methods in the emergency control program has revealed a lot of hidden infections . In the fiscal year 1943 nearly six hundred thousand civilian cases of syphilis were reported ? a hundred thousand more than had ever been reported in one year in the history of our national control program . Dr. Heller says that " If determined and resourceful epidemiological workers were put to work on each of these reported cases , an average of one unreported contact might possibly be found for each . " 4 YORKE RS who do this contact-tracing might be described as feeling their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of tangled chains that tie citizens of the entire country together . When a service man reports an infection , he is asked to identify all persons with whom lie had sexual intercourse during the period when he may have acquired the disease and also during the period when he may have transmitted it to others . The same procedure is followed in civilian health work . The confidential report is sent to the VD officer of the locality in which the exposure occurred . And now the job gets really tough . A health officer ? not a policeman ? must try to locate that girl and at the same time protect her privacy . Too often the information on these reports is inadequate . The fault may lie with an unskillful interviewer , or sometimes mistaken chivalry leads infected men to lie about their contacts . One soldier , for instance , reported three contacts with the same girl and said he did n't know her first name or the place where he had met her . Well , perhaps not . But perhaps he did n't realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the same time was exposing other men to the menace of her infection . On the other hand , he often does n't know where he 's been . He knows the girl as Susie or perhaps " Brown Sugar . " He can tell that she 's shorter than he is , fairly plump , has buck teeth . He picked her up in a caf ? about 10:30 . He thinks it was on C Street . What block ? He does n't know ; you go down two steps to go in . She took him to a hotel . Where ? Well , he would n't know that . The good interviewer keeps plugging away , and when the health department worker gets this hard-won information , he starts looking for a girl with buck teeth who may call herself Susie one day but is likely to be Victoria the next . The time element is another obstacle in controlling the spread of disease . Dr. Nelson says : " A good busy prostitute can handle as many as fifty men in twentyfour hours . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only infects three of these . The average incubation period of syphilis is three weeks , so it 's going to be more than three weeks before we ? the health department ? can receive a report that she has caused an infection . She 's infected sixty-three men before we even know she exists . Where are these men spreading their infections ? Probably only a third will recognize their symptoms and some of this third will go to doctors who wo n't report the cases . " UT the health officer 's troubles are n't over when the contact is located . You ca n't tell by a glance that a person has VD . There must be an examination . And persons suspected on reasonable grounds of having a venereal disease in an infectious stage frequently refuse examination . They would not be allowed to do so for smallpox . Yet syphilis in 1940 was reported ? not estimated , but reported ? to affect more persons than the total affected by smallpox , infantile paralysis , malaria , tuberculosis , typhoid fever , pneumonia , meningitis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yearly costs the taxpayers millions of dollars for patients in insane asylums and public clinics and hospitals , and for veterans ' liabilities . To this damage must be added that caused by gonorrhea , less dangerous , but attacking three to five times more often . In Washington I attended a case where a government worker was the defendant . She had been named by an Army MP who claimed that he had developed gonorrhea four days after he had relations with her . Dr. Iva G. Murphy , a woman doctor of the USPHS , attached to the District Department of Health , testified that when she had tried to get the defendant to report for examination , the woman had said , " See my lawyer . " Members of the health department testified that care had been taken to protect the defendant from publicity . But publicity was not disagreeable enough to her to keep her from letting the case go to a public court or to keep her attorneyfrom filing suit for her against the District of Columbia for $1,000,000 damages . The judge fined her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go so far , but the possibility is always present in the minds of officials . Minors constitute another difficulty , especially nowadays . Dr. Murphy says bitterly , " People must think a gonococcus does n't bite anything under twenty-one . " The trouble is that by law a minor ca n't be examined without the consent of his parents , and until he is examined he ca n't be treated . So when Joe Doakes picks up a disease he must write for a note from home that will authorize the examination . But many minors wo n't even give the names of their parents . So the health officers cling anxiously to a straw held out by some judges who have declared that a self-supporting minor is his own agent . Qo MUCH for finding cases . The next thing is to get them to take treatment and ? here 's the hitch ? keep taking it until they have completed the course . The U. S. Public Health Service declares that less than 25 per cent of the people with syphilis in infectious stages who are admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infectious relapse . This means that over 75 per cent may again become a public menace . A small part of the difficulty may come from bad physical conditions in some clinics . Most of the difficulty comes from the tendency of ignorant patients to quit as soon as they feel better . To offset the difficulty of holding patients until they have completed the long regular course of treatment for syphilis , which sometimes extends over a year and a half , some sixty communities have established rapid treatment centers in addition to regular VD clinics , and about ten more centers are in the process of being set up . Several short treatment methods are used for syphilis in these institutions , especially the eight-day-drip method , by which an arsenical drug is dripped into the veins of the patients as they lie in bed . Hospitalization under a specially trained staff is necessary because an element of danger does exist . Gonorrhea patients are also accepted at the centers . Periodic checkups must follow discharge . Penicillin , which provides a short and safe treatment , may eventually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completed , but the change is n't just around the next corner . Although the prospect that penicillin may give real medical control over syphilis as well as gonorrhea is excellent , medical men arc wary of prophecies . They recall their disappointments with sulfanilamide and more recently with the newer sulfa drugs . They have found that some persons are sulfaresistant and that some gonorrhea patients who appeared to be cured by these drugs had merely lost their symptoms without becoming noninfectious . Consequently they point out that some patients may be resistant to penicillin , too . They say that in two or three years we may have satisfactory evidence as to the usefulness of penicillin in early syphilis , but that since this disease can remain latent for twenty to thirty years , it may be a long time before we know what effect penicillin will have on the late stages . IV HE coming of peace is not expected to make control easier . Lieutenant ( j g . ) Howard Ennes , on leave from the U. S. Public Health Service , now with the Bureau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent rise in the incidence rates for the Navy in the continental United States as a shadow of possible coming events ; speaking personally , he says he believes the rise may be caused by abnormal social and economic conditions , by complacency over lowered 1942 rates , and by the number of men returning from overseas with a little different slant on things ? all conditions that may be continued or aggravated after peace . He points out also that although at first " Victory girls " worked on their own and almost free , it is to be expected that the organized interests will eventually take some of them up ; it is not a long step from a few " friends " to a lot of paying customers if the proposition is cleverly stated by pimp or procurer . Already , Lieutenant Ennes says , the older girls are concentrating on well-paid war workers . He says that while rapid treatment centers are excellent from the point of view of VD control , " they have a serious limitation in terms of the future of the girls involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in hospital , she is likely to return immediately to her former ways unless arrangements are made for a job or some other care . But only sporadic attempts have been made in the nation to examine and deal with the causes underlying either commercial prostitution ? called the reservoir of venereal disease ? or other types of sexual promiscuity . Except in a few isolated instances , federal funds are not available for work of this sort . The original program of treatment provided for rehabilitation in the form of social counseling and retraining , but later , treatment was so accelerated that there was no time to do this before the patients were discharged . Yet many officials believe that , if opportunity were taken to apply accepted methods of social and psychiatric study to these promiscuous women , it might be possible to make some significant cut in their activities . Many public health officials are afraid that when wartime strains are relieved , control will relax as it did after the First World War . If a cat goes to sleep beside a rathole , the rat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may emerge just that way . There are already many indications pointing to such an event . E VER since the emergency program started , commercial prostitutes have been harried from hangout to hangout and red-light districts have been closed in more than six hundred communities . The Third Service Command surveys show that from January to June , 1943 , paid prostitutes accounted for only 17 per cent of exposures and that the proportion exposed in brothels was less than half the proportion reported in the 1942 period . But commercial prostitution is n't a hitor-miss affair . It 's a money-making racket run by shrewd criminals . Health and enforcement officials are well aware that it is not dead , but merely dormant . The American Social Hygiene Association has information showing that many brothels now closed down are still holding their leases in the expectation that happy days will come again . Organized prostitution can be wiped out of a community only if public opinion is behind enforcement officials . But many people question whether it should be wiped out . One argument is , " You 've @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " To this Dr. Nelson retorts that we 've always had other kinds of crime , too , but we do n't make that an excuse for toleration of murderers or thieves . A second argument , that segregation of prostitutes keeps " good women " safe , has been blown to bits time and again by figures on sex crimes . A third argument was put to me by an Army MP who worked with the sex squad in a community where repression was still a matter of debate . He said : " I know where I can pick up most of the girls in this racket . If the joints are closed down , they 'll scatter and I sha n't be able to find ' em . " That sounds like common sense until you dig further . The difference between organized prostitution ? in bawdy houses ? and scattered prostitutes is the difference between mass production and handicrafts . The girl who works on her own must catch her man first . She must talk with him , perhaps dance and drink with him . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or an automobile . Then she has to get rid of him , get back to her hangout , and go through the whole procedure over again . But the house works like an assembly line . Busy agents catch the customer , shunt him up to the girl 's room , get him out if necessary , shunt the next one in . Even though other persons get a rake-off on the girl 's trade , she 's still ahead of the girl who walks by herself . One prostitute said , " Twenty a night and you make expenses . " Once in her heyday she had a ten-day contract with a twodollar place . " End of the first weekend I had a hundred nine dollars in my pocket , so I walked out . " Good staff work does it , and business thrives on volume . So does infection . Some supporters of the red-light system rest their case on the argument that facilities for prophylaxis can be established in brothels and that this reduces the danger of infection . No doctor denies the importance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they are so foolish as to expose themselves , they should at least use some form of it ; kits are available and official prophylactic stations are set up at convenient points . But prophylaxis is a nuisance that many men wo n't bother with , and all forms must be carefully used at the right time or they are useless . Other people argue that medical supervision of prostitutes will prevent disease . This is a dangerous bill of goods . Its failure stems from two facts : ( 1 ) that gonorrhea is often impossible to diagnose in a woman ; and ( 2 ) that freedom from infection one day is no guarantee of freedom from infection the next . Danger lies also in the false sense of safety that certification gives to the prostitute 's customers . It should be added that no one can rely on a prostitute 's " taking care of herself " because as yet there is no reliable prophylaxis for the use of women . Perhaps the best answer to the advocates of red-light districts , one doctor pointed out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community , local VD rates have almost always dropped . Certainly the annual incidence rates for all the armed forces in the United States appear to reflect the good effect of this policy . Since the campaign for repression was begun in 1941 , the Army rates for VD have dropped from 41 infections per thousand men per year in 1941 to 26 in 1943 . Navy rates have dropped from 40 per thousand in 1940 to 25 in 1943 . V TN VIEW of these problems , how can VD I be eliminated from the nation ? There are two schools of thought about the methods to be used in the medical program . Health officers of one school advocate attacking VD in the same uncompromising way as other dangerous communicable diseases such as smallpox and yellow fever , except that every precaution should be taken to preserve the privacy of the patient as long as he co-operates . One doctor , who has a seething contempt for bureaucratic detours in his work , outlines the following program : 1 . Federal money should be withheld until adequate laws are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be used . " In brief , health officers should have the right to do their jobs . " 2 . There should be two types of facilities in every state : rapid treatment centers where there is no forced detention , and also an enforced-isolation unit where recalcitrant patients may be held . 3 . Reporting of infected individuals by physicians should be mandatory . If a physician conceals these people by failing to report , his license to practice medicine in the community should be jeopardized. 4 . Every infectious individual should be allowed to obtain treatment from his physician , from a clinic , or from a rapid treatment center on a voluntary basis , but failure to take treatment as prescribed should be grounds for enforced isolation . 5 . Every infectious case should be investigated for contacts , and contacts named by infectious patients should be required to submit to venereal disease examinations . 6 . All action should be taken directly by the health officer or board of health without court hearing , though such action should be subject to review by the courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HAT is a strong program for medical . L1. action . Some people feel that it opens up too many possibilities for arbitrary action by health officers and some health officers of the other school believe that such methods defeat their own ends . They claim that since syphilis and gonorrhea are secret diseases , aggressive attack drives them underground and that it is more effective to entice the infected persons into clinics and the offices of private physicians . M on . workers believe that the problem is too complex to be solved by therapy alone and that the basic causes of VD should be attacked concurrently with the medical aspects . Lieutenant Ennes describes VD as a symptom of a " social disorganization of tremendous depth . " Most doctors feel this . It is an impressive fact that sooner or later every specialist with whom I have talked has emphasized the fact that venereal disease is a symptom of bad social and economic conditions , ignorance , and poor sex relationships . All these factors , they say , breed promiscuity , which is the only source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , governmental and private agencies should co-operate in building new defenses . " Prehabilitation is what we need , " says Lieutenant Ennes , who calls promiscuity " sexual immaturity . " Many doctors point out that sex education ? on both sides of the railroad track ? is antiquated in scope and terminology . Dr. John H. Stokes , director of the Institute for the Control of Syphilis , of the University of Pennsylvania , believes that fundamental instruction is increasingly important in view of the " sexualization " of our type of civilization , in which the emphasis on sex in clothes , movies , pin-up girls , advertisements , and conversation stimulates erotic impulses at the same time that modern equipment has nearly eliminated the counterbalance of exhaustion from physical labor . The prospect that penicillin may prove to be a quick and satisfactory treatment for both syphilis and gonorrhea has brought these questions to ' a focus . Some workers believe that a carnival of promiscuity will follow the removal of fear of disease . Others disagree . They cite such cases as that of the girl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I knew you could get a disease , but I did n't know I had it , " and they say they do not believe fear has ever been an effective deterrent from indiscriminate sexual intercourse . All in all , the consensus of opinion among doctors and laymen seems to indicate that we must now attack the problem not from one , but from many sides if we are determined to eliminate venereal disease from the United States . Perhaps the control program has arrived at a turning point that in time will lead to a great victory . But there is still a long and bitterly hard road to travel . 