@@475629

A GOODLY number of men are fifty-seven years old or thereabouts . It 's a nice age ? still the prime of life , but old enough to know what it 's all about . Such men , for example , were thirty years old in 1920 , and are well able to remember both that early World War and the times that followed . They are in a fine position to point out the many parallels , to smile the double-chinned and cold-eyed smile of experience and say , " All this is old stuff to me , boy , I 've seen it before . " And then , when you 're gone , they may think to themselves -- - " But it 's so different . " They are apt to credit the difference to changes in themselves , to the differences between fifty-seven , or thereabouts , and thirty . They remember those nearly three decades between the two aftermaths , the thirty years that included more enthusiasms and more frustrations , more of the seven deadly sins and more precise retributions for such sins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admit , if they are given to self-admission at all , that even though there are many broad parallels between 1920 and 1947 they have a different point of view than they once had and it all seems different and more than a little bit worn . Something like the way veterans of the First Punic War may have felt after the Second . The Right , even though it was n't called by any such European label , was romping in 1920 , just as it is today . Russia was themenace , organized labor its tool ; good management and production were our hopes ; the Republican party was the prophet of the Lord and the implement of His works . We were looking ahead to a period of industrial expansion , world trade , and money for each of us . There is even a surprising sameness to the editorials in the New York Times and the Los Angeles Times ? to pick two out of a group of similar papers ? in 1920 and late 1946 . Any comment that such sameness would exist in the editorials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the point . The speeches made at banquets and at influential gatherings have the same quality of echoing back nearly thirty years . There is a nostalgia for the brave days of the twenties , the times of " normalcy . " The people , however , are quite different . vv E olsmE possessed the modified virtue of simple enthusiasms . It was easy for us to hate the Germans in 1917 , to distrust the League of Nations in 1921 , to believe in our business men in 1926 , to believe in F.D.R. and the Democratic party in 1936 . The continuing poll run by the Des Moines Register among the informed , literate , and currently prosperous farmers of Iowa indicates the temper of our enthusiasms today . In April and October of last year these questions were asked in this poll , among a group of related queries : " Which party controlling Congress next year do you believe would better help keep peace in the world ? " and " Which party controlling Congress next year do you believe would help in avoiding a depression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans , but they showed something else as well , something probably more important than party preferences . In April , 19 per cent of those responding favored the Democrats on the first question , that of world peace , while 26 per cent favored the Republicans ; by October the percentages were , respectively , 13 and 30 . On the question of avoiding a depression the Democrats were ahead in April , 25 to 22 per cent ; by October they had lost favor 20 to 28 per cent . Do you notice the disturbing thing ? On two questions , international peace and domestic prosperity , more than half of these literate and informed citizens had either " no opinion " or thought it made no difference . On keeping peace in the , world 41 per cent had no enthusiasm for either party in the April poll , and this increased to 44 per cent in the October poll . On the question of avoiding a depression those who saw no difference in the two political parties were 38 per cent of those approached in both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion " voters the October poll showed that 57 per cent of these good Iowa folks were unimpressed and unenthusiastic about both parties as far as peace was concerned ; 52 per cent were in this mood of little faith on the subject of prosperity or depression . And for those that indicated a choice and a hope there is no adequate measure of the degree of their hope . The young people in 1920 were hellbent and heaven-bent . They were crusaders , rebels , reformers . They were about to reshape the world , and they complained loudly that the previous generation had muddled things indeed . There were two groups in particular that made a lot of noise in those faraway early twenties ? the " Lost Generation " that had sacrificed its ideals and its hopes in the war ( Hemingway , Scott Fitzgerald , Percy Marks are references here ) and the young discontented who were about to throw off the shackles of convention , superstition , andtradition that bound them . Measured in any way you choose , World War I was something of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its nineteen months and four million men produced a lot of postwar social fireworks that the forty-five months and fourteen million men of World War II have not begun to equal . There are few of these three-year and four-year veterans who talk wearily of the " lost generation , " but there are also few youths in any kind of enthusiastic rebellion against the old order . 11 eriLHAT there was to be a difference in the 1 aftermath years was evident in the years of the recent war . We were only slightly abashed when most of us agreed that we , personally , did n't want to get shot at . There were exceptions , men anxious for combat action against the enemy ? but these exceptions were regarded by most of us with suspicion and derision . Evading military service by a multitude of subterfuges provoked no general condemnation . There were no cries of " slacker ! " as there had been in the simpler times of World War I. White feathers and the annoying young women who had hopped about pinning them on likely young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been mildly ridiculous in 1943 and 1944 . One firm , one out of thousands of such firms , retitled the occupation of the moderately earnest young men in its sales correspondence department ? young men busy mouthing the phrases of peacetime business into dietaphones ? " product coordinators " and secured draft exemption for them on the grounds of urgent industrial necessity . And like many other firms this outfit was busy sneaking stainless steel , aluminum , and brass into products for its peacetime customers , using its high military priorities to obtain these war-vital metals . This firm , like other manufamuers , greedily promised quick delivery on essential naval contracts with full knowledge that the promised deliveries were impossible . " It 's better than letting our competitors get the business ? we can always stall the Navy . " The young men coined a slogan for this particular unit of our industrial might , " Too little , too late , and we get too much for it . " Nobody suggested lynching the president , or any of the numerous vice-presidents , of this company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for refusing to pass worthless tubing intended for the hydraulic systems of aircraft gun turrets . The tubing was shipped , the young men were content to take their industrial exemptions and their quasi-fraudulent overtime pay , and to avoid thinking about a war that was literally a matter of life and death . That was pretty much the pattern ; we can admit it now without endangering the national morale . It was understandable and forgivable to avoid military service ; it was n't that we did n't want to do our share ? of course we did ? but , frankly , only a damn fool wants to get shot at , and anyway we were doing important war work , no matter what we were doing . One of the best regarded of that old team of bright young men of Washington was inadvertently drafted . He was sent to the infantry in that democratic process of induction . It may well have been that his talents were of greater value in the walnut veneer foxholes of Washington than they would have been in a rifle company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he developed a bad back , and spent most of his few months of army life in a hospital sweating out a disability discharge . This bright young man was one of a million men inducted and discharged in the first two years of the war ; a number of such discharges were the result of the policy of the military surgeons to recommend discharge rather than to institute court-martial action on charges of malingering . Such malingering is not new to armies . In Civil War days many a young patriot got back home by inadvertently losing his front teeth , necessary for crimping the cartridges of the time , or by shooting himself slightly ; a few of them were shot completely by unsympathetic military courts . The difference seems to be , in these more recent days , that there was little resentment of those who avoided military service by some shrewd stratagem by either the people at home or by the soldiers themselves . The soldiers seemed to regard the disability dischargees and the draft exempt with more envy than scorn . When the Army decided that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went up twelve hundred per cent in one Texas training camp . The wave of psychoneurotic discharges was abated only by a War Department circular removing this diagnosis as a justification for discharge ; the psycho-neurotic incidence promptly slumped . MR 1-9 , the army manual for spotting malingering , was never better than a lap or two behind the ten to twenty per cent of our troops who hit the sick book in high hopes of home . T is unnecessary to point out that these I unwilling and unenthusiastic soldiers also were often good soldiers . True , the Germans in Italy were somewhat contemptuous of our caution , and the Japanese commented bitterly on our use of bombing and artillery rather than our infantry to win battles . But the payoff was completely for our side and our methods ; we did not use men where we could use materials . Men who hurriedly married in the spring of 1942 , greeted their first-born with gratitude in early 1943 or even late 1942 , and who quit their good jobs in nonexempt industries for deferment jobs in aircraft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stations , in the end often became good soldiers . But there were more AWOL 's than civilian strikers during the war , more hours lost owing to desertion ? absence without leave can be punished as desertion during war ? than were lost because of strikes . This was not a generation of heroes , which may be to our credit in a passive sort of way . And when these reluctant soldiers were released in the political carnival of discharge they returned to vote ? if they were Iowans ? " no opinion " or " no difference " on peace and prosperity . This incredible indifference to the first real war to the death our nation has ever fought was evident in almost everything we did . We were taking a beating in 1942 but only the troops on the slopes of the Owen Stanleys ? " fit for duty if the fever is less than 1030 " ? and the routed greenhorns of the Kasserine Pass seemed to realize it . We never thought that there was the slightest possibility of our losing the war ; only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to worry a little bit about the Japanese , but to regard the Wehrmacht as merely an inferior edition of Wilhelm 's lumpen . The war was a profitable annoyance ? we would win it , and a smart man would utilize it to his own benefit . " Manpower shortage " was a fine catch-phrase , but the Truman Committee found wasted manpower throughout the war boom industries . After the North American plants in Texas had been severely criticized by this committee for overhiring and poor use of manpower , the true situation was spotlighted by the arrest and conviction of a North American timekeeper for widespread fraud on time slips . This arrest revealed a group conspiracy in , this aircraft plant to draw pay without working that certainly indicated slovenly supervision , if nothing worse . The bemused employees of the aviation and shipbuilding plants who fell over each other because of overstaffing earned their overtime , at least on the cost accounting rendered to the government for payment , and regarded the war as not an unmixed evil . This overstaffing was a common part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems on the basis of the Truman Committee reports and the still-fresh memories of the employees of the war industries , particularly shipbuilding and aircraft . At the time the management of these industries justified the practice for these reasons : labor turnover was so high as to force surplus hiring in order to maintain production , it was foresighted to prepare semi-skilled workers for the possibility of still further expansion of production , and the forced-draft schedules of war materials presented entirely different man-hour-production curves than peacetime experience . Two reasons seldom given were these : it ran up costs to overstaff , and thereby often increased profits ; it prepared a pool of workers for the expected postwar labor troubles . We had our publicized heroes of the war years , especially on the War Bond front . Henry Kaiser was a particular darling of this category ? the " West Coast 's greatest industrialist . " He was surrounded by a chorus of cherubim : the famed Kaiser expediters . These boys were ordered to practice an industrial laissez - faire rather remarkable in the rigid jungle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials for the Kaiser shipyards , each was supplied with a practically unlimited expense account and only one rule : " Get the material ? no excuses will be accepted . " How would you get materials under such conditions , particularly with an unlimited and unquestioned expense account ? Kaiser built his ships , but many another war supplier received only excuses . It is taken for granted that there was widespread waste of manpower and material during the war , much of it caused by individual greed rather than the confusion of war . But such waste neither surprised nor disturbed us , because we are no longer a simple people . We have learned to shrug our shoulders and smile knowingly about such things as fraud in high places , the hypocrisy of black markets , and similar moral rot . " Well , " we say with a wink , " what would you do if you had the chance ? " The same paradox that applied to our Army ? the unwilling , unenthusiastic , and reluctant civilians who became a victorious army ? applies to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many months ago , of our truly tremendous increase in industrial output per man-hour during the war ; the statisticians of Fortune calculated the percentages of increase and drew predictions of an industrial cornucopia in the years to come . The bittersweet irony that pervades our times is evident here also : these remarkable production records were made , too often , by firms more interested in profit than in performance , more interested in the hoarding than in the utilization of manpower . It was much as if the fat and purse-proud merchants of Carthage , interested in the profits of the Punic War , had been blessed with exceptionally fertile and warlike elephants , a mass production of elephants that would win the war in spite of greed and stupidity . The further irony of our wartime production is that now , without Uncle Sugar paying all the freight , we suddenly discover that our wartime efficiency is not enough for profitable peacetime production . III PT ? FrE Army found these traits of disil1 lusionment and lack of interest a major problem , especially in the latter months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army so gently treated , or given such delicate consideration , but even Hooker 's troops in the Civil War were not as loud in complaint or as sullen in dissatisfaction . Each new move by the high brass to mollify the troops was greeted with distrust and scorn ; the farther back the echelon , the greater the scorn , The Information and Education section made vigorous efforts to get the troops angry at the enemy instead of the Army . Large photographs of the heaped corpses in the Nazi murder camps were displayed during the early spring of 1945 in every mess hall , every gathering place of troops . A survey of one regiment then training for combat showed that nearly forty per cent of these trainees believed them to be " only propaganda . " The Japanese were disliked by our troops with about the same intensity shown to our own minority groups ; the Germans were not quite as unpopular . Even in the spring of 1945 a substantial minority of troops questioned thought the Soviet Union dangerous ? this at a time when the Red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated a great eagerness for the Soviet Union to enter the war against Japan . Anti-Semitism was fairly widespread in our Army , a vocal but otherwise passive anti-Semitism . A minority of our troops were tolerant of all races , but hated the Nazi idea ; another minority were apathetic on the race or nationality idea , but hated the Germans and Japanese because they were enemies ; a minority disliked , Jews , Negroes , and Japanese ; a minority disliked everybody . This was a stew the Army tried to clarify , but only in actual combat did home-grown prejudices disappear . If the monotonous anti-racial grumbling of the training camp barracks is any indication , the current attempts to revive the KKK of the twenties are withering because of apathy rather than increased tolerance on the part of our people . The fortunes of war conspired against the unions , another indication of today that was evident before V-J Day . Earnings were high in the war plants without much benefit of union activity , and the unions were put in the light of a nuisance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipbuilding plants . The employers were willing to pay big wages ? why should the unions interfere ? Only the AFL and CIO cardholders who had gone through the late thirties remembered the purposes and the problems of a good labor union , and sometimes even they forgot the old days under the pleasant snowstorm of dollar bills . It was hard to be militant when there was nothing to be militant about except protecting proprietary rights in the job ? an attitude quite similar to the proprietary rights in profit that marked the employer . By the end of the war it was plain that the only people we were really angry at were ourselves . We distrusted the British and the Soviets , we were becoming downright fond of the Germans and the Japanese , and the only people we felt any real animosity toward were the other group of Americans ? other than whatever group we belonged to . We were all the illegitimate children of the city slickers and the farmers ' daughters ? the old joke described us : " I do n't know what the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'm going out and enjoy myself . " We knew that we had gone into a war without any great Cause we believed in ; we had avoided military service when we could , and were neither ashamed nor criticized for it ; we had been notably faithless in love and marriage ; we were the kind of soldiers that too frequently wanted to be officers for the privilege of wearing pretty clothes rather than for the privilege of leading men ? we were unregenerate , unashamed , and uninterested . We were n't even surprised or too angry when all of the vaunted postwar planning that had been paraded through our periodicals ? " Great Day coming ! " ? had achieved spectacular failure . We voted Republican but few of us knew what the Republicans planned to do with their new power . Apparently we do n't care much . During the war one of the more honest generals pointed out that Hitler had made only one mistake in evaluating our military potential : he had believed us to be apathetic toward war , unwilling to be hurt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be badly divided by class and race ? but he underestimated how much we would do for a dollar . Now we are beginning to regard even our dollars with some mistrust . that is the difference that the people A who remember 1920 find in the parallels of the two aftermaths . Some of it can be attributed to the enthusiasms we once had ? we believed in a lot of ideas , programs , and leaders once ? but what ideas , what programs , what leaders today ? Nobody thought that this war was going to make the world safe for democracy , that this was the war to end war , or that we were going to succeed in our postwar plans . And more than half the good people of Iowa ? for example ? believe that no men , no party , no program will make much of any difference . Carthage won the war and everyone looked at everyone else with blank faces and lidded eyes . Without the war , without even the peculiar gyrations of our economy over the past thirty years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As someone , possibly Thomas Stokes , said recently , " We have become an unbelieving people . When the advertisements say ' finest tobacco ' or ' greatest picture ever made ' or this toothpaste will save your teeth ' we do n't really believe that it 's anything like the finest tobacco , or the greatest picture , or that our teeth will be saved . It is just a sort of mutual courtesy ; we receive the courtesy of the extravagant lie , and we return the courtesy by buying the merchandise . But we do n't expect very much . " This strange relationship of the lie , the lie known and discounted , and the incredulous public that does n't believe and has n't believed for a long time but goes along anyway , pervades our politics and our religion as well as our commerce . It is a part of the difference between 1920 and 1947 . They believed Harding and " back to normalcy " then , but do you know anyone who believes in any " back to normalcy " today ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the people will pay some attention , and that is all . Possibly an apt comparison of the two aftermath periods can be made by matching Main Street , the book so representative of 1920 , and Frederick Wakeman 's The Hucksters , which was a best seller of 1946 . The Hucksters contained , among other things , a nod toward a war effort that did n't make much sense , a bitter acceptance of our ways of doing business , a faithless marriage , and a complete box score of defeat . r ; : cir of us individually , as is the nature r of our species , goes on with plans for the future ? a hope for the best and some considerable enjoyment of the present . But the style of our times , as a people , is quite different . We are the best informed generation in our history , and the least active . We regard UN without interest , the Soviet Union with suspicion and annoyance , the rest of the world with boredom , and our own country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much program as a village band . We went into a war in which we saw no profit except to ourselves as individuals , and now we hold our dollars and our bonds in a petulant miserliness , but we expect to be done out of them . We do n't trust labor , but we do n't trust management ? we do n't trust ourselves , but we do n't bother to find out why . In the same tradition of high irony that dogs our history we have a President who reflects our national attitude quite perfectly=a leader who expects defeat , does n't know how to avoid it , and does n't worry about it . So , in listless fashion , we are producing a totally new kind of culture ; one that will apparently represent the highest achievement of humanity . We are becoming aware of the terrifying acceleration of history , and it may be that we will appreciate the demands of this acceleration . No people will endure apathy and frustration for very long ; our mutual selfishnesses will either produce a Levantine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can have faith only in himself , or we will become pious and placid again , as we were along about 1927 . It is probable that we will drift into the acceptance of new beliefs , we will set up both principles and leaders . We will once again become satisfied with ourselves , and we will remember the war through the glaze of a congealing history . The good people of Iowa will not be apathetic toward their Congress , nor will the rest of us . A loud section of the younger generation ? the little kids in the school playgrounds of today ? will be in violent rebellion against our ways . John L. Lewis will , presumably , be less active : the Los Angeles Times will be concerned both in its editorial and in its news columns with the insidious influences of crackpots and theorists ; our men now in their late fifties will be in their sixties , and the pattern of our time will once again be clear to them . The signs of such reacceptance of tomorrow will be small ones ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days , our novels will have some optimistic indignation again . And , if in truth we are like those money-shrewd and history-stupid Carthaginians of so long ago , we will regard ourselves and like what we see . It might also be possible that the equivalent of Rome might be that so-distant city that has a Kremlin instead of a Forum .                     