@@494249

, DECEMBER 25 , I944 hire an expert who could outline a public-works program for them . Robert Moses of the New York park system prepared a comprehensive and intelligent plan , now known as the Portland Improvement . Widely distributed by the newspapers and the clubs , this program was studied by a large number of citizens . Recently , enabling ordinances and amendments were passed by the city 's voters , who have agreed to tax themselves for the city 's share of the cost of this program . The Portland Improvement will provide a cushion of 15,000 jobs , but 100,00o jobs will be necessary . You find people thinking here about the great old resource of this country , lumber , and the great new one , electricity furnished by water power . Lumber has not been exhausted , for it is still important enough to provide three-fifths of the total payroll of the state , excluding war industry , but the timber supply is diminishing rapidly and the end is in sight . Management , labor and industry all work on this problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forests and protect them against fire hazards and to promote a sustained yield for timber . Out here there is a consciousness that wood is the sleeping beauty of industry , and there is much talk of the wondrous products which will be developed , some as hard as steel and molded as steel can not be . Cattle feeds from wood are in the developmental stage . Alcohol derived from wood is already out of the laboratory , and forestry-service experts say it can be produced cheaper from wood than from any other source . From the byproduct of alcohol manufacture ? lignin ? plastics will be made . Labor has its eye on creating all-year-round logging employment : as fire wardens in the dry season , planting trees in the spring , pruning growing trees , and logging in the winter . The lumber resources therefore are far from dead , though they are aging . The new resource , electric power , is still so young that it has hardly made itself felt except in the production of war goods . The Bonneville administration , which operates Grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It has - carefully surveyed the potentialities of the Columbia River basin and it goes far and wide to market its power over its own transmission lines . But a new problem is emerging to plague these able administrators . Ninety percent of the aluminum capacity , by far Bonneville 's largest user of electricity , is operated by the monopoly , the Aluminum Company of America . Should Alcoa decide not to stay in the Northwest , Bonneville power will temporarily go begging . Should it stay , there is grave danger that , as the largest single industry in the whole Northwest , that area may become captive to Alcoa in the same way that Alabama is the prisoner of the United States Steel Corporation . This is my own observation and not that of Bonneville , but in Bonneville 's sensible efforts to find out how to create factory and finishing industries and how to get them located in the Columbia River basin , lies one 865 solution . Reynolds , a comparatively small aluminum producer in the area , has what is perhaps another valid approach . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large aluminum company , this one owned co6peratively by the automobile , railway-equipment and airplane companies . If such an industry were put into operation in the Northwest , it would break the monopoly of Alcoa and at the same time bring aluminum into much wider use , for neither the railway companies , the automobile companies nor the aircraft companies dare to use much aluminum while they are at the mercy of a monopoly in the field . They remember too well the experience after the last war when the price of aluminum was arbitrarily hiked ro cents a pound . Bonneville 's is not the only effort being made to attract small , diversified and highly skilled industry into this area . Among Portland 's business men and labor leaders there has been discussion of the organization of a community group which will take economic responsibility for utilizing , even importing from Eastern states , machinery which will become available as war surplus . With this machinery they hope to equip former war workers , small business men and returning veterans with manufacturing units of their own . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say is inevitable in our industrial future , and the subcontracting offered by the Kaisers and Boeing and the other large factories of the area will form a stable cushion for some part of the output of these industrial homesteaders . Should these plans come to fruition , the country might sec in this otherwise conservative area a social experiment that combines power , labor and natural resources to obtain greater production and employment . On a Chinese Soldier Far from the heart of culture he was used : Abandoned by his general and his lice , Under a padded quilt he closed his eyes And vanished . He will not be introduced When this campaign is tidied into books : No vital knowledge perished in his skull ; His jokes were stale ; like wartime , he was dull ; His name is lost forever like his looks . He neither knew nor chose the Good , but taught us , And added meaning like a comma , when He turned to dust in China that our daughters Be fit to love the earth , and not again Disgraced before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and houses , may be also men . 