@@475167

ON THE 26th of January , 1944 , Argentina broke with the Axis . There were expressions of pro-found satisfaction in Washington and the general impression given by the news-papers was that Hemisphere solidarity was at last achieved and harmonious co-operation among all the American republics must follow as the night the day . Such is nut the case . The United States is in very real trouble in South America . This trouble has not been the work of remote-control political maneuvering from Berlin , though newspapers in the United States seemed to think it was . The Nazis were only an incidental factor . The actual trouble was ? and is ? this : Working out from its financial center in Buenos Aires , Argentina has established economic and political ties of the closest character with Paraguay and Bolivia . To these nations may be added shortly Chile , Peru , and Uruguay . The economic ties are not a recent development ; they were begun years ago ; they are strongly backed by both European and international in-terests which are in intense opposition to what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . In the past few months Argentina 's ties with her np ; 01-11-tn ? c linur- hepn mulch ctn. - no- 1.11 , - 7w ' Argentina , now bossed by a reactionary dictatorship similar to European models ? strongly anti-Semitic , with a controlled press , no right of assembly , and no religious freedom ? heads this coalition of neighboring states . Cartel capital , leaving Germany by way of Spain , has been coming into Argentina in large amounts . Many Germans involved in these transactions are still in Buenos Aires and are likely to remain there . Simultaneously great sums of British capital are coming in . ( This is in addition to already existing British investment in Argentina , which , accumulating over the years , amounts to a huge total . ) This money and these interests made connections with the army colonels of the dictatorship and are being employed in Argentina 's present moves . Last August the Ramirez government , being short of armament , applied to the United States for arms via Lend-Lease . The request was refused out of hand . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aires for the use of the dictatorship . These arms did not and do not come from either Spanish or Axis sources . The purpose of this article is to show how this situation came about and why the United States at last has real trouble on itcl-nric in gnnth Arrprif-a p ? ri-rE military coup of June 4 , 1943 , which brought into power the fascist forces that now rule the Argentine Republic was not the result of any hastily conceived plan . It was , on the contrary , only the most recent development of a trend that has been evident in Argentina for years . No hazy thought lies behind the recent events in Buenos Aires ; the theory is clear and well defined . This theory argues for a customs union among the nations of South America , with Argentina playing the dominant role in the union . Many Argentines , over the years , have been attracted by this theory and it has been discussed from every possible angle . Perhaps the simplest way to illustrate it here would he to tell something of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the best-known Argentine intellectuals . More than thirty years ago , as a young Argentine professor , Bunge visited Europe , and during his stay in Germany in 1909 he delivered a lecture in the Municipal Theater in Mannheim . The theme of his lecture was " The Customs Union of the South , " and it was received with close attention . The genesis of the idea , of course , was the Zollverein , the customs union which linked the independent German states in the early decades of the nineteenth century before the organization of the German Empire . But Professor Bunge had elaborated the idea ; he had a world view . According to him there were three great economic units ? Continental Europe including Great Britain , the United States of America , and Argentina and her neighbors . This last group included Chile , Bolivia , Uruguay , Paraguay , and , possibly , Brazil . If Brazil were excluded , then Peru would automatically enter the group . In foreign commerce the function of these nations was to export agricultural products and raw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these LatinAmerican states , goods could circulate freely and the influence of the group as a consolidated source of raw materials would be enormously strengthened . Bunge could , without difficulty , assemble statistics to give his theory a most imArgentina , Bolivia , Chile , Paraguay , and Uruguay ? now have a combined area of 2,120,847 square miles and a population of about 25 million persons . Within this territory there are enough raw materials ? including iron and solid and liquid fuels ? to place the proposed Union in a commanding position in respect to both Europe and the United States . Within that territory large fractions of the world 's tin and copper are mined ; there is a monopoly of iodine and tannin . This region is the source of 40 per cent of the world 's output of drugs and has the world 's largest deposits of borax . From it comes 85 per cent of the world 's linseed export , 70 per cent of the world 's export of corn and 23 per cent of the wheat . Its animal population includes 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9 million horses . All in all , the proponents of the theory could list formidable economic weapons . VENTS did not favor the rapid develop- ment of the theory in the years following Bunge 's lecture in 1909 , but it was not forgotten . With the onset of the World Depression and the coming of the present war , the idea of the union received increasing attention . Sr. Bunge , still alive and with even greater reputation , continued to urge action along the lines of the argument which had absorbed his attention for so many years . It must be remembered that the Argentine economic structure , erected during the past fifty years of stable government , is one of servitude to the European market in general and to the British market in particular . Argentine exports in 1940 , when the effects of World War II began to be felt , were divided as follows : To Great Britain 36.4 per cent " the United States 17.5 " " " Continental Europe 24.5 " " the remainder 21.6 " The disappearance of many European markets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warfare , and other manifestations of the war have been felt in Argentina in more or less the same degree as elsewhere . But one effect has been most powerful in Argentina : it has made clearer than ever to the Argentines serve a foreign and not a national interest . Public opinion , reflecting economic unrest , divided into two groups . One group demands active co-operation with the democratic elements among the United Nations . It is this group which desperately wants to see the great estates broken up , democratic institutions strengthened , home-owned industry established . The other group , fighting for a distant , opportunistic policy , wants to maintain the economic status quo . It is the Iattcr group which now supports the dictatorship . Partisans of this latter group have affirmed that " Argentina , in view of her territorial patrimony and the fundamental conditions of her people , can live a life which can be independent in every sense . " Argentina should " trade freely with the great world units , from an equidistant position , as it has done until today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of inferiority " ; each citizen should realize that " whatever any race or any country can attain through its spiritual and physical qualities , can be attained by Argentina also . " What this amounts to is this : keep the old economic structure and buttress it with a system of Spartan , selfsacrificing " ideals . " These ideals , which echo in every line the fascist doctrines of the corporate state , are set forth by Bunge in his A New Argentina : 1 . Cultivate habits of industry and diligence and revere the institution of the family ; abhor materialism , laziness , selfishness , and the evil of a diminished birthrate. 2 . Demand respect for the general interests of the country , which in themselves are a bulwark of virtue and order . 3 . Root out every interest and attitude which , through class feeling , tends to divide society and foster negative and destructive thought . 4 . Rephrase social and political precepts so that they may reflect both the old and the new ideals of a hierarchical state in which each individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty . Italics ours. 5 . Demand in every field the maximum efficiency in work and effort , " according to the Evangel. " 6 . Suppress all barriers " recendy erected " which may affect discipline , the rate of production and the national interests . In other words : out the window with trade unions , independent schools and newspapers , competing political parties , and all religious bodies other than the Catholic Church . To the end that these ideals may be realized , let all laws and regulations affecting work and production , whether national , provincial , or local , be carefully examined and revised . Such are the doctrines of Sr. Alejandro Bunge . The economic measures advocated by the Bunge school include a shaving of the demands of the export trade , which are judged to be out of proportion with internal needs : stabilization is recommended and , in some cases , perhaps a cut in export production until , after the war , the status of the traditional Argentine market is clear . At the same time , although very cautiously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of articles now imported in order to ease the demand in the internal market . But this last must be done carefully in order to avoid endangering the resumption of normal imports after the war . Clearly this is no program of vigorous expansion and change . On the contrary , it is carefully designed to preserve an already delicate equilibrium . It seeks to shore up and fortify the status quo , even to the extent of asking existing interests to submit to mild self-denying ordinances of various sorts . The preservation of the dominant vested interests in Argentina calls for strong political government and a willingness on the part of the shareholder to pare his dividend a little in order to avoid losing it altogether . The quintessence of the Bunge theory is distilled in the phrase : " To imbue the Administration , to a military degree , with the spirit of abnegation , efficiency , discipline and rank . " Bunge asked himself , as far back as 1940 , " Is it not possible that we need a change in our form of government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do , a bit too late , in 1938 ? Do n't we perhaps need a new constitution ? " He answered his own questions in words which make all too clear the events of the past few months : " We believe that our fundamental democracy does not compel us to lead a pernicious electioneering life , holding elections so often throughout the country ; nor that it compels us to suffer indefinitely to be represented by mediocrities , often out of touch with regional and national realities and with the corporative interests of our country . " This is the theory which forms the intellectual base of the fascist revolution in Argentina : II START was made in applying Bunge 's principles before the coup d'aat occurred . Diplomatic and commercial activity , initiated by Buenos Aires , was on the upgrade through 1940 . Accords were signed with several American republics providing for the exchange of Argentine products for those of other Latin-American nations . A most-favored-nation treaty was signed with Brazil on January 23 , 1940 , calling for limited free interchange and ample tariff concessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ February 18 , 1940 ; it became effective the following October . A similar agreement was made with Colombia on October 17 , 1940 ; and on December 20 , 1940 , another unconditional most-favored-nation treaty with Cuba . At the close of December , 1940 , the foreign ministers of Argentina and Uruguay met to consider the " possibility of establishing a customs union . " On October 6 , 1940 , the finance ministers of Argentina and Brazil signed at Rio several recommendations for progressively freer trade between the two countries . February 6 , 1941 , the representatives of Bolivia and Paraguay went to Buenos Aires . The results of their meetings with the Argentine representatives were : 1 . An Argentine-Bolivian treaty , stipulating that Argentina was to lend money to Bolivia for building a railroad between Yacuiba and Santa Cruz , and for drilling and operating oil wells in the Sanandita region . Also , funds were to he lent to Bolivia for building a pipeline from the Bermejo oilfields in Bolivia to Oran or another Argentine station on the Argentine Northern-Central Railroad . 2 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exit duties . 3 . A protocol to the Argentine-Bolivian boundary treaty of 1925. 4 . An accord among Argentina , Bolivia , and Paraguay for the study of utilization of the waters of the Pilcomayo River , to the benefit of the three parties concerned . 5 . A treaty between Argentina and Paraguay creating a fund for the stabilization of Paraguayan currency . It is significant that , in value of goods , Argentina was second only to the United States in respect to exports to Bolivia in 1939 . As for Paraguay , Argentina supplied 37 per cent of the value of its imports in 1939 , a figure which rose to 45 per cent in 1940 . The United States was in second place . The semi-dependence on Argentina of neighboring nations makes Buenos Aires the headquarters for any strategy concerning the southern extremity of the continent , p-inHE present war brought a violent clash among the groups in Buenos Aires which represent foreign capital and its Argentine allies . The total foreign investment in Argentina amounts to about two and a quarter billion dollars . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain . United States direct investments trail far behind ; according to Treasury Department figures these investments in 1943 were $311,000,000 . The remainder of the total is divided among France , Belgium , Switzerland , the Netherlands , Germany , and Italy ; it does not include the sums sent by Germany and her satellites as a hedge against defeat in the war . It is significant that the group which represents American investment has widespread popular support ? even though Yankee imperialism is not admired as against the British group , which is closely allied with the dictatorship . The upshot of the clash between these groups is the crisis which came to a head in 1940 and which steadily grows more acute . Argentine public opinion distinguishes sharply between British capital and the British people . Thus in 1940 , when fate seemed to frown on Allied arms , there was a panic in the United Nations group . The result of this panic was the Pinedo Plan . Dr. Federico Pinedo ? now a voluntary exile in Montevideo ? was Minister of Finance . Dr. Pinedo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take over all British investments , beginning with loans floated for the purpose in the United States , His plan provoked violent political repercussions . The groups whose interests arc closely tied to British capital SOME REAL TROUBLE were instant in their opposition . Foremost among them were the large cattle growers , whose resolution was fortified by the steady renewal of meat contracts by Britain . ( These were finally consolidated in the 1943 agreement through which Britain undertook to buy all the Argentine meat surplus available for export through the period ending September 30 , 1944 . Later similar agreements were signed with Brazil , Uruguay , and Paraguay , all of which depend in greater or lesser degree on the British packing plants in Argentina . The purchase price set for Argentine meat was the highest in eighteen years . ) The opposition to Pinedo 's plan promptly forced the Minister 's resignation . The illness and retirement from office of President Roberto Ortiz in July , 1940 , proved to be another advantage to those who subsequently brought in the dictatorship . This will become clear if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cattle raisers , the great landholders , and those in Buenos Aires whose interests are tied to the strongest foreign capital groups . The opposition has the support of the middle and lower classes in the provincial towns ; its overwhelming strength is in Buenos Aires , where it includes the middle class and the trade unions . Some years ago the opposition was split as a result of a quarrel among its leaders and one group went over to the conservatives . This produced the peculiar spectacle of a single party presenting an election ticket that included both liberal and conservative candidates . Such was the ease in 1937 when the conservatives won the national election , electing Roberto Ortiz , formerly of the opposition , as President and Ramon Castillo , a reactionary lawyer , as Vice-President . Elections in Argentina are notoriously corrupt and this particular election was no exception . The constitution provides that the federal government may intervene in the provinces for the preservation of public order , and this provision has been employed by the conservative landholders and cattle raisers again and again to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return majorities favorable to themselves . The country found itself in 1937 in position where all liberal and progressive action depended on the state of mind of Ortiz . Would he refrain from interference in subsequent provincial elections ? His views were antithetical to those of his Vice-President , Castillo . Would he remain firm in his opposition ? The answer turned out to be : no . Ortiz fell ill ; his eyesight began to fail . In July , 1940 ? when the Pinedo Plan crisis was at its height ? Ortiz relinquished his office in the hope of regaining his health and Castillo became President . This development put the conservatives firmly in the saddle and popular discontent rapidly increased . Castilla 's regime now found itself in a dilemma . Either it could represent the popular will , which was pro-United Nations , anti-British capital , and for industrial expansion in Argentina , or it could represent the status quo . If it chose the latter , electoral frauds of colossal dimensions would be necessary and it was questionable whether the Castillo government could bring them off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidacy of Robustiano Patron Costas , one of the most unpopular men in Argentina . The tension increased and it was clear that there would be outbreaks at the election . At this juncture the GOU ( Grupo de Oficiales Unificados or Group of United Officers ) , a clique of colonels who profoundly admired the direct-action tactics of the Nazis , took it upon itself to cut the Gordian knot . Castillo was overthrown . But Castillo did not fall because the GOU opposed his policies ; he fell because the continuity of his policies was endangered . HI p -- -auE coup d'etat came on June 4 , 1943 , and the present military dictatorship 14. was installed . By October 10th , according to Lewis L. Nettleton in the financial section of the New York Times , financial commentators in London had noticed the gains registered in the London market by Argentine railroad stocks " in view of the improved outlook for those companies . " In the middle of October , 1943 , a British delegation arrived in Buenos Aires . It was made up of Messrs . John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and directors of the most important British railroads in Argentina and of the Bank of London and South America . Mr. Eddy , in an interview given to La Nacion of Buenos Aires , said , " The war will come to an end , and we must be prepared . We come to see what rolling stock is needed , and what material for tracks and other installations . We have to prepare the railways for the postwar period . The other war brought about the competition of motor traffic . This one may bring about air competition . It is a timely moment to discuss with the men in the government Ramirez , etc. ways and means to come to an understanding for that purpose , which means better service and maintaining the usual channels for Argentine production , which must surely expand considerably in coming years . We shall stay two months , although we are ready to continue here as long as it is necessary to solve these problems completely . " Italics ours . A few days later a mixed commission of British delegates and Argentine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliberating upon postwar problems . One of the items upon which Bunge dwelt in his consideration of a customs union was the " monopoly of the world 's exportable production of iodin and tannin . " Neither in Argentina nor in the United States is the man in the street aware of situations of this sort . Therefore it created a sensation in both countries when the Chairman of the Senate Military Affairs Committee 's Subcommittee on War Mobilization , Senator Harley Kilgore , and the Assistant Attorney General , Mr. Wendell Berge , denounced the Argentine cartel which controls the production of tannin and limits the amount that is shipped to the United States . What is this cartel ? La Forestal Land , Timber and Railway Co. , controlled by British capital , is responsible for the production of 89 per cent of all the tannin in Argentina and Paraguay . The Argentine Navigation Company , Dodero &; Co. , Ltd. , controls practically all water transportation on the Paraguay , Parana , and Uruguay rivers , through which tannin leaves the country . This company is also British-controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operates with the authorization and acquiescence of the government of Argentina . " Ar THER sector of the supporters of the dictatorship is made up of those who , while thinking that Germany will lose the war , believe nevertheless that the democracies , with their typical liberal tolerance , will either permit a renascence of Germany after the war or will help promote a European economic bloc ( the old customs union idea ) which not only will not oppose Argentine expansion in South America but will need it for its own ends in that part of the world . Through the Aun6s Spanish mission , Argentina opened the doors of South America to all the dollar and pound sterling notes circulating in Europe at the outbreak of the war . In addition , a great current of European capital , chiefly German , has been funneling into Argentina and there expended mainly on public works . This capital is lent on a long-term basis . In one month the present government ordered highway construction worth 6 million pesos ; it has announced plans for cheap housing to cost 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earthquake leveled the city of San Juan , Genera ! Ramirez announced that the government would spend 500 million pesos to restore the town ; he did not say where the money was coming from ! ) It is estimated that the flow of this kind of European capital has reached a total of one billion reichsmarks . The Black List furnishes the names of many of the enterprises ( and their directors ) engaged in work of this character . Siemens-Bauunion and Weiss &; Freytag are in the forefront . Numerous outstanding personalities in the Ramirez regime were closely associated with these companies : General Basilic ) Pertine , mayor of Buenos Aires until the Axis break , is one ; Carlos Ibarguren is another . Incidentally , the publication of official statistics in Madrid presents an interesting sidelight on the present status of Argentine foreign trade . In 1939 Spain received , all told , a total of 115,682 tons of Argentine products . Spanish figures published at the beginning of 1944 reveal a startling change : the Spanish imports from Argentina for the year 1943 included 496 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meat , 2,599 tons of wheat flour , 4,212 tons of lentils , 1,128 tons of powdered milk , and 7,184 tons of beans . It is not to be supposed that these imports were all absorbed in Spain any more than it is to be supposed that Spanish industries supplied , for example , the cargo of the Spanish ship , the Monte Ayala , that docked at Buenos Aires in January , 1944 , with a cargo of 1,000 tons of steel and consignments of machinery , ink , and textiles . IV M EANTIME the GOU has been running Argentina . Since last , June democratic institutions have been destroyed and a police-dominated state has been organized . Directly the dictatorship was installed , presidential elections were postponed indefinitely . Congress was disbanded . Home rule in the provinces was done away with and military governors appointed who are responsible only to the federal government . Freedom of speech , freedom of the press and of public assembly are denied . Political parties , labor unions , and democratic organizations of all sorts have been dissolved . Individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right of habeas corpus . Compulsory religious teaching has been decreed for grade and high schools in violation of the constitution . Concentration camps have been established in the territories of Neuquen , Santa Cruz , and Chaco . More than 3,000 political and labor leaders are in jail or concentration camps . Others have had to flee abroad . The only thing yet undone is the creation of a single , official political party and of a Chamber of Corporations ; then the state machinery will be complete on the German , Italian , and Spanish model . But this last is a difficult problem . The dictatorship does n't have the popular following that Hitler and Mussolini had in their early days , the supporters who cheered them to power . For that reason the continental plans have had to be rushed . If the Ramirez dictatorship can deal successfully with those in the neighboring countries whose interests coincide , the regime can buttress itself even though popular support at home is lacking . So , building upon the foundations already laid during the Castillo administration , the dictatorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no difficult task . Paraguay is a dependency of Argentina and of the European capital which functions through Argentina . Higinio Morinigo is a dictator of antidemocratic origin . He chose to destroy the bloom of " honoris causa " at Fordham University by also accepting a degree at Buenos Aires . This acceptance was the GOU 's first victory in the Hemisphere . Significantly enough , there was an attempted revolution in Paraguay on January 26th , the very day Argentina broke with the Axis . General Morinigo suppressed the rebellion with ease and then telegraphed to headquarters ? Buenos Aires ? that the government and people of Paraguay had " joyously " received the news of the " transcendental Argentina decision whereby relations with the Axis have been broken . " Next , the Argentine Foreign Minister , General Alberto Gilbert , gave an interview to the correspondent of the Chilean daily , La Mora of Santiago . In this interview , which was given in the presence of the Chilean Ambassador , Conrado Rios Gallardo , General Gilbert suggested a customs union with Chile . After blaming the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ badly needed in South America , he said : " War has opened our eyes to our own continental possibilities in South America , and the postwar period will give us an opportunity to explore them . " Present plans call for the building of highways and railroads and the drilling of a new tunnel through the Andes for motor traffic . The expropriation of the American-owned streetcar company in Tucuman , the varioussteps against the American-owned or - controlled electric companies , and finally the announcement of a possible nationalization of the telephone companies controlled by the International Telephone and Telegraph Company all lend strength to the belief that a definite plan has been in operation . Del ' there was one weak spot in the plan ? for the establishment of a Customs Union of the South as a focus of opposition to the United States and the nations in the hemisphere friendly to the United States . That weakness lay in the fact that Argentina was short of military equipment while other South American nations ? notably Brazil ? were arming with great rapidity . As a first move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ via Lend-Lease . The request was abruptly refused . Next it was publicly stated in Santiago de Chile that Argentina was sounding out Spain with a view to obtaining arms in exchange for agricultural products . It is now known that arms have been coming into Buenos Aires and that these arms do not come from Spanish or Axis sources . Toward the end of 1943 several elaborate air-raid drills were conducted in Buenos Aires . These served the purpose of exhibiting publicly all kinds of modern weapons . The drills had to be cut short because the city was flooded with anti-Ramirez leaflets during the blackouts . Then came the overthrow of Pefiaranda in Bolivia and public opinion in the United States was at last jolted into paying attention . But here again the papers were so absorbed with " Nazi plots " that they failed to grasp the significance of what was going on . Meantime the propaganda of the GOU has been denounced in the Chilean parliament ; it is charged that the GOU is attempting to foster a Chilean coup d'etat . Similar rumors are flooding Uruguay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force of habit ? to Luis Alberto de Herrera and the fascists who are his followers . There is no country in Latin America that does not harbor some groups , however small , that sympathize with the GOU , Ramirez , and the anti-United States policy of the present Argentine government . The great mass of the Argentine people has seen the cost of living soar to unprecedented heights , while wage and salary increases have been hardly noticeable . Farmers , medium and small manufacturers , laborers and clerks , professionals and public servants had been clamoring for raw materials , measures against speculation , co-operation with the United Nations , and similar steps . In such cooperation these people saw a possible solution for the problems arising from fifty years of an economic policy tied to the European market . These hopes were smashed by the coup d ' etat and they are in no way raised by the break with the Axis . The union between native fascists and foreign finance is as strong as it ever was . oven is the danger that confronts the Hemisphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which stopped sanctions against Italy during the Abyssinian crisis , which supplied Japan for its attack on China , which helped Franco against Spain , are now all hearts-andflowers toward the fascist regime in Argentina . They encourage it ; they lend it diplomatic aid ; they put their money there in order to establish a bridgehead in the Americas against such forces of honest democracy as may be . Argentina is not a country isolated from the world , nor is its foreign policy -- or its domestic policy either ? native to the southern shore of the River Plate . On the contrary , it is now , as it always has been , dominated by what happens in Europe . It is conceivable that this tendency might be reversed ; that Argentina might grow in stature and influence in free association with the nations of this Hemisphere . But as things are now there is no promise that this will occur .                     