@@431226

 | No Revolt in Europe  - -  Unless We Promote It ! Condensed from The American Mercury Jan Valtin MOST AMERICANS , I learned during a recent nation-wide lecture tour , believe it is only a matter of time before the subjugated peoples of Europe , goaded beyond endurance , will rise in revolt . The weakened German army will not be able to stem the desperate tide . A democratic counter-revolution will doom Hitler 's rule of tyranny . It is true that the 2oo,00o,00o Europeans under German occupation outnumber their guards 7o to one . Yet how could the people of France , for instance , despoiled and disunited , succeed in an uprising ? They could not , the Nazis say . Their insurrection would be drowned in blood . The Nazis are correct . Americans overlook the funda -- mental fact that when oppressed people are subjected to protracted famine and terrorism they lose the fitness to revolt . Fatigue and bleak resignation replace their fighting spirit . Americans also fail to realize tl revolutions do not just " break out like great battles , they are organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all German occupied countries there must strong , ably led blocs of trained revolutionists . There must be arms in the hands of the anti-Nazis . Finally , t Nazi military and industrial appeartus must be brought to an advance stage of disintegration ? war-wear soldiers longing for . home , lack of manpower , broken-down railways , machines worn out beyond repair . The achievement of these ends requires consistent application of the science of revolution ? tested , specific laws formulated by Karl Marx and first successfully applied by Lenin in the Bolshevist revolution  | of 1917 . The revolt of 1918 , which knocked Germany out of the war , was a mild imitation of the Russian technique of strikes , mutinies and sudden seizure of key points in major cities . America and Britain can and must adopt at once this tried technique of organizing revolution . A European uprising against Nazi tyranny will succeed only if we make ourselves its engineers . The British have already partially demonstrated what can be done , especially in the broadcasting field . Their first task was to build a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared programs designed to attract their countrymen at home . Advertising men were drafted to work out programs with the appeal of American commercial broadcasts . Another ingenious idea is the " rumor campaign . " Through secret agents , disturbing rumors are started in Germany . For example , in the Baltic port cities anti-Nazi agents began a gossip campaign to keep German housewives from buying canned fish from Norway , whispering that the fish had been poisoned by eating the bodies of German soldiers killed in an invasion attempt on Scotland . Some 48 hours later that rumor had gone from housewife to housewife as far south as Munich , halfway across Germany . Families already strictly rationed tightened their belts and avoided canned fish for weeks . The British work closely with European underground groups . Agents are dropped over Europe from RAF planes . Although the British naturally will not admit it , the Germans claim that the men who killed Reinhard ( " The Hangman " ) Heydrich , deputy Gestapo chief , were Czech agents armed and parachuted into Czechoslovakia by the British . Poles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is possible to send a query from London to Czechoslovakia and get an answer back within 48 hours . Illegal newspapers flourish in Poland , Czechoslovakia , Holland and Occupied France . Despite these efforts , not nearly enough is being done . Underground groups in occupied countries are in desperate need of material aid . Against machine guns their hammers and pitchforks are useless . Their casualty rate is terrible , necessitating constant replacement of leaders . It is quite possible to send aid . The 18 , oo0 miles of European coastlines invite it . Hundreds of small craft could be piloted at night by patriots familiar with every bay and fjord . They could carry messages and funds , instructions and arms , trained reinforcements , dynamite , radio sets , miniature printing presses , and new sabotage gadgets . Back to United Nations harbors they would carry spy reports , underground leaders summoned abroad to map out future action , and anti-  | Nazis anxious to learn the technique of conspiracy . At present there are no schools in democratic countries teaching revolutionary technique ? yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only skillful specialists in conspirative action can survive underground . To be truly effective , sabotage must become a mass movement involving millions of workers . The detailed techniques of wrecking and obstruction must be constantly expounded over British and American radio stations and in handbills dropped over Nazi-infested countries . Water filtering into barges loaded with grain , for example , will make the cargo swell to three times its normal size and burst the ship 's seams . Water mixed with gasoline ruins it as fuel for planes , trucks and tanks . Water mixed with potassium produces highly inflammable hydrogen , plus the heat required to touch it off alongside a Nazi-held factory . A few simple instructions widely circulated in subjugated Europe could teach the art of wrecking machines . A handful of ground glass or emery dust thrown into lubricating oil disables a mine hoist or a locomotive . Five pounds of sand sprinkled in a battleship 's bearings puts her out of commission . Grit planted in motor valves causes tanks to bog down and bombers to make forced landings . " Forget " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off valves in oil pipelines while the pumps are working and the lines will burst . Oil-soaked rags left in obscure factory closets sometimes burst into flame . So do shut-in coal cargoes if sprinkled with water on warm days . The patriots of oppressed Europe need explosives in large quantities . These must be smuggled in from the United Nations , together with instructions for their use . A 1o-inch stick of dynamite connected to a detonator and a two-minute fuse can tear a truck asunder or blast a railway line . Ten sticks will wreck one end of a strong bridge ; 20 will bring down the roof of a tunnel . In this way Polish saboteurs recently blew up a railway bridge in the Bialystok area , disrupting a vital Nazi supply lane to the Russian front . Such feats on a small scale have little more than nuisance value . They must be expanded a hundredfold to bring about a decisive breakdown of the 13o,00o miles of railways under Nazi control . Polish workers in Nazi munitions factories put sand into bombs instead of TNT . Czech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ molten steel so that guns became useless after the first few shots . Widely publicized , such acts inspire duplication elsewhere . During the Austrian disorders preceding the assassination of Chancellor Dollfuss , the Nazis used little steel wedges to derail passing locomotives . Small enough to be hidden under a man 's coat , these wedges were more efficient in railroad sabo-  | tage than clumsy barricades or even bombs . They are now being used by the underground against Nazi troop and supply trains . Their wholesale distribution throughout occupied Europe by airplane would soon result in a serious barrage of blows against all German supply lines . Saboteurs must be taught to single out strategic spots . It is more effective to wreck a locomotive in a tunnel than on the open track . It hurts the Nazis more when loaded barges are sunk in locks instead of in the open reaches of inland waterways . Destroying signal lights and telegraph wires between railway stations often causes greater delays than blasting tracks at a single point . Stretching a cable across a highway at night to overturn a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land mines . " Delayed sabotage " is organized wrecking made to look like unfortunate accidents . Fine piston rings imperceptibly oracked by a skilled mechanic will bring the engine to grief when it is put under stress . Rivets can be put into place so that they will loosen under the first real strain . Oil gauges can be fixed to show a full supply when the tanks are almost empty . The Gestapo may shoot hostages and deport people living near the scene of sabotage only as long as it has not become a mass movement ? wholesale arrests in key industries would mean total stoppage of production . It is powerless to deal with such mass sabotage as general slowdown in industry , petty waste of materials , lack of precision in making machine parts . Reducing crops to the needs of home consumption , hiding food , strewing glass along highways used by German motorized columns , pasting wrong labels on shipments are similar methods . From years of conspirative work I know that for full effectiveness underground units must be centrally led , and their striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Occupied France not one knows what all the others are doing . One way to overcome this lack of unity would be to invite all underground leaders to a secret conference to draft a program of concerted action , backed by material aid from abroad . An underground messenger service could function thereafter as liaison among the separate organizations . No high command of revolution can afford to ignore the potential strength of millions of anti-Nazi trade unionists in Germany and the conquered countries . These men have footholds in Nazi-held factories everywhere ; and their leaders , now mostly in exile , enjoy the unconditional trust of the rank and file at home . Trained as they are in collective action , they are indispensable to a democratic revolt against Hitler . Nor should we neglect the possibilities of directing defeatist propaganda against the Nazi garrisons in occupied countries . Remember that  | deserters from army and navy , mutineers with guns in their hands , have always played a decisive role in modern revolutions . Of equal importance are the organized Catholics , 2o,000,00o of them Germans . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in occupied Europe because it was centrally directed and because it could draw upon centuries of experience . Catholics have methods of communication unavailable to others . The democracies must not simply promise the patriots of Europe succor and liberation ; we must give them continuous education in revolutionary technique ; we must tell them exactly what they can do to free themselves . Our propaganda must be ceaseless , all-pervading , inescapable . It must crackle from scores of United Nations senders 24 hours a day . Propaganda designed for German consumption must have a new approach . Appealing to the " decent " elements is utterly futile after nine years of Nazi rule ; pro-democratic exhortations make most Germans guffaw with contempt . The only propaganda effective against Germany is that which concentrates on the creation of a defeatist spirit . Germans are perhaps the worst losers in the world . Their greatest weakness in wartime is their aversion to playing a game they are not certain of winning . When they are convinced that they can not win the war their morale will crack . Those who direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans are neither stoical nor stolid . They are essentially sentimental and subject to wild fluctuations between exultant savagery and tearful submission . Propaganda that will undermine their morale must be of a threatening nature , consistently pugnacious , and endlessly repetitive . This is the language Germans have been trained to understand and respect . The destructive bombing raids on German cities are being accompanied by broadcast promises that the raids will continue until Hitler is overthrown . Such broadcasts to Germany ? repeating Churchill 's warning that the only way the German people can escape the terror is to get out into the fields and watch their home fires burning , leaving their factories and workshops idle ? should be endlessly continued , until the Nazis are utterly disillusioned with their dream of world domination . Until then , from Norway to Greece , the indomitable patriots on the underground front must have our help in preparing for the day of revolt . Their efforts will come to nothing unless Britain and America take the responsibility now of putting weapons of deliverance into their hands .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        