@@494299

World Government in Practice WHEN ERNEST BEVIN said in the House of Com- mons that in an atomic age , national sovereignty must be merged in a genuine international government , and when he was seconded by Anthony Eden , who also recommended the abolition of the veto power by a single member of the UNO Council , the world heard the first recommendation of real federalism on the part of responsible statesmen of any of the great nations . The project has , of course , received a good deal of strong approval from advanced groups in Britain , the United States and other countries . Has the formation of a world government with a democratic legislature and executive now become a matter for practical action ? It is easy to say " we must ? or else , " but more difficult to know how to proceed or to provide enough competence for such a government so that it can be anything more than the formal expression of a high aim . The same Ernest Bevin now sanctions military cooperation with the Dutch government in using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down Indonesians fighting for democracy and independence . He replies to American critics that this activity is under United Nations authority and that the British commander in the area gets his orders from General MacArthur . Anthony Eden would doubtless have taken the same course had he been in power . The United States Government , which is one of the chief spokesmen for democracy on an international scale , is accused of bungling and lack of direction in its unilateral attempt to introduce democracy in Japan . Its troops are actively supporting the Kuomintang dictatorship in China , as against the proposal for a unified democratic system . These incidents are not simply evidences of bad faith ; they are examples of the difficulty of making and executing properly good governmental policies from a central authority over large and distant areas of the earth . If even such experienced and convinced governments as those of Britain and the United States can go so far astray in important practical matters , what assurance have we that a world government with supreme authority would be a bulwark of peace and freedom ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of world unity , which is so necessary in principle . Obviously , we must immediately delegate some sovereignty to a UNO agency with power to police the use of atomic energy . In a longer term , we must work toward international government of other matters also . But it is clear that if we are to succeed , we must do more than utter noble principles . We must develop the ability to handle the intricate and difficult problems which are involved . Not the least of these is the cultivation of democracy in many of the states which must be represented in the federal legislature . No such legislature can be given much power so long as the principle of representation is equal voting for all existing nations , whether great or small . But , assuming that an acceptable principle of representation could be worked out , how could we compose a democratic assembly in which a non-democratic China and Russia could probably outvote Britain , the United States and all the democracies of Western Europe ? What should be done about the great areas of Latin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the substance of free citizenship or the economic and cultural means to exercise it ? Finally , is there not some way to introduce democracy of a genuine character to the vast colonial populations , instead of shooting them when they demand it ? Muddle in Germany Day by day , the utter failure of Allied policy toward Germany , and American policy in particular , becomes more apparent . The United States , Great Britain , France and Russia are working largely at cross purposes ; and even within our own zone , we arc pursuing simultaneously half a dozen contradictory and incompatible policies . What we ought to do seems reasonably clear : we should punish the Nazis , destroy their power and make sure that Germany 's war potential is abolished for all time . We should also , however , give the non-Nazi Germans a chance for life , so that the country does not become one vast , permanent slum infecting all Europe . But instead of this , what do we find ? We find American civilian and military personnel who never were and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in important jobs . We find American businessmen , masquerading as members of AMG , protecting German industries which were formerly partners of their own , even when these industries have cartel affiliations and are definitely part of the German war machine . We find slack discipline among American soldiers , resulting in actions which , as a United States intelligence report remarked this week , are causing a rising tide of hatred of Americans among German civilians that is ominous for the future . Byron Price , former head of the Associated Press and director of the Office of Censorship , just spent ten weeks in Germany and has now made a report to President Truman which is a curious mingling of right and wrong . Obviously , he is right when he says that we must get food into Germany to minimize the starvation that will take place this winter . He is also right when he says we must give the Germans something to hope for and a basis for ultimate self-respect . He seems to us wrong when he insists that France is primarily responsible for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole even as to communications ; France could not maintain this policy for a day against the united opposition of the Big Three . He is wrong in saying that the Germans can not survive on less than 2 , , 000 calories a day ; during the war whole nations under the German yoke survived at a far lower level . And finally , he is dead wrong in saying that we should slow down the pace of denazification . On the contrary , at any cost , that pace should be speeded up . Labor-Management Relations Labor and management are not yet ready to agree on the need for higher wages without price increases , on means of arbitrating disputes when contracts have expired , on the process and scope of fact-finding to illuminate these issues , on discipline under contracts and other issues . They did , in their Washington conference , agree on collective bargaining with genuine unions , on adjustment of disputes arising under contracts and on minor matters . They separated , not in anger but with the understanding that it might be possible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrashed out in the field of action . Disappointing as this outcome is , it underlines the progress in labor 's status which has been registered in the past quarter-century . In 1919 , President Wilson called a similar conference . Among the " representatives of the public " were Judge Elbert H. Gary , chairman of U. S. Steel , and John D. Rockefeller . The employers insisted that collective bargaining include bargaining with company unions , and of course no agreement was reached . The conference broke up over the employers ' refusal to back arbitration of the great steel strike , then in progress . Management 's attitude was taken as a declaration of war against unionism . A nationwide " open-shop " campaign followed . Automobiles , steel and other basic industries had to wait years for unionization , and great strikes , fought to protect the very existence of labor organization , had occurred or were soon to occur in railroads , steel , coal and many other fields . Tax Policy With most of what William Withers says in his article , " Tax Policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this issue , we are in agreement . There is little intelligent fiscal planning behind the new tax reduction . If the reduction is advisable , it should have relieved lower incomes more , profits less . Yet Mr. Withers himself is perhaps taking a long shot by putting his money on deflation and increasing unemployment in 1945 . For the time being we are seeing , and shall continue to see , conflicting tendencies . As peacetime production grows , employment will increase , but at the same time , as the armed forces are demobilized , unemployment will increase . In some markets , shortages will bring higher prices ; in others , surpluses will force prices down . Whether in the course of the year either general inflation or general deflation will take hold is extremely difficult to predict . Governmental fiscal policy should be ready with more spending if the main course is downward ; it should also be ready to check too rapid an expansion of purchasing power . At the moment , rising prices seem to us the more rely . Reconversion , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than was expected , and is now rising . Retail sales continue at the war level or above . Even if people are not spending their billions of war savings , they seem to be spending a larger percentage of their current income than in recent years . It is quite possible that before 1945 is over , income will be sufficient to buy , at existing prices , all that can then be produced . The real danger of deflation may lie several years in the future . Full Employment The next two weeks will decide the fate of the full-employment bill which President Truman has asked Congress to pass . The House Expenditures Committee is finally completing its long-drawn-out hearings and is expected to send a substitute to the floor which will not measure up to the original Murray-Patman bill in any important respect . The basic principle of the original735 bill was that the government should underwrite full employment . By its terms , the government accepted responsibility for assuring full employment and for creating the necessary machinery to bring it about . The substitute bill fathered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this . It vaguely approves " high-level employment " and loans and public works as a means of obtaining it . The members of the House of Representatives have a chance to change this weak substitute on the floor if they sincerely favor jobs for all . Labor and progressive lobbyists have been pounding Capitol corridors for weeks to make sure that Ebert ' members are prepared to fight for strengthening amendments . If this move fails , there is a last chance in the conference committee . Under congressional rules , this committee could write a completely new bill for submission to the two Houses , since the measure put before the House is completely different from that passed by the Senate . Pressure directed at these two points is still needed . Have you written your letters for full employment ? KUthe Kollwitz Is Dead News has come from Germany that lathe Kollwitz , one of the few German artists widely admired and exhibited in this country , died some few weeks ago at the age of 78 in a small town in the Harz Mountains . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lived long enough to witness the collapse of the Nazi regime . More than any other contemporary artist of world standing , Kithe Kollwitz was the silent voice of protest against the wretchedness of the lives of the common people . Her sensitive portrayal of human poverty was matched by the indomitable spirit shown in her drawings of man 's revolt against his fate . Probably best remembered are the sketches of the dance around the guillotine , the weavers ' uprising and the peasant wars . The tenderness and feeling of her art stand as a monument of dissent from the brutality that engulfed her people . 