@@492121

AT SEVEN O'CLOCK , on the sparkling morning of January twenty-ninth , the Pan American Airways terminal in Rio de Janeiro was filling rapidly with homing diplomats , bound for a dozen lands to the north . Oswaldo Aranha , Brazil 's foreign minister , his linen suit faintly corrugated , after a successful night-long wrestle with the Peru-Ecuador boundary dispute , was scattering his famous charm and his good-byes in four languages . I was watching those uncompromising airline scales , I had come to this Pan-American conference with my exact allotment of sixty-six pounds , and now the arrow pointed to sixty-seven . I knew what the trouble was  --  it was a mass of sixty-six long mimeographed pages , entitled Final Act of the Third Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics . I had watched the painful birth of each item and felt I knew those forty-one resolutions and six reservations by heart , but in line of duty ? and in the knowledge that CBS would stand that extra charge anyway  --  I paid up , and lugged the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Miami takes four days , and there was plenty of time to read it , and time to think back over the feverish two weeks of the conference itself . The more one thought about it , the more one realized that , the hasty decision of many North American publicists to the contrary , Sumner Welles had not been done in the eye by Argentina , but had helped bring about the greatest measure of international co-operation this hemisphere had ever known  --  on the purely diplomatic plane , in spirit , and on paper . But what struck even deeper was the realization that on another plane , the plane of economic and military realities , the United States had taken on a commitment of fantastic complexities . In return for a unanimous agreement of twenty nations to break commercial ties with the Axis , an almost unanimous agreement to break diplomatic relations , a joint agreement to try to root out Axis agents everywhere , we have pledged ourselves not only to help maintain the faltering economic systems by which 120,000,000 persons live , and to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , physically to protect them from attack by the Axis . The case for Mr. Welles ' diplomacy seemed clearly established by the final day of the conference . You read much about Argentina forcing us to a compromise wording of the resolution to break off diplomatic relations . The final version stated that the foreign ministers agreed merely to " recommend " to their governments that relations be broken . Some of my colleagues who have lived a long time in Buenos Aires , and thus acquired the normal anti-Argentina obsession , declared their belief that Argentina " has directed this conference . " But even Padilla , the magnificent Mexican , most outspoken of all in his scorn for Argentina 's pettifogging neutrality , was profoundly convinced of Welles ' justification in proclaiming the conference a real success . 27 Compromise we did . Charles Evans Hughes once said , as Secretary of State , " Anybody who claims a diplomatic victory ' has been partially defeated , The idea is to satisfy everybody . " Looking back now , it seems obvious that we did fail , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Axis the psychological blow this conference made possible . William Philip Simms , who was there , put it this way : " This was supposed to be good theater . We muffed it " ? meaning we correspondents from the United States . But it really was n't our fault . This is what happened : We arrived in Rio , having been assured from on high that our Government was determined to get a break-off with the Axis on the part of the whole continent  --  and determined to let Argentina go her own lonesome way if she balked . Diplomatic Seesaw W E WROTE that , and proclaimed it into the microphone . Foreign Minister Ruiz Guinazu arrived from Buenos Aires with calculated tardiness , and stalked  --  the verb is the only possible one  --  into the Hotel Gloria , which is several miles from the Copacabana , where most other delegations stayed . His associates , several of whom were openly pro-Nazi , issued hints that Argentina would defy Mr. Welles , come what might . Ruiz Guinazu scheduled a press conference for us , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporters waiting an hour and a half . The American correspondents maintained their dignity and principles by refusing to wait .. Relations were strained very thin . Twice a day we met with Sumner Welles , who spoke with utmost frankness . Ruiz Guinazu was proving very sticky indeed . Brazil came to our aid . Aranha talked turkey , we heard , to Ruiz Guinazu , and we learned that Dictator-President Getulio Vargas himself had sent personal messages to the acting president , Castillo , in Buenos Aires . The pressure on the Argentine foreign minister was intense , and as the days went by he seemed to be wilting fast . Then one evening as we hung wearily about the Foreign Ministry , chucking crumbs to the swans in the lagoon , becoming slightly ill on the thick black coffee which white-garbed attendants nagged out at intervals , the doors opened , and Sumner Welles marched briskly out , grinning  --  if Welles can ever be said to grin . He whispered , " See you at the hotel . " We piled in to see Aranha first , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions , but obviously the thing was fixed . As we left , we noticed Obstructionist Number Two , Rosetti of Chile , slumped in a high-backed chair , attempting a wan smile . Over cables and microphones we poured out the happy story to the world , as Sumner Welles told it to us . Not only Rosetti but Ruiz Guinazu had formally agreed to a version which stated flatly that the American Republics " can not continue " diplomatic relations with the Axis . The next day we saw Welles again . Once more he was pale and haggard , and what he had to say made us feel sick as well . We were all out on the longest , slenderest limb imaginable . For at midnight , President Castillo in Buenos Aires had informed Ruiz Guinazu that he absolutely refused to accept the agreed-upon wording . In effect , he disauthorized his own foreign minister , who supposedly had come to Rio with full powers to act in his government 's name . Everything had to start all over . We had to try to explain to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first propaganda battle merely by sitting still , and Argentina was getting the spotlight she craved . We all looked foolish . Now , we thought , our threat will be carried out , and Argentina can uo her own way . But it was not carried out , the dickering went on and on , over words and phrases . Padilla , the stirring evangelist of the conference , called it a " peguefio drama gramatiral . " As the hot , exhausting days went by , one country after another broke with the Axis on its own , rather than wait for a dramatic , collective break at the final session . At the weary end , the resolution merely " recommended " the break , but Argentina and Chile did sign it . Why did we compromise ? In the first place , it is possible that our threat to isolate Argentina was never more than a threat  --  just barely possible . But as nearly as we could later discover , a serious problem concerning the South American balance of military power had intervened in mid-conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading powers to the south , have long feared each other . Brazil has always felt that close friendship with Chile , on the other side of Argentina , was essential to her security . Now Brazil began to realize that Chile was in Argentina 's pocket , as far as this conference was concerned . The military leaders of Brazil became alarmed ; they foresaw the loss of a potential ally . What was happening was that Brazil herself was in danger of military , if not diplomatic , isolation . So we were obliged to compromise to reassure our best friend in the south . Was that defeat ? Not in the mind of Welles , who reasons that Argentina and Chile are with us in words , and that we went to Rio with no guaranty that we would have even those words from them . And all the others are with us in action , even though that action was not taken with the proper timing . " Hemisphere unity , " in the words of Welles , has been maintained  --  settling of the century-old Peru-Ecuador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after all , the basic idea is to achieve not a victory over Argentina , but a victory over Hitler . The Test of Events The conference had scarcely ended when its product began to meet the test of dramatic events . A pro-United States president was elected in Chile . But then Singapore fell , Java and Australia were menaced , and Latin Americans waited to see if Welles ' assurance at the opening ceremonies that " control of the Pacific Ocean itself rests with the Allied fleets " would hold good . German submarines penetrated our Caribbean defenses east of the Panama Canal and shelled Aruba . A Brazilian ship , the Buarque , was torpedoed and sunk . Another , the Olinda , f ollowed her . It was obvious that these attacks would not weaken the anti-Axis position of either Venezuela or Brazil  --  their choice had been made . If anything , attacks like these would only increase the possibility of their declaring war on the Axis . Three weeks after the conference ended , Chile and Argentina had not yet accepted their own recommendation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought the Japanese victories had frightened both governments . State Department experts were sure , however , that the Chilean government was merely waiting for its congress to convene . As to Argentina , though Castillo certainly would like to remain nicely balanced on the fence , there was not only Japan 's strengthened position in the Pacific to worry about . There was something else : we had just sent three gunboats to Montevideo , at the invitation of the courageous Uruguayan government . If you look on a map you will see that warships in Montevideo can control the passage of all vessels to and from Buenos Aires . Our friendly fingers are merely tickling the sensitive throat of Argentina . Castillo knows they could close hard at any moment . Any hopes that might have arisen in Buenos Aires when a pro-Nazi minority  --  the Herreristas  --  tried a coup , must have collapsed with the abortive attempt . Palace Drama And so , twenty-four hours after Singapore fell , Welles felt justified in predicting , in a New York speech , that Chile and Argentina would " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle , on paper , the conference succeeded . If you had witnessed the final session in the Tiradentes Palace , you would understand the victory in spirit . To a crowded amphitheater , Aranha proclaimed Brazil 's break with the Axis , in a fiery speech . Coming after so much delay , when we from the north had been getting nervous about Brazil  --  coming in spite of threats of war from Berlin and Tokyo , and heavy pressure from Argentina and Chile  --  this oration brought most of the crowd of diplomats to their feet . The heady feeling of courage and defiance began to germinate in the place . There were spontaneous cries of " Padilla ! Padilla ! " The graceful , handsome Mexican , who speaks from the heart in human terms , who thinks big thoughts of a League of Western Nations , talked slowly and simply . I stood near the rostrum , facing the rows of delegates . Sumner Welles , whom the American public erroneously thinks of as a cold man , obviously was stirred to the depths of his being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Groton and Harvard listened to a pure Indian , a man who not long ago was a ragged revolutionist . Padilla looked Rosetti and Ruiz Guinazu straight in the eyes , called their countries by name , and as he appealed to them in the name of brotherhood , the crowd was transfixed , and little beads of sweat glistened on the brows of those two unhappy men . If there is any spiritual core to Pan-Americanism , we were seeing it laid bare at this moment . The most casehardened correspondents from Washington pushed out of the Tiradentes with a good feeling inside them . Regardless of words and phrases , we knew then that no previous Pan-American meeting had reached this height . All this was fine . It was grand . But as my seaplane droned along the jungle-covered coasts of Brazil , a feeling of unreality was growing , a sensation of having walked in a dream for the past two weeks . With a start , I realized that my colleagues and I had utterly forgotten about the war itself , had forgotten the existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a hundred corridor and casino conversations I had not once heard a serious discussion of the fighting in the Far East . It was that which had brought this conference about , and it was exactly that which the conference seemed to forget . Rio was partly responsible . In that lazy , tepid , tropical atmosphere , it was impossible to move rapidly or think sharply . We had been almost surfeited with the famous Brazilian hospitality . For the few dozen Brazilian families who count , this had been a social occasion . Most vivid , and most unreal of all , was the reception given by President Vargas , in the Guanabara Palace , While this five-foot , amiable dictator smiled from the top of a marble stairway , a thousand guests drifted through seductive gardens . Colored fountains were playing , the music of hidden orchestras came from the palm groves , a lovely ballet group in white was dancing . I remembered the wisecrack of smart Brazilians : " Brazil does n't want war ; Brazil does n't want peace ; Brazil just wants to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was temporarily kept from the Rio public by the clever Dr. Lourival Fontes , Propaganda Minister , because the annual carnival was on ! ) But Brazil was courting war , and from the point of view of military and naval strategy , Brazil is South America . One has only to look at the map to understand that . It is true despite Chile 's exposed coast line on the west , where Japanese attacks could only be hit-and-run raids . We are , in effect , now pledged to defend Brazil . At the opening session of the conference , Sumner Welles affirmed that " the arsenal of democracy continues mindful of its hemisphere responsibilities . " That means that most of whatever planes and guns we can squeeze out for South America must go to Brazil . I had thought only vaguely about the chances of Brazil really needing weapons in this war until one afternoon when I did something I should n't have done . On a wayward , reportorial impulse , I walked into the German Embassy in Rio . A panel of frosted glass was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a burly guard whom Nature intended as a corrective influence over the inmates of a concentration camp . ( Two weeks later Rio police discovered a radio transmitter installed behind secret doors in the embassy , a transmitter capable of reaching Berlin . ) The ambassador was out , and his startled secretary received me . Out of habitual diplomatic politeness , he apologized because men in shirt sleeves were rushing back and forth . " We expect the break in relations before the day is over , " he said . Then he got a bit heated . " They told us over and over again that they would never break , " he said , " and now they are yielding to all this American influence and American money . " " What are you going to do  --  declare war on Brazil ? " I asked . He looked at me boldly and said , " A declaration of war is not always necessary before one acts , is it not so ? " He was certain , and later I discovered many astute Anglo-Saxon observers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this lying down . There are some two million Germans in Brazil . Berlin has always looked on Brazil as its greatest potential plum overseas . For years the Nazis have been pouring money , organizers and propaganda into the German centers of Brazil , chiefly in the southern provinces . Their pilots have plotted and photographed every potential air and naval base on the endless and virtually unprotected coast line of Brazil . I left the German Embassy , convinced that the news story in South America was just beginning with the end of the conference ; convinced , on the basis of what I had seen of the fifth column in far-better-organized countries , such as France and Holland , that Brazil was in for serious trouble . Trouble that the United States would be obliged to help her quell . I went first to one of Rio 's new skyscrapers , built of shining purplish stone , the War Department . It is far grander than our own War Department , though Brazil 's regular army totals little more than 100,000 men . Their Navy Department building is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now that Brazil 's government was a government of five or six personalities , no more , that our position there rests to a large extent upon the changeable beliefs of these individuals , who themselves may be suddenly changed . I went to see the man of second or third importance , because he runs the army , Genera Goes Monteiro , Chief . of Staff- Three pictures adorn the walls of his comfortable anteroom  --  photographs of Vargas , Henry Stimson and General George Marshall . A good sign , but only a sign . It was common knowledge that Gees held the Grand Cross of the German Eagle . It was common knowledge that Gees , each time the Germans won a battle , insisted to Vargas that the Allies were doomed . People in the streets commonly referred to G6es and Gaspar Dutra , the Minister of War , as pro-Nazi . What was not common knowledge , what I had just learned on certain authority , was that both G6es and Gaspar Dutra had submitted their resignations in protest against the impending break with the Axis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profess unconcern ; they put their trust in Vargas completely . Nevertheless , American military men in Brazil would have breathed much easier if these two were allowed to depart . But Brazil 's government , let me repeat , is one of personalities , who are there because they owe one another something . It is a nice balance of personal power . General Gees is an old crony of Vargas and Aranha , and helped them put over the revolution of 1930 . Conditions in Brazil While the only military mission operating in Brazil today is our own , another item of common knowledge is that many Brazilian officers are proNazi  --  are , in fact , of German origin themselves . That is true of the police system as well . Rio 's chief of police is named Muller . The Brazilian naval officer in command at the most strategic base of all , Natal , the point nearest Dakar , makes no bones about his dislike of the British . Three weeks before the conference opened , General Gees made a misstep and certain American circles thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain that at heart he was not really anti-United States . In so doing , he revealed to them secret information which our officers had helped compile . The latter took that as a breach of confidence , and made an issue of it , but Aranha , I was told , saved the general . . General Gees is a big , loosely built man , rather sloppily dressed . We talked for an hour . He was kindly and informative . All my suggestions that there might be serious trouble from the fifth column he answered with a fatherly smile , intended to he reassuring . He made one admission which was startling , since it came from . him . He said he thought there were at least one million persons in his country capable of having what he called a spy mentality . He insisted these persons would cause no trouble for the time being , but then he said  --  and this is worth remembering , I think  --  that should Hitler take Northwest Africa and Dakar , that would be the signal for an uprising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unworried about the result . The official belief is that the fifth column has no weapons . I did not venture to inquire about the fifth column within his army . Furthermore , General Gees contends that he has battalions and companies placed in every locality where Nazi cells are known to exist . He called in two officers of his general staff , who brought a big map . It showed , by a complicated set of symbols , the location and strength of each pro-Nazi group inside Brazil . There were hundreds . The map was not of Brazilian origin . The general informed me with a smile that if I publicized details of the map I would be subject to two years in jail . Only when I was leaving did the possibility occur to me that this remarkable map might have been planted on this serene and amiable general staff . I bowed my way out with the feeling of having gone through all this somewhere else , in some other dream . I knew where : in Paris and the Hague , just before the heavens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Welles ' public promises of more rayon and copper sulphate . He wants airplanes and cannon . He is deeply annoyed that they have arrived only in driblets . Our own military people in Rio would like to see these weapons there too  --  but in our hands . There you have the touchiest issue of all , for , like any chief of staff , General Gees wants Brazilians , not North Americans , to use these weapons on Brazilian soil . And there , too , is one of the points which our War Department and State Department dispute . The latter , conscious of nine years of good-neighbor efforts , which they feel are now bearing fruit , tends to agree with the general . There is no doubt that during the Rio conference we promised to send more weapons to Brazil . There is little use speculating on the kind or quantity , but unless a miracle occurs we can not send all that Brazil wants and needs , nor anything approaching it . This is axiomatic , though our Brazilian friends may not yet realize that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our deliveries to Soviet Russia are falling more than fifty per cent below the promised schedule . Anyone who has taken the Pan American flight from Miami to Rio will see with his own eyes that a constant stream of our biggest bombers are landing on Brazilian soil , along the bulge . Any day in the week , you can find , tow-headed , sunburned young Texans and Minnesotans in their brown flying suits , gingerly sipping mate , at tables on the mosaic sidewalks of the jungle towns . But these bombers do not remain in Brazil ; they soar on across to Africa , along the ferry route which the President revealed last August , on their way to Cairo and the Far East . Racing Hitler The defense of South America means defense of Brazil , and the defense of Brazil means defense of the bulge . Over and over again Americans have been warned that bomber planes can fly from Dakar to Natal between lunchtime and dinner . A small number of our patrol planes fly daily along that coast line to prevent surprise , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know  --  the Germans know it already , for their agents have been operating freely in these places  --  that , as a high-ranking American officer complained to me , " We simply do n't have the stuff yet to defend these spots . " As this officer put it , we are involved , and the fate of the southern continent is involved , in a race with Hitler . If , despite our commitments to Britain , Russia and China , and the gaping needs of our home forces for planes and guns , we can finish and fortify these eight Brazilian bases , South America will be safe . Our last sure water route to Asia Minor , the South Atlantic route , will be safe . But we must do this before Hitler conquers Northwest Africa and Dakar . If we do not , many of our military leaders are convinced , we shall be plunged into a furious fight for the one remaining neutral continent . When the Rio conference opened , there seemed little cause for worry . At the inaugural session , Sumner Welles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British armies have utterly destroyed the Axis forces in Libya and are clearing the Southern Mediterranean littoral of Axis threats . " Three weeks later Rommel was back at the gates of Tobruk , and the world was wondering if the British , rather than the Germans , were being cleared out of the Southern Mediterranean . With every step that the British fall back , the ultimate danger to Brazil mounts higher . The danger , perhaps , is not immediate . In conversations with officials in the new bases along the bulge , I found no attitude of anxiety about the next few weeks . They know Hitler has much to do before he could operate from the Dakar region , which he still does not possess . But they are impatient for weapons . One of them pointed out that the most vital base on the bulge does not possess a single antiaircraft gun . This is not a piece of information secret from the Germans . Brazilian authorities did not seriously begin to clamp down on spies until the Rio conference was ending and Brazil had taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived in the strategic port of Recife , where our Southern Atlantic naval patrol often calls , fifteen Axis agents were arrested there . Until then , they had been free to observe and report . To date , the work in these bases has been one for the engineers of the army , not the ordnance department . From the rapid survey I could make , it seemed clear they are doing an excellent job , under the most trying conditions . In one place , which I sha n't name because there are definitely no Germans there , I discovered a half dozen engineers , sweating under sun helmets , directing the primitive labor of several hundred jungle Indians . It was a land base for warplanes they were building . I have mentioned the Axis agents in Brazil . For months our military people in Rio pleaded with Brazilian authorities to begin large-scale arrests . Invariably , the answer was that by keeping hands off for a while , the authorities picked up valuable information . In the meantime , of course , the Nazis could perfect their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Vargas , in December , froze foreign funds . While the German Embassy in Rio may have been the fountainhead of Nazism in Brazil , as often charged , the break in relations was delayed so long after the decision was taken that the Nazis must have had time to turn the direction of their fifth column over to other quarters . We sent a representative of the Department of Justice to the Rio conference . The resolutions we proposed , for the apprehension of Axis agents , restrictions on movements of aliens , confiscation of arms and radio transmitters , were all adopted . In a small nation , like Uruguay , these projects undoubtedly can be carried out . But Argentina is big ; her government has not even reached the point where it can be called anti-Axis , and when we think of the vastness of Brazil , the police problem staggers the imagination . Brazil , remember , is larger than the continental United States . Its borders touch every South American country but Chile . These frontiers run for many thousands of unguarded miles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as communications and transportation are concerned , that we had attained in 1830 . To expect the police of Brazil really to control aliens in that country would be about like expecting the 1830 police forces of New York , Philadelphia and Washington , D. C. , to spread out and control the Mississippi Valley , the wild Southwest , and the unknown reaches of Oregon . And the Brazilian people themselves , including their police , while always good-natured , always simpatico , are simply incapable of ruthless efficiency . They are not only the most hospitable and happiest people this correspondent has ever known , they are also the most trusting . On two occasions during the Rio conference , I walked into the Guanabara Palace , the executive mansion of President Vargas , when he was there , without showing credentials of any kind . With me , furthermore , was a blond male colleague who looks very German . The guards took us at our words , smiled graciously , and allowed us in . If you drive out of the federal district , beyond Rio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In normal times , I was informed , the procedure was like this : A grinning guard would step to the car window . You would say , " It 's a hot day . Would n't you like a beer ? " Thereupon you handed him a couple of milreis  --  and he waved you on with another grin . " Ah , " American residents of Rio protested to me , " but you do n't know about the secret police . They are efficient and ruthless . " Which , of course , is a myth . It was fantastically like Paris before the blitz . In those days when I described how I walked into Gamelin 's headquarters without being challenged , or how Walter Kerr , of the Herald Tribune , and I had driven through police barriers without proper credentials , all the way to the Maginot Line , the older American residents of Paris would say , " Ah , but the secret police , and the Deuxidme Bureau  --  the most efficient in the world . " As a reporter , the Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ external signs at their face value . I asked a canny British observer in Rio how many Germans it would require to raid and smash up each Brazilian radio transmitter and cable head . He replied , " One Small man with a hatchet , I should say . " Aside from political unity , the basic considerations of the Rio conference were military defense , internal security and economic defense . In respect to military defense and internal security , the problem of Brazil is all-important , it is the key to the continent , and I have tried to show the realities in Brazil as I found them . The economic question  --  of increasing production of strategic materials which we need , of bolstering the internal economies of the south by loans , technical experts and allocations of machinery  --  is a matter which concerns each southern nation . There is no time to unravel all that here . But , briefly , let me illustrate the dreamlike conceptions of the war 's economic imperatives as they exist in the minds of nearly all Brazilians . A good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in Rio , an intimate of the ruling circle . He owns nearly all the big hotels and casinos . To the North American press delegation , under escort of the propaganda ministry , he proudly exhibited his newest casino , nestling in the green mountains near Petropolis , the summer capital . It was only half built . He said it would surely be finished within the year . When he was asked if he had all the stoves and refrigerators and necessary plumbing fixtures , he said he had not . Those , he said , he would get from the United States . When we suggested those things have become rather scarce , his careless answer was , " Oh , but I know so many people up there . " How significant it was that the only piece of new construction anywhere which thepropaganda ministry thought to show us ' was a gambling casino . How significant it is that Rio 's traffic continues to speed and skid along the scorching pavements just as it always has . Mention to your driver that he is very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have for years to come , and he will laugh at your quaint North American joke . And so I submit that the practical suggestions which those forty-one conference resolutions announce can become realities only if the war is very long . But if it be true that all things begin with the spirit , then the conference at Rio was a good beginning indeed .                     