@@494279

The Frightened Philistines ' MANY mums and commentators write as if modern culture were truly organized on the basis of the great ideals of the Enlightenment . They write as if there were a really free market in which cultural productions cir ? culated , and as if the dominion of the mind and of art were one where free minds met and accepted or rejected art and ideas on their merits . In fact , the free dominion of the mind and of art has never been achieved in capitalist democracy . Generations of the boldest and most hon ? est artists and thinkers have had to struggle , even bitterly , to maintain their freedom and independence . However , in most periods of the past the area of freedom in this domin ? ion was larger than it is today ; the area of freedom is being continually narrowed . In consequence , the independent artist today , in order to be as free as were most of his predecessors , must struggle more intransigently , and take greater risks than they had to . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and writers have been turned into real or virtual wage laborers . And many other writers who are , formally , not wage laborers have already accepted the narrow level of freedom of their wage-earning brothers : they , also , write like employees . One of many illustrations of this condition that can be cited is that of much hook reviewing . One of the dismal ironies in re ? viewing , looked at in this light , is to he seen in some of the bitter attacks launched by so-called " critics " against writers who have struggled and taken all of the necessary risks to prevent themselves from becoming hired writers . Reviewers of this type , and with characteristic " originality , " sometimes even condemn independent writers as blind de ? terminists who deny free will and the dignity of man . Can insolence go much further ? Such reviewers are nowadays deriving their inspiration ? if such it may be called ? from those critics who have , especially since the onset of the war , been conducting a campaign against a majority of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Also , they sometimes express themselves in apoplectic accents against Rimbaud , Baudelaire and other great nineteenth-century writers . Needless to say , these critics do not discuss those vulgar details of economics which have poisoned so much of modern culture : abstract dignity is their realm . These men have taken their stand on the unshakable conviction that man does not live by bread alone . For reasons utterly unknown to me , they seem to be of the opinion that many naturalistic and realistic writers want men to do nothing but gorge on bread . When the facts do not convince these men , I do not know how they can be convinced ; then they can only be exposed . How ? ever , I might remark that some of the writers who have earned the disfavor of these critics have written works which rather persuasively suggest that when men have no bread to eat , or at least do not have enough of it , they live very badly in both the physical and the moral realm . But when one demonstrates this too clearly , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as rats in a trap . Arguments like this are not new . They have been ig ? nored by every generation of realistic writers for decades . In essence , these Philistines are merely picking up just where the late Irving Babbitt and the late Paul Elmer More left off after they had arrived at exactly nowhere . The language they use is a little different from that of the Humanists , and , unlike the latter , many of these critics regard themselves as liberals : Van Wyck Brooks even calls himself a socialist . If anything , Babbitt and More were far superior to Brooks , MacLeish , J. Donald Adams and others of this numerous tribe . Stale as were Babbitt 's ideas , one at least knew what he meant . With some of these critics , one must dredge and sweat over their words in order to find any sense what ? ever . And then Babbitt far surpassed Brooks in the talent for compiling quotations systematically . It is true that More was blind to almost any book if its author were alive : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books written by authors who were no more . And he could write essays of critical merit . Can Brooks , can these others , write as well on anything as More did , say , on Crabbed Yes , I DECEMBER 4 , 1944 , rather yearn for Babbitt and More . Were they alive , per ? haps they could give these critics a clearer line . That would be some help , at least for their adversaries . Read their articles , their speeches , their books . They sometimes fight " invisible " wars in an " invisible world . " Like Napoleon on the battlefield , Archibald MacLeish mar ? shals a mighty cavalry of words which he sends charging against the barricades of the intellect and storming the citadels of belief . In the same speech in which General MacLeish performs this mighty verbal military operation , he criticizes modern writers because they are artists trying to tell the truth , rather than generalissimos of the simile waging irreconcilable warfare in some unseen world which MacLeish himself confesses that he really knows nothing about . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God is a principle of literary criticism . But how different is God in his writing from the Almighty of the great re ? ligious and scriptural writings of the past . The God of " Genesis " created the entire universe in seven days : the God of J. Donald Adams has not even learned how to understand a good book in more than eighteen years . Such are the critics who have declared open hunting season on writers . At the risk of wearying my reader , I cite some of their charges . Accm ( ling to Van Vyck Brooks , many writers ( including Faulkner , Hemingway , Dos Passos , myself ) have been engaged now for years in kicking and tearing civilization itself to pieces . ( If this war achieves nothing else , at least it will have saved human civilization from four American novelists . ) ' Co continue , writers have no faith in the family ( even when they support and love their families ) ; they have no roots in the soil ( even though they could not afford to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they do not seem to like the idea of running for public office . And , of course , they are irresponsible because they are true artists and tell the truth . And they do not believe in man and in his dignity . They are totally without faith . They live and write because they are motivated by the impulse . They are unpatriotic. death im 1 They demoralized the entire American nation to such an extent that it was totally unprepared to fight a visible war against Hitler , Mussolini and Hirohito , and one or more " invisible " wars against the barricades of the intellect . These , and sundry other accusations , could possibly make Danbury Peniten ? tiary the literary capital of these United States if Attorney General Biddle should happen to read this " criticism " and take it seriously . I Substantially , representations , lance and mere 767 Brooks and his fellow heroes borrow the reverent awe which we give to the great men of the past and use it as a means of blinding people to present realities , not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , they superimpose life in general over modern society in particular ; dignity in the abstract over the lack of dignity permitted here and now in particular ; morals that are above time over the real character of morality which we call the present . By doing this they have high-minded reasons for showing moral density toward the evils of their own day while they disparage that body of writers , living and dead , who have seriously criticized their times . They seem to have little time for denouncing the meretricious art that is written for money , and that now deluges the entire nation in an ocean of banality , which is almost unprecedented in all human history . Here , though , J. Donald Adams is an ex ? ception : he finds a healthy if immature trend in the sales figures of Lloyd C. Douglas ' novels . These men are spir ? itual expropriators . They have snatched what little they can understand from the great writers and novelists of the past , ripped that out of all historical context , and now use it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called astral . Armed with such a morality , they attack those writers who have written about and protested against the evils of their times . They dare not meet these writers ? or anyone else either ? armed with a morality based on the real practice , in culture and in life , of these times . That moral practice is too indefensible : it drips too much with exchange value . It is the best in these writers ? the best in Faulkner , Hemingway , Dos Passos , Dreiser , etc. ? which these crit ? ics attack . And this is decidedly among the best produced in America in this century . It is work that was written in a spirit of freedom and independence , written without compromise to those bourgeois tastes which reward an au ? thor with royalties at the price of honor . If some of this writing sold very well , this was not due to compromises on the part of the authors . Realists have ' assessed the cost of bourgeois society in terms of what happens to people . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the determinism of social forces and social laws which prevent men from achieving their aims and ends , If these critics are serious , why do n't they fight to change these social laws rather than condemn those who help to make us con ? scious of them ? There is no more blind determinism in the operation of social laws than there is in the laws of physical science . What really troubles is not determinism : rather , it is the revelation of what happens to people , the revelation of social tragedy . Symbolist poets of the past , advance-guard writers of our era have expressed the doubts , the anguishes , the agonies in the psyche of man . Both realists and advance-guard writers have written in a kind of warning , a warning that much is wrong , morally wrong , in this world . But the Philistine wants to talk about morals , not to understand what is morally wrong , let alone correct it . Now that these critics have said all they can of Dreiser , why do n't they go to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of whom Dreiser wrote ? Now that they have exploded on the " perversity " of Faulkner , why do n't they pay some attention to those Southern reaction aries who gained so much from the preservation of the decay Faulkner has described ? Serious moralists do not DECEMBER 4 , 1944 merely abuse writers . They fight the evils they see in their own day and age . These men are not moralists ? they are sheep-herders . Their social role is to be mere shepherds for the status quo . This means that wherever there is freshness , sincerity , independence in writing , that is where they must go and try to build a new sheepfold . And as for this religious trend which is now hailed ? where is it ? In the books ? Do n't call that religion ! Most of it is mere religious linguistics . Where in it is there real reli ? religion , religion to inspire One ? Where in it can you find that energy of mind of . Augustine , the intellectual scope of Aquinas , the anger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wonderful love and gentleness of Saint Francis , the womanly dignity and intelligence of Saint Teresa , the soldierly ability and genius of Ignatius , the simplicity of devotion of Thomas a Kempis , the real gen ? tlemanliness of Cardinal Newman , the burning sincerity and indignation and exquisite pride of Leo Tolstoy ? Where ? If one has known religion , and known it too in rejecting it , one is not impressed by morals which mas ? querade as religion , moral density based on fear of living in the present and facing the future . In conclusion , let me address these gentlemen directly . If you have nothing more to offer , then our battle is won . By yourselves , you are powerless . You are important solely because there is power behind you , the economic and police power of this society . Come out in the open and on the real plane of social morals , wearing your proper uniforms ? those of ideological policemen , with a literary star on your blue coats . Neither you nor the power that stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? you are the league of frightened Philistines . Frightened Philis ? tines can never be masters of the future . It is not inappro ? priate for a writer who proudly calls himself a Marxist to tell you this . And it is time that you be informed that there are writers , and I am confident that there will always he writers , who will teach you that they can and will defend their convictions . And they will defend , too , the memory of the great writers -- Joyce , Proust , Baudelaire , Rimbaud . Yes , power may stand behind you gentlemen , power and the praise of bourgeois Philistines . But we have something that it will never gi ? ' re you . Confidence , confidence and convictions we are willing to defend . The time has come for all of you to join with Van Wyck Brooks in sighing for a new Augustine to write a new " City of God . " You can have that . You will never understand the best of him , but he can teach ' you something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be real honest-to-God heresy hunters . We do not need any , of that . For we stand convinced that some day yet there will be built a real City of Man . And that is our ideal , that is our faith , that is our conviction . Get down on your knees , gentlemen , and pray , pray for an artist who will be like Lloyd C. Douglas , only an artist . When men learn to have convictions of the future which they know that no power on earth can ever shatter , when they believe in a future that they know will one day he created , they need none of your " religious " consolation . Some of you are fond'of closing books with the sentence : " Allow , the road is before us . " I lions , messieurs . We too will march that mad . And know it now once and for all , you will be op- posed every inch of that road . JAMES T. FARRELL 