@@494169

Good and Bad War News The war went both well and badly for Britain and her allies during the week ending December 3 . To take the cheerful items first , the Greeks continued their advance against the Italians in a way which electrified the whole world . People who had been saying a little earlier that Finland , also , did well in the first few Weeks , began to consider the possibility of a debacle for Mussolini . A report by an American economic expert pointed out that the British blockade was doing Italy great harm , cutting off badly needed imports of meat , rubber and jute . Food prices are up 68 percent ; meat is now available only two days a week . Italy formerly imported by sea 95 percent of her oils , fats , Cotton and wool ; 75 percent of her hides and skins ; 7o percent of her cereals . Another item on the bright side for Britain was the death of Jean Chiappe , the French Fascist who was on his way to govern Syria and the Lebanon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relieved the pressure on the territory of Britain and her friends in the whole Eastern Mediterranean . Egypt , Suez and Turkey are all more secure . The bad news is in England herself and the North Atlantic . Germany has recently been bombing industrial towns with serious effects ; production of war suPPlies , especially airplanes , has apparently been substantially cut down . The shortage of British naval ' ssels has crippled the guarding of convoys , and German submarines have been operating with deadly . ffect . Merchant tonnage is being lost at a high rate , S ? high that Britain is sharply curtailing food imports . We Must Help It is time for Americans to think earnestly about the character and quantity of our aid for Britain . Are we prepared to supply her with what she needs ? Or shall we just go through the motions of aid , furnishing " too little and too late " ? The New Republic believes that the American future is being decided in the skies above Britain and the waters around her shores . We feel that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President has said that we shall give England one-half of all war production in this country . If she needs it , that figure ought to be increased to 6o percent , or 70 and 80 , and at once . Every ton of American merchant shipping that is now idle or that can be spared from other routes should be transferred to Britain for the North Atlantic trade . No matter at what cost , we must not , for our own sake , permit Hitler to win . Check and Countercheck No sooner had Japan recognized the puppet government of Wang in China than the United States announced a new Voo , 000,000 loan to the nationalist government of Chiang Kai-shek . This continuance of a firm policy of action in the Far East is the only influence that , may restrain Japan . We still have many unplayed cards , and Japan 's hand is giving out . Every time we strengthen China , the repercussions are worldwide . We diminish the hope of Japanese aggression . We strengthen Britain , not only in the Far East but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union has of Japanese success , the more play is given her natural tendency to obstruct German eastward expansion . Japan , it is true , gives every sign of trying to absorb Indo-China on her way to Singapore . It may even be that the hostilities of Thailand against Indo-China on the south are Japanese-inspired . But if China keeps Japan busy enough , a long extension of Japanese lines in a southerly direction can only in the end weaken the strategic position of the Mikado 's forces . Divided Budget The reported plan of the administration to separate the budget into two parts ? one for ordinary expenditures and one for defense ? may have its virtues , but we think there is a better one . According to a dispatch by Turner Catledge in The New York Times , the plan is to balance the ordinary budget by economies , to borrow only for defense , and to accompany all such borrowing with special taxes calculated to retire the indebtedness in a reasonable length of time . This sounds very neat and businesslike , but it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the defense program is an " emergency " of brief duration , whereas for all we know it may last for years . The chief fault of the New Deal on the economic side is that it has regarded almost every new situation as an emergency or a temporary departure from " normal , " whereas fundamental and lasting reconstruction was required . The second fault is that you ca n't separate the war sector of an economy from the peace sector , as you could in the good old days when wars were fought only by armies and navies , and relatively small ones at that . The problem of expenditure , taxation and borrowing is an indivisible whole , and all of it must be considered in the light of total defense ? both military and civil . As we have said many times , we should like to see government accounts separated in a different and more rational way , as are those in Sweden and other countries . There should be both a capital account and an income account , as in ordinary business practice . Money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money spent for current necessities . And money borrowed for investment purposes should not be added to an annual deficit in the account of current income and outgo . If this practice were adopted , the deficit would not so much alarm timid business critics . A Bad Formula for Economy Mr. Roosevelt 's announced intention to cut nondefense expenditures to the bone falls under the same criticism as the reported proposal to divide the budget . Is it or is it not in the interest of the defense of democracy to relieve substandard farm incomes , to feed the unemployed , to build homes and roads and bridges ? Where defense expenditures make former New Deal projects unnecessary ? as for instance by diminishing unemployment ? it will not be necessary to spend so much in the old ways . But you ca n't separate defense from a wholesome economic order and social security . Instead of looking in the direction of parsimony for non-defense expenditures , the President should resolve to expand production and the national income so that we can do everything necessary both for the military and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of good feeling between the United States and Mexico seems to be in sight . This country acted promptly and firmly to prevent the Almazan revolu tion , by publicly giving full support to Avila Camacho . Mr. Roosevelt has sent down one of his best men , Henry Wallace , Vice President-elect , for the inauguration ceremonies . There is still the danger of armed revolt , but it does not seem very serious ; it is reasonable to suppose that the hostile crowd which booed Mr. Wallace on his arrival was either paid by or influenced by German Nazis . There is talk that Mexico will cede us army and navy bases , badly needed . The troublesome spot in the Mexican picture had to do with the American oil companies . They are still boycotting Mexican oil and preventing normal business relations . Isador Stone recently summarized the facts in The Nation . Mexico ca n't buy the materials for ethyl gasoline , or tankers or refining equipment , new or second-hand . The Export-Import Bank wo n't lend money . The Navy Department until recently was buying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of Mexican oil at 79 cents , trying to punish Mexico for daring to challenge American oil interest . Mr. Stone thinks this policy must have been approved by the American State Department , since that department recently modified the policy . If so , our government speaks with a divided mind . It might be just as well for the Mexico-haters in the State and War Departments , in the National Defense Advisory Commission and elsewhere , to find out what Mr. Roosevelt s policy is and live up to it . Blood Bath in Rumania Rumania during the past few days has been a slaughterhouse . The pro-Nazi Iron Guard has staged an uprising during which thousands of people have been killed , many of them innocent victims of political persecution or equally innocent Jews . At the moment there is doubt whether the Iron Guard or the nominal government is ruling the country . There is equal doubt whether the uprising was the Iron Guardists ' own idea or was promoted by Hider as an excuse to take over the whole country . It is also obscure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Rumania has for years vied with one or two other Balkan states for the dubious honor of being the least civilized European country . She is paying for her reputation today ? Par ing in blood . Whatever happens , Hitler 's grip on the country seems unshaken . To what extent he will use Rumanian territory as a path to the Near East depends upon Russia and upon the success of the Greek and British forces against Italy . Mr. Dies 's Bad Job In the dispute between President Roosevelt and Martin Dies , our sympathies are wholly with the President . We agree with Mr. Dies that there are many agents of Hitler , Stalin and Mussolini at work in this country , that they ought to be uncovered , that illegal activities ought to be stopped and those guilty should be punished . Our criticism of Mr. Dies , and our feeling that his committee should come to an end , are based on the fact that he has done his job so badly . He has spent perhaps 90 percent of his time and energy working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more of a danger . In his whole field of activity , he has dug up less important material than private investigators working for newspapers , magazines and committees have done . Mr. Dies has a fatal instinct for surrounding himself with third-rate people , many of whom are busily grinding their own axes . He has published a multitude of wild rumors with no attempt at verification , then or later . When people whom he thus libeled have protested , he has merely put their protests into the record , where they have been smothered under the weight of millions of words , unreadable and unread . It is nonsense for him to claim that he broke up the United Front in this country ; the Stalin-Hitler pact did that . It is equally nonsense for him to suggest , as he did in a radio speech on December 2 , that his committee can do the work of 14,000 additional agents for the FBI . Incidentally , in that speech , referring to the innocent people who have been libeled because their names were on the mailing list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups , Dies defended himself on the ground that if they are innocent , let them prove it . Apparently be never heard of the fundamental principle of Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence , that every man shall be presumed innocent until proved guilty . The work the Dies Committee was appointed to do is of tremendous importance ; even yet , the surface has only been skimmed . It is heartbreaking that he has done it so badly . He should now get out of the way and let a competent group take over . Vultee and Mr. Cox In last week 's New Republic we said that Attorney General Jackson 's comments on the Vultee strike served " to rob the strikers of all possible standing in the eyes of the public . " Further evidence of a similar tendency may be found in a current Paramount News release . In the middle of a news program at the Embassy Theatre in New York City ? following pictures on Iritain 's fight for life , Lord Lothian 's plea for Ameri ' 773 can planes and the training of our own draftees --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strike Issue Growing . " The factory is shown , with planes half . finished on the line , and the commentator remarks on the " repercussions " the strike has aroused . Then comes the signing of the agreement , with the statement that labor gains a million and a half dollars a year and the company a two-year , no-strike guarantee ; this is followed by brief shots of the CIO convention , with comments on CIO leaders ' determination to shape a strong organizing drive in defense industries . At this point a significant note is struck . The commentator announces growing resentment in . Washington against strikes , and the camera moves into a close-up of Representative Cox of Georgia , who fills the screen like a haggard embodiment of the spirit of ' 76 . Mr. Cox gives a tirade on the shamefulness of " striking against the government " ? as if Vultee were not a profit-making corporation . He says the strike was as much a form of sabotage as is destruction of the finished product . He concludes by condemning such delays as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least at some showings of the film , his address was greeted with loud cheers ? as presumably it was intended to be . On the whole the newsreels have heretofore made an honest effort to present both sides of an issue . But to feature Representative Cox , of all people , in such a context , is to provoke the movie-going public into a belief that employers are patriots while strikers are subversive and imperil American security . There is danger that this may become the bandwagon attitude of the near future and that from all sides the public will be urged to take a " moral stand " against labor 's efforts to secure itself in the rearmament drive . Eating in a Worthy Cause New Republic readers in the New York City area will have a triple opportunity on Monday night , December 9 . They can enjoy themselves at a dinner party ; they can hear a group of speakers who ( we hope and believe ) will have something important to says and they will be aiding one of the most meritorious and badly needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is helping bring anti-Fascist refugees from Europe to the United States . The speakers will be the Honorable Harold Ickes ; Seiior J. Alvarez del Vayo , former Foreign Minister of the Spanish Republic ; Max Ascoli , dean of the Graduate Faculty of the New School for Social Research ; Freda Kirchwey of The Nation and Bruce Bliven of The New Republic . We submit that this is a bargain at only $3 a ticket . If you have n't already made your reservation , please send in your check at once , made out to Bruce Bliven , Co-Chairman , The                     