@@487462

AT THE present revolt in the conquered countries , we hear talk of a revolution having already occurred in England . This article , which is based upon the view that a revolution occurs when new classes , and their parties , either assume power or indelibly set their stamp upon social effort , will attempt to estimate the effects of the war so far on the social structure of Great Britain . It will thus be a brief study of the momentum of the British Labor movement , for the deepening of democracy and the removal of con-servative and imperialist hindrances to the successful prosecution of the war will only be accomplished , in my opinion , by the ability of the Labor Party to radicalize itself , to take over effective direction of the war , and to carry popular opinion with it . It happens that in the whole of the period following Versailles the British Labor Party has very adequately summed up , and represented , both in its strength and its weakness , the British dissent from the conservative view of society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosperity would not be achieved under capitalism , but it has sensed rather than perceived the dynamic of European history . The weakness of the party has been that it has not developed a body of theory . Yet that has also been a source of strength . By refraining from those ill-executed somersaults which have characterized the so-called Marxists of Britain , the party has never isolated itself from mass opinion . The public sentiment which the Conservative Party was able to utilize in furtherance of its foreign policy was the profound desire for peace . The disillusionment that followed the First World War , the Conservative and Liberal violation of war-time promises , and the perversity of the post-war foreign policies of Conservative governments similarly strengthened the pacifist tendencies of the British Labor Party until eventually a resolution  --  moved by Sir Charles Trevelyan , who was not of the working-class , trade-union core of the movement  --  calling for a general strike in the event of war was passed by a Labor Party convention . The year of its adoption1933 ? was significant . Thereafter , as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gradually the emphasis was laid upon new forms of collective security , which at successive annual conventions became ever more clearly defined . At the same time the party , always thinking realistically , perceived that collective security had a maximum and a minimum objective . The first was to preserve peace by building up a powerful block of non-aggressive states , including the Soviet Union . The second , an inescapable corollary of the first , was by means of such alliances to defeat the Axis should Hitler go to war . As early as 1936 , therefore , the Labor Party began to recognize the need for developing military resources , and by 1938 it had definitely assented to rearmament . Labor 's support for the present war was not a consequence of its membership being stampeded into belligerence , much less of any betrayal by the leadership . In the preparatory period its approval of rearmament had not been conditional upon the reactionary British government 's concluding an alliance with the Soviet Union or upon any self-liberalization of the Tory Party . The result was that both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of the war . The realistic view prevailed . The slow-moving wisdom of the party had grasped the profound dialectic of history . Its views , once it understood that dialectic , can be summed up in these memorable words : The party has never hidden ) and never will hide its detestation of fascism and its readiness to take part in any struggle , political or military my italics to secure the defeat of fascism . For it recognizes that the victory of fascism represents not only a conquest of markets , colonies , sources of raw materials , etc. ; it also leads to the forcible destruction of every democratic right and liberty that the working class has fought so bitterly , at such cost and sacrifice , to win from its class enemies . But these words , strangely , are not those of the Labor Party . They are taken from the September manifesto of the British Communist Party , in which that party " hurled the workers into the imperialist war . " On September 14 , indeed , the leader of the British Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its lingering The NATION pacifism , sought to hold back the declaration of war for a few hours . Not only was Labor 's assent to the war a foregone conclusion , but , in addition , the war-time policy of the party , its whole conduct and technique of support , was determined by the steps it had taken in the interest of the working class before the war broke out . The Labor Party had ample reason to foresee that the Conservative Party would adopt measures damaging to the movement and to democracy . As early as 1938 it had therefore set about preparing its defenses . Only one example can be given here . In the early part of 1939 it became known that the government was planning the compulsory distribution of dock labor in the event of war . The Transport and General Workers ' Union , of which Mr. Bevin is the head , was asked to assent to the formation of mobile battalions of dock laborers . About the necessity of moving dock labor from the east to the west coast there was never any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade unions , deeply mistrustful of the government , insisted that it should be done under a civil authority in which the union should have place and upon a voluntary basis . In general , all these questions arising out of the need for reorganization were submitted to a special conference of the Trades Union Congress on May 19 , 1939 , and the General Council 's report , outlining the technique of war support , was approved by 3,923,000 votes to 550,000 . Of the minority , a great part objected only to certain features of the proposed plan . At the outbreak of the war Labor expressed its distrust of the government , and in doing so adequately reflected public opinion . That the Conservative Party , by and large a dangerously perverse and incalculable agglomeration of business men , was primarily responsible for the war was the opinion of a great majority of the working class That the Chamberlain government was inefficient , for all its arrogant boast of a monopoly of administrative intelligence , the war itself was to make clear . Labor thus refused to join @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excessively staffed with appeasers , incompetents , and reactionaries it would have surrendered all guaranties of its preservation and would have gained no power to enforce measures necessary for the winning of the war . The party weakened its position , however , by agreeing not to contest by-elections . No doubt the fear of splitting the Conservative Party , which at that time might well have placed even more power in the hands of the appeasers , was the underlying reason for the electoral truce . On the industrial side the movement at once began a steady and constantly augmenting effort to permeate the new administrative apparatus of the country . The relations between the ministries and the trade unions , with certain exceptions , were far from cordial . Just as Mr. December 14 , 1940 Chamberlain had declined to defend Britain upon the basis of collaboration with the other European democracies , so now he was incapable of calling upon the democratic dynamic which alone could win the war . Naturally enough , the outbreak of hostilities gave rise to a spate of legislation , which inevitably , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could only outline general principles . Their concrete formulation was left to orders and regulations . How complex was Labor 's task of vigilance may be realized from the fact that by May , 1940 , the 40 new acts had required 700 orders and 400 regulations , an enormous number of which affected the movement in one way or another . The government was slow to draw upon the trade-union movement and dilatory in the elaboration of administrative machinery . On October 5 , 1939 , for instance , the T. U. C. had proposed the formation of a Trade Union Advisory Committee , and after halfhearted dickering this was accepted . Even then the 3fficial practice was not to call this committee together . In general , Mr. Burgin , Minister of Supply , in the words of the Labor Party , " combed the Directory of Directors and the more recent editions of Debrett for the personnel of the Supply Council , while for his area officers he has resorted to the quarterdeck and the regimental mess . " In many cases Labor pressed for admission to committees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the concession , and to a large extent administrative rower was withheld . Reluctance and distrust were the keynotes throughout . The Prices of Goods Act of 1939 is a case in point . Only at the second reading on October 19 was Labor able to obtain representation . The Export Council was another , though here some executive power was obtained . The Miners ' Federation , again , approached the Mines Department concerning the organization of fuel supply . Not until the breakdown in the first winter of the war showed the need for serious effort did the government take adequate steps . The Coal Supply Act of April 5 , 1940 , then set up a Coal Production Council upon which three trade-union representatives sit . The T. U. C. also obtained places upon the central and regional food councils and upon the advisory committees for the control of raw materials . In this case , however , the controls , despite Labor 's objection , remained exclusively in the hands of the ministries . That has since been changed by Mr. Morrison . During his occupancy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U. C. delegates have been added to the controls . Sharp fights have sometimes occurred , as in the regulation of the fishing industry , where the powerful Transport Union under Mr. Bevin was able to secure a total reorganization of the government scheme . The unions are now strongly represented on the Fisheries Advisory Council . In one other case , that of shipping control , the last I shall quote , the unions concerned on September 28 actually proposed the 603 creation of a new ministry , which was eventually done . A constant struggle was necessary to safeguard the interests of seamen exposed to the dangers of war . The final debate in Parliament , on March 18 , 1940 , demanded by Labor , greatly damaged the Chamberlain government . To sum up , the government 's attitude toward the Labor movement was negative . It sought , on the whole , to make limited use of Labor on advisory rather than administrative committees . The Conservative Party , or , to put it simply , the capitalists of Britain , were jealous of surrendering any control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fight . They would have welcomed a " palace revolution " in Germany and a false peace that would have left fascism intact . As in the American Civil War , the course of military events eventually gave irresistible urgency to demands which had their origin in social conditions . Within the Labor movement two opinions had been gaining ground throughout the spring of 1940 ? that the right-wing Conservatives then in office were incapable of winning the war , and that Labor 's policy of refusing to enter the government was damaging the party in public esteem . It was , none the less , altogether impossible to collaborate with the appeasers . The failure in Norway at last split the Conservative Party and made possible the formation of a new Cabinet in which Labor would not be compelled to play a subordinate and undignified role At the same time the strongest warning must at once be given not to regard this as a " revolution " or as justifying the irresponsible optimism about the future expressed in many liberal circles . It was a guaranty of democracy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Real and significant changes have taken place , but there is still absolutely no assurance that in the event of peace the Conservatives will not be able to drive Labor from its immensely valuable but vulnerable positions . The attack upon the appeasers , vigorously sustained by the Labor movement , suffered certain illuminating changes as a consequence of the fall of France . Previous to that event , or to the public comprehension of it , certain trade conventions had demanded the dismissal of the appeasers . As late as the first week of July the National Union of Railwaymen had unanimously called for such a solution of the national problem . Mr. Bevin , commenting upon the French disaster , had spoken clearly : The conflict he said resolved itself on the Continent not as a war between nations but as an international civil war ... and let this be said for the working people , even the Communist , there is no evidence in Norway , in Holland , in France , or in Belgium that any part of the working class , whatsoever the political party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifth column came from higher up . 604 At the convention of the Miners ' Federation of Great Britain , held a little later , the resolution formerly moved by the Labor Party calling for the expulsion of the remaining appeasers was put forward by the Communist leaders of the South Wales Miners ' Federation and rejected by the other mine fields , undoubtedly on Labor Party recommendation . It has been said that this temporary reversal of attitude was due to the deep and almost universal distrust of the Communists . As soon as the Soviet Union had obtained gains in Poland , the Communist Party , with its usual subordination to Moscow , had suddenly declared the war to be imperialist and British democracy to be no better than German fascism , which upon one occasion the London Daily Woke , ' described as a mere bogy However , the change at the Miners ' convention probably grew out of a fear of pressing the right-wing Conservatives too far . For the Chamberlain supporters , in the historic May debate , had possessed a majority in the House . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of Mr. Churchill 's government . That , I think , was the belief of the Labor Party . The establishment of the new administration on May 11 effected enormous changes in the country . The magnitude of the effort which now had to be made brought forth drastic legislation . The total mobilization of all resources , decreed in the Emergency Powers bill of May 22 , made demands upon the working class which could never have been fulfilled had not Labor itself obtained important positions in the Cabinet . Labor willingly accepted longer hours and submitted to industrial-mobilization schemes when these were to be controlled by its most powerful and clearsighted representative , Mr. Bevin , as Minister of Labor . Trade-union collaboration became a living reality , and to a great extent its very character was transformed . More and more legal provision was made for it . It became less a matter of optional consultation than of administrative control . It is utterly untrue to say that the unions have weakened themselves by this acceptance of responsibility . The Conditions of Employment and National Arbitration Order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to strike , also made it compulsory for employers to observe trade-union conditions . The terms of the order , which minutely regulate arbitration and which are subr.3.ct to revision at the close of the year , were largely drawn up by the T. U. C. and the Employers ' Federation . The rise of living costs , more or less inevitable during war , have not been counterbalanced by adequate wage increases , but the unions have not lost their militancy . In recent weeks four major organizations in the railway , shipping , and engineering fields , angered at the employers ' refusal of legitimate increases , have asked the government for arbitration of their demands by the tribunal appointed for that purpose . In that tribunal The NATION Labor has representation . On the analogy of previous appeals under Mr. Churchill 's administration the unions will obtain a compromise verdict in their favor . Already Mr. Morrison and Mr. Bevin have announced that excessive hours , rendered necessary by the negligence of Mr. Chamberlain , are hindering rather than augmenting production . They are being reduced , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new government has not yet accomplished those transformations which are vitally necessary , and on both counts Labor will be compelled to make a fresh drive toward effective intervention . Despite the drastic measures taken , no real plan for the thoroughgoing exploitation of resources has yet been evolved . The observer can not fail to note that it is the structure of capitalism itself which interposes obstacles and which has so far resisted serious amendment . Manufacturers in industries not organized as trusts are still thinking in terms of competition . The massive bulk of the great trusts has to some extent prevented the full use of resources . The nature of the problem is obvious . The danger to national unity which its solution necessarily presents is not less so . At some moment when the bitter logic of the war has made the next step self-evident , capitalism itself must be amended in the direction of socialism . It would be too much to expect a complete transformation of Britain during the war ; nevertheless , the problem throughout is that which the American Civil War presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war effort the quality demanded by its origin and inner reality . To refuse support , or to shirk the task of creating morale by transforming democracy , because changes are not instantly made would be to repeat the error of Garibaldi , who made his aid conditional upon Lincoln declaring a forthright abolitionism . Marx and his socialist followers were of a more realistic mind . As for the Radical Republicans , Mr. Hacker says of them : . . . the Old Radicals ( supported by the New Radicals ) were ruthless Over Lincoln 's protests they passed through Congress the Confiscation Acts of 1861 and 1862 . They drove Lincoln into issuing the Emancipation Proclamation . They established their own so-called Committee on the Conduct of the War ( in Congress ) and hounded the President until he got rid of weak generals and was ready to prosecute the struggle relentlessly . They clamored , until they were successful , for the arming of the Negroes and their use in the Union 's armed forces . ( " The Triumph of American Capitalism . " ) A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very great measure it has done its duty . As yet the transformation of British foreign policy lags behind the social adaptations carried out within the country . But on the achievement of this depends not only December 14 , 1940 the successful prosecution of the war but the future welfare of the world . The Labor Party has once or twice raised in the House the question of war and peace aims , but to no great effect . Its own ideas have been publicly stated , in necessarily abstract form . The elaboration of schemes for a Federal Union or a new League of Nations is not a very realistic enterprise at present . What is necessary is that Labor , and with it all progressive opinion , shall gain the power to support its general principles in any situation that may develop in Europe . Wars nowadays terminate in revolutions or in great modifications of society . Since the reconstruction period in Europe is bound to be one of turmoil and confusion , daring of mind and imaginative liberation will be necessary if the reactionary classes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggle is an imperialist war , but it is also an anti-fascist war , and it should have labor 's support in this country , for there is now no danger of fascism developing in England . Even if the important social changes which the exuberant optimists have by anticipation proclaimed do not occur during the war , Labor and progressive opinion have already conquered such positions that the defeat of the Axis will of itself liberate the peoples , particularly the working classes , of Europe and produce radical phenomena .                     