@@494227

THE NEW REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion VOL. 107 , NO. 24 NEW YORK , MONDAY , DECEMBER x4 , 1943 NUMBER 1463 End Fascism in North Africa ! Whatever one may think of the deal with Darlan , there is no excuse whatever for continuing fascist conditions in North Africa , which is now under American occupancy . Many thousands of anti-Fascists are still in prison , put there by Petain with the approval of his then collaborator , Darlan . Anti-Semitic laws are still in force . Vast amounts of property of Jews , democrats and other persons obnoxious to Hitler have been confiscated . There is no possible reason , political , military or anything else , why these prisoners should not be released , these laws repealed , this property restored . A Beveridge Plan for America The Beveridge Report , which Mr. Strout discusses on page 784 of this issue , is a challenge both to Ger , y and to the United States . The Germans have been enormously upset by it , and are taking every possible means to counteract its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of great im- - portance ; it is worth while to ' remember that every time an American conservative like William P. With-crew of the National Association of Manufacturers makes a. speech of a reactionary character , he is helping Germany 's war effort and hampering our own . The Beveridge Report is also a challenge to the United States . This country is far richer than Great Britain ; the war has been far less of a burden on us . If the British can afford the sort of social security the Beveridge Report envisages ? and there is no doubt that they can ? we can afford far more . Rep. Tom Eliot has introduced a bill ? which the House Ways and Means Committee promptly buried ? asking a special committee of the House on social security , and a national advisory body of leading citizens . The National Resources Planning Board has already written an American Beveridge plan in its Report on Security , Work and Relief Policy , which is now on the President 's desk . But the main obligation , of course , rests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his budget message , he told of the necessity for liberalizing the social-security law . The 30,000,000 Americans now excluded ought to be brought in ; accident and disability payments should be induded in all old-age and unemployment insurance ; unemployment payments should be larger , start sooner , continue longer . Payments for dependent children should be substantially increased . We hope the President will answer the challenge of the Beveridge Plan with a Roosevelt Plan of his own . He should not hesitate because of opposition by the private-insurance companies or because of antagonism by the states to federalized unemployment compensation ; such hesitation gives a deadly tool to Goebbels . If possible , this bill should be detoured around the House Ways and Means and Senate Finance Committees , each of which has a majority of reactionaries . We should like to see a lively competition between the American and Biitish democracies in giving the lie to the Axis charge that we lack both the will and the ability to take proper care of our own . Unfinished Projects There are at least three reasons why the sudden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost everybody except the reactionaries in 776 Congress , who were getting ready to kill it anyway . In the first place , many of its activities had been contributing directly to the wartime health and welfare of the nation . We are not thinking now of its military projects , such as building airports , military roads and barracks , since these jobs can be completed by other agencies . We are thinking rather of activities like serving hot lunches in thousands of schools and conducting hundreds of nurseries for the children of mothers employed in war industries . These are highly useful projects that ought to be continued under local auspices , but there is no guarantee that they will not be abandoned . A second good reason why the WPA should have been retained is that the unemployment problem is by no means solved and ended . War industries are unevenly distributed over the nation , and dozens of localities , including New York City , are still full of people looking for jobs . Puerto Rico is suffering from the worst crisis in its history , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been taking care of 32,518 workers there . After they have been discharged , who is going to feed their families ? And if there is unemployment in many areas even today , what about the years after the war ? Economists believe that soon after an armistice is signed , hundreds of our biggest factories will have to close down for retooling , before they can return to peacetime production . Who is going to provide work for their millions of employees ? The third and most important of the reasons for retaining the WPA is that it is equipped to handle just such a crisis . Instead of being given what the President calls an honorable discharge , it should have been granted merely a wartime furlough . Manpower and Food Control In extending the authority of Paul V. McNutt over manpower , including Selective Service and naval enlistment , and creating a Food Administrator in the person of Secretary Claude Wickard of Agriculture , President Roosevelt has taken two steps toward better organization that have long been recommended . The manpower question has received much discussion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It remains to be seen whether , even now , there will be close enough coordination between manpower and the production program , and whether a supreme authority over both is not necessary . In the case of agriculture , the chief difficulty has been that authority over production , normally residing- in the Department of Agriculture , has been shared with the WPB , which has controlled priorities and allotments of things the farmers need . And there has been no adequate control of distribution , except for the price activities of the OPA . In the last war we found that a planned and unified food control from farm to retail outlet worked better . Pearl Harbor Secrecy The final revelation of the extent of the damage . done by the Japanese at Pearl Harbor shows that while the navy and Secretary Knox told no lies at the time , they left the public with a gross underestimate of the losses of the Pacific Fleet . For many months insiders have known this , while innumerable rumors have floated about among the citizens . It would have been far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at ' once . The reason for not doing so ? to keep our enemy ? in ignorance ? was probably a good one at first ; though he must have discovered the facts long before they were published . But in any event such a policy is one of diminishing returns . The next time the navy an ' flounces losses by the device of listing correctly the ships " sunk " but withholding any estimate of the ea : tent of damage to others , everyone concerned probably draw the conclusion that the damage was heavy . Naturally it would be absurd to inform the enemy just when damaged ships can be restored to service , but effective secrecy about losses in war has fairly narrow limitations . The New Bigotry The closing of " Native Son " in New York after its successful revival this season was not so much the work of Lee Shubert , the theatre owner , as of the Catholic Church , which has attacked the play 's " obscene ever since it first appeared . We can understand Mt ' Shubert 's natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sealing the theatre which house ? the ill fated " Wine , Women and Song " has fright ' ened theatre owners into submission . But it is nothing less than disgusting that an honest work of the jot nation , brilliantly and truthfully describing the life our Negro people , should be pushed off the stage because of its frankness and passion . What is partici/. larly dangerous here , at a time when the Church at thorities seem eager to impose their own standar everywhere , is that these authorities have made 13 ? 4 itsd attempt to distinguish between cheap burlesque artistic realism . It is surely bad enough to ban DECEMBER 14 , 1942 lesque shows out of hand , since the power to ban theatre productions sets a poor precedent at any time . But that a work like " Native Son " should be banned through the pressure of a few clerical reactionaries , and treated as if it were only an attempt to titillate visiting sailors , is intolerable . Mayor LaGuardia should be told that the taste of the hierarchy is not representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arts has not proved very discriminating . Write Your Own Editorial Dictator Franco is getting material U. S. help on Q. 3r. - Drew Pearson 's syndicated column , De . the cember 7,1942. many thanks to you and the German people for the greetings today . I thank you for your best wishes for the future and for myself . May your arms triumph in the glorious undertaking of freeing Europe from the Bolshevik terror . With the most sincere expression of friendship and affection . ? Franco to Hitler on December 4 , quoted in an Associated Press dispatch from Madrid in The New York Times , Sunday , December 6 . For a Free World An important meeting took place in New York City last week ? a meeting so important to our political warfare against the Axis that it should have had the warmest support and assistance of the government . It brought together anti-fascist leaders from all over the world . They were addressed by such speakers as Walter Nash , Minister from New Zealand , Mrs. Roosevelt and Mayor LaGuardia ; but more important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from such groups as the Free World Association , Federal Union , the Cooperative League , the International League for Human Rights , the International Peace Campaign , and World Cooperation . These men and women showed a keen realization - of the necessity to establish clearly the fact that this is a worldwide struggle for democracy and that there must be no second-class nations or races any more . The Europeans present brought a warning that when the fighting stops , Europe will not be in the condition of utter passivity due to exhaustion , that some Americans imagine . The Europeans will still have left great resources of men , skills and materials , and will probably astonish.the world with the rapidity of their on . recuperad Any notion that we can dictate their economic and political future by merely doling out food will get a rude awakening . Yet we must act , and with the utmost speed , to aid the liberal and progressive groups in these countries before neo-fascist leaders have gained positions of power from which it will be difficult to dislodge them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must not and can not be a world dominated by an 777 Anglo-American or even an **27;881;TOOLONG understanding . The United Nations must be a world organization , on a democratic foundation . We predict that.these ideas , uttered by a comparative handful of men without official position , most of them refugees , in a hotel ballroom in New York , will ring around the world long after statements of some people in high places have been forgotten . They will do so because they run parallel to profound stirrings of the human will in all lands , stirrings which in the long run will prove irresistible . Second Thoughts on Otto Secretary Stimson 's letter to " Otto of Austria " accepting the offer to recruit an Austrian Legion may not reflect a State Department plot to restore the Hapsburgs , but it has disquieting aspects nevertheless . We suspect that the letter was not a slip . In such matters slips are almost never made . It seems more likely that it was a well greased trap , and that the greasing was done not only by Otto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathizers . It is no secret that many Catholics , inside the hierarchy and out , harbor large plans for the future of Europe and the world . These plans have been summarized in a Catholic statement which has already made its appearance in The Congressional Record . " We are gravely concerned about the world peace of tomorrow . Secularism can not write a real and lasting peace " but " the spirit of Christianity can . . . . " If this means anything , it means that the job should be left to the Church . Among Otto 's closest friends and warmest supporters today are certain American Catholics who sincerely believe that the restoration of the Hapsburgs and the Catholic Church to joint control over much of Central and Eastern Europe is the only way to maintain peace and the only guarantee against Bolshevism . Representative Celler has charged some of these . We have no quarrel with their lobbying : it is their right . But we would regret to see our government yielding to it . Aside to Mr. Stimson , Dear Mr. Stimson : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ von Hapsburg . He was never very well known anyway . But there are a good many other people hanging around with similar ambitions , and we 'd hate to see you taken in again . If a fellow by the name of Otto Strasser writes you from Canada , asking you to let him ' head a movement for the liberation of Germany , do n't do it . He was once one of Hitler 's closest pals . There 's an Austrian prince called Ernst von Starhemburg , now in England , 778 we 'd likewise advise you to think twice about . He led the attack on the Austrian Socialists in 1934 , and a good many of them have never forgiven him for it . Tibor Eckhardt would n't be so good as head of the Free Hungary movement , either . He 's a reactionary who is cordially hated by all democratic Hungarians . If you have any more applications , we 'd be glad to advise you about them . You might find our advice more reliable than the State Department 's . We 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mobilized Science It is estimated that we are at present utilizing for war purposes only one-third of the special skills which we are fond of characterizing in a large , loose way as " American inventive genius " ? more precisely , our scientific resources . Senator Kilgore 's vastly needed bill to mobilize American technology has now been made a part of the exciting " Congress " plan for an Office of War Mobilization , described by Senator Pepper in last week 's New Republic . Hearings on the bill are in progress and it deserves much more attention than it has received . Too many cooks have spoiled the broth , in science as in every other department of the war production effort . There are at present some twenty different agencies tangling in this field , from the ancient and dignified National Academy of Sciences to the new Office of Scientific Research and Development . All are supposed to be stimulating technological developments and administering and reporting upon scientific fields . They are handicapped in many ways , including the reluctance of some business men to put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which we went through a period of agonizing delay while the President tried to determine the facts from a welter of conflicting technical reports and was finally compelled to appoint a special commission to investigate afresh , typifies the inefficiency of existing machinery . For an OTM Senator Kilgore would pull all these scientific bodies together under one Office of Technological Mobilization . It would be the job of that office to coordinate scientific work now being done , to stimulate research and to get under way badly needed work now being neglected . The various technical organizations now leaping to horse and riding off in all directions would report to this one office . The office would have power commensurate with its responsibility . It could make loans and grants for research . It could if necessary draft scientific personnel and facilities . It would be responsible , as Donald Nelson said when testifying in its favor , for putting the right technicians in the right place and for eliminating the long delay between the time a good idea is broached and the time it is used . THE NEW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remedies for administrative inefficiency . Senator Kilgore 's bill would provide the remedy for the feebleness of what could be one of the mightiest dynamos in our war effort . The bill asks an appropriation of $2003000,000 . It is not too much . Germany had her scientific and technical resources harnessed ioo percent before a gun was fired . It is time we tightened the driving belt on ours . Rationing at Its Worst The administration , faced with the tough job of distributing equitably to the civilian population an insufficiency of gasoline , rubber , fuel oil and many other commodities , is entitled to the cooperation of those who are adversely affected . Nevertheless it is alarmed about the public reaction , which is already being exploited by political opponents . All the more reason why it should make every effort to avoid the mistakes which seem wasteful and obstructive even to patriotic and progressive citizens . One of these , which may appear trifling to the city dweller but is already arousing a storm of protest in country districts throughout the nation , is the rationing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small truck is essential to the operation of almost every farm , for use both on the land itself and in taking produce to market and supplies back . These millions of vehicles had already been rationed ( in the East ) by the OPA local rationing boards , usually on a greatly reduced basis of fuel consumption . Then it was announced that , like regular commercial vehicles , they could not continue to operate after November is without a certificate of necessity , to be obtained from a board in Detroit . Farmers Need Transportation Application forms had to be made out , requiring the reading of many thousands of words of instruction , and the filling in of blanks that had been prepared for the needs of large trucking concerns and bus con ? panies . The deadline came , but as might have bees anticipated , the enormous task of passing on these applications had not been completed , and many farmers had to use more gas and rubber to go to their ration ' ing boards and find out what to do . Finally the certificates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided on by an office staff hundreds or thousands of miles away from the scene of operations . Farmers were already struggling with a labor shortage , in their effort to get out bumper crops , and now theY have new obstacles which in many cases are iris mountable ? as in the typical case of a milk producer who has to make a round trip of twenty-four des daily to get his milk to its destination , but irk ? gasoline allowance is sufficient for only ten Ole . a day .                     