@@493705

TITO 'S REVOLUTION IS UNIQUE B EOGRAD is Serbo-Croat for Belgrade and means White City . But Belgrade is not white . It is gray , grim . Even when the sun shines , which is rarely now that the icy koshova blows in from the Russian steppes , it is a dreary city of modernistic steel and concrete mingled with the rundown rococo of another era , the whole superimposed on a minareted market town . But a great capital is taking form on the limestone cliff above where the Sava flows into the Danube . It is an ugly hodgepodge now because the scaffolding of new apartment houses and office and government buildings is still up and piles of brick and stone , heaps of mortar and debris , barrels of pitch and rough lumber are everywhere . Down on the flats below the old city , on the site of what was a Nazi concentration camp , stand the cement skeletons of a new civic center , ' a party headquarters , a great hotel and other buildings . Only the student dormitories , looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The students already living there are helping to build a new university . Belgrade today is a city of about half a million inhabitants . In two and a half years , upon completion of the Five-Year Plan which includes the building of the new capital , it will contain a million persons or more . With a calm assurance that in any other people would be sheer overconfidence , Yugoslays say that the New Belgrade will be finished in the scheduled time . None seems to doubt that the plan , intended to convert Yugoslavia from a backward agrarian and mining country into a modern industrial nation , will be realized . Only foreigners regard it as overambitious and impossible of fulfillment . The plan calls for expenditure of $5.5 billion ? a big sum for any country and a staggering one for Yugoslavia , a nation of only 16 million inhabitants and barely as large as Oregon . Its chief objective ? industrialization ? involves shifting about three mill ion peasants from farm employment into industrial pursuits , in which only 1.6 million . are now directly en- This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yugoslavia , written from Belgrade . In the second , which will be published in an early issue , he discusses what America should do to help keep Yugoslavia in the orbit of the West . Gervasi has been for most of his working life a foreign correspondent . He studied at Drexel Institute and the University of Pennsylvania . Since 1939 , he has been a roving correspondent for Collier 's , whose assignments have taken him all over the world . His books include War Has Seven Faces and But Soldiers Wondered Why.gaged . It provides , of course , for intensification of agriculture so that loss of farm manpower will be made up . The plan calls for an incredible amount of sheer physical labor . But the evidence of Yugoslav determination to move mountains , figuratively and actually , is almost everywhere . Only in those remoter regions where the war against the Nazi-Fascists and the warwithin-a-war between Partisans and collaborationist Chetniks pounded villages and towns flat , is there little or no activity . There the devastation was so great , and the poverty of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uneconomic . Otherwise Yugoslavia looks like a nation emerging from a wilderness . It is a vast scattering of public-works projects in various stages of completion ; of roads , bridges , factories , viaducts , power plants , housing finished , half-finished or just begun ; of entire villages and towns rising where none existed before . Boys and girls swing picks and push shovels on the broad , new highway between Belgrade and Zagreb . You come upon work parties , military and civilian , mending bridges and mills in remote ravines and repairing roads high on mountain flanks . Nowhere in Europe , not in embattled Britain or dead-earnest Norway , and certainly not in France or even Italy , do people woxk so hard for fewer of life 's necessities and luxuries . Agriculture is still at only 88 percent of capacity and food is scarce and expensive . Of luxuries the Yugoslays have fewer than the Norwegians , who have next to none and whose self-denial makes British austerity look like a businessmen 's banquet . Consumer goods are pitifully short . The cities ? shops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoddy goods . In the Yugoslav countryside the peasants have difficulty in obtaining the minimums of clothing , footwear , household tools , soap and other things " guaranteed " them by coupons . Totalitarian socialism has not given Yugoslays full bellies , enough warm clothes on their backs and any extra shoes for their feet . Communism has , moreover , annihilated all or most of those civil liberties so dear to us of the West . The voter casts his ballot for the party 's hand-picked candidates . The press megaphones the party 's policies . Except when they gather for their evening korso on city boulevards and in the village squares , meet on party business or attend the opera , the ballet or the invariably dull , propaganda-larded movies , Yugoslays do not dare exercise their constitutional right of assembly . And religious worship , while not outlawed , is frowned upon as senile or reactionary . Yugoslays have not realized the promised animal or spiritual comforts of the People 's Democracy . Why , then , do they work as hard as they do ? What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all its misery and repressions , nevertheless seem far more rational than what is occurring in neighboring Italy ? And why , on the other hand , when one sees the lights of Trieste from Sezana at the dark frontier , does one feel a sense of relief and of anticipation at returning to the West ? It is less difficult to find answers to those questions than one might suppose . An amazing number of Yugo-slays speak English , usually learned in America . Larger numbers speak Italian and many more know German . The visitor is not limited to sign language and the translations of official interpreters . Also , it is possible to travel freely , up to the limits of driving endurance and the contents of the gas tank . Except for military installations and areas , the country is wide open to anyone fortunate enough to obtain a visa . The candor of the Yugoslays is one of their most attractive characteristics . A peasant will say frankly that he is annoyed at the red tape involved in obtaining enough fertilizer . A mechanic will say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing is not as good as it might be because he has n't yet learned how to do it expertly . Officials are not afraid publicly to criticize the amount and quality of the food served in the workers ' messes . It is not long before the answers fall into a pattern . One learns quickly why the Yugoslays toil , almost frenziedly , for so little in the way of creature comforts or individual freedoms . To begin with , back-breaking work is the natural heritage of Balkan peasants and they have never been rewarded above a bare subsistence level . The great bulk of the people ? the peasants , workers , miners , loggers -- are better paid and , in spite of shortages , better fed than ever before . What food exists is more equitably distributed . Everyone works . There are no 150,000 to 200,000 chronic unemployed as before the war , in the days of the corrupt monarchy whose absolutism was no less oppressive than the socialist totalitarianism of today and whose aptitude for planning was considerably inferior . To people who never had them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than to Britons , Americans or Frenchmen . Compulsion , however , undoubtedly figures large in the reason why Yugoslays work as hard as they do . Those work brigades along the roads and in the cities and towns are not entirely " volunteer " affairs . Every worker is expected to contribute his time free after his regular 48-hour , six-day work week is finished . He may give the state anywhere from two weeks to two months of labor every year . If he does not , he may lose his ration card or his identification papers , without which life is impossible . But faith , too , is an important element in the near-frenzy of Yugoslav activity . The people believe in what they are doing . Yes , many work merely to earn a livelihood ; others because work is their accustomed lot . The overwhelming majority appear to labor purposefully and willingly to rear something in which they profoundly believe ? the socialist state . To realize this , one must recognize the peculiarities of the Yugoslav revolution , unique among the Communist revolutions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here via the coup d'etat , as in Czechoslovakia , or in the wake of the Soviet Army as in Poland , Hungary , Rumania and Bulgaria . It was not imported into Yugoslavia but is a native product . NEW REPUBLIC It came as a result of a- successfulwar against Nazi and Fascist enemies , gaining adherents as the war progressed . It taught and applied its precepts while men , women and children fought against the invader and the invader's. ally , the monarchist-Chetnik Draja Mikhailovith . The war did not merely settle accounts with the foreign enemy , but also with the one inside . It was simultaneously a war and a revolution which forged both the pattern of government and the basis for its popular support . This war-born homogeneity enabled Josip Broz Tito to ' reject Kremlin interference in Yugoplavia. ' s domestic and foreign affairs with political impunity . It enables him now to demand ? and obtain ? from Yugo-slays almost any sacrifice for building the socialist state . It was to frustrate that objective and thus cause Tito 's downfall that the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which deprived it of raw materials , carburants and machinery ' and obliged Tito to solicit Western help . But the West must not believe that such assistance as is flowing into Yugoslavia will sway Tito away from his socialist objectives . Tito will use all aid to push forward the temporarily stalled Five-Year Plan ? in short , to make socialism work . The resulting increased production of food and consumers ' goods will make his people happier . Tito and his regime will be strengthened . Yugoslavia 's resistance to Soviet imperialism will be the important byproduct of Western aid , but only the byproduct . Yugoslavia had a shorter distance to travel toward ? socialism than is generally realized . Public ownership was widespread long before World War II . The state owned and operated many utilities and industries too big for private capital to finance . By 1941 the state owned and ran the railroads , telephone and telegraph communications , radio stations , the canals , river shipping and warehousing facilities and the tobacco , cigarette-paper , match and salt industries . It owned and operated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , several factory-farms , the biggest of the iron and steel mills , many of the larger coal mines , all munitions works , the sugar factories , several hotels and a few aircraft plants . The state had publishing interests , operated the only news agency in the country , and ran most of the hospitals , and operated power plants , gas works , water works and other municipal enterprises . Moist socialism , therefore , is but an extension of a system already well established . The changeover from private to state ownership of all industries and sources of natural wealth and the creation of socialized farm cooperatives was less of a jolt to the national psyche than might otherwise have been the case . By the spring of 1948 , Tito had socialized all industry and had virtually eliminated private ownership and enterprise in the non-agricultural sectors of the Yugoslav economy . He proceeded more slowly in socializing agriculture , too cautiously for the Kremlin 's pleasure . But Tito had good reasons . Moscow urged Tito to collectivize farming , as the Soviets had done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no kulak class of rich farmers with large holdings. , Out of two million farms , fewer than 2,000 were of more than 250 acres ; most of these belonged to the Church . Tito took these lands and distributed them among the landless . Otherwise his reforms were mild . He chose a cooperative rather than a collective form of ? socialization and even made membership in the co-ops voluntary . Tito knew that he had a fiercely independent , property-conscious peasantry of small holders to deal with , and wisely respected the principle of private ownership . Farmers owning up to 65 acres were permitted to keep their land , provided , of course , that they filled production quotas set by the state . To the Kremlin , however , anyone with 65 acres was a hated lculak and a candidate for liquidation . Tito 's tolerance of the bigger farmers was one of the grounds for his expulsion from the Cominform . Tito knew his own country and its problems far better than the Cominform possibly could . To have got tough with the farmers would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important single element in the nation and risking the Five-Year Plan , socialism , the regime itself . Tito 's " soft . policy " toward the peasantry has paid off . The co-ops are multiplying rapidly . They now include fully one-fifth of the nation 's farmers . The total has risen from only 500 in 1947 to 5,500 today . Every co-op member is allowed to own his house and as much as two and a half acres of land , one or two cows , five goats or sheep , one sow , unlimited numbers of fowl and up to ten beehives . Some co-ops are so prosperous that they have money at the end of the year to invest in other co-ops , at four-percent interest ! One which this reporter visited was expertly run and had increased production per acre by as much as ' 20 percent for some crops , notably wheat and corn . The people were happy and secure . Many had land who had never owned land before . Yugoslavia 's solution of agrarian landlessness is what most impresses any visitor coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landlessness works misery , suffering and unrest among a large section of the peasantry , particularly in Apulia- , Calabria and Lucania . There may be more civil liberty among the Italian braccianli , but there is more serfdom , too . Equally . striking to anyone visiting Yugoslavia after a stay in Italy is the fact that in Titoland , while there is poverty , there are no nauseating contrasts of luxury and privation . In Yugoslavia one is aware of a democratic , equable distribution of misery rather than concentration of enormous wealth in the hands of a few . For all the poverty and privation , and there is plenty of both , Yugoslavia has nothing to compare with Rome 's Pietralata or Primavalle or Quartiere Flamini ? . But neither is there , in the big cities , a Via Veneto or a Corso Umberto of glittering shops and fancy caf ? s . Yet you leave Yugoslavia willingly , almost gladly , with a sense of relief as though setting down a burden or escaping a danger . This is not because the Tito police-state 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one is amazed to see fewer armed police than in postwar Italy and is less aware of the presence of agents and spies than in Mussolini 's Italy , Hitler 's Germany or Franco 's Spain . During a month in Yugo slavia , during which this reporter traveled a thousand miles , he had no " cop trouble " whatever . But you are glad to cross the frontier at Sezana and you urge the car down toward the lights of Trieste that glitter below at the sea 's edge like gems flung on black velvet . Suddenly you know why . In Yugoslavia the state is omniscient and omnipotent . It may not affect Serbs and Croats , Bosnians and Herzogovinians , Montenegrins and Slovenians in the same way . They have never known freedom . But anyone who has , is frightened and revolted that men should belong bone and muscle , brain and heart to a state , any state , no matter how much economic security it might give . 