@@485701

Henry Gonzalez of San Antonio . . . should we use Sears ? We have problems with Jake Pickle on this , I 'm not sure we can get him . . . OK , let 's ask Sears about Gonzalez .. . Delaney of Long Island . . . well , Delaney 's a character , still he was ' helpful as chairman of the Rules Committee .. . Bristol-MYers is close to Delaney , let Bill Greif handle that . . Gaydos of Pennsylvania . . . ask Alcoa if they 'll do it , John Harper was very enthusiastic about this one .. . - Hatfield of Continental could do it but I hate to have to ask him . . . Marks of Sharon , Pennsylvania . . . ask Ferguson of General Foods to call Kirby of Westinghouse about Marks .. . Gore of Tennessee . . . Carrier Corp . and TRW . . . do we really have a chance with Gore ? We really think we do ? Ask Lloyd Hand of TRW .. . Let 's be careful . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now . . . but we have , we 've got the votes and we know it . Combined with pressure on top Administration figures and an intensive publicity campaign of cartoons and canned editorials sent to some 4,000 newspapers , Roundtable Congressional lobbying against the proposed agency was spectacularly successful . Despite the support of a broad coalition of consumer groups , the bill was defeated overwhelm ' ingly in the House . As Fortune noted , " The agency is now only a ghostly heap of rubble  --  a war memorial to the new firepoVver of business on Capitol Hill . " Since its formation in 1972 , the Business Roundtable has emerged as the leading political organization of corporate America . Composed of the chief executive officers of some 200 of America 's largest ( predominantly manufacturing ) firms , the Roundtable has repeatedly demonstrated its ability to lobby the Congress , advise the President , change  --  the law and initiate legislation with equal authority , ease and success . The Roundtable is more powerful than the **25;550;TOOLONG National Association of Manufacturers and United States Chamber of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council , more capable of mounting a far-reaching program of Big Business de , mands than any of the flourishing single-issue groups . In the past few years it has worked in an extraordinary range , of public policy areas : destroying the Labor Law Reform Bill , undermining the consumer protection agency proposal , turning back common situs picketing initiatives , rewording one of the clean air acts , designing the first Carter tax program , promoting natural gas price deregulation , ' blocking attempts to audit the Federal Reserve , bottling up antitrust bills in the House and Senate , even excising all references to antitrust from Carter 's 1979 State of the Union Message . In an age obsessed with the multiplication of single-issue groups , they Roundtable is distinguishing itself as a single group with multiple issues making a unified attempt to control the agenda of national legislative politics . Massive , centralized and tightly coordinated , this legislative intervention represents a sharp break with the practice of more than a generation of formal Big Business political organizations content to operate chiefly within the executive branch . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuing , centralized intervention in the legislature is a striking indicator of how different the politics of the 1980s will be from the days of the New Deal . It suggests the great gulf between the present age and that simpler time when America dominated the world economy , energy was cheap , labor and capital were partners in industrial progress , executive authority was unquestioned and the cash flow to professionals was not yet enough to strain seriously their relations with Big Business . The decisive factor in bringing that era to an end , and eventually inspiring formation of the Roundtable , was the great boom of the middle and late 1960s . By cutting unemployment , this unprecedented period of prosperity upset the delicate balance of power between labor and capital that had been institutionalized in the later stages of the New Deal . By sharpening competition among firms , it ' eroded traditional business community cohesion , and compelled the reorganization of corporate power . Much of the conflict produced by this shifting pattern of trade union power and business response centered in the 622 The Nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size ( 10 percent of the G.N.P. ) and cyclical growth , construction provided the most extreme example of the dangers of boom economics to business bargaining power . Not surprisingly , the industry was a major target of the Roundtable 's early organizational efforts . I Even in normal times , the highly skilled , virtually preindustrial character of some work in construction confers unique advantages on unions . Through the hiring hall , the building trades control manpower allocation . Through union-administered apprenticeship programs , they control labor market entry . And the decentralized character of much of the industry has historically limited the force of industrywide bargaining , and given union locals unusual autonomy . The boom further enhanced the strong bargaining position of the building trades . Especially after 1965 , wage increases in construction ran far ahead of other industrial sectors . With demand astronomical , and job assignment controlled by the unions , building tradesmen could repeatedly strike one construction site , assign workers to another , and wait for the construction user ( i.e. , the firm commissioning the contractor ) to put pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the union . They could also insist on rigorous interpretations of job descriptions and jurisdic-1. tonal claims , and enforce controversial work rules . As construction costs continued their upward spiral during the late 1960s , calls for cooperation between construction users and contractors mounted in a succession of conferences and task force reports sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers , speeches by big-firm representatives such as Shell 's Richard McCurdy , and even the Federal ReServe , which urged Fed banks to impose a moratorium on nonessential construction . espite these initiatives , chaos in the industry persisted . A striking example of disorder in the busi- ' ness ranks , and the event that finally goaded ma- jor users into organizing , was the construction of General Motors ' notorious superautomated Vega and small truck plant in Lordstown , Ohio . Lucrative overtime at ' the site became a magnet for construction workers all over the Midwest , squeezing other contractors in the region . The Associated General Contractors ( the nation 's largest contractor association ) , along with regional contractor groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regional contractor association went so far as to propose a " total boycott " of G.M. products by construction management , and attacked the company in a letter to Paul W. McCracken , the chairman of Nixon 's Council of Economic Advisors . Soon afterward , a Roundtable prototype emerged . Urged on by members of the Business Council , Roger Blough ( former chairman of both the Business Council and U.S. Steel , then a partner in White &; Case , the law firm long associated with U.S. Steel ) announced the formation of the Construction Users Anti-Inflation Roundtable in August 1969 . With its glittering membership of high-level officials from manyof the largest corporations in America , including Fred ' Borch of General Electric , J.K. Jamieson of Exxon , Frank Milliken of Kennecott Copper , James Roche of G.M. , Warren Shaver of U.S. Steel and John Oliver of Du Pont , the Users Roundtable offered promise of big-user cooperation with contractors unmatched by previous efforts . Its influence within construction grew steadily . Over the next few years the original membership of some fifty firms more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a network of special task forces evolved , which with some modification continues in the current Roundtable . And more than fifty mini-Roundtables of local user groups were organized throughout the country . The Users Roundtable attacked on many fronts . It pushed for regional **26;577;TOOLONG bargaining to help overcome industry fragmentation . It developed an extensive information system for coordinating local user action to avoid incidents like that at Lordstown . And it furthe'red the politicization of the courts by mounting an extremely broad , aggressive litigation campaign directed against union power . In its litigation efforts , the Users Roundtable often coop , erated with the Labor Law Study Group , a notably unpublicized association of representatives from some fifty major ; firms ( including A.T . &T.,; Bethlehem Steel , Chase , Citibank , Du Pont , Ford , General Dynamics , G.M. , Humble Oil , Sears , Roebuck and U.S. Steel ) formed in " response to organized labor 's 1965 ' attempt to repeal the 14b " right to work " section of the Taft-Hartley ' Act . Initiating or joining suits as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Group and Users Roundtable ( and later , the Business Roundtable they became ) broke new ground in labor law in more than fifty major cases . Among other things , these cases enabled companies to get injunctions in state courts when unions violate no-strike agreements , relieved an employer from liability under a contract made by a predecessor , limited First Amendment union freedoms , attacked union rights to pre-hire agreements and tightened the definition of ( illegal ) secondary picketing and boycotting . Other suits curtailed welfare and unemployment benefits for striking workers , opened union associations to antitrust action and increased international union liability for picket-line and other union- , related violence . At the local level , the Users Roundtable urged member firms to open bidding on construction projects to nonunion contractors . Local user groups funneled a number of large construction contracts to the biggest open-shop company , Brown &; Root ( more than doubling its billings between 1972 and 1973 ) , experimented with personnel allocation alternatives to the union-controlled hiring hall and sponsored a series of in-house studies on administrative remedies for jurisdictional disputes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overtime practices and development of uniform management-oriented contract language for use in regional bargaining . ( This last move raises interesting questions of industry collusion , although the notoriously infirm section 20 of the Clayton Act renders successfUl antitrust prosecution of the Roundtable a doubtful prospect . ) On the legislative front , the Roundtable repeatedly joined . with other business groups to beat back common situs picketing bills , which would have permitted secondary activity by unions on multi-employer construction sites . It also launched a massive attack on Federal and state Davis-Bacon acts , which bind contractors on government-funded construction projects to pay the wage prevailing in the region where the construction takes place . In March 1973 , the Roundtable announced that it would , " help make possible two important studies of the construction industry by a disinterested agency possessing high professional repute . " The two studies duly appeared two years later : Open Shop Construction by Prof. Herbert Northrup of the Wharton School of Business , and The Davis-Bacon Act by Armand Thieblot of the University of Maryland . Both cited the historic importance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulation as an inefficient anachronism of New Deal politics . This impartial assessment was later endorsed by the General Accounting Office , The New York Times and The Chicago Tribune . T he Roundtable also worked up its own study of the problem , Coming to Grips With Some Major Problems in the Construction Industry , ' which concluded that although the " ultimate remedy would be the outright repeal of the Davis-Bacon Act itself , " " political reality " made such repeal unlikely in the immediate future . The report advised adopting a dual strat- ' egy : try to repeal the Federal law entirely , but also attack the way the law is administered and push for repeal- of the state wage-standards acts known as " little Davis-Bacons . " This proposed dual strategy has since been avidly pursued by the local user groups , operating at the state and regional level , and by the Roundtable member firms ' Washington representatives working on Capitol Hill . In the last two years , more than twenty state legislatures have opened deliberations on repeal of their little Davis-Bacon regplations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed in two ( vetoed in one of those ) and will come up again next year . In Congress , in addition to three different measures urging total repeal , the Rouhdtable sought to chip away at the Federal act by excluding from its protection a nurhber of appropriation and procurement bills , including appropriations for the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Department of Defense ; transplanting administration of the act from the Department of Labor to the more tractable Office of Federal Procurement Policy , and amending a number of the conditions of its application , including requisite contract size and percentage of ' Federal funding . These efforts failed in the past session of Congress ( although barely in a number of instances ) , but they will provide guidelines for action in the Congress aboUt to be . I elected . As a result of the Roundtable 's offensive , in many areas of the country the once powerful building trades unions are reeling . The dollar volume and industry percentage of non-unionized construction has grown all through the decade . Many once exclusively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or operate both union and nonunion companies in so : ' called " double-breasted " operations . The Associated Builders and Contractors ( the major open-shop trade association ) estimates that open-shop contractors will account for 60 percent of new construction next year , compared with the roughly 30 percent of the market they commanded at the time of the Roundtable 's formation . The metamorphosis of the Construction Users Anti-Inflation Roundtable into the Business Roundtable began with the emergence of the March Group in the early 1970s . This relatively informal gathering of chief executive officers from several top firms was prompted by sharp business ? anxiety over the declining position of the United States in a newly competitive world economy . Their concern was shared by prominent members of the Business Council and such Administration figures as Treasury Secretary John Connally ( a former Halliburton director ) and Federal Reserve Board Chairman Arthur Burns . First chaired by G.E 's Borchi the group also attempted to achieve some consensus /about business strategies in several broad areas of public policy , including taxation , consumerism , the , environment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the March Group were also members of the Users Roundtable , which in turn had a substantial membership overlap with the Labor Law Study Group . A high percentage of firms in all three groups were members of the Business ' Council . The Business Council had represented Big Business in Washington since the New Deal , working largely through direct , quiet contacts with the White House , key executive agencies and select members of Congress . But with widespread hosjility to Big Business taking increasingly sharp Congressional expression , the need for a Big Business group that could aggressively and openly lobby both Congress and the public became apparent . With some background prompting from Connally , the three new groups moved toward merger . The Labor Law Study Group affiliated with the Users Roundtable in November 1972 . The March Group came on board the following May . The expanded group announced itself as the Business Roundtable . In this , its final incarnation , the Roundtable absorbed and expanded on most of the programs of all three prior organizations , while preserving the basic institutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantial resources to areas outside construction , litigation and Congressional lobbying . " It has , for example , made a major effort to advertise its own version of how the American economy works . At the first ? annual meeting of the Roundtable in June 1973 , C.B. McCoy ( chairman and president of Du Pont ) proposed that , the organization develop a " program to advance economic literacy , " especially " at the secondary school level . " The Roundtable has subsequently channeled its efforts through the Joint Council on Economic Education ( J.C.E.E. ) , which has in the past been a vehicle for the educational efforts of the Committee on Economic Development ( which has considerable membership overlap with the Roundtable ) . The J.C.E.E. has . been active in forty-five states , and with , the strong endorsement of the Roundtable is promoting the teaching of economics from kindergarten on up . The Roundtable has also urged member firms to make greater use of the press , meet informally with journalists and news commentators , and advertise their political , program more extensively among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other efforts to promote pro-business sentiment , the Roundtable sponsored a series of articles on the virtues of free enterprise and high worker productivity and the evils of inflation that ran first in the Reader 's Digest , and was then sold to member firms at bulk rate for distribution to workers . The Roundtable has also extensively promoted capital formation as a national issue : It has criticized government policies that it maintains hold down the rate of savings and investment . It has strongly backed tax bills which , like President Carter 's recent bill , reduced corporate taxes . Hailing the Carter tax measure that passed last year , the chairman of the Roundtable 's Taxation Task Force , G.E . ' s Reginald Jones , observed that " considering the untidy nature of the democratic process , and the need to respond to the legitimate interests of so many different constituencies in our society , the Congress managed to produce an improved Federal tax structure . " Jones added that " now it is important that we maintain the momentum in the next Congress , with emphasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcome the effects of underdepreciation , a solution to the double taxation of dividends , and retention  --  indeed expansion  --  of the tax provisions that help keep this country competitive in the battle for exports and foreign source . income . " Widespread recent discussion of investment tax credits , the delay in proposed abolition of foreign tax credits and the recently introduced bills sharply accelerating industrial plant depreciation schedules indicate that the Roundtable is till busy . Not all Roundtable initiatives have been as successful . In the mid-1970s , a proposed merger of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the NatiOnal Association of Manufacturers , which the Roundtable had supported , fell through . As stories of the Roundtable 's involvement in the merger negotiations leaked to the press , smaller firms in the other two organiza , tions complained of big-firm domination ' and strongly resisted the move . And within the Roundtable itself , plenty of divisions exist . The December 1973 announcement of the formation of an Energy Users Task Force and a correlate , but deliberately distinct , Energy Suppliers Consulting Group hinted at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have exacerbated . ( Indeed , at least one oil company refused for a time even to join the Roundtable . ) Though the Roundtable has thus far managed to preserve a united front in public , tension between the oil companies and some Roundtable firms , notably G.E. , is rising . Such tensions are sure to be compounded as the enormous cash flows of the oil companies lead to a sharp increase in their bids to take over other firms . Foreign policy and international trade are also areas in which substantial disagreements exist among member firms . Managing the conflicts within a business community bitterly divided between free traders and protectionists poses a continuing , probably insuperable problem . In a decade marked by extensive business organization around the issue of international trade , the Roundtable has only intermittently had a task force on the subject . It endorsed the recent Multilateral Trade Negotiation ( " Tokyo Round " ) agreement , but so many ancillary understandings concerning import limitations for specific industries were attached to that package that almost no one opposed it in its final form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such other divisive issues as trade with the Communist economic bloc and China or national ' defense spending . Nor will mounting interest rates ease the tensions between manufacturers and the banks that have traditionally loaned to them . This is an especially painful matter for the Roundtable , most of whose members are manufacturers , although for some of them alternative financing schemes presented by the Eurodollar and other financial markets may cushion the impact of tight money in the United States . Whatever the extent and ultimate impact of these internal divisions , the Roundtable represents an extraordinary consolidation of corporate political power . Big Business is now capable of a degree of coordinated , disciplined intervention and guidance of policy outcomes inside the Congress that it had previously exercised only within the institutions of executive authority . This enhanced centralized power of Big Business has accrued at the direct expense of labor , which has thus far been unable to develop a comparably unified political program . As divisions within a weakened labor movement proliferate , the politics of clientelism flourish . After a decade of defeat for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlightened " labor statesmen are now negotiating with key Roundtable figures for a separate peace . With this , final twist , the New Deal comes full circle . In the late 1970s , as in the late 1920s , the business of America is business , and the populace can not imagine it otherwise . , ' ?                     