@@471008

JUST as we went to press the Tolan Com-mittee ? otherwise known as the House Select Committee to Investigate the Interstate Migration of Destitute Citizens ? reached Detroit and there the Governor of Michigan told them of the dire prospects ahead of those Michigan communities whose industries are threatened with loss of raw materials under Priorities . This is what is known as Little Man 's trouble ; the squeeze in which the small manufacturer and business man now finds himself . Frank C. itanigheres " Defense Begins to Hurt " is an analysis of the conflicts involved in the defense program andthe repercussions that occur when the productive energies of an economy are required for war . War takes a lot , then takes more , then may take all but enough to feed and clothe the population . When this happens the wreckage is enormous ; businesses by the thousand which are devoted to the supply and demand of peacetime are pushed to the wall . Mr. Hanighen shows how this comes about and concludes that the Little Man is really the pivot on which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort as essential , no matter what the cost may be , then the program will go ahead steadily . If he does not then no one can foretell what may occur . Mr. Hanighen is by now a toughened customer in dealing with the production of weapons and war materiel . In 1934 he and H. C. Engelbrecht scored a great success with Merchants of Death , an expose of the international armament makers . Happier days when the world could be shocked by such exposures ! Anyhow , in the years since Merchants of Death was published Mr. Hanighen has followed the war and armament story all over Europe . He wrote many articles about it for Harper 's and when , at last , he returned from Europe and settled in Washington as a correspondent , he continued to write for us . During the past year his Harper articles have included " Transportation and Defense , " " Where Are We Now ? " and " The United States Army . " AMBULANCE DRIVER eiter Muir , author of " I Thumb My Way rto Tobruk , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in France during the First World War . In 1922 he served on President Hoover 's Relief Commission in Russia . Then after a stretch in newspaper work in America and Europe , he settled in France and became a free-lance writer . He was thus occupied when the present war broke out and he returned to ambulance driving once more as Section Leader of an ambulance corps in the American Field Service . He was caught in the great retreat during the Battle of France , retiring with his French command from burning Amiens to the banks of the Loire , where , on June 17th , he drove his staff car round a corner and head on into an advanced panzer division . He was escorted to the aviation field outside of Etampes by a heavily armed motorcycle convoy , and was here locked up for the night without food or water . His staff car was confiscated and his water canteen refused him on the grounds that he had been " impolite " to a German officer . The following morning the column of five thousand French and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction of Paris , fell out for rest in Etampes and the guard was changed . When he was told by the new guard to fall in he refused , saying that he was not in the column , but was an American doctor on his way to Paris and just happened to be there when the prisoners passed . The sergeant of the guard believed his simple cock-and-bull story , and after examining his passport sent him to Paris in an ambulance that happened to pass at that moment . In Paris he wore civilian clothes to avoid detection , and immediately after the Armistice was able to return to America via Spain and Lisbon . Back in New York , he began forming plans with the American Field Service to continue the work with the British and Free French Forces and , last January , went to Cairo with the plans ? and incidentally thumbed his way to Tobruk . Another trip back to New York followed and he is now returning to the Middle East . He says that the A.F.S. will probably equal if not surpass its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambulances , driven by American drivers , were handling the front-line wounded of over sixty French divisions . Mr. Muir has received four citations for the Croix de Guerre , two during the First World War , and two for his recent service in France . He is the author of War Without Music , the story of his experiences during the Battle of France . GEOGRAPHY AND CONQUEST D URING the past two years there has been a succession of mysterious and sensational revelations of Hitler 's " world plans . " Upon examination most of these exposures may be traced back to the work of Dr. Karl Haushofer , a German geographer and the most prominent exponent of what is known as " geopolitics . " In " German Geopolitics " Professor H. Ir . Weigert of Hiram College examines Dr. Haushofer 's ideas , shows where they came from , in what ways they have been useful to the Germans , and what their future influence could be . Dr. Weigert is one of the hand of scholars who fled from Germany to escape the rigors of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , studied law , and became an official in the International Law Division of the Prussian Ministry of Justice . Later he was an executive in one of the German state-owned electric power concerns . Since coming to America he has lived and worked in Ohio , first as an employee of Goodyear , then at Yellow Springs , where he was associated with Arthur E. Morgan , and now as Professor of Political Science both at Youngstown College and at Hiram College . eon BECORT THE LINE T I1E American Travel Series which began in the July number with Bernard DeVoto 's " Touring New England " and then jumped across the country with Edwin Corle 's " Seeing the Southwest , " which we published in October , now moves east again , Jonathan Daniels being in charge of " Seeing the South . " Nobody who has the itch about the South will be satisfied with Mr. Daniels 's prospectus , but then again , no two persons with that itch would write identical MEM enforced revival of interest in every-I thing concerned with Latin America is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson 's " Wanted : Another Walter Reed " is that the diseases are still there , still virulent and active , even though much has been done in the past two generations to hem them in . The importance of the work of Reed and Lazear and Finlay and Gorgas and the other yellow fever and malaria heroes was ' not that they obliterated the problem but that they made a remarkable start . Most of Mr. Wilson 's recent work for Harper 's has been about Latin America . In the July issue he reported on Henry Ford 's rubber plantation on the Tapajoz River , . an affluent of the Amazon . Last January he exhorted the United States to " Buy Hemisphere Products , " urging the resuscitation of those tropical crops which once came exclusively from Latin America but which were moved to the East Indies a generation ago . Subsequently Mr. Wilson turned this argument into a book called Central America : Challenge and Opportunity . His other books include Acres of Sky , Meriwether Lewis of Lewis and Clark , Backwoods America , Rabble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , America at Work , Ginger Blue , and Corn Bread and Creekwater . This last is described as " the landscape of rural poverty in the United States . " KS LANE " was the governess of Susan Ertz , back in the days when the author 's father had come over from England to work what he thought was a gold mine in the High Sierras . At one time or another we have published many of Miss Ertz 's stories , but she is best known for her novels : Madam Claire , The Galaxy , The Story of Julian , Woman Alive , No Hearts to Break , and others . Woman Alive was dramatized and produced in London . Miss Ertz was born in England of American parents . After the Sierra days which she describes in " Miss Lane , " she studied painting and sculpture in New York . Early in 1914 she went back to England to live . She did not begin to write until after the War . Since then , in addition to her writing , she has gone back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from one end of the United States to the other . In 1932 she was married to Major I. Ronald McCrindle , Managing Director of British Airways . THE POLLS AGAIN Ti:dsay Rogers , author of " Do the Gal-lup Polls Measure Opinion ? " is Burgess Professor of Public Law at Columbia University . Born in Baltimore , he was educated at Baltimore City College and Johns Hopkins University . He was admitted to the Maryland bar in 1915 and taught political science at the University of Virginia , going from there to Harvard as Associate Professor of Government and then as Professor of Public Law , He has been a special lecturer on law and political science at various universities and has served on many committees and commissions . From 1924 to 1931 he was the secretary of the Governor 's Advisory Commission and Director of Research Bureau for the Cloak , Suit , and Skirt Industry in New York City ; in 1928 he was the Moreland Commissioner to investigate the New York State Department of Labor ; he was Deputy Administrator of the NRA in 1933 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Public Works Administration . Of his many books The American Senate and Crisi.s Government are the most recent . He has edited various books and publications and made numerous contributions to the professional journals . LITTLE FLOWER M AYOR LAGUARDIA is going to run again for the job of running New York and by the time Henry F. Pringle 's " Let Fiorel/o Do It " appears in print the campaign will be in the home stretch . ( Mr. Moses , Commissioner of Parks , has acidly endorsed Mayor LaGuardia even though , as he says , the Mayor " takes up space at fires that could be occupied by a hook-and-ladder . " ) Mr. Pringle 's portrait will refresh the reader 's mind on some of the knobs , angles , and points of this remarkable New York politician . Mr. Pringle has been Professor of Journalism at Columbia since 1936 . Before that he worked for various New York newspapers and wrote as a free lance . He has always been interested in American politics and his books include three widely read biographies : one of Al @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taft . The Roosevelt biography was awarded the Pulitzer prize in 1931 . The most recent of Mr. Pringle 's many Harper articles was a piece called " WQXR : Quality on the Air , " the story of John V. L. Hogan and his famous radio station . SOO TENDERFOOT az.11 Horgan has written a lot about the r country where the " Comedy on the Plains " occurred . When he was a boy his family went to Albuquerque to live and at seventeen he was working as a reporter on the Albuquerque Morning Journal . While he was a cadet at the New Mexico Military Institute , a famous Metropolitan singer , in Santa Fe for a concert , heard young Horgan sing and advised him to study . As a result he went to the Eastman School of Music in Rochester and not only studied singing but worked on the production staff of the Rochester Opera Company . ( Out of his experiences there he won the Harper prize in 1933 . ) In 1926 Mr. Horgan became the Librarian of the New Mexico Military Institute and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has published eight books : Men of Arms , No Quarter Gthen , Main Line West , The Return of the Weed , A Lamp on the Plains , FIE from Giulia , Figures in a Landscape , and Habit of Empire . SOMETHING 'S GONE WRONG the twenties there began the systematic study of World War propaganda and the evil flavor returned . Along with these shifts in coloring , there grew up a hardy belief that propaganda can accomplish anything . But since September , 1939 , the world has had a chance to test this theory and find it wanting . The war is not popular anywhere . The going is easier in Germany , for victory is victory and success is success and so far Hitler is the triumphant conqueror . But even so , the war is not popular . Something 's gone wrong with propaganda and it 's gone wrong in the United States also . There is no electric certitude and enthusiasm in the assembling and training of our draft army . What 's going on here , anyway ? In " The Failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Saunders is a Southerner , educated at Dartmouth and Columbia . He has worked at various jobs ? surveyor , laborer , and foreman for the United States Army on the Mississippi River ; he worked with the Rust brothers building and testing their mechanical cotton picker . At the moment he is simultaneously executive secretary of the League for Fair Play ( a non-profit speakers ' bureau ) and speakers ' director of the Institute for Propaganda Analysis and the Council for Democracy . He is a contributor to various magazines . Oren Stephens , the author of " Revolt on the Delta , " as a staff member of the Arkansas Democrat saw and reported the rise and decline of the Southern Tenant Farmers ' Union . In his article he tells something of the troubled history of that organization . Mr. Stephens was born at Blevins , Arkansas , and was educated at the State university . After working on a number of Arkansas papers he was appointed librarian in the office of the Secretary of State of Arkansas and went from there to the Democrat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that paper . He says : " Perhaps because of my own background , I 've always been interested in the problems of the rural South , which in turn explains my interest in the Southern Tenant Farmers ' Union . Much has been written on economic and sociological maladjustments of the South , but it is my conviction that far too few of the writers have had enough firsthand knowledge of their subjects , or they have merely desired to produce something sensational . I hope to write a book about the South , painting what I believe is a much more realistic picture . The story told in Revolt on the Delta ' will form one chapter of that book . " POETS sit poets of the month are Frances Frost , John Schaffner , and A. L. Rowse , author of " Remembrance Sunday . " Mr. Rowse is a Cornish writer , the son of a china clay worker and the descendant of generations of Cornish tin miners . Through scholarships , he made his way to Oxford where he is now a Fellow of All Souls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing and is the author of Tudor Cornwall , a life of Richard Grenville of the Revenge , and Politics and the Younger Generation . This year he is publishing his first volume of poetry , Poems of the rears 1925-1940- Mr. Schaffner , who teaches at the Walt Whitman School in New York City , was educated at Bowdoin . His poetry has appeared in the Saturday Review of Literature and other periodicals . Miss Frost is a Vermonter and has published a number of volumes of poetry ? Hemlock Wall , Blue Harvest , These Acres , Pool in the Meadow , Woman of This Earth , and Road to America . She has also written two novels , Innocent Summer and Yoke of Stars .                     