@@470918

Tr 's an old story of course , recorded of I war after war , that disease is more deadly than weapons . The fact was observed in the time of Xerxes invading Greece , of Frederick Barbarossa in Rome , of the Crusades , of the Thirty Years ' War , of the struggles following the French Revolution . Germs and hunger apparently had more to do with the defeat of Napoleon than gunpowder and bayonets . In the Crimean War dysentery , cholera , typhus , and other epidemics raked both the Russians and the opposing French and English with such deadly effect that the Charge of the Light Brigade was a mere incident by comparison . In our continent too and on down to our time disease has continued to outdo artillery as an instrument of war . The losses of the United States Army in the Mexican War ( 1846-1848 ) were seven times more numerous from disease than from battle casualties . During the American Civil War ( 1861-1865 ) disease killed 186,000 U. S. soldiers and the guns 94,000 , a ratio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the First World War ( 1917-1919 ) the competition between the two deadly forces became more nearly balanced , but even so disease with its 58,000 deaths had the edge on guns and gas which accounted for only 50,000 soldiers . Civilians are an easier prey of disease in time of war , as was demonstrated on the grand scale in 1914-1918 . A compilation made by Liebmann Hersch , statistician of the Swiss University of Geneva , shows that in Europe 12,219,000 civilians died as a result of the First World War ? that is to say , the excess of civilian deaths over the normal mortality rate of peacetime reached that tremendous figure , almost equal to the 12,637 , - 000 soldiers who were killed in battle or died of wounds and disease . Wartime 's medical problems are not essentially different from those of peacetime . The same contagions , infections , deficiencies , organic and functional infirmities have to be cared for in both ; but under the stress of war their incidence is multiplied , their virulence or extremity accentuated by the added privations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the surgeon is called on to care for gunshot wounds and other injuries inflicted by explosives , but in war these occasional problems are magnified , intensified , and complicated by the greater efficiency of organized mass destructiveness . The complete flowering of this concept is total war . It has brought the battle-front into city street and village green ; has made the defenseless home , the tradesman 's shop , and the churchman 's spire familiar subjects of attack ; has blurred the distinction between military and civilian elements of the population . In consequence , we find fewer differences between military medicine and civil medicine . Even the quantitative differences fade out of the picture when , as in the 1940 aerial attacks on London , the killed and wounded civilians outnumber the killed and wounded soldiers . Public health is affected by whatever influences individual health , and this includes a wide range of factors ? some environmental , some hereditary , many interacting upon one another . For example , one of the large New York clinics reports that during 1940 , with the growing fury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States for armed defense , there was a marked increase in the number of hyperthyroid patients coming for treatment . Back in 1932-1935 there was a similar increase , apparently a reflection of the mounting strain imposed on the population by the recurring shocks of the economic depression . However , nervous strain alone is not sufficient to produce hyperthyroid disease . There must be either some constitutional or acquired weakness in the thyroid gland or in its control , or some deficiency in nutrition , or both , to set the stage for emotional excitement to play its decisive role . Cerebral hemorrhage and nephritis attained their highest death rates in the year of American entrance into the First World War , and after 1917 receded to lower mortality levels . Since both diseases are related to high blood pressure , and since high blood pressure is affected by emotional excitement , it is no wonder that this sudden wartime rise took place . On the same basis , mental disorders may increase , but again the extent of the upset is determined by other circumstances of health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the promotion of public health and national morale , especially if it provides tests by which potential neurotics may be identified and classified . Such a service should not only prevent many round pegs from being misfitted into square holes , thus safeguarding the military against the inclusion of elements that would break under strain , but it should also make possible the assignment of many of these to useful posts of service suitable to their temperaments . Very likely there is no disease which is not accelerated in some degree by theabnormal conditions imposed by war . A complete review of our subject would encompass the whole of clinical medicine , a task beyond the scope of this paper . There are , however , three fields in which the collaboration of Mars and Death has been most effective in the past , and it is in these that we look for war 's greatest immediate threat to health : famine , pestilence , and wounds . 11 Famine was the Allies ' most potent weapon against the Kaiser . By 1918 food was so scarce in Germany and Austria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapse . Every form of nutritional deficiency disease was represented . Some were believed to be infections : pellagra , for example , which we now know is a direct result of selective starvation . There were in continental Europe millions of cases of the exhausting condition known as " epidemic dropsy . " This name was given in India where the disease accompanied the great famine of 1876-1877 and was thought to be catching ; but the First World War demonstrated that it was the monotonous diet of thin salty soup , particularly the deficiency of protein , that caused this painful bloating of bellies and swelling of legs as though in mockery of the gnawing hollowness within . Rickets was common , especially in inland communities , notably in Vienna . Shortage of milk and other protective foods resulted in the permanent stunting of children who managed to survive the bitter " winter of turnips . " Although the armies were the preferred sector of the population when it came to the allotment of supplies , they had their food privations too . Italians are often taunted for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the event becomes less ignoble when we learn that for nine months their army had been existing on drastically reduced rations and hunger was their companion by day and by night . Against the weapon of war-imposed famine , defenders have resources now which did not exist twenty-five years ago . The science of nutrition was exceedingly fragmentary then . It was concerned mainly with the energy value of food . Calories was the popular word . Although a beginning had been made in the recognition of what were called accessory food factors , and chemists were discovering that minute quantities of these hidden substances are vital to health , and here and there practical applications of these facts were being tried , this knowledge in 1918 was still largely confined to the laboratories . The word vitamin was not adopted until 1920 , when three such substances had been recognized. * To-day we know at least eight vitamins essential to human life , we know others essential to animal life whose value in human nutrition is strongly indicated , and we know in some detail the functions performed by vitamins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential one is missing . Moreover , we are able to manufacture most of the vitamins by chemical synthesis and need no longer depend on natural foods as sources of supply . Along with this new knowledge of vitamins has come further discovery of the role of calcium , phosphorus , iron , iodine , and other minerals in nutrition . Thus developed the possibility of making concentrates of the accessory food factors and of adding them to less diversified foods ? a possibility that may turn out to be as important an addition to the arsenal of war as the submarine or the airplane . For when we find , as recent nutritional research has demonstrated , that deficiency of a single vitamin brings on loss of appetite , loss of weight , intestinal disturbance , tender muscles , fatigue , emotional instability , fear , and indecision , the critical importance of this minute food factor becomes conspicuously apparent . It is no wonder that the British government now requires all bakers within the realm to enrich their flour with Vitamin B1 and calcium . " There are two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nutritional biochemist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . " The hunger of the stomach , or what I call ' hollow hunger , ' is not nearly so important as nutritional deficiency , or ' hidden hunger . ' Ersatz food will readily satisfy hollow hunger and do it very inexpensively . Vitamin and mineral concentrates will satisfy hidden hunger . By combining the two it is possible , very inexpensively , to take care of the nutritional needs of a population . " Nor is this statement merely an opinion , for within recent months Dr. Harris and his group of researchers undertook to produce a synthetic diet that would be both inexpensive in cost and adequate in the factors usually missing from cheap foods . What came out of these studies is two mixtures , each resembling breakfast flakes in appearance . One mixture has as its base a blend of whole wheat and soya-bean meal , with powdered skim milk , and added vitamins and mineral salts . The other has the same ingredients , except that the cereal base is a blend of oats , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vitamin missing is C , and a glass of tomato juice daily will supply that . Dr. Harris reports , from his experiments , that two-thirds of an ounce of either mixture , with the added tomato juice , will care for the daily vitamin , mineral , and protein needs of an individual . Bread , potatoes , or any other cheap carbohydrate food will provide calories and bulk to satisfy " hollow hunger . " The actual materials in the mixture cost only $1.80 per year per person , though commercialization would doubtless add something for selling and other expenses . While Harris and his colleagues were working out their results at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , another group has been tackling the problem at the California Institute of Technology on the opposite side of the continent . Headed by Dr. Henry Borsook , professor of biochemistry , the California nutritionists have developed several concentrates as emergency food rations . One is in the form of a candy mint , and three mints per day per person will provide all the vitamin and most of the mineral requirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mints include no protein , but this may be supplied by eating lean meat , cheese , or skim-milk powder ; and also some carbohydrate ( such as bread ) and fat ( such as margarine ) must be taken to supply calories . The point is that the mints , added to these cheap nitrogenous , starchy , and fat foods , will provide enough accessory factors to make a first-class diet . The cost of the concentrate runs about one dollar for one hundred mints , or three cents per day per person . A neutral visitor to a military center in one of the occupied lands tells of the present dietary regimen of the German army . There is no difference between the soldiers ' mess and the officers ' mess . Each is served the same fare which has been carefully designed by nutrition experts and commonly consists of a large bowl of stew and a plate of dark bread . The stew is composed of selected vegetables with a relatively few cubes of meat , and the whole mixture is enriched with added vitamins and minerals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appetizing . Variety is attained by daily changes in the combination of vegetable and meat components , and although the visitor ate three successive meals of stew and bread he found no monotony in the fare . Reports from England relate that certain vitamins are daily administered to the crews of the Royal Air Force to insure optimum eyesight and also for a general tonic effect . The discovery that vitamins of the B complex , and also possibly Vitamin C , will not only safeguard against certain deficiency diseases but will also tone up the system to a higher level of vigor , endurance , resistance to fatigue , steadiness of nerve , and buoyant health , is perhaps the most important recent finding of nutritional research . Food concentrates can be used to strengthen the emergency rations of armed forces , to tide over civilian populations in blockaded or beleaguered areas , and also to raise the nutritional level of whole peoples . Although the United States is credited with the highest standard of living in the world , a Department of Agriculture survey indicates that some 45,000,000 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show the frank symptoms of deficiency diseases , but there are millions of latent or sub-clinical cases of pellagra , scurvy , beriberi , rickets , night blindness , keratitis , anemia , and other hidden but debilitating results of selective starvation . Whether or not the present war will impose famine conditions comparable to those which followed the First World War , lasting in some countries until 1924 , no one can predict . It has already produced undernutrition , especially among civilians in conquered lands and occupied territory and among the unfortunates in prison camps ; and as the struggle lengthens the food shortage will become more acute . Vitamins and mineral salts can be manufactured only if raw materials for these chemicals are available , and only as technicians can be spared from the manufacture of explosives and other munitions . Moreover , no one can live on vitamins and minerals alone . Whatever our new knowledge and new skills promise , the harshnesses of war almost inevitably make for various degrees of starvation . Men , women , and children may not die of hunger by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1920 's , but their physical endurance will be sapped , they will be more open to the invisible carriers of disease , and what was begun by hunger and malnutrition may be finished by pestilence . HI The forms of pestilence that are most feared in the present war are influenza , pneumonia , cerebrospinal fever , dysentery , typhus , and malaria . Each took its toll during and after the First World War , some more devastatingly than others , and as I write , in the early weeks of 1941 , it is known that each of these diseases is present in Europe , though nowhere in violent epidemic form . It is possible of course that before the terror ends some other disease will flare up and become the great pestilence of the 1940 's , as the unexpected influenza was of the last war . A few months ago yellow fever broke out in the Nubian Mountains region of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan , and if it should get transmitted to Europe the result might be a major calamity . Fortunately we now have a vaccine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question , and already large numbers of the military forces engaged in service in the tropics have been inoculated . Indeed , we are fortunate in other respects also , for against every one of the diseases mentioned we have resources that were not available in 1918 . Malaria , it is true , still defies the doctors with its elusive little parasite which seems able to hide out in tissues during a quinine barrage , completely disappearing from the bloodstream and giving a perfect show of defeat , only to come back and strike down its victim with renewed chills and fevers after the quinine has ceased firing . The malaria problem is giving American medical men considerable concern because of the need of concentrating troops in the South where the mild winters and ample grounds afford ideal conditions for training camps . Sanitary measures to wipe out the malaria-carrying mosquito are being pushed , but what is greatly needed is a specific against the disease . Back in the 1930 's the I. G. Farbenindustrie of Germany developed a synthetic chemical which it named atebrin , and which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its superiority is limited by other factors , and physicians feel that something better is needed if malaria is ever to be conquered . The United States Public Health Service recently assigned one of its crack research teams the task of seeking to synthesize an effective antimalarial drug , and in other American laboratories similar efforts are under way . Until a better drug is found or fabricated , quinine will remain an important aid in the treatment of malaria , for , as Dr. L. W. Hackett points out in his Malaria in Europe , quinine " can interrupt the acute attack , " and " that alone , for the lives and suffering it has saved , will always entitle it to a medal of honor . " None of the known anti-malarial drugs has any clear prophylactic value against the protozoa of malaria , and it is this malaria-preventing type of drug that is a principal goal of the present activity of chemists and pharmacologists . One thing that spurs on the antimalarial searchers is the magnificent success of sulfanilamide against bacteria . Before the discovery of sulfanilamide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about an equal number of times it missed , but a fifty-fifty chance was regarded as good odds in chemotherapy in the 1920 's . Then in 1935 came announcement of sulfanilamide 's conquests in a field where drugs had never made any progress ? the field of bacterial diseases ? and soon it was demonstrated that quinine was a feeble hit-or-miss weapon against the little animals of the malarial infection as compared with sulfanilamide against the little vegetables of streptococcal infection . By alterations in the molecule of sulfanilamide various derivatives have been made , each with qualities specific to some one or more bacterial parasites , with the result that to-day the sulfa-drugs are effective against more than a dozen different diseases . Cerebrospinal fever ( meningitis ) is one of them . In the First World War this fever was epidemic in the trenches ; it was " camp fever " to prisoners ; it broke out among refugees , homeless civilians , wherever human beings were housed under conditions of overcrowding , uncleanliness , and privation . Most of the victims died horribly , the mortality rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present war cerebrospinal fever began to appear , and recently a British medical officer reported 124 cases treated in a military isolation hospital at Aldershot during the winter of 1939 and spring of 1940 . By the use of a sulfanilamide compound known as soluseptasine all but four of the patients were cured , thus reducing the death rate to less than three per cent . And there were severe cases : men writhing in pain , with distorted features , gray lips , rigid muscles , some demented , a few unconscious . One evening a sergeant was brought in " with his fists tightly clenched and elbows so strongly flexed that three orderlies found difficulty in straightening his arms so that an intravenous injection could be given . " The injection of the sulfanilamide compound was repeated in the night , and the patient awoke in the morning feeling so improved that when the doctor called he was sitting up in bed . Another dramatic case is that of a soldier who was admitted " practically dead , " reports the physician . " He looked like a corpse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly breathing . His body was covered with large patches or areas of purpura . His veins were so collapsed that it was difficult to gain an entry with the needle , and the blood withdrawn into the syringe was almost black . " Two injections of the sulfanilamide compound given within four hours snatched this man from death . Bacillary dysentery was fairly prevalent in France and other German-occupied territory last autumn , and was sufficiently active in Great Britain to give its medical authorities deep concern . There are various scrums prepared from the blood of individuals convalescent from dysentery which have proved helpful in encounters with this pestilence , and it is known that the Medical and Surgical Supply Committee of America has dispatched shipments of these among other materials to England for use in the emergency . But here again sulfanilamide promises additional strategic aid . Recent tests at the Johns Hopkins Hospital show that a new derivative known as sulfanilylguanidine is a specific against both the bacillus of dysentery and the bacillus of typhoid fever . This drug is so rr , . w that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Calco Chemical Company has distributed supplies among physicians and surgeons in various parts of the country for further clinical tests . Pneumonia was a particular scourge of the armed forces in 1918 , and killed about one man out of every four stricken . Since then various serums for the treatment of pneumococcal pneumonia have somewhat lowered the death rate , but for the greater worsting of these dread germs we must look again to the sulfa-drugs . Sulfapyridine and sulfathiazole are specifics against pneumococcal pneumonia , and in the more severe cases are used in collaboration with serum treatment . Sulfanilamide alone is effective against streptococcal pneumonia . British soldiers are required to carry sulfapyridine in their first-aid kits , and if a wound or other injury is received the drug is administered immediately as the initial step in treatment . In influenza the death blow is frequently given by pneumonia , and because of their power against pneumonia bacteria the sulfa-drugs may be of some service in saving influenza patients from this final blow . The drugs apparently have no effect on the influenza germ itself , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of epidemic disease in the current war emergency . Efforts have been made to shape a sulfanilamide derivative into such form that it will neutralize the influenza virus , but without success . However , progress has come from another direction . A means of making a vaccine has been discovered . The discovery is the result of a fortunate accident in a Rockefeller Foundation laboratory in New York . It happened in November , 1939 , while Drs . Frank L. Horsfall and Edwin H. Lennette were experimenting with ferrets infected with influenza . Quite by accident four of the animals became additionally infected with dog distemper , and when a vaccine was processed from the tissues of the ferrets carrying this double infection , it was found that the vaccine conferred an apparent protection against influenza . For when persons were inoculated with this material , their blood rapidly developed anti-influenza antibodies . Repeated tests have been made of this phenomenon , and it has been found that the blood of vaccinated individuals retains the power to neutralize the influenza virus for as long as six months , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effectiveness of this protection in a serious disease emergency its full value can not be appraised ; but all the laboratory and clinical results thus far are consistently encouraging . Up to January more than 50,000 persons in the United States had been vaccinated , and at the request of British medical authorities several hundred thousand doses of the vaccine were sent to London during the winter . Another devastating disease often associated with war is typhus fever . There are several kinds , the two most common being murine typhus and European epidemic typhus . Murine is primarily a rat disease , but man is susceptible , and the infection is carried by fleas and other insects from rat to man . This form of typhus is endemic in Mexico , Chile , Algeria , and a few other lands , mostly tropical . European typhus is more virulent and was especially destructive in Serbia , Poland , and Russia during the 1914-1918 conflict . A human disease , it has no animal reservoir , but is carried by lice from man to man and still lurks in latent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than European typhus but of interest because it exists in the United States , is Rocky Mountain spotted fever . This is a sheep disease but is transmitted to man by the bite of a tick . Although confined mostly to sheep-raising regions of the Northwest , cases have occurred as far east as Pennsylvania and New Jersey , and within the past five years several patients in those States have died . Quite recently Dr. Herald Cox , working in the government 's Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever Laboratory in Montana , hit upon a technic which is proving highly effective in making typhus vaccine . Earlier experimenters had produced vaccines , but the difficulty of growing the microbe in quantity seriously limited their efforts and output . Dr. Cox used the developing chick embryo in a hen 's egg as a culture medium and found that if he opened a small hole in the egg after it had been incubating five or six days , and introduced the infection into the yolk sac , an enormous multiplication of the microbes took place . In this way it became possible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost that had previously produced only meager grams . In 1940 the Lederle Laboratories manufactured a quantity of vaccine by this yolk-sac method , and the American Red Cross supplied several thousand doses for trial in a typhus-infected area of Rumania . Political developments made it impossible for the medical men carrying this vaccine to get into Rumania , but some vaccinations were given in Hungary . It would be interesting to know how the vaccinated ones are faring this spring . Typhus usually gathers its momentum in late winter and early spring , paralleling the period when resistance to disease is at its lowest level and the louse infestation at its highest . " The lice and flea population is multiplying , " wrote Ritchie Calder in the London weekly New Statesman and Nation , reporting on the bomb shelters of London . " In every shelter I 've been in during the last six weeks I 've heard that hacking ' shelter cough ' and the wheezy sleep of the bronchial cases . " In these damp , ill-ventilated , poorly heated , overcrowded , underground quarters hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvised beds , on the floor , on the concrete stairs . But even the worst of London 's shelters are halls of hygiene compared with the prison camps , the refugee camps , the packed ghettos of conquered cities , the concentration pens of the dictators ' victims . Here , with scant food , scant clothes , scant housing , and scant hope , millions of human beings have languished through a terrifying winter , soapless and filthy among the multiplying vermin that wait upon war and spread its direst plagues . It is the dislocation of populations that facilitates what Dr. Hans Zinsser called " the dreadful companionship of pestilence and warfare . " The rise of venereal diseases has correlated in past wars with the establishment of training camps , mobilization centers , and other places of concentration of troops . Whether social controls can reduce this in the present war remains to be demonstrated , but brave efforts in that direction have been planned , and medical science is alert with new remedies . And so with all the communicable diseases . The shifting of people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether as soldiers of war or prisoners of war , whether as civilian refugees voluntarily fleeing or civilian hostages forcibly held , mixes disease carriers with disease susceptibles , exposes those who were immune in their old surroundings to new surroundings and new agents against which they are not immune . Add to these physical circumstances the emotional ones created by homesickness , uncertainty , and fear , and you plow a fertile field for the sowing of disease . /V The means of inflicting wounds have been improved since the final shell of November 11 , 1918 , was fired . The Paris gun which terrorized the French capital in those pioneering days of big warfare has been replaced by thousands of airplanes dropping bigger and more destructive bombs . Death from bursting shrapnel has been reinforced by crushing death from falling buildings in bombed cities and burning death from fire-scattering incendiary bombs . Whether this war is killing more men per thousand tons of ammunition is not yet computed ; but of the men who are picked up wounded it appears that there are fewer fatal infections , fewer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many factors contribute to this more favorable outcome . One factor has been promptness in giving complete surgical attention , a measure facilitated by aircraft . The Germans have immense " stretcher planes , " which can carry eight wounded men in horizontal position . These hos-. pital ships of the air swoop down near the scene of battle , take on their cargoes of casualties , and within less than an hour deliver them to a fully equipped base hospital . Twenty-five years ago there were at least four stages in the transfer of the wounded : first to the regimental aid station , thence to the first-aid station , next to the casualty clearing station , and finally to the base hospital ? a succession of transfers that consumed hours by ambulance , sometimes days . By means of the airplane the second and third stops in this sequence are eliminated . It is to be hoped that in planning the United States defense program attention is being given this use of aircraft in hospital service . In defending a wide expanse , such as the United States and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be required . Another factor in modern wound treatment is greater use of bactericidal agents ; for we have antitoxins , toxoids , serums , and germ-killing chemicals which were not available until recently . For example , the bacteriologists have attained a powerful defense against tetanus in the form of a toxoid . Unlike the old antitoxin , which is effective for only a relatively short time after its injection , the toxoid confers an immunity for weeks and perhaps months , and so is being administered to soldiers in advance of battle service . Eighty per cent of the British Expeditionary Force received tetanus toxoid before going to France , and a recent report in the British Medical Journal records that in the first year of the present war less than one man out of every 2,000 wounded developed tetanus , to compare with 16 in 1914-1918 . Gas gangrene bacilli , like those of tetanus , are anaerobes , i.e. they thrive in the absence of air . Because of this and their high virulence they are especially dangerous in deep wounds . There is no toxoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful and there are effective ways of treating the wound to discourage these predatory microbes . The first step is to clean the wound thoroughly . After this a dressing of zinc peroxide has been used in some cases . Another measure recently developed is the packing of the wound with powdered sulfanilamide . Still another treatment for which favorable results are claimed , is exposure of the wound to x-rays . But fundamental to radiation , packing , dressing , and other measures is the preparatory process generally known by its French name , debridement . It came into vogue during 1914-1918 ? indeed has often been listed as a beneficent contribution of those years of destruction . Actually , as Dr. Justinia Hill recalls in her exciting book Germs and the Man , it was Napoleon 's surgeon , Dominique Larrey , who more than a century agooriginated this procedure of preliminary surgery " by which the dead and injured tissue is scrupulously removed in order that , as we now know , the anaerobes may have no devitalized cells or foreign matter for a foothold . According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War by Sir Henry Gray . It remains to-day one of the great surgical protections which can be used to help both civilians and the military . " In debridement the surgeon not only uses the scalpel to cut out all dead and dying tissue , trimming the flesh to the quick , and enlarging the wound so that all hidden crevices are opened , but he also uses a brush and vigorously scrubs the wound with soapy water and antiseptic . The patient , being under anesthesia , does n't mind . In fact , in the light of what we now know of the course of wound infections , he has a right to mind , and to object strenuously , if the scrubbing is moderated . After this drastic toilet the next procedure is to dress the wound , and here again the surgeons have a new technic which is working wonders . It was originated in France in 1918 by a young surgeon in the U. S. Army , Dr. Hiram Winnett Orr , but attracted little attention . Drs . Alexis Carrel and Henry D. Dakin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by irrigating them with a circulating antiseptic solution , a method that required frequent redressing of the wound and long hospitalization . It was an ingenious system for fighting germs , undoubtedly saved thousands of wounded men in base hospitals in France , and was later adopted and has been widely used by surgical centers all over the world . Dr. Orr 's method is in striking contrast . After the initial debridement he packs the cleansed wound with a gauze soaked in vaseline , encloses the whole in plaster which soon hardens to rocklike texture , and leaves it to stew in its own juice . There is no sewing up of the wound , no irrigation , no drainage , no redressing . The whole area is completely immobilized by its rigid plaster coating , and in this state of rest is left to nature 's processes of defense and repair . When he returned to his home in Lincoln , Nebraska , in 1919 Orr continued to use his plaster casts in the treatment of compound fractures and other wounds which came his way in civil practice ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Little World War in 1936-1938 that the Orr technic received extensive trial by outsiders . It came to the attention of a Barcelona surgeon , Dr. J. Trueta , whose city was subjected to air raids of such violence , destructiveness , and frequency that there was no time and few facilities with which to pursue the elaborate method of Carrel-Dakin . In the emergency Dr. Trueta began to follow the procedure which Dr. Orr had outlined in a medical journal , and the early results were so successful that he adopted it as standard practice . Of 1,073 wounded persons treated thus in Barcelona , he lost only six . The plaster-cast technic is now being used in England , and glowing accounts of its effectiveness are appearing in the journals . Apparently it is the complete rest that the wound gets in its rigid jacket that speeds the healing . There are other healing agencies . Between the moment when a wound is received and the moment when its surface tissues begin to show tensile strength there is a lag period which varies from a few hours to many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association in 1940 Dr. Allen 0 . Whipple reviewed the current state of medical knowledge in this field . In general , four systemic factors decide the rate of healing : the age of the patient , his protein balance , his vitamin balance , and the state of his circulation . Age the surgeon can not alter , but knowing that the tissues of an old person are slower to heal than those of one younger , he may overcome the handicap somewhat by skilful use of the other factors . Imbalance in circulation , for example , may be corrected through blood transfusion . This is better facilitated to-day than was the case a few years ago , particularly through the use of universal blood plasma and its ready availability at all times through blood banks . It is no longer necessary to delay an operation because the patient is anemic , nor need one watch a wound mark time through a prolonged period of lag brought about by poor circulation . Usually now an adequate circulation can be engineered . Nor is it strange that wound repair should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hemorrhage is caused by lack of Vitamins K and C , that certain tissue substances will not form in the absence of C , and that protein is essential raw material for cellular growth . Dr. A. H. Clark , of Johns Hopkins , first to study the effect of diet on wound healing , found that when the patient was fed a fare rich in protein the lag period disappeared and healing began at once ; but when the food was rich in fat the lag period lasted six days . It is now regular practice to feed all wounded patients diets reinforced with vitamins and proteins , with additional plasma transfusions and other direct introductions of protein into the system when necessary . The Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research recently began an intensified study of food relative to wound healing , and in other laboratories the problem is receiving new attention . The nutritional expert , the chemist , the bacteriologist , and the specialists in many fields thus are collaborating with the surgeon to reduce the death rate from wounds and to shorten the period of convalescence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potent stratagems against war , whose cause is better served by maiming the enemy than by killing . A dead soldier or civilian ceases to be a care , but one who is wounded or ill has to have medical attention , nursing , hospitalization , and other services which occupy the time of the enemy and make his defense more difficult . The art of war might appropriately be defined as the art of spreading disease and other misery . By means of blockade , war imposes starvation and other privations , and by means of gas , bombs , and other projectiles it wounds , exposes , and terrorizes ? and impartial nature does the rest . Can war do more ? The possibility of accelerating the spread of epidemics by deliberately releasing microbes has been the subject of discussion in publications devoted to the art of warfare . Many species of disease germs are cultivated in the laboratory for purposes of research , and undoubtedly certain of these could be packed in containers and dropped from airplanes into city streets and public water supplies . A parachute carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bubonic plague , or infected lice might be scattered as typhus vectors . It could be managed , very likely , but a difficulty about germ warfare is that these " live bullets " are not directional , and an army planning invasion might find its pestilence backfiring . Disease as it spreads spontaneously is bad enough . A striking example of the intensification of bacterial invasion which comes with war is afforded by tuberculosis . In 1918 , after four years of strain , deaths from tuberculosis had increased in practically every nation : by 10 per cent in uninvaded France , by 25 per cent in England and Denmark , by 33 per cent in Spain , by 34 per cent in Czechoslovakia , by 44 per cent in Italy , by 50 per cent in Holland , by 61 per cent in Germany , by 67 per cent in Austria ? and in German cities of more than 15,000 population , by nearly 100 per cent . Al though the United States was on the other side of the ocean from the battlefields , its tubercular death rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is an important factor in the treatment of this disease , and it used to be thought that climate was also decisive . But recent findings , summarizing the observations of many years , show that by far the greater influence in promoting recovery is rest , physical and mental rest ? a thing difficult to get in time of war . The medical resources of the United States are being mobilized by the National Research Council in the present emergency . All the disease problems threatened by war , including those mentioned in this paper , are being surveyed by specialists , and measures to cope with them are in process of organization . So far as pharmaceuticals and other munitions of medicine are concerned , America is in a better position to-day than was the case in 1917 . There are , to be sure , some drugs for which we must look abroad ? but very few . The most important perhaps is morphine . We are still dependent on the poppy fields of Yugoslavia , Turkey , and Persia , and today hardly a trickle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Surgeon General Parran began to build up a reserve of this drug , so essential in surgery , cancer treatment , and other painful illnesses , and now a full three years ' national supply of morphine is held in Washington , in the Treasury vaults formerly used to store gold . Meanwhile , the synthetic chemists arc accelerating their efforts to produce laboratory products that will outclass natural drug products , or at least fortify our pharmacopoeia against the war that threatens .                     