@@475509

THE Deep South is entering upon a process of change as dramatic , as rapid , and as profound as any of the major waves of the Industrial Revolution . During the next decade both the geographical distribution and the nature of cotton farming will shift sensationally . The backward and poverty-stricken agriculture of the old Cotton Belt is likely to become efficient and moderately prosperous . But in the process millions of people ? especially Negro tenant farmers and sharecroppers ? will be driven off the land , with results which will deeply affect the social structure of this nation , North as well as South . The basic reasons for this change ? Mechanization and a flight from cotton . The mechanical cotton picker is no longer a promise or a threat , it is a reality . Last year , for the first time , fully mechanized cotton was grown on commercial farms in the South , with planting , thinning , weeding , defoliating , and picking all done by machine . The rapid spread of the cotton picker in the old Cotton Belt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a few dozen machines , but the engineering problems have all been solved , and mass production is about to begin . In Texas , Oklahoma , New Mexico , and Arizona , where the much simpler mechanical cotton stripper ' can be used , mechanized farms already account for more than onequarter of the total crop . And almost the entire sugar crop in Louisiana and Florida is now being harvested by the mechanical cane cutter which was introduced just before the war . Yet mechanization of farming is only one of the major changes that are going on in Southern agriculture today . There is a wholesale shift away from cotton . All through Alabama , Mississippi , and Arkansas , cotton land ? even good cotton land ? is being converted into pasture or sown to small grains . In many counties , particularly in central Alabama , livestock has become the major product . Three big grain elevators ? rightly regarded by Southerners themselves as the symbol of an agricultural revolution ? have been built by Quaker Oats in the very heart of the Mississippi Delta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small hillside farms are being abandoned in entire districts and the land turned into forests . Ting new farm economy which is emerg-now should not only give the Southern farmer a much higher income , it should also slow down soil erosion and restore the fertility of land sadly depleted by the continuous growing of cotton and The cotton picker picks only the ripe both . The stripper takes all bolls off the stalk in one simple raking action and can thus be used only where all bolls ripen together , that is , on the semi-arid high plains of Texas , Oklahoma , and New Mexico , or on irrigated desert land in Arizona and California . corn . It should do away to a large extent with the wicked system of Southern land tenure , destructive alike of land , landlord , and tenant . And while cotton should continue to be one of the major crops ? the foremost one on good cotton land ? Southern agriculture should become well diversified . Twenty years from now Southern agriculture might well be a system of thoroughly mechanized and efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gains is very high . Because Southern farming has been very largely done by unskilled hand labor on uneconomically small plots , the South has had not only the lowest farm income but also the densest agricultural population in the whole country . Hence the transformation of Southern agriculture will push off the land the major part of the small farmers , tenants , and sharecroppers ; as many as one to one and a half million families ? five to eight million people ? may , within the next decade or two , lose their homes and their livelihood . And the bulk of these refugees from cotton will be Negroes . The economic and social structure that was founded on one machine ? Eli Whitney 's cotton gin ? is being razed by another ? the cotton picker . And as a result we are facing one of the most severe and profound social dislocations in the history of the country . During the past fifteen years we have been trying to cope with the problems of the cotton South by bolstering the status qua through subsidizing cotton farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forbidding the extension of cotton growing to the new cotton lands of the West . Even the farm pressure groups most responsible for this policy admit that it has not solved anything ; on the contrary , it has made a real and radical solution both more urgent and more difficult . It is true that the New Deal cotton policy was successful , at least until 1940 , in its main goal of preserving the old structure , though at increasing cost and against increasing obstacles . Today , however , the disintegration of the old Southern pattern can no longer be prevented ; it can hardly even be slowed down . The Cotton Belt is in that truly revolutionary situation in which every measure designed to preserve theold system only hastens its downfall . This is the result partly of major technological developments , but above all of the change in the international and domestic position of cotton . TT reschoice before American cotton is a very simple one indeed : either cotton sells at a fraction of its present price of 25 cents a pound , or it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time the cost of producing cotton , except on the very best land , is going up rapidly . Whether American cotton can be sold abroad in quantity is very dubious , whatever the price ; it depends on the world supply of dollars ? that is , on American purchases abroad , especially in Great Britain and on the European continent . But we can hardly sell any cotton , probably not even against a loan , if the price is much higher than 10 or 12 cents a pound . At home , sales can hardly be maintained at their prewar rate , much less expanded , at a much higher price than the same 10 or 12 cents a pound ? for cotton will face sharp competition from paper , rayon , nylon , and other synthetic fibers . Furthermore , the new markets for cotton ( such as insulating material ) can be won , the lost markets ( such as bagging ) can be recaptured , only if cotton sells at an even lower figure , perhaps as low as 8 cents . This does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or three years , when cotton will be desperately needed all the world over and when we shall finance our exports through reconstruction loans . But these years will be only a breathing spell which should properly be utilized to make the cotton South able to face competition at much lower prices . If we allow the price of cotton to find its natural level in order to restore its competitive position , tgtal production will probably not decrease very much . It may even increase as new , fertile cotton land in the West is taken under cultivation ? a development that was prevented only by the ban on new cotton growing under the AAA . But cotton production will be concentrated in the areas with the most favorable soil and climate : the rich level lands of the Delta , the Gulf Coast especially around Corpus Christi , some of the hill counties of Alabama and Mississippi ? wherever a yield of more than one bale an acre is possible ? and the new , irrigated cotton land of New Mexico , Arizona , and California , where cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cents a pound on fully mechanized farms . The low-yield , high-cost regions ? all of South Carolina , Georgia , and eastern Texas , most of Arkansas , Mississippi , and Alabama ? will be forced out of cotton . And it is in these regions that more than half of all cotton farmers live ? primarily small , poor farmers who have no alternative cash crop and neither the capital nor the training to develop one . We may ? and we probably will ? attempt to keep the small farmer on poor soil in cotton farming by a return to the subsidies of the New Deal . Under this policy the cotton price was left undisturbed ; but the farmer received the difference between the market price and the price " due " him in soil conservation payments or in the form of non-collectible parity loans . Such a policy ? especially if we also restore the prewar ban on the westwardmove of cotton ? would indeed keep the small cotton farmer going , though only temporarily . But at the same time it would greatly speed up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profits to the owners of the large farms and providing them with the capital to buy machinery all the more rapidly . Indeed , the main difference in social effect between a free market without a subsidy and one with a subsidy would be racial : a subsidy would shift the immediate burden of adjustment from the white , small owner-farmer to the mostly colored croppers and tenants on the large cotton plantations . ( Of course , this racial effect makes it all the more likely that we are going to return to the subsidy ; for it is the whites who have the votes in the Cotton Belt . ) But the subsidy can not prevent the dislocation of very large masses of farm workers , nor can it even slow down their dislocation to any considerable extent . wr even if we return to the prewar pol-D icy and subsidize cotton-growing , the shift from cotton to other farm products will continue . In the past the cotton farmer has usually had no alternative to cotton ; if he wanted a cash income he had to stay in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all his income , including the subsidy . Today his land can be utilized profitably to grow new cash crops which bring in a much higher return , especially on land unsuited for cotton . The most important of these new crops are timber and improved pasture for livestock . Climatically the Cotton Belt is ideally suited to livestock breeding , as outdoor grazing is possible ten months in the year or longer . In the past the South has not had good pastures or a sufficient supply of the essential carbohydrate feeds . ( Corn , on which livestock breeding in the Midwest is based , grows very poorly on Southern soils with yields only one-third of those in Iowa . ) But today the South has developed excellent improved pastures ; and while the cost of improving pasture land is high ? up to 5500 per acre ? the return on the investment is good . And the South has also largely overcome its carbohydrate problem through the development of a process to convert sweet potatoes into a fodder able to compete with corn . Hence there has recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Undoubtedly this movement will slow down as soon as meat prices and feed prices go down ? that is , after the immediate war and postwar shortages have been overcome . But at the same time more and more of the depleted cotton land of the Piedmont will be turned into timber . Pines will grow on almost any Southern land . They require no cultivation , except spraying against pests , which can be done from the air . In the South there is no need for elaborate reforestation programs ; for if a few trees are left standing after cutting the forest will reseed itself rapidly . And ? most important ? the Southern pine grows so fast that it can be cut for saw mill timber after twelve to fifteen years and for pulping after five to eight years . It is the use as pulp wood which is particularly important , as the demand is bound to increase sharply ? for paper , rayon , for building materials , and plastics . And the South is the only region in this country which can satisfy the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest return on labor and investment , it is also the best crop to check further erosion and to restore soil fertility ; for pines are the natural cover of Southern soil . III W E MAY be able to slow down the new development in the South by subsidizing the inefficient one-mule cotton grower but we can not prevent or even long postpone the shift to mechanized cotton raising , livestock farming , and timber growing . The difference in cost , efficiency , and return between these new methods and products and the old sharecropper economy is too great ? both because the old method is singularly inefficient and because the new methods are extremely efficient . Technologically , cotton farming as it has been practiced in the South is two hundred years behind the times . The sharecropper works only about ten weeks in the year but has to be kept , fed , and housed all the year around . The social system of the South ? the one-year tenant contract ? was never designed to be permanent : it was a temporary structure , built hastily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been repaired nor rebuilt since . Even on very good cotton land , where the cost of fertilizer does not eat up an increasing part of the return , the system is so inefficient and results in such a high cost of production that only the absence of an alternative method of cotton-picking prevented its collapse fifty years ago . This obsolescent system now finds itself suddenly face to face with the most mechanized and most efficient method of production ; consequently the impact of mechanization is stunning . On farms in the Mississippi Delta mechanization has cut labor requirements 80 per cent ? from 160 man-hours per bale on the one-mule farm to 28 for mechanized equipment . Even on the high plains , where hand cultivation has never been used except for picking , the installation of a mechanical stripper brings down labor hours per bale from 54 to 15 . Very few crops in this country can be raised with as little labor and cost as cotton on a large mechanized farm where there is no hand operation from sowing to harvesting . Similar savings result from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beef cattle requires about one-quarter of the labor force that is required for cotton ; to grow trees requires very little labor at all except at cutting time , that is , once every eight years . But the savings are possible only on a large farm . Under the old system of cotton farming there was one sharecropper to every 10 ? at the most to every 15 or 20 ? acres of cotton land . The minimum for mechanized cotton cultivation is 150 acres of cotton land , equivalent ? with wood lot , pasture , and land in food and fodder crops ? to a farm of 300 acres , which can be run by the farmer and one hired hand . The acreage required for efficient livestock farming or timber land is even larger . Hence the conversion to efficient farming means that there will be no room for the bulk of the present farm population . A few examples show this very clearly . The farm agent of a cotton county in the Mississippi Delta has converted his land entirely to small grains . This has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his workers , to pay them a decent wag ; and to give them long-term contracts . But instead of eighteen tenant farmers , he now has only three . An Atlanta businessman recently turned the whole of his land into timber . As a result he will get an income , almost for the first time since he inherited the farm twenty years ago ? but the six cropper families who used to till the cotton are gone and their cabins have been torn down . One of the directors of the Mississippi Farm Bureau who owns , together with his brother , a thousand acres in the southern part of the state , now raises some of the best beef cattle in the country . His stock is so good that he is concentrating almost exclusively on cattle for breeding purposes . But instead of twenty-five tenants , he now has only ten men working for him . And this list could be continued almost indefinitely . Hence as much as one-half of the Southern farm population will be surplus in ten or twenty years and will have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such proportions would be a nightmare of social and economic dislocation . It would threaten not only the social and political stability of the South but it would endanger the stability of the nation as a whole . For one thing , it is likely to explode the shaky structure of the Southern Democratic Party and to provide a fertile field for demagoguery , because the people who are dislocated will be chiefly those who are unskilled and untrained and who will be bewildered and lost outside their accustomed environment . But what will complicate things even more is that a large proportion ? probably the majority ? of the dislocated will be Negroes , partly because most of the sharecroppers on the big plantations are colored , partly because the Negro is always the first to go when the economic pressure is on . The old pattern of Southern race relations , which , vicious as it was , at least gave both white men and Negroes a fixed rule of conduct , is bound to be destroyed . Unless handled courageously and determinedly , the Southern agricultural revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gains the South has been making toward a solution of its most burning problem , the race problem . Pr HERE is thus far one plan to handle 1 the conversion problem of the cotton South , a plan drawn up by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics about a year ago . This plan ? one of the best of government documents and , in view of the terrific pressure of the cotton interests , one of the most courageous ? proposes to abolish all cotton subsidies within five years ( or maybe ten ) to enable cotton to compete both at home and abroad . Each year the cotton subsidy would be cut by one-fifth ( or one-tenth ) . At the same time the government would finance the conversion of Southern farms into economically efficient units . Within ten years , under this plan , the South would have an agriculture in which cotton would only be produced on good cotton soil and on large farms . At the same time the production of livestock , dairy products , and vegetables would go up sharply , the increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milk , to 29 per cent for beef , 30 per cent for truck crops , etc . The average size of the farm unit in the South would go up from 110 acres to 170 acres , while the average number of people employed on such farms would probably drop from five or six to two or three . The whole program , at least as far as expenditure on the farm is concerned , would not cost more than the present cotton subsidy ? and of course it would taper off year by year as the new farm pattern is established , whereas the cotton subsidy would have to be constantly increased . The drafters of this plan intentionally made optimistic assumptions : a cotton price of 13 cents and full restoration of prewar exports . But even so the plan has met with violent opposition in the South . It is true that the more intelligent Southern leaders realize the seriousness of the situation ; and as stalwart a defender of cotton 's royal prerogatives as Senator Bankhead apparently supports the plan . But to the Southern Democrat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 25 cents for a pound of cotton , the mere mention of a 13-cent price is pure treason . Actually , the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has been far from radical ; its plan fails to go far enough . If put in effect it would indeed provide for an orderly conversion of Southern agriculture . It might also , in a small way , cushion the impact of the conversion on the Southern Negro ; for it would probably slow down somewhat the " flight from cotton " in the plantation regions of the coastal plains and the Delta . But it would not help the small farmer ? on the contrary , its main aim is to enlarge the individual unit , with 150 acres as the minimum size for the Southern farm . And it is the small farmer who would feel the squeeze worst . So there have been proposals to complement this plan by a program that helps the small farmer to stay on the land and in economical production . These proposals aim basically at a return , on a much larger scale , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rural Electrification Administration , and the TVA . They are sponsored by men out of the old Wallace stable ? altogether perhaps the ablest and most public-spirited group of government officials this country has ever had . While there are considerable differences between individual plans , they all propose to settle small farmers in organized communities . Each farmer would own and cultivate a small plot ? maybe 30 or 40 acres ? on which he would raise the food for his own subsistence or specialized cash crops such as vegetables and fruit . A large plot ? maybe 500 acres for ten families ? would be farmed co-operatively either in cotton or in some other cash crop . That such ideas are not confined to what may be called the " Left " is shown by the fact that in as conservative a group as the Mississippi Farm Bureau a plan is seriously discussed to achieve the same end without what they would describe as the " Communistic " co-operative ownership of land and equipment . Instead , each family would own its plot , but , following the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmers would co-operatively rent mechanized equipment for the harvest . Either plan ? and the difference is small ? would preserve small farms , though they would still be considerably larger than a great many of the present units . The income of these co-operative farmers would be substantially lower than the incomes of the large farms envisioned by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics , which hopes eventually to raise Southern farm income to the national level ; but the small co-operative farmer would still make about twice as much as he made before the war . At best , however , few of the small farmers of the South could be rescued by such a co-operative program . And , like the Bureau of Agricultural Economics program , the co-operative plan would be restricted almost exclusively to owner-farmers , that is , to whites . For only the owner-farmer has enough land to go in for diversified farming ; and he alone ? if any small farmer ? has enough skill , both technical and managerial , and enough ability to learn , to be successfully converted into a diversified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten years . The average tenant and sharecropper , especially the Negro with his low educational standard , simply can not be expected to be able to make such a tremendous switch in so short a time . ( Also there would be the most determined political opposition in the South against any attempt to buy out white farmers in order to provide land for Negroes . ) Nevertheless , it seems definitely worthwhile to make the attempt to keep as many small farmers on the land as possible . It may cost a lot of money , but it would be money well and profitably spent . I T is probably far too optimistic to expect that these two programs ? the plan of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the complementary proposal to resettle small farmers in co-operative communities ? will be put into effect early enough and on a large enough scale . But even if fully effective , the two plans , singly or together , would not solve the main problem created by the Southern agricultural revolution : the re-employment of the masses of farmers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If Southern agriculture is to be sound , the labor force on the farms will have to be cut 40 per cent during the next ten to fifteen years ; even then the South would have a farm population 50 per cent higher proportionately than the rest of the nation . This means that the non-agricultural labor force would have to be raised by 5 millions . An increase of more than 60 per cent in total employment off the farm would be needed within the next ten or fifteen years . The rate of expansion obviously depends primarily on the speed of industrialization ; for it is industrial employment which creates the job opportunities in the trades and services . It is reasonably certain that , barring a severe depression , the South is entering now upon a period of rapid industrial expansion . But it is hardly likely that its rate of expansion will be much greater than it was during the twenties , the period of most rapid growth up to now , when industrial employment in the Cotton Belt expanded by 28 per cent in ten years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a needed increase of more than two-thirds ? is to expect a miracle . Even the absorption of one-half of the uprooted and dislocated ex-farmers will require great efforts . It will require a major training program . Union restrictions on apprenticeships will have to be removed or modified . A special wage scale will have to be drawn up to make possible trainingin-industry of large numbers . Also , many of these new workers will have to be moved within the South ; the best industrial locations are quite a distance away from the probable centers of dislocation . And that means organized employment services , new housing , schools , hospitals , etc . But after all this has been done , there will be left a surplus population of 500,000 to 750,000 families ? two to three and a half million people ? for whom there will be no livelihood in the South . And they will be predominantly Negroes , who are both the first to lose and the last to find employment ? particularly as , so far . Negroes have rarely been employed in Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the most menial capacity . Even if we have full employment ? and all these figures are based on this assumption ? we thus face a tremendous migration of the Negro from the South to the industrial centers of the North . Few people in the South doubt this ? though they do not know whether to regret the loss of so large a share of the South 's human assets or to welcome such a drastic reduction in the size of the Southern race problem . Responsible Negro leaders , such as Dr. Johnson of Fisk University , are credited with the belief that the migration will be even greater and that , with the mechanization of cotton farming , four million Negroes and more may leave the South during the next ten or fifteen years . And it is not even considered very improbable that fifteen years from now the majority of the nation 's colored population will be north of the Mason-Dixon Line . Hence the Southern agricultural revolution poses serious problems for the North ? not only quantitative problems of employment but problems of race relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been rapidly growing these past ten years . Even if we have full employment and the fullest co-operation from unions and managements , it will be very difficult to integrate such large groups of colored workers , especially as the Negro tends to gather in a few urban areas . T Is easy ? and very popular in the Deep I South today ? to see only one aspect of the technological revolution through which the Cotton Belt is passing : the removal of the dead hand of the cotton economy and plantation society , the establishment of a sound agriculture and of a better balance between industry and farming , higher incomes , better living standards , the end of sharecropping ? in short the final emancipation of both white and colored from slavery . It is also easy to see only the other aspect : the dislocation , the suffering , the uprooting of millions of people who will lose their homes and their livelihood . However , the full picture , as in all technological revolutions , emerges only if both ? the better life for those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pushed out ? are seen together and at the same time . In one very important respect , however , the Southern prospect differs radically from this standard pattern of revolutionary economic change : the sufferings are not altogether inevitable . We can not possibly hope to be able to avoid the uprooting anddislocation . But because the Deep South is part ? a comparatively small part ? of a large , fully developed , and rich nation we have the means to cushion the shock and to make it bearable both for those affected directly and for our society as a whole . To do this would require an abandonment of our policy to preserve the Southern status quo , a policy which can no longer be successful . Instead of subsidizing the Old South , we ought to spend the same amount of money on the reconstruction of Southern agriculture to a point where it is on a sound economic structure and fully able to compete . The Bureau of Agricultural Economics plan is the first step in this direction . Also we will have to spend a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmers and on their relocation . And we shall have to do much educational work ? both with Negroes and with whites ? to enable large masses of Southern Negroes to live a decent life as industrial and white-collar workers , especially in the North . An honest and courageous policy could clear up much of the terrible mess left behind by the Reconstruction period . But if the challenge is not met , the South , and the nation , will be in for real trouble .                     