@@494235

DECEMBER 7 , 1 9 4 2 If we are not prepared to do all this , then we had ? better change our political-warfare conceptions from those of an amateur Machiavellianism to those of the best American democratic tradition , as represented by the recent speeches of Vice President Wallace , Wendell Willkie , Ambassador Winant . And if we are Prepared for the consequences of our policy , then we had better get our minds prepared for a Third World War , following on the heels of the present one . A New Imperialism R ECENT EVENTS HAVE brought into sharp focus the political policies of the War Department . It is still too early to assess fully the results of General Eisenhower 's prompt use of Admiral Darlan in North Africa ; but it is not too early to say that long before North Africa was invaded , there were signs that the War Department in Washington was the spearhead of some aggressive political ideas ? ideas which Secretary Stimson and Undersecretary Patterson are powerless to check . We quote by permission from a recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quotes from " an informed source " in Washington ? almost certainly inside the War Department : You should begin to think in terms of war lasting into 1945 , even later .. U. S. faces the tremendous job of creating a vast Navy , modern in every conception , while building a huge Army and Air Force . No nation ever before did what now has to be done . All of this is of highest importance to everybody . It means : I. There 's no longer a chance to avoid full mobilization , to avoid controls of the most drastic kind over industry , ? Ver individuals , over about everything . 2 . The U. S. manpower as well as weapons must bear the brunt of war . It 's now too late to win by putting Weapons in Russian or Chinese hands . That 's decided . 3 . This country will become the world 's greatest mill-tar , power ; will build a strength that will leave no ground for argument about who won the war . . .. There is much criticism of U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct aid ; for not delivering war materials or opening a second front . But : Here are a few things to keep in mind . They 're " 111 an informed source . Self-interest , not altruisni , is Piding every nation in war . That goes for U. S. , for Britain , for Russia , for China . It also goes for Germany " Japan . Russia would n't be even as well off as she is today if hrtain had given up in 194o . She has plenty to be thankful little to be reproachful for in her attitude toward ribtin . After all : Russia now can win in the end . 6 S. 4nd : China has much to be thankful for in her rela- ? 14 with U. S. It was U. S refusal to sell China down 0 7 : bier that touched off war with Japan . Also : China 78 received more U. S. war supplies than she could IA over the Burma Road . She never did end inefficient 73 ' operation of that road . She 's now getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These are just needed reminders , not efforts to create friction . ? There is no mention here of who is to get the controls " of the most drastic kind " over industry , over individuals and over almost everything . There is no mention of what we shall do with the immense power we shall possess at the war 's end . Our allies are told simply to take what they get and smile . We believe this is a faithful interpretation of the way in which many officers of the services of supply , under General Somervell , are thinking about the future . Increasingly , this attitude may be shared by the most reactionary wing of American industry . It is hard to imagine a greater threat to the unity of the United Nations than this attitude represents . The recent national elections , with their Republican gains and their acceptance of this type of American imperialism as expressed in the Republican leadership of such men as Henry Luce , have given to this set of doctrines a new and threatening influence . Nothing is more important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growth of this type of American imperialism . Manpower and Doctors T HE MANPOWER MUDDLE is serious enough in all its aspects , but in no respect has it been more badly mishandled than in the use of physicians . Strong hints of this have echoed from testimony given behind dosed doors to congressional investigating committees ? the Pepper Committee in the Senate gave first place on its agenda to the medical situation . Another revealing incident was the passage-at-arms between Mr. Henry J. Kaiser , the West Coast shipbuilder , and Dr. Morris Fishbein of the American Medical Association . There is serious danger , however , that the facts will not become known and remedial action taken before the health of the nation has suffered great damage , whether through a deadly epidemic or the erosion of rising morbidity and death rates from non-communicable diseases . In order to understand even the broad outlines of what has been done it is necessary to begin with a few fundamental facts . The first is that although before the war there were " too many doctors , " in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living from the fees received from patients , there were actually too few to render first-class medical service to the whole population . That apparent paradox arose , of course , from the fact that large sections of the population were not able to pay individually for the medical care which they needed . These conditions , in turn , led to an extremely uneven distribution of the doctors available , who overcrowded the cities where patients with comfortable incomes were to be found , but left wide rural areas and poorer districts underserved . The same situ                     