@@475637

AMERICA the menace rides again . Those ancients whose memories reach back to the distant nineteen twenties need no detailed introduction to this favorite hobgoblin of international relations . Plus ca change , plus c ' est la name chose . Today the Moscow press , radio , and diplomatic service are its most ardent celebrants , socialist leaders in Britain bring it out for a canter every now and then , and assorted patriots of other countries testify to their firm belief that it is real and formidable . As no two observers agree in their description of this beast , the skeptic is left in something of a quandary . What shall he attack ? It is the old story of the blind men and the elephant : does the elephant resemble a flexible hose , the trunk of a tree , the tassel of a stocking-cap , or a slightly corrugated blank wall ? But at least the main outlines of the hobgoblin seem reasonably clear . The basic , sweeping indictment is that the United States is a capitalist , imperialist country bent " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now of course the United States is a capitalist country . There are probably not more than a quarter million persons in the nation who seriously believe it should be anything else . It is also , in a limited way , an imperialist country , and has been eversince the Spanish-American War at least . But its capitalism and imperialism are of a very special kind ; and before anyone can decide whether or not they really menace the rest of the world he must be'sure that he sees them as they are ? not as epithets , but as complexes of economic and political method which follow their own particular habit-patterns and often arrive at results which make the epithets applied to them look ridiculous . MO BEGIN WITH , we must of course I realize that usually those foreigners who call America a menace are talking with at least one eye on their own constituents at home . When the Soviet spokesmen invoke the hobgoblin , their obvious purpose is to solidify the position at home of their own dictatorship , which is imposing a heavy load of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are expected to bear this load more cheerfully if they believe that Russia is surrounded by hostile villains . When the laborites of Britain invoke it , they are trying to strengthen British support for their own domestic policies , and to drum up support for foreign policies which they believe should accompany the domestic ones . But presumably the Soviet leaders also are genuinely uneasy about the future policies of an America of booms and slumps ; and certainly the British socialists are . Being socialists , they naturally think , for various interesting if not wholly convincing reasons , that such an America will continue ? now roaring into inflation , now collapsing into deflation ? as long as this country rejects the light that illumines British socialist policy . For like the Russians ? though less virulently ? they are anti-capitalist ; and a capitalist country is therefore a challenge to them . They expect the shocks of our capitalist instability to be transmitted across the ocean to them via foreign trade , and so they are inevitably jittery about our foreign trade policies . All this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ending themselves caught in the middle between two powerful and potentially hostile forces , United States capitalism and Soviet communism , should dread the very idea that these two forces might clash in another fearful world war ; and that some of their dread should express itself in sharp verbal attacks upon an America which so stubbornly refuses to follow Britain along the highroad of socialism . But a reaction can be very natural without being wholly logical . And there are certain aspects of this particular hobgoblin which seem somehow to challenge logic . For one thing , capitalism is nowadays supposed by its detractors to be not only socially evil but decadent as well . That is why a semi-socialist country like Britain is so often described as " advanced " in politics and economics , and why a noncapitalist dictatorship like the USSR is alleged to be more advanced than either . But not only is the United States the seat of a decadent capitalist system , it is also the seat of a threatening imperialism . This imperialism is the expression on the foreign scene of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ malignant , strength . As R. J. Cruikshank , a British skeptic , has put it , " America is presented in the same breath as the dinosaur of capitalism , doomed by the march of evolution , and as the new god of the machines clothed in the terrible flames of atomic energy , and riding the thunders of Bikini . To be at once an effete monster and a rising menace is a singular destiny for any nation . " Nevertheless that is our destiny and we are stuck with it . Or are we ? II : VEN the bitterest communist will admit r that capitalism , with all its dreadful faults , real and imaginary , represents a tremendous advance in both production and human welfare over the feudalism which preceded it . I should go on from that admission and contend that American capitalism has carried both production and human welfare to higher planes than any other capitalism . Many radicals admit as much , but nevertheless contend that their alternative economic system would do even better . That remains to be proved . I would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of capitalism in the United States is that in our country the capitalist forms , never tangled to any crippling degree in the survivals of feudalism , have from the beginning been firmly embedded in the strongest of democratic traditions . It is impossible to understand the United States today without taking account of the effect upon our capitalism of our long and virile democratic tradition . I have traveled a good deal in the past twenty years , and I have found during these travels few foreigners who really grasped the way in which the democratic ideas held by the great majority of our people have influenced the way in which capitalism works in the United States . Americans rarely think of capitalism , nakedly separate , but of capitalism as interpenetrated by democratic conceptions . That is why indictments of the United States , drawn on the basis of the alleged character of a capitalist economy taken alone ? and largely theoretically ? are often wide of the mark . Once in a while a foreign leader gives clear evidence that he understands this and is prepared to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he declared , in replying to the rebels against Ernest Bevin 's foreign policy : In matters of economic planning , we agree with Soviet Russia . In certain specific points of world economic planning , we find the United States in agreement with us , but generally speaking they hold a capitalist philosophy which we do not accept . But when it comes to a matter which we consider to be democracy , a matter of freedom of thought and the individual , we agree with the Americans and we disagree with the Russians . In contrast to this careful and reasonable statement of a socialist position , are the remarks of Tom Driberg , speaking for the rebels against Bevin : I must warn the Foreign Secretary that .. . the people of this country will certainly not follow him to war now or in five years ' time against Soviet Russia in partnership with the barbaric thugs of Detroit or the narrow imperialists of Washington or Wall Street . Driberg gives a wonderful illustration of what happens when passionate dislike so distorts judgment that insult becomes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for nothing , as against its ( violently caricatured ) capitalism , is obviously grotesque . But it is on that basis that Driberg and his associates would found British foreign policy . That the rebels commanded so much support within the Labor party simply illustrates the fact that the party has in its ranks many intemperate people who are more concerned to exhibit their hatred of capitalism than to advance the democratic values Mr. Attlee thought worth emphasizing . I am not interested in whitewashing either American capitalism or American democracy ; rather I am trying to understand a complex situation . Both American capitalism and American democracy arc guilty of more lapses from virtue than it is pleasant to recall . But one of America 's favorite pastimes is calling strident attention to these lapses , and an immense amount of time and energy goes into doing something about them . Do-gooders form a sizable proportion of the population and do-good organizations are without number . They toil and spin twenty-four hours a day , three hundred and sixty-five days a year . It is one of the many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most passionate indictments of America made by foreigners are based on indictments of America by Americans . No country more successfully publicizes its faults . ( No doubt Driberg got his idea of the thugs of Detroit from some American publication . ) But the point is not , at MAGAZINE this time , whether the indictments are true or false , or a mixture of both , as is usually the case . The point is that they are made at all . I should say that as long as Americans continue busily to publicize their faults and do something about them , there is hope that they will one day be corrected and the world will escape suffering from them . Some foreign critics manage to imply that the faults are permanent , ineradicable , and completely unrecognized in the United States . That , of course , is poppycock . One of the outstanding characteristics of American democracy is the tradition of protest . The day it dies will be a sorry day for America ? and the world . But the time for funeral plans is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things that some of our critics abroad could do is to study American intellectual history . I still recall the note of astonishment in the voice of a distinguished foreign professor who was telling me how much he had learned about our country from reading Parrington 's Main Currents in American Thought . He had n't known that Americans had thought so much about life and destiny , politics and economics , capitalism and democracy , and mostly so critically ; he had n't realized that Americans really had an intellectual tradition which strongly supported views he had supposed were simply idle vagaries of the speech-making hours . I know that few foreigners have had even his glimpse of what makes Americans American . That is one of the tragedies of our time . It takes a reasonable amount of effort to know us . Recalling the unsympathetic and nonsensical remarks about the United States that Harold Laski recently made while temporarily chairman of the British Labor party , it may seem odd to cite him for the defense . But the truth is that Laski the politician consistently talks on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , in the latter role , he wrote : American tradition and American institutions arc very different from the British ; and they can not be grasped without an effort of mind and heart , which it requires considerable energy to make . . . . It is even possible that the common language tends to inhibit understanding rather than promote it . For it prevents in many the realization that the United States , despite the history we have shared in common , is a foreign country , to be judged by its own standards and its own purposes and not by ours . Until this is realized , the basis for a true insight into the American attitude is absent . If that is true of Britain and the United States ? and I am sure it is then it is doubly true of the United States and the other Western democracies , quadruply true of the United States and the eastern European countries , and true to a monumental degree of the United States and Russia . That our capitalism is unruly , that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of its practices are barbaric and some of its practitioners are greedy , that it operated so badly in the depression as to cause suffering to millions , and that its ability to regulate itself well enough to survive in the future is at least open to question ? all these things are obviously true . One can hardly glance at an American newspaper without becoming aware of them . But that our capitalism is also dynamic , constantly adapting itself to meet new conditions and new demands , and under incessant critical review here at home ; and furthermore that the great majority of the American people want and hope it can be made the instrument not only of prosperity but of democracy too ? these things are true also , though they are not always clear to people who have not been steeped in the American tradition . III IN WHAT WAYS are we imperialists ? Let us turn to J. A. Hobson 's classic study of imperialism , from which all subsequent studies take off , and paraphrase his definition . In the 1938 edition Hobson argues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than can be disposed of at home , and therefore having to sell them abroad . He sees but three ways to offset excess production : ( 1 ) to try to redistribute the national income through trade union and government action so that more of the national product can be consumed at home ; ( 2 ) deliberately to restrict production ; and ( 3 ) to have " a pushful economic foreign policy " designed to gainspecial favors in foreign markets ? a policy which may include forcible annexation of territory to guarantee the durability of those special favors . On the latter point he says that " capitalism , to maintain its profitable character , by utilizing its new productive powers as fully as possible , is impelled to seek the help of the state in the various ways that are now so much in evidence : tariffs , embargoes , subsidies , and the acquisition or retention of colonies where the home capitalist can have advantages both for his import and export trade , with such securities in monetary matters as can be provided by imperial control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States today . For one thing , the distribution of income inside our country , despite its distressing unevenness between classes and sections of the nation , is not too utterly bad . It is constantly being changed for the better , though painfully slowly , and can be further improved within the capitalist system if efforts are conscientiously made . For another thing , territorial expansion is not today a characteristic American policy . Even if it were decided to annex without further ado all the Pacific Islands allegedly needed for our defense system , it would be stretching a point to assert that the United States had embarked on territorial imperialism in a search for markets . The significance of the islands as markets is largely mythical . But a close look at Hobson 's point about excess production , on which his entire structure rests , is certainly in order . It is well known that the great strength of American capitalism is its free access to an immense and rich domestic market . Almost all our industries are founded on that market . Few of them expect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they produce . It is this circumstance that limits the horizon of most American business men to the boundaries of the United States . But the trouble is that the small percentage of American production that does seek export outlets in many instances represents a tremendous percentage of the world 's present capacity to purchase . What runs over the edge of the American dish is often sufficient to frighten both foreign producers and consumers . World War II has increased the productive capacity of the United States , and many foreigners fear that our excess production has reached such a volume that it can be disposed of only by imperialism of the Hobsonian variety . Their fears arc intensified by the widespread belief that only through exporting can otherwise inevitably heavy unemployment at home be liquidated . They believe , in short , that we will try to export our unemployment and will use imperialistic methods to do it . The question immediately arises , when does a nation 's foreign trade cease to be a legitimate export of goods , based on the principle of the international division of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights and privileges of other people ? This is a difficult distinction to make in a fashion acceptable to everybody , but if current thinking is a satisfactory guide , the line should be drawn at the point where exports are balanced by imports . On this basis , it is legitimate to produce as large an export surplus as is needed to pay for the imports necessary to national economic wellbeing . When exports consistently exceed imports , and where there is exceptional pressure on foreign consumers to buy those exports willy-nilly , then the bounds of legitimate trade have been overstepped and we have imperialism . On this reasoning imperialism is an illegitimate effort to control markets for the benefit of the exporter regardless of the interests of the importer . This is the kind of imperialism of which the United States is ordinarily accused . It is also accused of imperialism when , by exporting capital , it takes control of industries in backward countries , or builds branch factories in them , and then allegedly misuses its power to direct economic development along lines that favor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of the country . As American investments abroad increase , this accusation will be heard ever more frequently . Here again there must somewhere be a valid distinction between legitimate investment abroad and illegitimate use of the power such investment creates . That such a distinction exists in the minds of many is obvious , for more people than " hard-faced capitalists " feel that America should export capital . We all realize that backward countries must have capital if they are to progress . Since they can not supply it out of their own resources , it follows that it must come , if at all , from abroad . The legitimacy of the use of foreign capital would therefore turn on whether or not it makes a measurable contribution to raising living standards in the receiving nation . T itERE is no use dodging the fact that in logic the opportunity to " go imperialist , " by trading and investing abroad in ways that will not raise living standards there , is wide open to the United States today . Many foreigners are convinced that opportunity is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that they overlook four points . ( I ) The official policy of the United States with regard to trade includes a campaign against the very devices that Hobson says accompany imperialism ? namely preferences , quotas , embargoes , subsidies , and excessively high tariffs . By contrast , the nations allegedly opposed to American imperialism defend some of these devices most vigorously . This is a curious reversal of expected roles . Of course neither side is absolutely consistent . We ourselves , for example , already have high tariffs , while we campaign against the general raising of tariff barriers . But the confusion perhaps shows that the Americans , for their part , are rather poor hands at imperialism . ( 2 ) To be successful , imperialism requires victims . There remain very few areas to serve as passive victims and therefore it is reasonable to suppose that the resistance to an American imperialism would be very great indeed . The revolt against imperialism is one of the conspicuous facts of the world today . The British , French , and Dutch empires are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is rather small . Independent countries as different in character as Argentina and Yugoslavia are today engaged in dislodging foreign imperialists from their domains and we shall see more of this in the future . I strongly doubt that this generation of Americans could or would stand the odium inseparable from making a try at imperialism on a grand scale . ( 3 ) A successful imperialist adventure by the United States would require the destruction , by-passing , or radical perversion of the international institutions for governing the world economy ? the International Monetary Fund , the International Bank , and the prospective International Trade Organization . In all instances the Americans have definite ideas about how these organizations should be run , but that they can in international conferences succeed in forcing all other nations to accept policies the only purpose of which is to advance American imperialism is ludicrous to suppose . I should say that these organizations are formidable impediments to an American imperialism , and that the time to get worried is not while they exist but when the United States officially acts to abandon them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( 4 ) Perhaps the most fundamental indictment of the United States ' trade policy , and therefore the strongest argument for the nation 's indictment as imperialist , is that the nation still thinks of foreign trade largely as a seller . We have been very slow to acquire the buyer 's outlook and we still have an enormous distance to go . The very great power of seller psychology frightens foreigners . This is shown by their harping on our tariff . The tariff does not interfere with the movement of goods out of the country but it does impede the movement of goods into the country . Foreigners therefore argue that in attempting to sell its excess production , while preserving the domestic market inviolate , the Americans will be driven to imperialist methods ? indeed that their whole position is " objectively " imperialist in character . They therefore tend to discount a hundred per cent all American professions of a desire to correct the anomalies in their traditional outlook . The argument is that Americans , an ignorant lot anyway in international economics , show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But surely it is excessively willful to sweep aside as meaningless all American efforts to get their foreign trade policy on a new and sounder basis , from the reciprocal trade program to the ideas we have proposed to embody in a charter for an International Trade Organization . In the light of these efforts and ideas , it is entirely possible that American foreign trade policy will be far better in the future than after World War I. If my hunch is correct , I 'd say that the chances are good that American foreign trade will be as legitimate as can be expected of an economy of such magnitude . The United States , I think , will menace the world less by its imperialism than by the very size of its legitimate operations and perhaps especially by any degree of instability they may have . But even on this point it is within the bounds of possibility that action may be taken to smooth out the fluctuations . Is it not a little arbitrary to rule out the possibility entirely ? /V P-ruE victory of the Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign critics deeply , especially those of the left who are avid for evidence that the United States is incurably reactionary . Yet it is as much nonsense to say that the American people are all reactionaries because the Republicans won the election as to say that all Englishmen are Laborites because Labor won on a famous occasion . It is even nonsense to say that all Republicans are reactionaries ; and equal nonsense to say that all their opponents are " progressives . " American I political parties are mixed grills . The consternation abroad at the Republican victory appears to be partly real and partly feigned . It is real insofar as the election created uncertainty about future American political and economic policies ; it is feigned insofar as it has led to the allegation that the nation will now move - to out-and-out imperialism abroad and unalloyed laissezdaire capitalism at home . Although political prophecy is dangerous , it seems to me likely that the Republicans will follow a much more moderate course in power than they threatened while out . Political talk in America is always tougher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican follies will differ in kind and intent from the Democratic , but that they will be more foolish is impossible to believe . They could n't be . Running through foreign reactions to the election is a nostalgia for Roosevelt , The implication is that if only Roosevelt were alive , everything would be lovely . The if 's of history are amusing toys with which to play , but surely it has all along been clear that Mr. Roosevelt was not immortal , either in the political or the physical sense . One of the if 's that needs a little exploration is this : if there had been no war , would Roosevelt 's power have lasted beyond 1940 ? A good case can be made for asserting that it would not have . Without the war , the probability is that Wendell Willkie would have won the Presidency . The New Deal probably reached its peak around 1938 and the incoherence of its component parts was by then becoming excessively obvious . It was being borne in on the people that Mr. Roosevelt was not laboring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profoundly creative plan ; but rather that he was a gay improviser , a skillful broker of ideas and men who had a fine conceit of his own hunches and his skill in playing them . Once he was gone , the men and ideas he could keep together by a fascinating display of political virtuosity , inevitably flew apart . And then there was the more or less inevitable reaction against the party that waged the war . The truth , it seems to me , is not that the voters were intent on throwing away any so-called social gains made under Roosevelt . It is rather that they were beset by the conviction that there was no true heir to Roosevelt in the Democratic party and that his political successors simply could not manage the show worth a hang . A complete shift was therefore indicated , to begin in 1946 and to be completed , perhaps , in 1948 . The voters , it seems probable , were seeking domestic peace , tranquillity , and prosperity ? not reaction ; peace , and not a war-breeding imperialism abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prosperity and peace was something the voters did not believe . Of course , predicting disaster if there is a shift in the party in power is an old American pastime . Apparently foreigners equally enjoy it . But the evidence in both cases is inconclusive , and in politics a good rule is to wait and see . The big point for our friends abroad to keep in mind is a very simple one : the two-party system guarantees that power will , at unpredictable intervals , be swapped between them . Since the United States can not very readily be subtracted from world affairs , foreigners must be prepared to deal with either party . Nothing will more quickly anger the Americans than the implication that only one party ? or worse , only one man ? is acceptable to the world . Any attempt to quarantine the United States if the " wrong " party comes to power will do more to destroy international good will than anything the " wrong " party is apt to do . It is admittedly difficult , if not impossible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the path of wisdom ? for both of us ? is surely to seek the most workable compromise possible and at the same time to make the most of those democratic identities on which Mr. Attlee placed such emphasis . And what applies to the United States visa , ris the United Kingdom applies with equal force to the rest of the world . As long as compromise and accommodation play a role in international affairs , there is hope for the future . MEANWHILE , on the basis of all the evidence to date , is it quite fair to take at face value the picture of America the menace that is sometimes handed about among our friends abroad ? The picture shows us with our eyes reduced to slits , our foreheads lowered , our chins jutted , pistols in our hands . It shows us cast in the role of international gangsters , prowling where we are not wanted ( now that the war is over ) , with nothing in our minds but swag , nothing for hearts but stones . For domestic political purposes abroad , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we here at home can profit from taking a good look at it now and again , to remind ourselves of what we must not become . But surely reasonable people , not only here but abroad , might agree that it is a gross caricature . Any resemblance between it and reality is purely coincidental .                     