@@475046

ONE of the most exciting developments in this war is the sensational growth of " seed flying " ? earrying seed by airplane from country to country and even from continent to continent . The seed flyers are not only contributing to the winning of the war but also snaking an exceptional contribution to world history by enabling the native crops of one land to move to other lands and take up residence there . For example , one group of flyers have flown the rhizomes of the abaca , or Manila hemp plant , out of British Malaya from under the noses of the Japs and have relayed the planting stock to Central America and other American tropics where abacd is being successfully established as a strategic crop- for use in making ship 's rope . ( About twenty thousand acres are already planted in Costa Rica , Panama , and Honduras , and our government has contracted for the planting of double that amount . ) They have flown selected Hevea or rubber-tree seed from Jap holdings in Sumatra to points in India and other tropical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Egypt they have delivered high-yielding hybrid corn , the seed of long-staple cottons , and disease-resistant wheat and rye from the United States . In a few instances they have flown live ewes and rams into wool-short Africa to replenish the African wool and meat supplies . Many times they have carried live predators of various crop-destroying beetles from one hemisphere to the next . The work of these flyers is merely one of hundreds of instances of the unprecedented and in many cases the almost instantly successful worldwide migration of great crops . In the fourth year of the Second World War this migration of crops has touched an all-time high . It is definitely a two-way traffic ? not simply an export of crop seed and planting stock from the United States , but a corresponding import of crops to the United States from all continents and from scores of islands . The acorns of cork oak have been flown from Spain to southern California ; the seed of staple drug crops , from southern Europe to the Carolinas and Tennessee ; of Cryptostegia , or vine rubber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico , and other areas south of the Rio Grande . The seed of kok-saghyz , the rubber-bearing " Russian dandelion , " have been flown from various areas of the U.S.S.R. , particularly the Republic of Kazakstan , for experimental planting throughout the United States . Though Japan has seized the principal sources of many valuable crops which we sorely need , the seeds of these crops can be readily smuggled out and now are travel-ing halfway round the world to go to work for us . The seed of cinchona , or quinine , trees are reaching us from the formerly Dutch Pacific islands , and proceeding via Washington to Puerto Rico and many republics of the American tropics , Tcak seed ( which will eventually produce that strategic shipbuilding timber ) have recently been brought from Siam and Burma for planting in experiment farms in Central America . The seed of Derris and other plants which produce rotenone ( one of the most important insecticide materials ) are being brought in from the Dutch Indies to the U. S. Department of Agriculture 's brilliantly run Tropical Experiment Station @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reshipped to select Latin-American areas at fifty thousand cuttings per planeload . And the essential-oil grasses , such as lemon grass , citronella , and vetiver ( source of soap , perfume , and spray ingredients ) , are being flown or otherwise carried out of the Dutch Indies and Malaya , where the Japanese would like to be able to monopolize them . It is not by any means a new discovery that crops can migrate by plane . For the past seven years Pan American Airways , co-operating with our principal domestic airlines and more recently with the air-express division of the Railway Express Agency , has been making two-way airplane shipments of important sccds and planting stacks . These include outbound shipments of hybrid corn seed , rust-resistant wheat , high-yielding queen bees , long-staple cotton seed , and other planting stocks from the United States to most of Latin America , much of Africa , and some of the Far East . Air traffic in practically any kind of planting material promotes the successful migration of that material . Corn , for example , which is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the number-one crop in most of Latin America . Successful plane shipments of seed of high-yielding hybrid corns developed in our Midwest are improving the ever-important South American yields and making a sound contribution to Inter-American agriculture and nutrition . During the latter 1930 's Pan American Airways began to carry live chicks from hatcheries in Florida and Texas to poultry growers in the Caribbean countries . Thecountries , are deplorably short of good poultry . Eggs do not incubate well in the tropics , and therefore imported chicks are in tremendous demand . The Pan American Airways chick traffic climbed promptly into the millions , and even before the war suitable hatch space in most southbound " Panam " liners was crowded to capacity with live chicks . Since newly hatched chicks do not require feed for at least seventy-two hours , Pan American urged its hatchery clients to crate and load their downy cargoes within twelve hours of hatching time , thus permitting delivery to any point that could be reached within sixty hours , counting not only flying time but time taken at the terminals . That meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incredible a decade or two ago . In any country good poultry is a major nutritional blessing . But many other kinds of livestock also migrate by plane . In northern South America the Pan American-Grace Airways have developed a remarkable traffic in live animals , particularly breeding animals , to and from otherwise isolated ranches . Taca Airlines have developed and exploited similar traffic in many remote areas of Central America , and Canadian commercial flyers have hauled a lot of animals in western Canada . Where cargo space permits , air transport of breeding animals helps greatly to improve the quality of livestock and thus to make the soil more fertile and the farm establishments more prosperous . During the past decade Soviet Russia has offered the most ambitious demonstration of this . Soviet planes have hauled tens of thousands of tons of breeding anima 's , probably twenty-five thousand tons or more yearly during 1937 , 1938 , and 1939 , principally sheep and cattle , to remote Soviet republics ? an accomplishment which no doubt has had a great deal to do with the success of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its equally magnificent civilians . transport of breeding animals by air is supplemented by the rapid deinsemination . Here again major credit is due the Russians . Artificial or mechanical insemination began to be used during the last Tzar 's reign ( about 1912 ) with stallions and mares on the government stud farms where cavalry horses were developed . The experiments were sufficiently promising to cause Soviet veterinarians to reinstate the project in 1923 and thereafter . During the past decade the use of artificial insemination has been standard and successful husbandry procedure in many areas of Russia , greatly increasing the values , usefulness , and " service range " of superior stallions , bulls , and rams . The semen of highly valuable sires can be packed , insulated , flown thousands of miles by plane , and used to impregnate dams in another country or even on another continent . In the United States too artificial insemination is succeeding . Introduced by progressive horse ranches , principally in the Far West , it is already of substantial importance to our domestic dairy industries . Several hundred dairymen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage of this important technique whereby the breed value of a given sire can be increased tenfold and its superior offspring can be established practically anywhere that better livestock is needed ? which is practically everywhere . During 1939 veterinarians of the American Jersey Cattle Club used plane-transported semen taken from a champion bull exhibited at the New York fair to breed a prize cow on exhibit at the fair in San Francisco . In due course the cow delivered a healthy calf in Arizona . It is now undeniable that strategic semen as well as strategic seed can be distributed effectively by plane to most or all habitable places on earth . Another important phase of crop migration is the dispatch of " insect commandos , " the natural enemies or predators of the insects and fungi which have been destroying important food sources . This strategy began half a century ago with the importation of the Vedalia beetle from Australia to combat the cushion scale in California . The venture proved successful and to date similar feats in " biological control " have wine-el helped to control at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheapest and most rational defense against at least some of the ever-increasing hordes of insect enemies . Practically all plant diseases and insect enemies came into the Americas as stowaways on imported nursery stocks or other plant materials . Having once given their natural enemies the slip , the pests frequently thrive and multiply in great virulence . Since 1921 our Department of Agriculture has exported breeding stocks of fifty-three species of insect parasites and predators to Latin America for defense against major insect pests which prey upon important crops grown by our southern neighbors . These exportations have established effective natural predators to combat such crop-ruiners as the citrus black fly , citrus mealybug , cushion scale , Mediterranean fruit fly , apple aphid , San Jose scale , pink bollworm , horn fly , and sugar-cane borer . Until the continents became linked by airlines the strategic use of insect commandos was severely limited by the fact that only a comparatively few insect predators can survive more than a week of travel . But by plane they can be flown practically anywhere in the world in less than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protecting or saving crops by means of biological control also shows great promise for the immediate future . it is at least a partial safeguard against the migration of destructive pests which is likely to follow the increasing migration of crops . Incidentally , a few of the important " new " crops are not immigrants at all , but neglected natives . A good example is allspice , harvested from a common and hardy tropical myrtle tree . Allspice , so named because it tastes like a mixture of its three principal rivals ? nutmeg , cinnamon , and cloves ? grows wild in most of the Caribbean countries . Now that Japan has seized most of our principal spice sources , some of our near southern neighbors , particularly Jamaica , are reinstating allspice simply by clearing brushlands and giving the myrtle seedlings a chance to develop . With such consideration the years and at maturity produces ; wiltsiach as one hundred pounds of dried spice per year . This item is mentioned because , owing to the now desperate scarcity of can metals and refrigeration equipment , spices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preservatives of meats . The more important spices are tropical crops , and because of Japan 's seizure of the Far East supply many are again migrating to this hemisphere . For example , Mexico , Guatemala , Costa Rica , Haiti , and the Dominican Republic are again beginning to do well with pimento trees , which thrive in their shallow limestone soils . At last Mexico 's famous vanilla plant is being brought back to Mexico . Black pepper and white pepper , harvested from the same perennial tropical vine ( which yields as much as a ton or even two tons of dry spice per acre ) are also coming back to the American tropics . So is cinnamon , made from the inner bark of big and hardy cassia trees . Clove trees , heretofore a virtual monopoly of east-coast Africa , are growing splendidly in several Caribbean countries ; and nutmeg trees , though natives of the Moluccas , now thrive after emigration to Brazil and the West Indies . III rr . plane which now speeds so casu- ally , sometimes so ruinously , over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foremost activator of the current migration of crops , and in the instance of a great many highly perishable seed ( which include Hevea rubber trees and many other tropical crops ) long-range plane transport is virtually essential to successful herbaceous migration , just as it is beneficial to migration of live semen and insect predators . As the war brings aeronautical progress to its all-time high , to-day in terms of proved and practical aeronautics there are no more really isolated people , plants , or animals anywhere on earth . But important as aviation is to the contemporary migration of crops , the general proposition stands that many staple crops have been migrating approximately as long as men have ( although , like men , Or " " ffickntiy ) . Here in the United States , except for tobacco and a limited list of fruits and berries , none of our great domestic crops is indigenous . Our livestock comes to us principally via Spain , Britain , Scandinavia , and the Channel Islands ; corn , beans , peas , white potatoes , peanuts , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; citrus fruits from the Iberian Peninsula ; our common cereals and root vegetables from the British Isles and Europe . For generation after generation the migration of plants has created and perpetuated American wealth . Repeatedly it has helped to save domestic crops from annihilation by natural enemies . For example , rust-resistant types of wheat , without which much or all of our hugely important wheat industry might have perished , have been produced and perpetuated by assembling and interbreeding selected varieties of wheat from many countries ? Russia , Poland , Germany , Switzerland , France , etc . More recently our sugar-cane crop was saved from destruction by mosaic disease by the importation ? via the superb proofstaatens of Java ? of various rust-resistant canes , which in turn had been developed by cross-breeding sugar grasses taken from the valleys of India , the mountains of Afghanistan , the dry plateaus of Turkey , the hillsides of East India , and other widely separated places . Crops such as long-staple cottons , raisin grapes , wine grapes , market pears , oranges and lemons , dates , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important food crops are here only because plants and plant materials can be and have been moved here from many parts of the earth . The usual prerequisite for the selective breeding of plants is to assemble diverse species , strains , or clones of a given crop from the greatest possible variety of environments , and from these to develop new and virile strains which amplify the advantages and minimize the faults of the diverse parent strains . Obviously , this constructive feat can never be accomplished on a really adequate scale unless and until capably directed plant migration is attained . Our Department of Agriculture has known this for the nast third of B. Y. Morrison , head of the Department 's Division of Plant Exploration and Introduction , describes his division 's procedure in tracking down a desirable alien plant and bringing it back alive somewhat as follows : While traveling abroad the Department 's experienced plant-hunters begin by collecting that portion or stage of a given plant which will bear transport with minimum risk , i.e. , the dormant seed , bulb , or shoot . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspectors examine it for diseases and pests and assign the planting stock to specialists in the Plant Introduction Section , whose job it is to set out the herbaceous immigrant in an " introduction garden , " which is usually equipped with quarantine greenhouses , propagation greenhouses , nursery greenhouses , refrigeration and cold storage , and whatever other facilities are needed for nursing it along . The current introduction of the cinchona or quinine tree is a timely example of this procedure . Recently Plant Introduction received a shipment of the seed by air mail from a point in the far Pacific . The envelope was opened at the Inspection House and examined by disease experts of the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine , who gave the seed a serial number and passed them on to the Plant Introduction men , who planted the seed in a Division greenhouse within taxi distance of the White House . In about three weeks the seed germinated and for six months thereafter the puny seedlings were nursed along with exquisite care . Then the infant trees were taken out of the soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by plane to carefully selected experiment gardens in the tropics , within a few miles or a few hundred miles of the original home of quinine . Practical gardeners were waiting at the tropical nurseries , men with " warm hands " or " green fingers " ? the practical and intuitive talent for putting plant materials into soil and making them grow , come hell , high water , drought , or hurricane . Thanks to the Latin-American and Norleamericano gardeners who received thealong as immediate local conditions of soil , rain , elevation , shelter , prevailing winds , subsoil drainage , and a hundred other more subtle factors require , the seed from the Pacific are prospering on Pan-American earth . Thus they reinforce the virtual certainty that eventually the Americas will again produce and process quinine to safeguard Americans from the types of malaria which quinine can best arrest or cure . IV n um human migration , crop migration 4 brings about many melting-pot problems ? problems which result in many individual failures . But the present year appears to be establishing new records in successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of plant materials , to plane transport , and most of all to the urgent or crucial needs begot by the global war and the prospects of grim and hungry years ahead . But even as the tempo and range of plant migration increase , one wonders why the interchange of essential crops should not have been more actively encouraged or sponsored in the past . Throughout the centuries the great majority of all farm populations have stubbornly and futilely planted degenerate seed of a severely restricted range of crops in weary and impoverished soils . Then to escape starvation or intolerable poverty men have moved themselves to other lands where too frequently , as in so much of our own country , they have reinstated similar routines of bad seed , poor livestock , and insufficient variety of crops . The sower of seed is still a shaper and provider of nations , and it is now all too evident that no nation can continue to perpetuate a really solvent agriculture or to feed its people adequately unless the quality and variety of its seed and the breed standards of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however desirable in theory , is virtually impossible . In the past people migrated by millions and hundreds of millions in the hope of profiting from richer and more abundant lands . In most cases ill-planned and even substituted for what might have been the inexpensive and well-studied migration of the staple crops by which people live . Such fantastic defiance of economy and logic is no longer tolerable . In view of our crucial war needs and our even more crucial postwar needs for the valid foods and materials which soils must produce , our failure ? or any other country 's failure  - -  to permit the free migration of crops or the effective circulation of seed supplies which other nations need so desperately is suicidal . For in to-morrow 's world , plant populations ? not human populations ? must of sheer economic necessity do most of the migrating . While surveying the huge task of administering relief to starving Europe , hungering Africa , and a disrupted and widely destitute Orient , Governor Lehman has already pointed out that it is infinitely better for the United States to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply millions of tons of harvested foods ? particularly when there are not enough ships or facilities for food storage anywhere in the world to make such gigantic handouts even remotely possible . We do not need to look into the future or to look ahead , however , to gage the importance and the promise of this new stream of crop migration . The fact is that we urgently need new crops and more kinds of crops right here in the United States if we are ever to succeed in feeding our own people satisfactorily . The principal subsistence of this nation is taken from about 30 crops . All told , our farmers grow about 300 different crops ? more than most temperate-zone nations and far more than most tropical countries . But these are not enough . China produces and harvests about 6,000 different plants of nutritional value , which is an important reason why China has been able to survive the withering Japanese onslaught and to increase its population by an estimated 100 million during the dark and bitter years of Jap invasion . It is hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different field and garden crops . But it seems definitely probable that we should fare better if we could establish , say , 600 valid crops instead of 300 , and if we could employ still more advantageous foreign plants to " breed up " and otherwise improve the planting stocks of our ready-set **28;138;TOOLONG standbys . If food is the staff of life , the United States of America is still leaning upon a rather willowy reed . It is true that about 80 per cent of mankind eat starches preponderantly and that we are among the fortunate fifth who are able to escape some of the loathsome diseases , the impaired livers , the rotting teeth and fouled muscles which usually result from the preponderant starch diet . Yet some of our wisest medical men keep right on insisting that better varied and better balanced protein-vegetable-fruit diets could eventually succeed in obliterating about half of the sickness which is still current in the United States . Unquestionably , the methodical and selective migration of crops can do a great deal to improve our United States standards of health and nutrition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we elect to continue a letwell-enough-be attitude toward American agriculture ( and through no particular virtue of our own it is easily the best in the world to-day ) we can be certain that the feat of improving and expanding the migration of useful crops can help in protecting other nations against degrading and war-breeding want . The determined introduction of more and better crops can certainly help people in such desperately and permanently impoverished hells as India , Borneo , North Africa , and ( getting closer to home ) Puerto Rico . It can help to erase such tragic paradoxes as the plight of one South American country which despite its immense treasures of fine soils has remained one of the worst fed and most unhealthy nations in the world , in substantial part because its crop range is ridiculously small . Almost certainly many of the rural slums of Europe , particularly of the Balkans , Spain , Italy , and Poland , could be lastingly benefited by the relatively inexpensive introduction of better seed and more varied crops . Wherever the place or whatever the major agrarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restore and increase the active reservoirs of human nutrition . The real goal of reciprocal crop migrations is to make better use of a given soil by establishing those crops or species of crops which best fit the local conditions of soils , climate , and human needs ; to improve the vitality of a given farm product and increase its value to both grower and consumer ; and thus to improve the chances for the successful intensive cultivation of crops so that the maximum amounts of valuable foods and materials can be produced at minimum cost and in minimum time ; and finally to avoid the excessive cost of moving peoples and of having to use millions of tons of fertilizers or soil concentrates instead of a comparatively few pounds or ounces of seeds , cuttings , or sperms . The goal of wisely encouraged crop migration is certainly not to filch the indigenous agrarian resources of one nation or hemisphere and establish them in another to the lasting injury of the first . Nor is it to throw one particular farming area into bitter or demoralizing competition with another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tropics to smash the eastern tropics , or vice versa . For it so happens that both the eastern and western tropics are permanent parts of our little world and both are far too important to their respective peoples , and to us , to be indiscriminately knocked down or pushed up . As a matter of proved history , the most bitter and destructive competition between areas or nations producing the same crops usually occurs when the crop range of each is so rigidly limited that the competitive farmers are deprived of reasonable flexibility of marketable plantings . In general the greater the variety of crops that can be produced the smaller the chances of head-on crashes between producing areas . In any case the time is long gone when any important tillable crop can be considered the vested property or monopoly of any one individual , corporation , or nation . After the collapse of cartel-ridden Malaya and the Netherlands Indies ; after we have seen the end-results of the so-called Stevenson plan ( sponsored , alas , by Mr. Winston Churchill himself in thenineteen-twenties ) for keeping the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a close-knit coterie of London investment trusts and out of the hands of some quar. ter-billion of tropical peoples whose lands and energies are well suited to rubber production ; after we have learned the lesson of the succeeding Dutch-British Rubber Control Committee ( which was holding world rubber production at 51 per cent of proved capacity even after the fall of Holland and the subjection of Britain to mortal danger ) ? or of the mal. odorous Dutch quinine monopoly maintained by the Kina Bureau of Amsterdam ? there is no sense in defending the insidious and perilous power politics of crop monopoly . It is noteworthy that in modern times crop monopolies can be maintained for the benefit of the few and the degradation of the many only when and if the export of seed and planting stock can be prohibited . The rubber cartel became rich , powerful , and menacing only when it succeeded in blockading the migration of high-yield Hevea planting stock . The Kina Bureau acquired one of the lushest of crop monopolies when it succeeded in tightly blockading the export of cinchona seed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near-monopolies of other crops in the Netherlands Indies ? abaca. , essential oils , rotenone , and many others . More than two centuries ago Dutch planters in the East Indies began soaking their spice harvests in lime so that the seed could not possibly germinate after export . A Department of Agriculture plant-hunter , recently returned from Central America , told me of watching an Indian peon happily occupied with pouring lime plaster over a basket of nutmeg seed . When asked why he did it the peon explained , " I do it like those smart Dutchmen did it . " The free migration of crops means the end of crop monopolies , and it can very well mean the end of the audacious cartels which would " freeze " a given crop to a given locale in order to augment the profits and prestige of any self-seeking collusive group . From now on , if free men and free nations are to survive , crops , like air and water , must be for all men of good will who can use them well . The free migration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happen . The seeds of beneficial crops and livestock are also seeds of democracy . The valid and selective migration of crops can very well become one of the foremost benefits derived from this war , which , like the peace that follows it , is going to be won with food . There is therefore poetic justice as well as enlightened strategy in the fact that British , American , and Russian planes and ships are now being used to speed the seed and planting stocks of valid crops to suitable fields and gardens throughout the freedom-seeking world . It is inspiring to see at least some of our strategists , both military and civilian , shaping plans to use well-selected and well-distributed seed to help in remaking Europe into a productive community of gardens , instead of monopolizing our precious ships and further imperiling our overworked railroads to make Europe a perennial breadline or soup kitchen .                     