@@492617

O IM CORBETT gave the motion-picture indus- try its start in 1894 when he knocked out Peter Courtenay in a movie studio . The fighters photographed like gray ghosts in a fog , but the film was the marvel of the era . The pictures were exhibited in street fairs , tents , barns and abandoned factories . Nearly every man who bought a ticket admitted afterward that it was a nickel well spent . " This will kill the magic lantern , " was the almost universal comment , and the picture business leaped into existence . In 1921 Jack Dempsey launched another great art when he knocked out Carpentier . The pioneer " listeners , " with their earphones clamped around their heads , went wild over the first broadcast of a world 's championship fight . An enormous demand for radio sets followed , and the broadcasting industry sprang upon its feet . Joe Louis is now expected to play the heavyweight king 's traditional role as a beacon light of civilization . Television is the new medium which needs a world champion 's culture-spreading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bout with Conn next June , Louis will give " tele " a big lift and put it on the road toward becoming a billion-dollar industry . Television is the greatest of all fields for prophets . They see the new medium putting a stadium , amusement park , theater , university and charm school into every home . They forecast a revolution in domestic architecture , resulting in the modern home being built around the television room . Interior decorators have already come out with designs for new furniture to arrange the family and guests in concentric half circles in front of the television screen . Real estate is to go up where television reception is good and to go down where a hill , bridge or building causes interference . One cheer leader of television has promised the nation millions of identical dinners of gorgeous cookery , all presided over by one world-famous chef . The artist is to appear in his muffin-topped hat and give a step-by-step demonstration of the preparation of his masterpiece ; a pause is allowed after each maneuver , so that the housewife can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enthusiast has committed himself to having a Poiret dress the nation while an Escoffier feeds it . The greatest authorities on etiquette  --  dowager duchesses and possibly queen mothers  --  are to demonstrate what to do with olive pits after eating the olives , how to snub an upstart and whether to lead off with the right foot or left foot in entering a drawing room . There is to be modernized grand opera with slenderized stars singing in the English language and acting like members of the human race . One television executive has predicted that the new art will provide millions of new jobs in America . But for every prophet there is a counter-prophet . There are brainy men in the industry who say that television will prove to be an all-around disappointment and will be staggering along ten years from now about as it is today . Joe Louis is expected by many to become the promoter-in-chief of television because it is at its best in presenting fights . In Madison Square Garden the tele cameras are a little too far away from the ring , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " say they can sit at home , watch the fight in their tele sets and see the fine points of the game better than the occupants of the ringside seats . They laugh at the commentator  --  that peddler of ancient history  --  who is always telling them about the obsolete blows of five or ten seconds ago , while they are looking at contemporary punches . They claim they can see inside stuff that the referee misses , and they are constantly scolding him for blaming rough work on the wrong man . Television  --  also known as " tele , " " sight-andsound , " " video , " " video-and-audio " and " electron pictures " ? is not perfect . Occasionally the action is jumpy , and the fighters sometimes have a few extra arms . In spite of the defects of the new medium , television addicts can not live without it . In a recent televised fight at Madison Square Garden , Rocky Graziano was on the point of knocking out Red Cochrane when the picture-transmitting system broke down and the fight disappeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept on coming over the radio , but that was poor consolation . Being suddenly deprived of television and forced to rely on old-fashioned radio was being thrown back into the Stone Age . A " televersion " of the fight is technically inferior to the movie version of a fight . But the films lose their drama because the spectator already knows the outcome . The televiewer never knows what the next second is going to bring forth . Except for losing some of the mob hysteria , he gets all the thrills and shocks of the ringsider . There are football fans who would rather see a game in a home set than have a five-dollar ticket to a stadium . The televiewer watches the game through three sets of high-power eyes  --  one camera taking in the home team 's half of the field , the second taking in the visitors ' half , and the third having a telescopic lens for close-ups which put the stay-at-home spectator practically on top of the play . In a game televised by Philco at Franklin Field , the commentator asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of his way , so that he could tell whether a certain play had resulted in a touchdown or not ; all the while the televiewers with their telescopic vision could see the ball as big as a roc 's egg lying well over the goal line . Some televiewers say they can not only see the expressions of the faces of players but can actually read their lips  --  a thing that opens pretty possibilities for stealing signals . Beating the Bookies TELEVISION 'S great quality of instantane- ousness has already been used with decisive effect in betting . Back in 1940 some fast thinkers formed the habit of watching horse races on saloon television sets in New York and New Jersey and of dashing over to bookmaking joints to bet on the winners before the bookies had learned from their wire services that the horses had left the post . Television camerae are not yet able to take in all the action of a baseball game at once . A fan in the grandstand can focus on a long hit while watching the base runners out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to outfield and ca n't dish up the whole picture at one glance . The camera can follow a baseball or football in flight . It ca n't follow a ping-pong ball because the tele apparatus is too close to the game . The players seem to be knocking around three or four little white spheres at once . Televiewers sometimes complain that they see twenty players instead of ten in a hockey game . Actors are cautioned to move a little slower than usual in tele studios ; otherwise their movements may register as nervous twitches . They are also cautioned to keep close to the center of the stage or else certain home receiving screens with curved edges cause them to bulge , or balloon , like reflections in Coney Island mirrors . All television people emphasize the right-off-thebat quality which they call " instantaneousness , " " unexpectedness , " " spontaneity , " " momentariness , " " contemporaneousness " and " immediacy . " The great thing about televised sports is that you never know what the athletes will do next . The same goes for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an amateur will do next , and nobody is quite sure what a professional will do next in television . The fact that performers occasionally forget their lines , miss their cues , fumble their stage business and knock down the scenery is held to be . an added attraction . Aged Stage-door Johnnies cherish the memory of opening nights which were famous for the blunders and indiscretions of Mrs. Leslie Carter or some other great celebrity . In television , every night is the first night . Nearly every act has the benefit of some unexpected touches . In the great balcony scene , for example , the tele camera went into action too soon and caught Juliet struggling with her girdle ; later , in the tomb scene , the camera remained in action too long and caught the dead Juliet roughly shoving the dead Romeo away from her . In one dramatized advertisement on television , four strong men had a tug-of-war with a pair of overalls . The act was intended to demonstrate that the sponsor 's product was stronger than its weight in sheet iron . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the overalls to pieces . In another . case , a commercial catastrophe was barely prevented by a last-minute rehearsal . The television public was to be shown how dogs loved the sponsor 's dog food and hated all others . The hounds had been carefully trained to devour the sponsor 's biscuit with ravenous greediness ' and to sniff angrily at all competing products . Suffering from stage fright at the rehearsal , they forgot their parts , devoured the wrong meal , sniffed angrily at the sponsor 's product and then trotted off the stage . The act would have been canceled , except for a PHOTOGRAPHY RY HARRY SALTZMAN quick-witted stagehand who seized a can of insecticide and sprinkled it over the competitors ' biscuits . The show was then televised and everything came off to the sponsor 's satisfaction . Television , as it exists today , has the most curious economics of any business ever known . It is a church mouse with billion-dollar prospects . With A.T . &T.,; G.E. , RCA , Philco , Westinghouse , Paramount Pictures and other great electronic and movie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ richest heiress in the world , but it has no spending money . The show-business end of tele is operated on a microscopic budget . Working on a Slim Budget AS far as television entertainment is concerned , all the money goes out and none comes in . The business is on a starvation diet while waiting to inherit the earth . Television producers make bricks without straw . They use some professional talent , but most of the tele performers today belong to the Great Unpaid . Hollywood puts half a billion dollars a year into shows ; television has n't that many mills . One movie mogul has been quoted as saying that he did n't want to talk to anybody earning less than $1000 a week ; it would take ten television producers rolled into one to hold a conversation with him . A panic was caused in television circles in New York by the cost of hiring a silk hat for an evening . A studio had thoughtlessly decided to put on a period show and needed an out-of-date topper . The theatrical costumer charged fifteen dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makers showed that the fifteen dollars came out of the main valve of the heart of television . Hollywood can hire a silk hat for fifteen dollars because America pays $1,300,000,000 a year to see the pictures , but the television public buys no tickets . It has been calculated that , if all the great companies interested in television put all their annual earnings into sightand-sound entertainment , they would n't be able to run the medium on a Hollywood basis for six weeks . Poverty is recommended as a sharpener of the wits and it has sometimes made possible the production of expensive effects with picayune resources . Capt . Bill Eddy achieved one of the early masterpieces of economy when he whipped up a regular Winslow Homer storm at sea by letting two baby turtles paddle about in a few pints of water in a miniature set . Bud Gamble outdid the Great Blizzard by stirring a goldfish bowl filled with water and camphor flakes and aiming the television camera through it . Because the budget forbade luxuries Like revolving stages , a CBS director had no way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene shifters work while the actors acted . More than thirty years earlier , Broadway had applauded Yellow Jacket , which introduced the novelty of mingling the actors and the stagehands , and the television public now responded with similar enthusiasm . The experiment proved so popular that . CBS later deliberately moved some of the behind-the-scenes activities up in front of the camera . The theatrical weekly Variety gave this technique the name of " takeit-easy tele , " and fans have written in demanding autographed photos of their favorite stage- hands . The destitute condition of some television studios has inspired them to revive the ancient stage which had no scenery . The elder Dumas said that all you need for a play is " four boards , two actors and a passion , " and that is not far from television 's philosophy . One of the economical ideas copied from the Elizabethan theater is the wholesale use of child talent . Readers of Hamlet know that the impecunious managers of 350 years ago organized troupes of infant prodigies and that for a while the little tragedians ran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this out , but with little success . The ordinary child proved to be a good natural actor , but the precocious child was found to be a fearful little ham . The one important advantage that a child has in television is that he thinks a $500,000,000 corporation is doing him a favor by letting him act for nothing  --  the ideal psychology for present-day television . In one tele program , the camera was taken into the classroom to photograph an ordinary school scene , and televiewers gave it a rating of " excellent " ? it took them back to their dear old school days . A hit was made by an act which consisted of a storyteller and three children  --  the cream of the thing being changing expressions on the children 's faces as the stirring narrative unfolded . This is not Billy Rose or Mike Todd 's idea of delirious entertainment , but it apparently was a gaudy quarter hour on television . One of G-E 's efforts to use child talent on a big scale was spoiled by overexact casting . The show was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could find to play the wayward hero . The boy was such a wonderful Tom Sawyer that he was sent to reform school a day before the date set for the performance . Television has even gone to pre-Elizabethan times to learn economy in stagecraft . The perfect tele producers were the medieval Italian impresarios , who staged comedies and tragedies without bothering to pay any money to playwrights . They gave plots to actors who invented their own stage business on the spur of the moment and made up their dialogue as they went along . This was known as the commedia dell'arte , the word " a.rte " meaning the " guild " or " union " of actors , and having no connection with the modern adjective " arty . " One up-to-date television school in Hollywood specializes in teaching actors to coin their own stuff . The argument is that movie and radio actors can not go into television unless they learn the **29;2584;TOOLONG method . Movie actors have to memorize only a scene at a time ; radio actors do n't have to memorize at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movie and radio training , it is argued , makes it impossible to perform the feats of memory that will be required by television , in which entire shows must be memorized . The only alternative is for movie and radio actors to develop a spontaneous creativeness  --  that flash ! - flash ! - bang ! - bang ! type of mind that sweeps everything before it  --  in order to render themselves independent of dramatists . Some authorities believe that many television stations will make use of traveling stock companies of chain-lightning thinkers . Ten-Dollar Dramas F 'M the standpoint of economy , however , there is no need to liquidate the playwright . Writers for television cost practically nothing . They are the Chinese cooties of literature . A common price offered for an original television script is ten dollars . Twenty-five dollars is good money for a tele play that runs half an hour . Televiser , the slick-paper magazine of television , stated that $150 was the highest price ever paid to the writer of a television drama . The video playwrights expect , however , that television will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Actors who do n't eat are popular in television . The studios love puppets . Advertisers use ventriloquists ' dummies with hang-over falsettos as announcers  --  debauched-looking little aqueakheads , all illegitimate descendants of Charlie McCarthy . In the case of human announcers , it has been found that television audiences seldom care for the faces that go with the voices , but they like the dissolute little robots . Some enthusiasts for puppets believe that they will have a tremendous future in televison . It is planned to collect libraries of sawdust doubles of celebrated murderers , statesmen , society matrons , gigolos and other news figures and to use the Punchand-Judy-show technique to re-enact big news events . Grand opera has been promised with dainty manikins replacing the regular prima donnas , who take up too much room on a small television screen . According to Hope Bonin , a New York puppet impresario , the little mechanical people will solve one of the problems of television . There is a fear , perhaps far-fetched , that the crime melodrama , in which the characters die like flies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flesh-andblood actors . But the most genteel families do n't object when rivers of sawdust are shed . Few have ever complained about the ( Continued on Page 134 ) ( CtIti fitr rierl from Page 132 ) in ' 43 that the church welfare program had 14,587 acres of land under cultivation by voluntary labor , maintained ninety bishops ' storehouses , 65 canneries , 598 livestock projects and more than 300 processing plants . And he added , since the purpose of the plan is not to increase dependency , but to rehabilitate , that 1200 down-and-out families had been established in farming or some sort of business . The idea for all this , and in a more primitive way the practice , originated with Brigham Young . As is only natural , two of the first things most contemporary visitors to Salt Lake City want to see are the Lion House and the Beehive House , the apartment buildings where Brigham Young housed his families until these TELEVISION : BOOM OR BUBBLE ? ( Continued from Puge 11 ) antisocial tendency of the great puppet classic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , kills the cop with the cop 's own club and hangs the hangman on the latter 's own gallows . The Philadelphia Zoo , the Bronx Zoo and the Lincoln Park Zoo in Chicago are the three greatest reservoirs of unpaid talent . Whenever a tele showman finds himself scraping the bottom of the cash box , he sends portable cameras out to these video paradises to picture the four-footed actors , who have no agents , no unions and no wage scales . Ducks and snakes have become television stars . One of the most popular weekly shows at the CBS studio was written around a white duck named Pierre . Pierre was costarred with Jimmy Durante and other unpaid headliners , who appeared in sight-andsound shows for fun and experience . When this duck caught pneumonia commuting in the subway between the studio and the zoo , and died , the treasurer of the studio went into mourning . A five-year-old boy and his educated duck are one of the regular acts of the hobby shows staged by the Television Workshop in New York . Snakes , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spontaneity which is the life and soul of tele . Philadelphia televiewers report that they had never before seen so much honest emotion on human faces as when a big snake accidentally got loose and glided toward the characters on the stage . One of the Chicago stars is a snake that does a tight-rope act . NBC put a lot of unfeigned excitement on the air when a copperhead eluded its keeper and slithered toward an actor . At the Thomas S. Lee station in Los Angeles , a rattlesnake lover exhibited a rattlesnake named Sweetheart , placing its vibrating rattle within an inch of the microphone and moving its open countenance right up to the camera lens . Televiewers ducked away from their receiving sets , as early movie audiences used to dodge oncoming locomotives . But a snake 's public may turn out to be somewhat limited . Even in the home of a Lee-station official the set was turned off during Sweetheart 's act . One of the paradoxes of television entertainment is that it seems to have great novelty value for veteran fans and little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The maiden televiewer often says " Pitiful , is n't it ? " large buildings simply became swamped with wives and progeny , and auxiliary structures had to be obtained . From available records and discussions with various ones of his 2500 descendants , it would appear that these families came about as near as most to getting on well together and living happy , useful lives . But what will probably strike the visitor most of all is tha continuing influence of Brigham Young in the city 's life today , for it is almost impossible to spend even a few days there without feeling the impact of his ideas and character in a dozen different ways . And , unless the visitor bring with him his own cast-iron prejudices , he 'll very probably conclude that Salt Lake City and the man who built it have ample right to be proud of each other . THE END about a performance which an old-timer rates as " fair , " " good " or " excellent . " The spectator getting his first baptism of television mentally compares a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a severe shock . The man whose eyes have been riveted on a television set for five years compares the programs of today with those of yesterday and is enthusiastic over the improvement . During the war , General Electric and the Radio Corporation of America wanted to place television sets in service hospitals . Under war conditions , sets could not be manufactured , and it was necessary to buy older ones . Few owners were found willing to part with their television equipment at any price . Nobody would sell even a broken set for less than the original cost . These facts lead GE and RCA to infer that the present television public loves television even in its present semi-professional state , and that the American people will love it even if it does n't give them Hollywood or Broadway showmanship . The present television public is a highly specialized group and may not exactly represent America as a whole . When the war stopped the manufacture of sets , it created an exclusive caste out of the few thousand who already had them . Every owner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rarity . In suburban districts his home often became a neighborhood theater . " Bring your own " became a motto on fight nights and wrestling nights , when owners found that they could n't stand the expense of being perpetual host to groups who liked highballs as well as television . The set owner is the local nabob and is naturally inclined to have the kindest feelings toward the medium which has made him a big man in his community . Further than that , the set owner is a little god who sits in judgment on the fate of television . General Electric , the Radio Corporation of America , Philco , ? Columbia , Du Mont and other great organizations beg for his critical opinion on every performance . It is a form of the show business in which practically every spectator is an Ashton Stevens or a George Jean Nathan . Some of the volunteer reviewers are content with rendering their verdicts on post cards printed for the purpose . Others regularly send detailed criticisms . One man has a desk and tablet beside his set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every " looker " or " viewer " must sit down and write reviews for the benefit of the industry . These various opinions are eagerly studied , analyzed , classified and taken to heart by television showmen . E. The television public is the most surveyed , researched , opinion-polled , questionnaired , psychoanalyzed and cross-sectioned element of the American people . It is flattering to be constantly buttonholed and asked , " How am I doing ' ? " by some of the biggest corporations in the country . When you have been encouraged to look on yourself as a patron saint of an industry , you may be more sympathetic toward it than an outsider would be . The new purchasers of television outfits may not be so quick to give A for effort when they pass judgment on educated poultry , puppets , home talent and street-corner interviews . The televiewers even give a fairly high rating to talking pictures which were made from ten to fifteen years ago . Now and then , a good old-timer li , : e Nothing Sacred hits the television circuit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talkies of the early ' 30 's come all jumbled up in tin cans without labels . In the case of one ancient eight-reeler , which arrived a few weeks ago at the GE studio at Schenectady , it was possible to distinguish the first reel by the title and the last reel by The End , but the six intervening reels had no marks of identification . The television staff ran them in the projection room three different ways before they were satisfied that they had the action in correct sequence . Then the reels were shipped to a New York studio , which put them on the air without sorting them out properly . The unities were badly scrambled , effects produced causes , and the future antedated the past . But there was little complaint from the happy televiewers . The vice-president of one television company recently painted a magnificent picture of the entertainment which is planned for video audiences a year or two hence . He admitted , however , that the televiewers were having rough going at present . " But no matter what we do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't kill their interest in television . " The television interests are now loosening up the purse strings a little . Shows like Winterset , Bedelia , Front Page and You Ca n't Take It With You have been presented recently , and all studios talk about becoming highly professionalized in the next few months . Postwar experience has slightly dampened the enthusiasm of some of television 's prophets . It used to be predicted that the public would have hundreds of thousands of sets within a year after V-J day . Television executives now talk of selling between 5000 and 10,000 new sets in time for the Louis-Conn fight next June . The expected rapid reconversion from radar to television has not taken place . Some manufacturers have refused orders for essential parts saying that price regulations made it impossible . Other manufacturers decided to postpone television work because they could n't figure costs and prices until the labor-management situation cleared up . But the greatest terror of the industry is politics . Television has been tossed around by Washington for years . At one time the Government threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless the industry hurried up and started to sell sets to the public . The Government claimed that it was humiliated because England had television before America . Washington rejected the explanation that the industry was holding back until it could offer the public better television than the English type ; the suspicion was that the industry was really holding back television because it did not want to interfere with the existing radio bonanza . When television sets were finally put an the market , the Government denounced manufacturers for selling them prematurely . Television was kicked out of its wave lengths to make way for FM ; then FM was kicked out to make way for other interests . The commonest saying in the industry is , " You never know what Washington will do next . " 