@@470698

two delightful kamainas ( Hawaiian I slang for persons who reside in the Islands because of an easily understandable preference ) had invited us out to a private paradise they maintain on the north coast of Oahu . Thoughtfully they had sent for us a large , old-fashioned car , much more comfortable than streamlined modernities , which was directed , sanctified , and governed by a large oldfashioned Chinese chauffeur who was quite as comfortable as his motor . He took us over the gorgeous and indescribable Pali , whence no one can tell whether the sea is green or violet , because it is both , down the headlong serpentine road that gets from the top to the bottom by an act of faith , through groves of papaya and past headlands of extreme beauty , at all points proceeding with deliberate speed , majestic instancy . Then on almost the only straight stretch of road in the Island , with a gentle suddenness which exhibited his really superb competence , he slowed unexpectedly to a foot pace . It is true that it was Saturday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of a tiny rise a Polynesian would be drunk in the middle of the highway I am wholly unable to - explain . The Chinese mind arrives at correct conclusions by extra-logical methods unknown to the West . The Polynesian was even drunker than necessary . " Okalehao " ( resounding name for a native drink which they have derived from our prosaic word alcohol ! ) has knocked out several races who are apt to think small potatoes of the childrenof the Sea-rangers . But the natural instinctive courtesy of this particular specimen of the South Sea was not in the faintest degree impaired , and retained for him some intrinsic dignity no strong drink could take away . He was as blind drunk as a man can be and still stand , but he acknowledged the caution and courtesy of the chauffeur with such a bow as no other race famous for graceful politeness could make sober , Jet alone drunk . That bow was funny , it was sad , and it had incredible and genuine elegance . And as he performed that shaky but masterly genuflection one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to time enliven the barrenness of thought . From behind an hibiscus bush hustled a magnificent scarletand-russet rooster , who uttered a succession of gallinaceous sounds indicative of irritation and concern , and vanished into an adjoining thicket . The drunkard , hiccoughing , looked with glassy eyes in the direction of that departure and then , as if in obedience to some compelling impulse , lurched away in pursuit of the spectacular bird . It was not unnatural to let fantasy play around that unexpected reveller with his look of one of the laborers in Velasquez ' " Bacchus and the Peasants , " as he stared , half-seeing , at the noble but distracted cock . The man had the expression of one who has forgotten or killed some haunting care , no matter by what means . And I have no doubt he had plenty to forget or kill . It can not be wholly amusing to be a member of a race that is vanishing in one way or another , even for the unimaginative . And from such slight acquaintance as I have had with Polynesians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjective that must be sparingly used with respect to them . Any least connection makes you aware of people who arc eager to understand and quick to do so , yet are prevented in some odd way from altogether entering your world , just as you are prevented from entering theirs . But in their case there is a difficulty . You are under no compulsion except curiosity to penetrate their scheme of things . But for them every law of life or death is hard at work forcing them into the habit of the unfamiliar . In spite of this , once you have talked with the genuine article for five minutes , you will feel little disposition to raise questions of relative intelligence . Terms like savagery and barbarism do n't belong in the discussion . Terms like elegance and refinement do belong in it . And you grow gradually aware , unless you are a complete dolt , that you have run against something extremely different from what you know , but also something with a real and special attraction not only in appearance , but also in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may he , they are still a smiling people after four generations when they have shrunk from a million in the great Triangle to a scant hundred thousand , is alone enough to make the point . They simply do n't hate us in spite of exploitation and the diseases of body and mind we have let loose . And though we begin to mend our ways , I fancy they would n't hold it against us if we had n't . Nevertheless , though they do n't seem to brood over their wrongs , they would be more than human if they did not feel them at times . And , therefore , I think it is necessary to sympathize with that most graceful of drunkards as he staggered into the hibiscus bushes after the superlatively handsome fowl . It seemed to me that there was a parabolic virtue in the incident , as if the universal systemof the world had thought it ought to drop me a hint . Accordingly my mind took up the diverting and satisfactory , if solitary , game of putting together the jig-saw puzzle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be , a tentative , secondhand preliminary to something that ought to be written some day by a man who knew how and more . In my vague way I am trying to imagine what he will imagine within the larger limits of a much greater learning . And I think , or rather guess , that he will begin something like this : At the very verge of the darkness where history faintly brightens the East of thought , he will see in fancy a clearing in a Burmese jungle where a tiny cock , looking and acting like a bantam-rooster , for the excellent reason that he is one , struts and swaggers before a brace of elegant but more soberly costumed hens . An interesting collection of seeds in an unnaturally large heap attracts the attention of the trio , who devour with zest their last meal in complete freedom . For suddenly the fiber net , which has been artfully disposed above the bait , falls as fatefully as that other in which Vulcan took Mars and Venus . A man , in some respects resembling my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capture . That is the beginning of the trail of the rooster , a bird of strange destiny , who is going to circumnavigate the globe in company with men , whose fortunes are at least as divergent as his own , and who wo n't know it is a globe till the voyage is almost over , at least thirty centuries later . II One ca n't very well set a date for the start of what became the most astonishing , if not the greatest of migrations , though some scientists have been explicit enough . But what is a millennium among friends ? or enemies ? At some time after 1400 B.C. in the Burma woods the ancestor ofmy roadside drunkard , who had already tamed his jungle fowl , and who was nearer kin to whatever we mean by the word Aryan than to whatever we mean by the word Mongol , began to think his forest camps were crowded and inconvenient . Might he not do better in lands to the east , rumored or imagined ? Presently he came down to tidewater and presently he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , presumably coasting the Southern Philippines or Northern Celebes , his dugouts worked their way into the Pacific proper . But still he was no forwarder and pertinaciously kept going . He may have been in the Bronze Age when he set out , but in his first Micronesian island he left all hope of metal behind him ; and if he had emerged from the Age of Stone , every stroke of the paddle on the course he had set was taking him back to it . However , his condition was not so bad , for he had compensations , including the dog and the pig , which last , as a famous historian has pointed out is , except for man , the most widely distributed of animals . And of course he carried with him the rooster which was probably his own invention . Encyclopaedias , or rather the delicious Professor Newton , have a good deal of information about the so-called domestic fowl , a bird , as Newton pointed out for the first time , unknown to Homer or to any prophet of the Old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isaiah . China had grown aware of the creature a couple of centuries before Achilles exhibited the silly violence of an undisciplined Greek Savage at the siege of a trading post on the Dardanelles . But no Mediterranean civilization ate an omelette until about a hundred years before the traitor shield was flashed at Marathon . The noble fowl went westward with various empires , Greek , Celtic , Roman , but stopped in his tracks on the impassable verge of the chill , stormy , and uninviting Atlantic . His progress eastward from the Burma where he was first captured was more exciting ; for his original captor and companion had it in his character to refuse to be haltedwhether by the dimension or character of great waters . Their mere spectacle invited and drew him forward . And unadventurous moderns may speculate with profit on that ignorant courage . When anthropologists ca n't find more cogent evidence , they take a real pleasure in myths ; but even the myths are pretty silent about the Man with the Rooster 's passage across Micronesia . A threethousand-mile voyage from island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the sole of the foot , did not leave a great deal of tradition in the mind of the man who ultimately became the Polynesian . But when he emerged at the other end he was an altered character He had picked up some Mongol blood and perhaps some Melanesian , though the anthropologists at the moment now think that his main migration was well to the north of New Guinea and Fiji . But the main thing was what he learned about beating the sea with nothing better than stone axes and coconut fiber . He found out how to sail by the stars . And he invented twenty-four different names for winds , among which he discriminated with a delicacy unknown to more scientific sailors . The mere force and quality of a gale told him where it was coming from , and with such accuracy that he could keep to his course for a starless fortnight . He was familiar with the viewless influences of ocean currents and made them serve his purposes . Without nails or pegs , he built double-canoes a hundred feet long that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none of his contemporary navigators in Europe or Asia would have dared or dreamed of . And when he got to the Society Islands , more or less in the center of the vast Polynesian Triangle , whose base from Honolulu to the heel of New Zealand is nearly as long as the distance from Honolulu to New York , he might be said only to have begun . By that time he was sea-crazy , an infectious thing even to read about . His expeditions went radiating out along tentacular arms of discovery and adventure , which Buck has compared to the arms of a cuttle-fish . One 's spine tingles as one races through pages that describe how one fleet of argonauts followed a star that took them to Hawaii , two thousand miles away across an unknown sea , while another went south , till Cape Runaway near Auckland appeared for the first time to human eyes . They discovered New Zealand about a century before the Battle of Hastings , and no Breton or Norman of the time , for all his writing and metal , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Atlantic , if he could have saved his soul by doing so . The Stone Age Man with the Rooster , however , was not afraid and knew how , which is an odd comment on our commonplace criteria of culture . It forces us to ask the question : Who is civilized anyhow , the man who solves his problems with the means at his disposal , or the man who just says he is civilized and that 's that ? It is clear beyond dispute that the Polynesian , as far as the ocean was concerned , did more with less than any navigator before or since . It is permissible to guess that it took the Man with the Rooster many centuries to cross Micronesia and reach his ideal islands in the Great Triangle , where he has dwelt in good and evil fortune ever since . On the way he apparently constructed a new theology and moral system out of the darkness around him , but he mixed with it something of the sun which the rooster hailed every morning . I for one get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but there are a few bright novelties in his hazy legends . Maui , his Prometheus , for instance is not only a fire-bringer but an ornithologist . Evidently no vulture ever fed on his liver . And there is something attractive about a demigod who went out of his way to point out the aesthetic qualities of handsome birds , though it is only to be expected in the cult of the man who first caught the jungle-cock . But if his godsare bewildering , his morality and his codes are still more so to the tyro observer , after he settled down in the larger islands and in time created wealth and law . Whatever the peculiarity of the wealth , it was a strange law that he created , as illogical as ours will appear to critics as dispassionate with respect to us as we are with respect to the Stone Age . He confined himself in a glass cage of tabus through which he could see nature and desirable liberty , and through whose transparent walls he could no more get than a moth can get through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will ever make me understand how such a tradition as that prohibiting women from eating fish or bananas became part of the system of things . That the tabu should separate serf from aristocrat is more comprehensible , however unjust . We do that sort of thing pretty well ourselves . But the Man with the Rooster carried it so far that in some islands a wretch could be slain because his shadow , as he passed , fell across a dozing chieftain . As I believe , he was well beyond barbarism , but as in the case of other men of any civilization whatever , cruelty was part of him . Like other men , he did not know it was cruelty . But on the whole he was not worse than his European or Asiatic contemporaries , of whose nature he had no inkling , save that once or twice junks from the Orient were wrecked on some island reef and a knife of Japanese steel became an heirloom in the family of a great chief . It might appear odd at first blush that , without writing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature and , parallel with it , an astonishing amount of what can only be called science and philosophy . But , in the first place , his powers were at least equal to ours and , with some variations , his mental processes were remarkably similar to those of races who have no valid reason for considering themselves superior to him . Buck in his delightful book tells us that Maori teachers distinguished between " upper-jaw learning , " which was concerned with theogonies and cosmogonies , and " lower-jaw learning , " which dealt with tough realities where fancy must cut her cloth in accordance with the evidence . Both of these departments of thought were investigated in regular schools , where " scholars , " who were living works of reference , explained and described the world . In this connection Clifford Gessler has put his finger on a significant fact . Where writing is introduced the memory is often impaired . Fifty years ago in the Tuamotu Archipelago everybody knew his genealogy by heart , not to mention the descent and natural history of as many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now that the lists are written down nobody remembers them and in case of dispute the documents must be consulted . This has had the odd result of leading to crimes unknown before like forgery as in antipodal Iceland . According to Professor Emory , songs have been handed down for as much as twenty-eight generations . Facts like these throw unexpected light on some of our notions . For instance it becomes unlikely that the Homeric poems were put together by a syndicate of editors in the time of Pisistratus . If the Polynesians could carry their Oceaniads in their heads for five or six hundred years , why should the Greeks not carry their Iliads for a couple of centuries before they reduced them to writing ? Scholars arc too apt to think that what they can not imagine doing can not be done at all , and they forget that the memory of a man without writing may be a better and more muscular member of the mind than that of a man who can save himself trouble with a few scratches on a tablet . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Rooster its due consideration , it has been possible to put together a pretty convincing chronology and history of the South Sea . Pure tradition uncontaminated by any written record tends to be brief . And brevity is a friend of accuracy . Anyhow by comparing genealogiesfrom widely separated islands , that across generations and huge spaces of sea check one another a merveille , historic episodes , with their very dates , have been salvaged from what at first glance seemed to be a meaningless welter of names without significance . Thus the two discoverers of New Zealand emerge , one in the tenth century and the other in the thirteenth , as particular individuals with local habitations and names . Kupe and Toi are fully as real as Leif Ericsson and Eric the Red , and the testimony about them is quite as sound , even though there be no Runic saga about them . We have a superstition about the written word . And a classic scholar , as has been pointed out by the more acute brethren , is too apt to believe what he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fact that his author had merely set down the traditional and was no eye-witness of the event . Where the only record is oral there is a heavy social pressure against any falsification . Men who can write , removed from immediate contact with their audience , often succeed in ignoring this prejudice . And again and again in Polynesia the archeologist has been able to bear out what has been handed down for a score of generations who found some episode worth remembering and had no particular motive to lie about it . If a chief says his island was colonized from the Marquesas six hundred years ago , and that his ancestor twenty fathers back was so and so , the genealogy will go click into the ancestry of some Marquesan grandee , and the expert will only have to look round for material evidence , such as fishhooks , art-forms , types of canoes , etc. , to make the story complete and quite as watertight as statements supported by more literate documents . III In spite of his enormous voyages , the Man with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he visited only for fleeting moments . He colonized New Zealand , but never ventured across the gulf to an Australia that seemed made for him . And if , as some believe , far away in the Indian Ocean , his canoes first discovered Madagascar , it seems curious that they did not push on three hundred miles to work up huge , empty , unexploited Africa . Something in his nature seemed to keep him away from investigating , or at any rate occupying , those immoderate vastnesses . His inner impulses drove him to islands , innumerable islands , where he settled and survived or perished as the case might be . When the Bounty mutineers discovered lonely Pitcairn they found his ruins . He carried his Asiatic bird to Easter Island , farthest flung of all and fully six thousand miles from the net in the Burma jungle . But the rooster was probably killed and eaten on the long voyage to New Zealand . The Man with the Rooster almost certainly reached South America , for he got the sweet potato before the Whites arrived , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still , it is highly probable that he saw the Antarctic " iceblink " before any Nat Palmer or Weddell or Krusenstern . For one of his ships , ranging far to the southward , came back with a yarn of a sea that got stiff and white . A tapa loincloth would , I think , be an unsuitable garment much below the McQuarries . But the Man with the Rooster was tough in those days . It is apparent that he grew less so . A clever lady has described the Aryan as a species of white corpuscle who produced a pernicious anemia in the bloodstream of the South Sea . But long before the missionary , full of religion and measles , descended on the unfortunate islands the Man with the Rooster had begun to soften and alter . The Stone Age grew polished and the new gleam had in it something resembling ? shall we say , decadence ? Perhaps an excessive and too leisurely satisfaction with things as they were obtained in the lotus islands . For one reason or another the bigdoublecanoes ventured forth less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a legend in Hawaii . Hawaii was only a fireside tale in Tahiti , though seers still kept the sailing directions with the whole apparatus of stars , currents , and prevailing winds in the crammed files of their memories . But what had once been something that governed the steering paddle was now clearly the sort of rigmarole that gave a sorcerer an easy prestige . The Man with the Rooster was getting finical , luxurious , and indisposed to hardship , like contemporary Englishmen and Americans . His wander-years were over . And he began producing kings , who were much more interested in local domination and parochial rivalries than in over-sea expeditions , whose promise they were apt to view with increasing skepticism . The kings in question , from any point of view , were frequently extremely exciting personalities , and several of them came on the scene at the moment when anonymous whalers and famous explorers began to tear the veil from Oceania . Pomare in Tahiti and Kamehameha in Hawaii were strong enough and clever enough to use the invader without submitting to him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stage of development where novel varieties of experience were to be expected , irrespective of outside impacts . One of the most singular of historic episodes is the fact that , immediately after the death of the great Kamehameha , and before the arrival of any missionary , the tabu in Hawaii was broken publicly for the first time in the history of Oceania . There were no doubt new influences from without at work . But the impulse apparently came from within . And from the standpoint of the Man with the Rooster something perfectly appalling happened when the widowed Queen Regent Kaahurnanu gave a party in Honolulu and ate fish openly in the presence of the king , her son , before the horrified eyes of the Islanders . If Queen Victoria had smoked opium , naked on the high altar of Westminster , at the same time making suggestive passes at the Duke of Wellington , she might have produced a not dissimilar sensation among the more conservative communicants of the Church of England . In short , the Man with the Rooster had overlooked the Woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conventions that had grown up during his sessile period , threw both of them into a state of complete bewilderment a couple of years before the missionaries came to bewilder them still more . Several distinguished writers have noted a sort of numbness which came over the Polynesians when the tabu was broken . The greater the illogicality of the conventions by which men live the greater the shock when the illogicality stands revealed . If every one of the halfconscious assumptions which govern the lives of Americans were dragged into the open and successfully challenged , most of us would lose courage , not because anything in particular was done to us , but because we should no longer possess a pattern of thought into which minor daily experience could be fitted . It is hard for us to imagine analogies , for our revolutions have been on the whole less thoroughpaced and slower in operation . Perhaps if Mr. Harry Bridges were to introduce the Russian system of things suddenly and with violence into our republic , New Englanders would have still fewer children , while Californians would die @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gamely but vainly endeavor to conceal . Some of us would make timid efforts to adapt ourselves to incomprehensible novelties , and kind-hearted Bolsheviks would compliment us on our sporting attitude . They might even found museums to keep alive the memory of our peculiarities . We should feel self-conscious and incompetent in the presence of persons who had reshaped the scheme of things , in their opinion , very much for the better . And we should no doubt patronize survivors of democratic times and perhaps regard our ancestors with a mixture of pride andshame , brooding painfully whenever a chance remark of the true believers indicated that we were not wholly at ease in New Zion . The Man with the Rooster was in such a state of turmoil and shock , in Hawaii anyhow and perhaps in other archipelagos , when the missionaries struck . The joke was really on the missionary who had nerved himself to be a martyr whose eagle eye could pierce beyond the grave . Instead of fierce and fanatical chiefs , who would have to be conquered by prodigies of faith and valor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by no means his intellectual inferiors , who showed the somewhat bigoted apostle every courtesy and hospitality . The gentleness and generosity of the natives actually awakened the latent humanity of some of the brethren . And though there is no statue to the heroic American clergyman who induced three of the predatory powers , including his own country , to sign treaties which guaranteed the independence of Hawaii , such a monument ought to be erected in no ignoble metal . But for many of the preachers it was always hard to discriminate between the unfamiliar and the desperately wicked . And too many of them liked to point out that the diseases which were beginning to hit nine out of ten of the natives were a judgment on " their irregular lives . " As the missionaries themselves had imported many of those diseases , the arrogation of the right to interpret the phenomenon in a manner unfavorable to the victims is peculiarly pharisaic . And there is perhaps poetic justice in the fact that the most savage diatribe written in the Nineteenth Century is to the address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selfrighteous in the wrong place , and , I suppose , never drew a careless breath again . The missionaries meant to be kind , but , like other men , were not too skilful in the practice of that difficult art . So much has to be really understood if kindness is the object . But kind or no , from the moment of their coming the THE TRAIL OF Man with the Rooster began to wither and fade , in spite of the eagerness with which he imbibed the Water of Life . Perhaps he had run his course and , though well-graced as an actor , was about to leave the stage anyhow , no matter who discovered or converted him . The jolt he had given himself psychologically was a bad one . And Kamehameha 's wars in Hawaii were no laughing matter . Neither were Pomare 's in Tahiti . But whatever the cause , the grim fact remains that to-day in Hawaii there arc a bare fifty thousand pure and mixed Polynesians where there were three hundred thousand when Cook hove to for the night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( better three deathtimes ) ago . Though the whole group is now increasing somewhat , rather like protected buffalo , there will not be one individual of pure stock left in 2000 A.D. To lament or moralize or fix responsibility is as futile as it is foolish . But one may take some pleasure in Professor Handy 's hopeful and intelligent belief that a new Polynesian race is actually in process of formation . According to him the old Polynesian was a mixture of some vaguely Aryan strain with a strong Mongol element and some minor ingredients . There is now a mechanical mixture of similar constituents in Hawaii and elsewhere in Polynesia . Presently it may become , so to speak , a chemical mixture . In which case the Man with the Rooster will repeat himself . If his second incarnation is as attractive as his first , few will regret the arrival of the newcomer . IV The Man with the Rooster himself appears to view his present situation with objective detachment , content to make the best of a difficult transition . The Americans , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . And certain of them wax enthusiastic about virtues which they attribute to him , or sentimental about qualities which he never possessed . In Honolulu I have myself encountered a fox-hunting Virginian who was actually learning a dying language out of mere interest and pleasure in a delightful people . The English have done fairly well by the Polynesian too , achieving the typical result of good intentions complicated by ignorance . But the French in their islands have been pretty bad . And this is no Francophobc criticism . Alain Gerbault , in his notable In Search of the Sun , has ticked off his countrymen 's performance in Oceania more bitterly than any enemy of France . The huge colonial bureaucracy has frankly viewed the islands as a milch-cow from which everything is taken and to which nothing is given . They have been so unimaginative as to interfere with the very instinct of play , which , as Gerbault acutely implies , is a quick and unobtrusive way of killing people . And the fact is the more discreditable because French ethnologists are so good that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a view to administering our little despotism of Tutuila in the most enlightened manner . The French scientists know perfectly well that the Man with the Rooster resembles another ancient character of whom it was said that " All he wanted was lemme alone " ; but their influence , however world wide , does not get by the ushers at the Colonial Office . The Polynesian has a lot of qualities it would be worth our while not to ignore . It is true that he can not compete with us on our terms , though it would be juster to say that he refuses to . Doctor Romanzo Adams has said in so many words that our methods of conducting affairs shock and disgust the Polynesian and he hates to employ them . He is no match at a bargain for either Occident or Orient , and is appalled by the fierce impersonality of trade . On the other hand , as I think may be gathered from Professor Lind 's fascinating and too little known An Island Community , he manages pretty well as a professional man or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have , some dignity connected with them . Politics , which for us has lost all dignity whatever , oddly enough , seems to be up his alley too . Duke Kahanomoku , that surf-born Achilles , holds down the not unpleasant job of Sheriff of Honolulu . And anyone in the town will tell you that he ca n't be blasted out of the berth with dynamite so long as he wants it . The social grace and sympathetic courtesy of the Man with the Rooster are nothing short of staggering . Any swimming instructor on the beach at Waikiki is a better and more stimulating companion than most American college men . One is perpetually struck or diverted by speech which is vivid , witty , and instinct with a humor at once concrete and kinetic . Mrs. Field in her charming autobiography has a Samoan anecdote which illustrates the style . A young chief who had failed rather comically in an attempt by force and arms to abduct a girl from a neighboring island was twitted on his misadventure during a tennis party at Stevenson 's place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious untruth that no such episode had taken place . He had , he said , only gone to visit his sister in Savaii . After the match the party of Whites and Samoans went into the house where a cast of Rodin 's " Thc Kiss , " which the sculptor had just sent Stevenson , had been set up in the hall . The Samoans , who had never seen anything like it , marvelled at the statue until one of them spoke up . " I know what it is , " he said , " That is his sister from Savaii. " for one was pleased by the arrowy simplicity of the remark . And a first-rate anthropologist informs me that it is wholly characteristic and that one could n't walk down a village street in the Tuarnotus without hearing five jokes of the same order . The Man with the Rooster has retained man 's two most transient and essential possessions , a sense of humor and a sense of beauty . The two are necessarily complementary and belong together . He always has his vision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in his path he knows where there are rain-flowers . Though he can not be brought to view sugar cane or pineapples with the high seriousness appropriate to new economic philosophies , he is as good and skilful a seaman as when he first traversed limitless oceans on a few planks sewn together with fiber and rigged with a paper sail . His native dances and worldold songs still keep him close to the poetry of things . I do n't ask for a better companion than he in the cabin of a fishing boat or on the palm-shadowed sands of a white coral beach . There is not a trace of esurience about him in spite of troubles that on the whole have increased for a full century and a half . And there must be something radically wrong with people who do n't like the gaiety in eyes that have seen so many reasons for legitimate anxiety . I sincerely hope that the type of him , who staggered drunkenly into the hibiscus-thicket on the trail of the rooster , was not merely a tipsy symbol of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all right with me if something of his quality were to remain always , a wild tincture , in the memory of his successors , whose mechanical advantages have not always proved psychologically more satisfactory than the Man with the Rooster 's simpler approach to the same enigmas .                     