@@171910

I admit to the accusation of strikebreaker , said the Cardinal Archbishop of New York , Francis J. Spellman , " and I am proud of it . If stopping a strike like this is n't a thing of honor , then I do n't know what honor is . " For three days last week , Cardinal Spellman walked about the 550-acre expanse of crowded Calvary Cemetery in New York City 's Queens supervising his corps of 100 amateur gravediggers . All of them were young students for the priesthood , recruits from St. Joseph 's Seminary in Yonkers , N.Y . Cardinal Spellman 's troubles as an employer of labor began in January . The 200-odd union workers of Calvary , one of the country 's largest Roman Catholic cemeteries , were bargaining for a raise of about 20%-a five-day week for the same wages ( $59.40 ) they now get for a six-day week . Their employers , the trustees of Manhattan 's St. Patrick 's Cathedral , offered them a raise of about 3% . The gravediggers turned the offer down , and negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went out on strike , and the coffins began to pile up at Calvary . After burial services , the coffins were laid down in shallow uncovered trenches . Last week when the number of unburied dead topped 1,000 , the cardinal called out his seminarians . Tightlipped , he rode his gravediggers through the cemetery 's picket line , while a silent union man respectfully touched his hat to his cardinal arch bishop . It was a serious decision that the cardinal had made . Many a Catholic union man was troubled and angry at the sight of the young strikebreakers who would soon be priests-many of them pastors of workingman flocks . <P> Union Buster ? Francis Spellman had two explanations for the decision that he made . First , he pointed out , the gravediggers ' union was affiliated with a Communist-dominated international ( C.I.O. 's Food , Tobacco and Agricultural Workers of America ) . Second , the strikers ' action was " an unjustified and immoral strike against the innocent dead and their bereaved families , against their religion and human decency . . . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cardinal 's methods were " high-handed , arbitrary , and suggestive of the tactics used by anti-union employers ten years ago . " The union also claimed that Cardinal Spellman and the trustees of St. Patrick 's had " sought to break the union " by appealing to the workers as individuals in two letters and a telegram . They passed a resolution condemning " the union-busting tactics of any employer , including the Catholic Church when it acts as an employer . " To dispose of the Communist implication , they cut loose from the international , and each member swore a solemn oath : " We here as Catholic gentlemen solemnly declare that we are opposed to Communism and all it means in all walks of life . . . "                     