@@494181

The Tolan Report THERE IS NO END to the indirections by which history moves forward . Take as an instance the Tolan Committee , whose report on the defense economy was issued last week . Who has heard of it , or who that has knows clearly what it has been doing ? It has been one of the least publicized and least expensive of all the investigating committees of Congress . It has spent a dollar where the Dies Committee has spent ten , and has had a stick of space on an inside page when the Dies Committee has had headlines . Yet in its quiet way it has helped to lay the foundations on which much of our armament program and at least part of our domestic post-war program will have to be built . It started , after " The Grapes . of Wrath " had stirred the country , as a House committee on the Interstate Migration of Destitute Citizens . It held public hearings last year and this , with testimony occupying eleven volumes , organized by the committee 's able staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in April , 1941 . From this testimony and report future scholars and commentators on the America of the thirties will in all likelihood draw heavily . In recent months , with the creation of new problems by the armament effort , the committee 's researches have taken a different turn . It began to look into the migration problems arising from the defense economy . And as a phase of that inquiry it broadened its scope and held hearings on the " full utilization of America 's industrial capacity and labor supply in the war effort . " We published in our columns last week a summary of the testimony at those hearings by Morris L. Cooke , S. T. Henry , H. S. Person and Alex Taub . The recent report distils the recommendations from the hearings as a whole . To start with , the report is realistic in its premises about the nature of total war and about its economic imperatives . It sees that the single-mindedness of the Nazi regime has harnessed the resources of Germany and Occupied Europe to the one objective of crushing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sees also that unless we can achieve a single-mindedness of our own in war production , our ideas , no matter how valid , will be useless weapons . For another thing , the report is realistic in its factual description of how tragically our present pace of war production falls short of the requirements of any sort of victory program . Witness after witness testified that there are efficient plants producing for civilian needs that could be turned to war production , that other plants have been shut down completely and are producing neither for civilian nor for war needs . There was testimony showing that the giant corporations have war contracts which , with their present facilities , will take them many years to fulfill . Meanwhile the facilities of numberless small firms are idle . There was tes timony that in the automobile industry especially there were vast potentials for the conversion of productive capacity to war purposes which had not been tapped . What remains is a program of ways and means . And the problems here are threefold . One is administrative , and with that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command over war production , to be entrusted to an over-all civilian board which would control the procurement of supplies , find out just what our total machine capacity is , have the power to compel the " bits and pieces " system of subcontracting , and have the authority , finally , to convert facilities of civilian production in part or wholly into war production . The second problem is one of staffing . With that the committee report does not deal to any extent . Nevertheless it is important , as Michael Straight 's article on Jesse Jones elsewhere in this issue testifies . Jesse Jones is a powerful individual in himself . He is also a symbol . There are many Jesse Joneses in command of our economic effort who must be replaced . The final problem is one of power . We do n't mean constitutional power . The President . has an explicit grant of constitutional power from Congress to cover this , and it is even possible that he had the power be fore the grant , in his role of Commander-in-Chief . We mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort from an economic machine that has thus far run not on the basis of full employment of resources and capacity and labor , but on the basis of corporate profits , is a huge assignment . The men who have to be displaced are deeply entrenched . So also are the habits of mind and action that have to be scrapped . Congress is still a prisoner of those same habits , and will fight hard to retain them . The press and the radio are also on their side . It will be a long struggle and a not very merry one . 