@@431240

 | Britain 's Labor Movements THOSE who believe that the party system is a fundamental basis of democracy are perturbed by the increasing distaste with which it is viewed by British electors . But of the two principal parties in Britain ? Conservatives and Labor ? the former have been able to maintain greater unity , and to show themselves more adaptable to changing times . Not since the days of Ramsay MacDonald has the British Labor Party faced the problems it does today . Then the issues were clear-cut . Today they are many and confused . On the one hand stands the Churchill Government , a coalition formed in the critical days of May , 1940 , when Britain appeared to be on the brink of annihilation . On the other there is the growing strength of the left wing , as yet not clearly defined . The decision of the Labor Executive to join with the Conservatives and the Liberals was overwhelmingly supported by 2,413,000 to 170,000 votes in the Party Conference . The necessity for a political truce was so obvious that none opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minds of politicians and individuals alike was the survival of Britain . But , by taking a step dictated by national exigency , the Labor Party may have signed its own death warrant . @# " The ideas which inspire the conduct of the war are bound to set the frame within which the change to peace conditions is effected " ( from Memorandum adopted by 1941 Labor Party Conference ) . Few of the ideas behind war measures adopted by the Churchill Government conform to orthodox Labor views . Controls of a type no real socialist would admit have been imposed on industry and workers . A mixture of private enterprise and government supervision has been introduced when socialists wanted nationalization . Compulsion for labor without comparable constraint on private enterprise has , according to socialists , left vested interests as powerful as they were before the war . The electoral truce has perpetuated in Parliament a status quo of the parties believed by the rank and file of the Labor Party to be entirely unrepresentative of the feeling in the country . Conservatives are officially supported by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1935 , though in a free election , Labor contends , Conservatives would not be returned in many cases , or only after a bitterly contested fight . The absence of opposition has made it possible for both parties to put up candidates who probably would not stand a chance in a contested election . In short , aggressive socialists now see that , while the Churchill Government had to have the support of the trade-unions ( the core of the Labor Party ) in order successfully to prosecute the war , socialism not only gained nothing from it but lost a great deal . This feeling was reflected in two votes in the May , 1942 , Labor Party Conference . The  | @# electoral truce was sustained by a majority of no more than 66,000 , less than 2 per cent of the party membership , and that only after party leaders had made the most urgent pleas for national unity . The ban placed on the Communist newspaper , the Daily Worker , by a Labor Minister , Herbert Morrison , was condemned by 1,244,000 to 1,231,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members were aware that the patterns of the post-war world were being cut primarily by advanced and progressive Conservatives , and to a growing extent by a vast body of the public unaffiliated with either the Labor or the Conservative Party . The Communist Party , until now of no political consequence in Britain , was doubling its membership every six months . Strikes , restricted by the National Emergency Powers Act and disapproved by trade-union leaders , were taking place . Nor were the records of the Labor leaders in the Government impressive . Arthur Greenwood , popular deputy party leader , had been dropped in the February , 1942 , Cabinet reshuffle . Clement Attlee , leader of the party , had been superseded as leader of the House of Commons by Sir Stafford Cripps , a " renegade socialist . " Herbert Morrison , as Home Secretary , had aroused antagonism on all sides by his clumsy handling of the Daily Mirror case , by seemingly highhanded methods of dealing with Regional Commissioners and members of the National Fire Service , and by his advocacy of forgiveness for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party , had made no great mark in the Ministry of Economic Warfare , and during his first weeks as President of the Board of Trade had introduced an unpopular and unworkable fuel rationing scheme , failed to increase coal production , and finally produced a compromise scheme of government supervision of coal mines . A. V. Alexander , First Lord of the Admiralty , was popularly supposed to play second fiddle to Winston Churchill in direction of naval strategy . While this saved him from criticism , it did not add to his prestige or that of the party . Only Ernest Bevin had emerged as an outJR MOVEMENTS 95 standing leader . His direction of the intricate and potentially explosive manpower problem had been , on the whole , skillful and successful . On the other hand , Bevin had never been a member of the Parliamentary Labor Party . As Secretary of the Trades Union Council , his power had been considerable and his voice effective in determining party matters , but until he entered the Government , as Minister of Labor , he had never sat in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the fact that participation in the Government had not been used more to the advantage of socialism , could not fail to perceive that the greatest weakness of the party lay in its leaders . And lacking men of outstanding ability and leadership , the party knew that it might well be crushed between enlightened Conservatism and growing if unenlightened Communism . 2 No one in the party could deny that the workers of Britain were tremendously impressed by the war record of Soviet Russia . Here was a country whose system of government had always been held up to them as scarcely distinguishable from Fascism , where chaos and confusion reigned , and where the worker was as regimented as in Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy . In the war with Germany , its army and its transport system had proved far more efficient than had been anticipated . Its workers had rallied in a manner unequaled elsewhere , and its people had thrown themselves against the enemy with a passion born of faith . And in doing so , Soviet Russia had saved Britain from invasion and perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be grateful to Russia . In June of 1941 , Britain stood virtually alone facing a Germandominated Europe , harassed by increasingly strong enemy concentrations in Libya , and harried the length and breadth of the Mediterranean by German dive bombers . Greece and Crete had been lost . The metropolitan British state had had a tough winter of constant strafing by the Luftwaffe ; its army had not yet recovered from the defeats in  | France and Greece . Its strength , though growing , was probably still insufficient to meet an all-out German invasion . Instead of attacking Britain , Hitler had turned eastward to Russia . With the vast agricultural and mineral resources of Russia at its disposal , Germany could have become unconquerable . And the road to the Persian oil fields ? to India ? would have been open . It will be many years before we know just how dire a threat was removed from Britain by that eastward swing . But only the most shallow-thinking Englishman would deny its existence . When Russia did not collapse like a pack of cards after the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admiration grew by leaps and bounds . In the spring of 1941 no Englishman admitted the possibility of defeat , but few saw how victory could be gained . The Russian war changed that picture , and British thoughts turned from defensive measures to means of taking the offensive . No one in the United States , three thousand miles removed from the threat of German invasion , can appreciate the depth of gratitude Britons felt towards Russia . Those more familiar with Russia and Sovietism knew that Russia was fighting for self-preservation and not for Britain 's blue eyes . But to the bulk of the working classes Russia appeared to have found a way of life which its people believed eminently worth fighting for , and to have created an army capable of fighting extremely well . Here was the first nation which had been able to stand up to the mighty German Army . The Soviet system could not be as bad as it had been described . Even the purges now made sense ? Russia had no fifth-columnists . Probably not more than one pro-Russian for every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difference between Marxism and Stalinism . And certainly not more than one in a hundred could have explained where British communism stood in the doctrinaire world . It was difficult for the Labor Party to canalize this enthusiasm into socialist channels . Labor had stood , it is true , for closer cooperation with Russia during the days before and after Munich . The British trade-unionists in July , 1939 , had proposed for the first time the inclusion of the Soviet trade-unions in the International Federation of Trades Unions . They had known , before the meeting took place , that the proposal would be rejected . British Labor had been pro-Finnish during the Russo-Finnish war . Even its support of Republican Spain had been cautious and qualified . When it became obvious that Russian resistance would continue , British Conservatives immediately urged the shipment of war material to Russia and , despite the indiscretions of highly placed Conservatives , succeeded in identifying themselves as much with the Help for Russia movement as Labor . In the 1942 Conference , the Labor Party sought to underline its support for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welcomes the efforts being made by the National Executive Committee to give material aid to the people of Russia and hopes that it will maintain ceaseless pressure upon the Government to do everything possible to increase the flow of supplies to the Soviet forces , to secure the complete coordination of British and Soviet strategy and undertake offensive action , as called for by the Soviet leaders , in Europe , without delay ; this Conference further requests the National Executive Committee , in view of the favorable circumstances now existing , to send a Commission to Moscow and other Soviet cities to investigate and report on the structure and control of industry and government , and to prepare in due course a report for distribution throughout the country in order that the full facts about the U.S.S.R. may be made known and in order that we in this country may benefit from the experience gained by the peoples of the Soviet Union in the building of a Socialist State . In the report of the National Executive to the Party Conference , however , appears a statement issued in July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " great efforts of the Soviet Union in the common struggle against Hitlerism , " and then rejects suggestions of common action between the Labor Movement and the Communist Party of Great Britain . It points out that , of all sections of the community , the Communists alone before June , 1941 , took " every opportunity to obstruct and weaken the national effort . "  | @# The 1942 report devotes considerable space to the Communist Party under the heading of " Subversive Movements , " and warns members against ancillary organizations which are in fact merely offshoots of the Communist Party . " The Communist Party of Great Britain , " it adds , " ever ready to create trouble whatever the conditions , has not hesitated to exploit friendly Anglo-Russian relations for purely party aims . " Britain 's Communists have in the past been so few , and their activities so restricted , that the majority of the population have been scarcely aware of their existence . They know little of the Communist leaders , and nothing at all of Moscow 's view of them and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform with that which in Russia had welded a group of chaotic backward peoples into a united , organized , and modern nation . Membership in the Communist Party began to increase . 3 The Communist Party has two representatives in the House of Commons , Willie Gallacher and D. N. Pritt , K.C. Pritt is nominally a Laborite , but his line consistently follows Communist directives . The Communists , however , have an influence in the trade-unions out of all proportion to their size , owing to the strict discipline maintained in the party . Trade-union meetings are usually poorly attended by the general membership , but Communist attendance is very nearly 100 per cent . A small Communist nucleus which decides its policy in caucus and votes for a single panel of candidates can often gain control over a union local whose members may be indifferent or , even antagonistic to Communist policies . The Communists were strongest before the war in the engineering union , always the most militant union . The engineering trades , the hardest hit during depression years , were most receptive to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's shifts during the war are well known : their opposition to the " imperialist war , " and their change to sup-@# port for the " people 's war " when Russia was attacked . To implement their opposition to the war during 1939-1940 , the British Communists revived the shop stewards movement of the last war , and organized a " people 's convention " dedicated to peace between the workers of the world . The People 's Convention met in London on January 12 , 1941 . Its organizers claimed an attendance of 2234 , representing 1,200,000 from 1304 organizations . Shop stewards figured largely on the program . The " People 's Platform " was a jumble of popular grievances and a demand for peace . The " people 's peace " was not enthusiastically received , and nothing more wa , s heard of the People 's Convention . But six months later the most important union in Britain , the Amalgamated Society of Engineers , with 600 , - 000 members , endorsed a peace resolution almost identical with the " people 's peace " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by eight Communists in an executive of fifty-two members . The shop stewards movement of this war bears little relation to that of the last war . That was a spontaneous movement directed against exploitation in the factories , against capitalism , and against the war . Today the shop stewards movement is probably onethird spontaneous and two-thirds the creation of the Communist Party . Until Russia was attacked , it strove to disrupt production . The Communist shop stewards behaved much as Communists in American automobile unions did during the wildcat strikes . Every minor grievance was occasion for a stoppage , although many of the grievances were real and justified , and therefore supported by the majority of workers . In April , 1941 , during the height of the " go slow " movement , the shop stewards conference was said to represent 217,000 workers . Their influence was much greater , however , as the bulk came from the essential engineering industries . By the end of June , 1941 , the shop stewards were , like the Communist Party , the most rabid supporters of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tolerated . Their second conference , held in October , 1941 , was exclusively con98 THE ATLANT  | cerned with means of increasing production . Management and workers alike were criticized . Joint Production Committees were demanded ( and subsequently introduced by Lord Beaverbrook , then Minister of Production ) , and Britain was urged to establish a second front in Europe . The conference delegates claimed to represent 500,000 men from 300 key war factories . By no means every factory has a shop stewards group ; nor , in factories where they are established , do they represent more than a fraction of the workers . But they are the source of considerable irritation to the tradeunions , which resent interference from the rank and file , nor do the trade-unions like the growing influence of the shop stewards . The Joint Production Committees , first organized in the Royal Arsenal , have the official support of the Trades Union General Council , the Employers ' Federation , and the Ministry of Labor . The trade-unions see in them a point of support against the shop stewards , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shop stewards have had considerable influence on the election of factory representatives to the Committees . The official shop stewards movement disclaims political bias , but the fact remains that its organ , the New Propeller , is nearly 100 per cent Communist-controlled . The ban on the Daily Worker has not prevented the Communist Party from producing other publications . In addition to the New Propeller , there are the Labour Monthly , World News and Views , Soviet War News , and Soviet Russia Today . Youth and the middle class have been predominant among the converts to Communism . Old-time trade-unionists know the ease with which the party line varies , and even their sympathy for Russia has not influenced them in favor of the Communist Party . 4 But it is by no means certain that official trade-unionism is sufficiently progressive for the majority of the workers . The Labor leaders have found themselves sharing responsibility with the Conservatives for legislation which violates the traditions of @# the Labor Party . On more than one occasion the Parliamentary Labor Party has been split . It was only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Order was passed . This order , passed in March , 1941 , enabled the Minister of Labor to control the manpower in any given industry regarded as essential to prosecution of the war . No employer could dismiss a worker unless it was shown that he had been guilty of serious misconduct , nor could a worker absent himself without due cause or change his employment without permission from the Ministry of Labor . The National Service Bill of December , 1941 , conscripting the nation 's man and woman power either for the services or for industry , almost split the party wide open . Many Labor Members of Parliament were opposed to further compulsory measures unless the Government took similar steps to conscript industry . Party leaders , aware that the Coalition Government would not agree to nationalization of transport , mines , and the munitions industries , tried in 1941 to prevent the party from going on record in favor of it . But the nationalization resolution was carried in the Parliamentary Labor Party . In the 1942 Party Conference , the Executive succeeded in getting through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brilliantly and often irrelevantly supported by Harold Laski , the resolution urged that " Government control of industry , central planning of the nation 's economic life , and the subordination of many private interests to the common good . . . be carried further in order to achieve swift and total victory . It the Labor Party regards the socialization of the basic industries and services of the country and the planning of production for community consumption as the only lasting foundation for a just and prosperous economic order . . . . " An amendment calling upon the Party Executive to include in the resolution nationalization of the land , transport , and banking , and one instructing the Labor leaders in the Government to press this policy " even to the point of the Party 's resuming freedom of action in Parliament , " were both defeated on the urgent plea of the  | @# Executive . But the voting showed the party to be split wide open on the issue . An even more delicate situation arose over a Conference resolution on servicemen 's pay . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed forces and the allowances for their dependents should be raised , to approximate the earnings of industrial workers . This is a view shared by many Conservatives . It was also expressly stated more than once at the Conference that the party leaders in the Government were bound by the decisions of the Conference . The Executive accepted this reading . Only five days after the Conference had adjourned , Attlee , speaking on behalf of the Government in the House of Commons , refused to reopen the question of servicemen 's pay . Never was Labor 's subordinate position in the Government made more abundantly clear for all to see . The proceedings of this year 's Labor Party Conference seemed to confirm the views of one of its delegates , a Member of Parliament , when he said : " The Party is crawling to the right while the working classes are marching to the left . " It is more and more obvious that the party leaders are not in sufficiently close touch with the electorate . People are becoming impatient with old shibboleths and with old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been rising , that of Conservatives declining . In 1923 there were thirty Labor M.P . ' s under forty , and two over seventy . In 1941 there were only five under forty , and twenty-two over seventy . Their average age is sixty-four , that of Conservatives fifty-two . This is largely due to the system which has long prevailed of rewarding a good tradeunionist on his retirement from active work by a seat in Parliament . Harold Laski has attempted to persuade the unions on more than one occasion to forgo their claims to certain constituencies and to adopt young candidates . The reply of Will Lawther , President of the Miners ' Union , typifies the attitude of the unions . " You are correct , " Lawther wrote in answer to Laski ; " I do resent these highbrow interventions . . . . Without the trade-unions there would be very little of a Labor Party . " There is thus @# a conflict not only between youth and age , but between the " intellectuals " and the workers . Generally speaking , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trade-unionist and yet seem to be more susceptible to compromise . Both these tendencies make the trade-unionist profoundly mistrustful of the Laski type of socialist . But the splits in the party are by no means straightforward , between trade-unions and intellectuals , or between youth and age . There is within the Labor Party itself a well-organized and highly vocal opposition composed of men like Alex Sloan , the Scottish Miners ' MY. , Aneuran Bevan , G. R. Strauss , John Parker , and Mrs. Daggar . Some of these , notably Aneuran Bevan and G. It . Strauss , are in the anomalous position of supporting Sir Stafford Cripps , an outcast from the party . Bevan is now the editor of the Tribune , a weekly started by Cripps but no longer under his control or influence . When Strauss and Bevan jointly edited it and Cripps was in Moscow as Ambassador , the Tribune commented in this vein on the 1941 Labor Party Conference : " For it is now clear to all , who are not wilfully blind , that the Labor Party under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be an effective political force . We deceive ourselves if we imagine that by a continuation of the present leadership and constitution of the Labor Party it can ever be a vehicle by which socialism can be achieved in this country . " The " Tribune Group , " to which Cripps was closely allied before he became , first , Ambassador to Moscow , then Lord Privy Seal , can be described as " left socialist . " It believes in parliamentary methods but opposes Labor 's participation in the Government . Although it dislikes Churchill and takes every opportunity to criticize him , it supported Cripps 's inclusion in the Government . Its following in the country varies tremendously with its program , which is subject to constant alteration and is negative rather than positive . It has from time to time had the support of Lord Beaverbrook and his powerful chain of newspapers , but so have the Communists and the shop stewards 100 THE ATLANZ  | movement . It is a thorn in the side of Labor and has successfully put independent candidates into Parliament . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , called the Socialist Clarity Group . Its monthly bulletin , Labour Discussion Notes , is widely read throughout the Labor Party and by many of the leaders . Its guiding genius is Harold Laski , but it has also , nominally at least , the support of such prominent trade-unionists as George Gibson , Jim Griffiths , Will Lawther , and Jack Tanner , albeit their views rarely emerge in the publication . George Gibson and Will Lawther , for example , support Lord Vansittart 's anti-Germanism , while Harold Laski has openly attacked Vansittart and his supporters several times . The Independent Labor Party , the traditional party of British socialism ? associated with names like Keir Hardie , Bob Smillie , and Tom Mann ? has very little influence . It has three members in Parliament , a national following under 10,000 , and a circulation of about 15,000 for its paper , the New Leader . Following its break with the Labor Party in 1932 , it wavered between affiliation with the Comintern and the Trotskyites . Finally it organized the London Bureau , an international center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Spain , the German Socialistische Arbeiter Partei , the Parti Socialist des Ouvriers et Paysans ( Marceau Pivert 's ) of France , and the Lovestone movement in the United States . The I.L.P. 's platform is a mixture of Trotskyism and British Communism . The party is a hodgepodge of pacifists , revolutionary socialists , and malcontents of several varieties . Only the influence of Fenner Brockway has kept it together . Its influence among factory workers and in the country has increased somewhat of late , mainly because the I.L.P. shop stewards are the only ones who have not abandoned the class struggle in the factories , and the only ones who still fight vigorously to have workers ' grievances righted . If its anti-war plank were not so important in its platform , the I.L.P. would be a greater threat to the Labor Party than the Communists , and it may yet become so . 5 To whom can the Labor Party look for more vigorous leadership ? Herbert Morrison has a large following , but he has been decidedly compromised by his membership in the Churchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bedford , and his adamant attitude on the Daily Worker . He can not count on rallying the most influential trade-unions . Arthur Greenwood 's health and his record in the Coalition Government place him automatically in the background . Hugh Dalton is too much the intellectual . Ernest Bevin certainly emerges as the only obvious leader , but not one who will attract the already restless elements . And Sir Stafford Cripps ? Cripps certainly possesses the attributes of leadership . But his advocacy of a popular front resulting in his expulsion from the Labor Party in January , 1939 , makes his re-entry improbable . There are many among the rank and file and in the House of Commons who would like to see Cripps back in the party . It is even probable that the Party Executive could have been made to eat humble pie and invite him back , if he had been receptive . It was with great difficulty that the Executive forestalled a resolution demanding his readmission at the 1942 Conference , and then only by spreading word of his refusal to consider it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public life to recant now , although his views today probably conflict less with those of the party leaders than they did when he advocated a popular front in 1939 . But if Attlee , Dalton , Morrison , and Alexander have been tainted by their association with Conservatives , so certainly has Cripps . In an " off the record " speech before the Fabian Society in June , 1942 , Cripps indicated his belief that a National Progressive Government would be necessary at the end of the war . The Labor Party members had already opposed the Government 's platform of continuing the electoral truce for three years after the war , and Cripps 's statement seemed to them to be proof of his complete alienation from socialist principles . They believe , perhaps with some reason , that  | Cripps sees in himself the future leader of a National Government with a Conservative majority in Parliament . They must know that many Conservatives hope to see Cripps in their party before the war ends . But it is more likely that Cripps may seek to organize a third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laborites , and his mention of a National Progressive post-war Government may be a forecast of its political label . An observer can not but be struck by certain tendencies in both major parties . It is only partially possible to generalize on the probable post-war attitudes of the Labor and Conservative Parties . But by and large , the Conservative Party visualizes a postwar world in which the British Commonwealth of Nations and the United States will share the responsibility for maintaining law and order , and together work out an economic system based on restricted and controlled capitalism . " . . . a little more socialism , a little more capitalism , " as Oliver Lyttelton put it , sums up the progressive Conservative 's view . All but a few die-hard Tories with little or no influence recognize that the post-war world will not be the prewar world . But they are opposed to state socialism , and they believe that the majority of Americans are like-minded . Some of them undoubtedly regard the U.S.S.R. as a potential menace and as the nucleus of a " communism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the others consider close ties with the United States as essential to check that menace . But a growing majority believe that the British Commonwealth , of which Britain will be not the center but a component part , the United States , China , and Russia should and must work together for the maintenance of peace and the establishment of an equitable economic system . The Labor Party , on the other hand , ? and again the generalization is only partially correct , ? tends more towards Soviet Russia than towards the United States . Its members regard the United States as a conservative influence ? a nation which will throw its considerable weight away from rather than towards a socialized world . While the Conservatives have received enthusiastically the Atlantic Charter 's provision for disarming the aggressor nations and maintaining strength in the hands of the United Nations , the Labor Party Conference resolution endorses " peace terms to include general disarmament . . . " ? a return to 1920 ? 1939 Labor policy , which played so important a role in preventing Britain from rearming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party will exert in British politics and upon Britain 's post-war policy , it will be essential to watch the development of the schisms within the party , the possible rise of a third party , and the growth of the Communist Party . At the present time the situation is still fluid . Tension between the rank and file and party leaders is bound to increase , but the showdown may not take place for some time . If the present Government were to fall and Labor be forced to take office , the effect on the future of the Labor movement might well be fatal , and Labor leaders must realize that . They know that the rank and file would demand the introduction of socialism and that Labor leaders would be unable to institute it .                     