@@487489

IN THE American political system a national election seldom gives as clear-cut a mandate as m the British system , where the winning party receives at the same time a vote of confidence , direct responsibility for carrying out its program , and a parliamentary majority unequivocally committed to the task . In this country the mandate to the President is of comparable weight and clarity only when there is a landslide vote or an upheaval in public opinion too momentous to be ignored by the majority of Congress . The two greatest periods of reform and redirection of American politics  --  the age of Jackson and the early 1930 's  --  were made possible by mandates of this order . The talents of President Lincoln , who in a different set of historical circumstances might have achieved similar reforms , were almost wholly consumed in the wasteof the Civil War . In the long periods between the great Presidential administrations , national legislation and federal government have usually represented what might be called  --  in the phrase of Sir Wilmott Lewis of the London Times ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Congress and between various economic pressure groups . During such periods the veto principle , which in Congress is expressed by the filibuster and the inordinate powers of an antiquated committee system , has frequently operated with the paralyzing effect that is noted today in the United Nations . When we speak of Mr. Truman 's mandate , therefore , we should realize that it is the limited mandate of a close election . He does not have behind him the aroused and determined public opinion that supported Jackson and the early Franklin Roosevelt ; besides this , the President and his Administration are involved in a grave and exhausting military problem comparable with that which Lincoln faced . The fact that Mr. Truman won at 714 all Is an event so astounding that the limits of the victory are easily misunderstood . Mr. Truman is actually a minority President , having polled but 24,106,066 votes in a total of 49,363,798 . Of this total a significantly large bloc of 683,382 votes were chalked up only for state , county , and local officers ; all Presidential candidates were spurned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gives rise to conflicting interpretations and thus lays the basis for conflicting claims . O N THE morning after the election Mr. Truman told reporters that " labor did it . " But when the complete figures are analyzed , labor 's contribution to the victory is not so clear-cut . The strength and efficiency exhibited by labor 's political-action groups in defeating a host of Taft-Hartley Congressmen and electing pro-labor candidates to replace them are now interpreted in some conservative party circles as evidence that " labor worked for its own people . " The fact that in many districts these labor candidates ran far ahead of the President can thus be used by party conservatives to compromise labor 's claims on the President for unlimited support in the touch-and-go legislative battles looming in Congress . By this same interpretation the fact that liberal candidates like Governor-elect Stevenson and Senator-elect Douglas in Illinois , Governor-elect Lausche of Ohio , and Senator-elect Humphrey of Minnesota also ran far ahead of the national ticket can be taken to mean that liberals were cool toward Mr. Truman . President Truman himself has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation , but the returns are there for him to mull over when the forces of obstruction and compromise begin to coalesce in the new Congress against his comparatively radical campaign platform . The size of the farm vote in the election is even more open to a conservative interpretation . The fact that the President carried six Middle Western farm states  --  with 101 decisive electoral votes  --  in a traditionally Republican area was certainly the most important single factor in the great upset . W. H. Lawrence of the New York Times recently spent ten days analyzing voting statistics In the 1944 and 1948 campaigns in Ohio , a state with important agricultural and industrial areas which make It representative of the country as a whole . His conclusion was that " President Truman , surprisingly , got just the boost he needed for victory from the votes in the agricultural areas . . . the fact was that his vote was less than might have been anticipated in the factory belt and larger than any expert forecast in the farm belt . " It might be added that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distress vote that President Roosevelt received from farmers in the era of milk riots and The NATION shotgun resistance to court orders and foreclosure proceedings . That was a vote which demanded broad reforms throughout the national economy . In 1948 the farmers voted primarily for continued price support and a buttressed farm prosperity , for the government corn loan of $1.53 a bushel and against the Republican Party 's sabotage of the Commodity Credit Corporation 's warehouse program  --  the Republicans ' action has forced Many farmers to sell corn at $1 a bushel to private speculators . Farmers today are more concerned with preserving their economic status than with making over the national economy . The changed outlook of farmers has certain parallels in organized labor , white-collar workers , and small-business entrepreneurs , all of whom were sources of support for President Roosevelt in the era of reform . Organized labor has been making steady gains for a generation and now has an average weekly wage , in terms of actual purchasing power , perhaps twice what it was in 1932 . The national earned income , booming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every level and in every corner of the economy many of the conservative and timorous psychological tendencies which mark every period of uneasy prosperity . To a large extent , despite the inflation , the United States has achieved the goal of all civilized governments throughout history ? freedom and abundance . But even the simplest political intellects seem to realize that our present prosperity rests upon treacherous foundations . Eighty per cent of the federal budget of $42 billion is diverted to costs arising directly from the war . We may ask for an end to the cold war and a return to ways of peace ; yet the sudden cancelation of a major portion of the $15 billion arms program might easily cause an economic crash of the magnitude of 1929 . Whatever their justification in political , military , or moral terms , in domestic economic terms the cold war and the Marshall Plan constitute a colossal made-work program and a government subsidy of American production . Indeed , ever since 1940 , military expenditures  --  in the long run the most exhausting and wasteful of all national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment . Though Mr. Truman does not at present have a national depression to deal with , as Roosevelt had in 1932 , in other respects he faces even more complex problems , and he faces them without a similar freedom of action or a similar opportunity to start fresh in important fields of legislation . In dealing with the inflation , labor laws , housing , he must actually fight over old ground in an attempt to salvage as much u possible of programs that were abandoned after the war In a destructive lapse for which he himself must bear some of the responsibility . The damage wrought during this period of inflationary legislation and abandonment of controls can never be fully repaired , nor will the salvage job December 25 , 1948 which the President will now attempt to get through Congress amount to the needed fundamental redirection and shake-out of the economy . Immediately after the election many persons felt that President Truman was one of the least committed or compromised candidates ever to return to office , but this is not really true . In the conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent , of domestic policy  --  the bi-partisan program constitutes one of the most paralyzing commitments ever faced by a President . In the bi-partisan framework he must work with and actually defer to the same elements of monopoly capitalism against which he uttered strident warnings throughout his campaign . Within his own party 's framework the narrow margin of his victory and the widespread defection of important liberal groups and leaders in the months before the Philadelphia convention make his obligations all the heavier to the people who stuck with him . In the President 's forthright but limited conception of loyalty such personal obligations have always out-715 weighed his adherence to abstract principles . It is significant that from some of the President 's advisers one now hears such aphorisms as " The New Dealers were out picking blackberries or working for Wallace on Election Day . " The President , of course , must be well aware that he got important help from many former New Deal leaders and from liberal political organizations , but he has not forgotten that for most of these he was . a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the somber and negative aspects of the second Truman Administration that were easily lost sight of in the glare of the " election miracle . " They represent certain formidable limits within which his Administration apparently will have to function ; but we can not of course foretell how events will develop . In a third and final article in this series I shall attempt to outline some of the positive aspects of the Administration and the scope of its opportunities .                     