@@470774

possibility of our involvement in the war now spreading in Europe presents a challenge to every mind . Not least among those who are troubled and confused are American business men . They know ? most of them ? that there is an M-Day plan for the control of business . But that is probably all they do know . What are they to expect on M-Day -- that day without date when the United States goes to war ? The idea of " the nation in arms " is not new . Within the past fifty years the demands in the way of organization and supply imposed upon the civilian population of a nation at war have been immeasurably intensified . No longer do professional armies engage each other while the home front hangs out placards announcing " Business as usual . " To equip and supply the modern army means constant surveillance and control of transport , manufacture , electric power , fuel , labor , and raw materials so that the stream of men and munitions going up to battle may not be interrupted . We experienced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War Industries Board attempted to co-ordinate the nation 's industrial life with the military requirements . When Germany entered the present war she was geared as one single machine in business for one single purpose : to fight the war . At the present moment France and Great Britain arc rapidly being forced into the same pattern of economic regimentation and co-ordination ? unit economies whose sole aim is carrying on the war . The desires , aims , and policies of individual business men must go by the board where they are in the slightest conflict with the single aim of the state ? successful prosecution of the war . If the economic factor in warfare has displaced , or at least equalled in importance , the military strategy , if M-Day is to mean not only the military mobilization of one out of every one hundred and thirty Americans , but also the impact of industrial mobilization on each of the other one hundred and twenty-nine , then knowledge of what economic control would do to civilian life , property , enterprise , and activity in the event of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of industrial mobilization are analyzed it is advisable to underscore two facts which are of primary interest to business : first , industrial mobilization is far from a " pipe-dream " impossible of actual application ; and second , industrial mobilization is by no means a newfangled idea or a " New Deal " contrivance . Modern war presents little opportunity for parliamentary quibbling , for individual functioning , enterprise , and initiative . War effort must be fast , complete , unreserved , and frequently brutal ? brutal in its effect on the civilian as well as on the war front . The necessity for industrial mobilization can not be completely understood unless it is realized that the absence of a preformulated and digested plan during the World War came as close to causing industrial chaos and bringing about a drastic military handicap as could possibly have been experienced . Brigadier General Seth Williams , in discussing his experience on the War Industries Board during the World War as the sole representative of the Marine Corps , reported that " When the War Industries Board was first organized , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been a quick cancellation of civilian orders just before war was declared and industry then began to scramble for orders from the Government . The War and Navy Departments had no real program . The Allies had immense orders under contract by the same firms which we desired to utilize for the manufacturing of our own war supplies . I am trying to portray for you the apparent hopeless confusion that existed at the time that Mr. Baruch was made the head of the War Industries Board . Slowly , and , oh , so slowly , the pieces of this puzzle were fitted into their proper places , but did they stay there ? They did not . " The industrial experiences of most of the great belligerent nations during the World War were in many important particulars strikingly similar . The folly of permitting a country to drift into war without having made provision for prompt mobilization of industry was sharply brought home . The allied nations were saved , initially at least , from disaster because the enemy , through a like failure , was unable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of the United States , grave consequences during the preparatory and transition periods were avoided because of the protection given by the Allies . In many cases , however , improvised methods were unable to prevent extravagance and delays in procuring munitions , or to prevent profiteering in some quarters and unnecessary suffering in others . Since the World War each of the major powers has attempted to devise a system under which , in the event of another war , the repetition of its industrial mistakes of 1914-1918 could be avoided , the material resources rallied to the nation 's support with a minimum of delay and maximum of effectiveness , and post-war reconstruction facilitated . Under the specific authority of the National Defense Act passed in June , 1920 , an industrial mobilization plan has been evolved for the United States . II Before we wake up with Mr. Business Man on the morning of M-Day it is important to emphasize that this analysis of the problems he will face , the adjustments he must make , and the changes he will see represents a composite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Industrial Mobilization Plan , and the entire planning for economic mobilization . Where gaps still remain , where subjects have been too delicate to reduce to writing for public analysis before M-Day , they will be filled by our knowledge of what happened in those areas of control during the last war as well as by what must almost inevitably happen in the event of a future war . ? 11.1.101Pie evammaii Let us assume at first , in order to observe economic and industrial mobilization in its broadest form , that the business executive with whom we are concerned is an executive of one of the large motor companies . On M-Day , the day on which this country enters a state of war , the entire military machine of the nation comes to life . The planning of over twenty years is translated into action almost overnight . Our executive knows ? as a matter of fact he has known for years ? that his is one of ten thousand separate industrial plants which had , before war , been allocated for specific wartime production . Officers representing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board will have completely surveyed his plant and determined the maximum output of the particular commodity in which they are interested . Congress is preparing to pass the Selective Service Act which perhaps this very day has been dropped into the " hopper . " The War Resources Administration , which has already been set up by the President under Section 120 of the National Defense Act , prepares to secure the necessary materials for the men who within the next few weeks will be called to the colors under the Selective Service Act . Let us assume that the military machine demands of our business executive that he produce two hundred military trucks monthly . This quantity is well within the productive capacity of his plant during peacetime . To assure delivery the procuring agencies will have established close observation of the activities of this plant before M-Day , and in making the demand a price is reached which , on the face , justifies the company 's co-operation and assures it a reasonable profit . But if the regulation , planning , compulsion , and demands were to stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production would sooner or later bog down . ( And here is where we get a bird's-eye view of industrial mobilization . ) If in time of war the price of contributory materials required bythis factory were left free to the exercise of the law of supply and demand ; if a number of the strategic or critical raw commodities , rubber , manganese , tin , etc. , which are necessary in the manufacture of these trucks , were available or not , depending upon the freedom of world shipment at the time ; if labor were unhindered in exercising the power which two new factors will have given it ( the depletion of the labor market by manpower mobilization and the increase of its value by the desperate need for its aid ) and were permitted free exercise of that power through strikes , slow-downs , sit-downs , or any of the other useful weapons in labor 's arsenal ; or if the components which go into the composition of the cost of living were undetermined by law , unsupervised by regulation , and uncontrolled by the Government ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite the demands upon this executive for his trucks , despite the threat even of commandeering his plant and equipment as a penalty for failure to produce , then troops would walk to the encampments and battlefields , not ride . Thus we can readily see that unless there is the completely co-ordinated control of all of the factors involved in industrial mobilization the whole process must inevitably become a " muddling through . " And " muddling through " is incompatible with victory in war . So economic and industrial mobilization contemplates the complete co-ordination of every element vital to the creation of military essentials . Let us glance again for a moment at our motors manufacturer , whose problem it is to deliver the two hundred trucks monthly . In this way we may see the interlocking of gears in the machinery of industrial mobilization . In General Automobiles ' assembling plant labor is working under pressure . The hours are almost certainly more than forty a week . The probability is that time and one-half for overtime work is no longer required by law . Women may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men previously performed their routines . There is no talk of a walkout at the expiration of the union agreement to force an increase in wage rates , for wage rates have been keyed to the cost of living and Washington super-agencies determine changes in both . The word " strike " has become less frequent , perhaps only a whispered word . Persons well under the age of twenty-one or over thirty-one are being rushed through apprentice training courses to take their posts at skilled jobs , replacing men of draft age who have been deferred only temporarily . Crates of materials lie on the loading platform outside the plant . They are stamped " Transportation clearance #1 . " These materials , raw and half-finished , parts and sub-assemblies , have been rushed here under shipment priority so that no hitch anywhere might hold up the trucks . To give headway to these necessary supplies , other less necessary shipments throughout the country have been delayed . This is the unrelenting operation of " priorities . " Similarly , oil , coal , power , cotton , steel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the production of these military requirements will , with a minimum of friction and delay , pour into the four walls of General Automobiles . Nor is there apt to be much haggling over the price of the carloads of oil , for instance . The fundamental prices will already have been fixed , else the entire house of ration cards would collapse . Thus we see that industrial mobilization contemplates the co-ordination of all of the following economic elements : public opinion , labor , raw materials , facilities , capital ; contributory items , such as parts , assemblies and sub-assemblies ; contributory services , such as power , transportation , communication , foreign trade , fuel , and food . And they have been fisted here in the approximate order of the urgency of their co-ordination . The primary theme in industrial mobi-MAGAZINE lization is that it is impossible to regulate or control the operation of one segment of our industrial economy without the concomitant supervision of all of the other factors with which that segment is joined . III To return to our executive and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an intensive enlistment campaign is exciting the imagination of the workers in his plant . An ironic commentary on our contemporary economic difficulties is the fact that , with more than ten million unemployed , there is even now in an increasing number of fields of activity shortage of skilled labor . Our business executive finds on M-Day that the enlistment campaign conducted by the United States Government has so stimulated the enthusiasm of a number of his employees that his staff of skilled labor threatens to be depleted when his need for it is the greatest . For this problem there is little solution in any of the planning now being conducted . The Government can not on the one hand seek enlistment and on the other discourage the skilled volunteer . It is not until the draft machinery under the Selective Mobilization Act becomes operative that this manufacturer of essential commodities can secure some protection against the inroads of patriotic fever on his necessary personnel . The effect of the draft upon his employees and the personnel problem of the executive are inseparable . Let us therefore analyze briefly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who will remain at bench , desk , and lathe and who must leave . There are complete plans for reenacting a selective-service enabling act in time of emergency . But even with these plans , an estimated sixty days will elapse between the declaration of war and the time that actual recruits will be available as a result of the draft . The problem of voluntary enlistment occurs during these first sixty days . It is estimated that approximately a maximum of 500,000 volunteers will be needed during the two months after M-Day . This estimate is made despite the fact that the United States has never succeeded in obtaining volunteers in any such numbers . The record during the World War shows that in April , 1917 , 86,000 were secured ; in May , 119,000 ; and in June , 95,000 . In eight months of voluntary enlistment during the World War the military acquired only slightly more than the present contemplated number for two months . The plans at the present time are for turning over voluntary enlistment entirely to civilian agencies , using the " community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to local pride and patriotism . The Army has no desire to remove from necessary civilian life those skilled workers and individuals who are more helpful to the war effort in a civilian capacity than they would be in the armed forces . But there is no way of controlling this problem during a period of voluntary enlistment . Recruiting agencies must accept all eligible applicants despite the World War experience that skilled men enlisted in droves . It is estimated , however , that the minimum requirements of the Army for skilled personnel are approximately 18 per cent to 20 per cent of the total enrolled . The Navy requirements are considerably higher , ranging from 35 per cent to 40 per cent of total strength . Skilled labor therefore will not be discouraged from enlisting during the voluntary recruiting period , but will he saved for the skilled jobs in both the Army and Navy . However , as soon as the Selective Service Law is in operation , voluntary recruiting will stop completely ; that is , for men 21 and over . Voluntary enlistments of those between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered by the first registration and draft will almost certainly be from 21 to 31 . The second draft , if it becomes necessary , will probably affect men between 31 and 45 . Under the Selective Service machinery local boards will almost automatically become operative in 6,000 localities , and will perform three functions . The local board registers , selects , and inducts into actual service . Each will be appointed by State boards appointed by the governors . To the executive the important function of the local board is classification . It is in the operation of this responsibility that the board will determine who is to remain in civilian activity , and this will be determined on the basis of an eight-page questionnaire filled out by each registrant . In the classification of men between the ages of 21 and 31 , Class I will include those individuals who are ready for immediate service . Class II will include those who were deferred from immediate service because they are engaged in vital industries , necessary professions or necessary agriculture , or because they hold some job with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Class III will include those who have dependents ; and Class IV everyone else ? aliens , the physically unfit , and the Federal and State officials deferred by law . Business men will be able to retain only those of their present staff who are outside the age limits or who are deferred initially for either industrial or dependency reasons . There will be no blanket deferments for all employees in any industry regardless of the importance of the industry . Nor will deferments be granted except to those activities which are essentially necessary either for the conduct of war or the maintenance of civilian life and morale . Certain activities will obviously receive short shrift in any application for occupational deferment . Gamblers , poolroom sharks , racetrack touts , procurers , and so on are the more obvious persons listed for immediate service if in the military ages . But realize also that even occupations which have attained peacetime respectability will on M-Day be considered equally unnecessary . Your favorite wailer if within military age is apt to be carrying a gun not a tray . Building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or old men . Doormen , footmen , and other attendants in clubs , hotels , stores , apartment houses , office buildings , and even bathhouses will be off to the wars or more vital employment . Bellboys and porters will no longer assist you in carrying your packages . Even if baseball games and other sports or amusements are permitted to carry on in the interest of public morale , at least one familiar figure will no longer be seen ? the candy butcher and peanut vender . Salesmen will have difficulty in demonstrating their right to deferment when the military machine insists that the world will heat a path to the doorstep of the best manufacturer without sales stimulation . Lawyers who have not been appointed to any part of the selective-service machinery will also have difficulty in proving that their civilian function is essential if they are within military age . Perhaps the greatest blow will fall upon sales clerks , office clerks , and other non-skilled replaceable help . It will be the responsibility of the executive to find and train women or older men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporary industrial deferment . The local boards will maintain a file of registrants in Class II , the occupational suspended file . These registrants are deferred for specific periods of time and the file is designed to keep track of these deferments . The registrants at the end of the stated periods will be reclassified and , if deferment is not extended , will be placed in Class I. The experience with occupational deferments in the last war can help our executive in determining just what chance there is that his individual employees will remain with him if they are of draft age . In the building industry , 46 out of every 100 applications for industrial deferment were granted ; in the chemical industry , 62 ; in clothing factories , 30 ; and in food industries , 32 . Iron and steel workers were left relatively untouched in view of the factthat 71 out of 100 applications for industrial deferment were granted . On the other hand , the liquor industry 's employees have only one chance out of six . Deferments for paper , printing and publishing operators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 39 per cent . The field of activity considered least necessary , if the record of occupational deferments during the World War can serve as an accurate guide ? and it can ? is trade or merchandise in general . Only 14 out of every 100 persons working for businesses in this group were accorded occupational deferments . You can realize how close home to you this hits from the fact that the employees of your bank , insurance broker , haberdasher , tailor , department store , neighborhood merchant , and his wholesalers are all in this group . Buyers and sellers of all sorts of articles , real estate , any kind of store or shop , even grain elevators , stock-yards , warehouses , and cold-storage plants will pretty much have to get along with any kind of personnel they can pick up . Closest to this group in the non-essential classification we find actors , artists , sculptors , teachers of art , clergymen , religious and charity workers , the legal profession , the literary profession , journalists , etc. , dentists , physicians and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , teachers , professors in colleges , other professional pursuits , and students . No breakdown of these is available individually to determine their relative importance , but for the entire group approximately 75 per cent of those who applied for deferment were required to report for immediate military service . IV But if the problem of the executive were to stop at whether or not he would be able to retain those of his employees who were subject to draft , his concern would be a relatively minor one . In most industries and business occupations a sufficient percentage of the personnel are over mobilization age , and women and children will , within a very short time after war , become reasonably efficient in substituting for the mobilized group . Actually , however , the employer 's problem only starts at this point . He must be prepared almost on M-Day itself , to face a rigorous application of the priority system , which is in essence a method of rationing those goods and services of which there may be a shortage in proportion to their importance for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximately 10,000 private plants have been earmarked for wartime service . In addition to these , however , a maximum military effort will extend to a substantial portion of civil industry . The production of munitions alone would almost certainly be in excess of that required during the last war , and in the last war the expenditure for military purposes alone was at the rate of $1,000 , - 000 an hour . The $14,000,000,000 of governmental expenditure , which was directly chargeable to war in the 25 months from April , 1917 , to April , 1919 , are in terms of everyday business almost untranslatable . But that 700,000 separate items of production were acquired from private industry is an understandable fact . Economic mobilization presupposes that during war the value of any activity depends entirely on the closeness of its relation to ultimate victory . If there is a shortage in any of the components which make up the nation 's economic wealth only the most essential civilian needs will be permitted to be a drain upon these resources . It is because of this fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over raw ma-terial ; labor supply , power , fuel , transportation , capital , and construction . For example , even a cargo of furs , accompanied by a bill of lading from the original Hudson Bay Company , would gather dust in the express office ( if it were ever permitted to get that far ) so long as carloads of army shoes heading for the training camps absorbed the transportation capacity . Present studies indicate that transportation will be one of the major bottlenecks in any future war . Similarly , new construction will be limited to those industries and activities vital to the national effort . Even the building of a house or addition of a porch during war is apt to resolve itself into a one-man crusade against a bureaucracy which was n't designed to satisfy personal wishes . Military necessity will require the control of certain raw materials in order to obtain essential war production . This control will probably have been already instituted by Presidential proclamation before M-Day . The flow of these materials will be directed into the desired channels by the action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the necessary materials , and by arrangements between the Government and individual industries represented by war-service committees . The fact that the United States is peculiarly favored in being the leading industrial and agricultural country in the world has led many to believe that it could be entirely self-sustained in time of war . It is self-sustaining to a degree nearly equal to the total of the six other great powers in respect to food , power , iron and steel , coal and petroleum , machines and chemicals ; but in spite of this it is not totally self-sufficient for either its own industrial peacetime needs or for wartime military requirements . A list of strategic , critical , and essential commodities is currently kept alive and up-to-date by the Army and Navy Munitions Board . These materials will be available to private industry to the extent of the Government 's need for products of that particular industry . It is not contemplated that the supply of power will cause any difficulty in the event of a future war . If , however , the existing supply is insufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power supply , then the very lifeblood of industry , the motive force of its machines , will be doled out in proportion to the importance of the activity . The supply of fuel to industry through the establishment of a priority system gives to governmental control over industry a means of restricting the operation of nonessential industries and of continuing those of an essential nature . It has been estimated that the elimination of the manufacture of confectionery , not including ice cream , would relieve 50,000 persons for war work , would release 312,000 tons of coal , 23,000 barrels of oil and gasoline , and 689,000,000 cubic feet of gas for war uses . Among the most vital supplies needed for the operation of business is capital . Another superagency , the War Finance Control Commission , will prevent registration of any security with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( or its successor ) , unless approved by the War Finance Control Commission . The sale of any security in excess of a certain amount without approval by this Commission will also be impossible . The object @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war have first call on new capital . In addition , an enormously expanded Reconstruction Finance Corporation will control dollar destiny for business for the duration of the war . Loans will not be available except to essential enterprises . Capital will be a vital asset , hoarded with relentless unsentimentality . As already indicated , perhaps most acute will be the skilled-labor problem . The War Labor Administration , created as a superagency as soon as possible after M-Day , will have as its major responsibility the assurance to industry of an adequate labor supply both in numbers and occupational qualification . The Labor Administration must also minimize , by an equitable distribution of war orders , excessive migrations of labor , prevent the unethical competition for labor by war industry , co-ordinate the employment services , and secure the avoidance and settlement of labor disputes . These economic factors , the production facilities , raw materials , labor , finance , power , fuel , and transportation , will on MAGAZINE M-Day not only be factors to be controlled but also methods of control . Oil , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but , by its conservation , will act as a weapon to control industry . Thus we have summarized the executive 's major problem . Is his activity essential to the conduct of war or the maintenance of civilian life ? The degree of assurance and accuracy with which that question can actually be answered will determine the degree to which the necessary supplies of business and industry will be available . The key to the availability of materials , power , fuel , labor , transportation facilities , and capital lies in the necessity for the particular business activity during war . The inherent tragedy to some businesses in the governmental determination of what is and what is not an essential business is dramatically evident in an amusing incident recounted in Frederick Paxson 's America at War . During the World War when a list was compiled of nonessential cotton manufactures , the administrative officer in charge came to corset laces and in disposing of that problem , commented : " Corset laces are certainly not essential . They can just as well wear them without any trimming . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difference between decoration and a draw string governed a decision vital to this manufacturer . On the basis of these facts we can create a working model for M-Day . If our executive 's enterprise is in the merchandising industry , if he is , let us assume , a shopkeeper , here are the probabilities . His clerks who are of draft age are almost certain to be drafted unless disability or dependency will serve as a deferment . If they are older men and have any skilled aptitude for industry , within a short time after M-Day they will unquestionably be attracted from their retail activity to industrial work by ( 1 ) the higher industrial wage , ( 2 ) the lessening need fur their services in retailing , and ( 3 ) not yet planned and least likely , their compulsory placement in essential activity . To return to the shop of our executive , we may find that his store is closed because the shortage of local power supply has compelled the part-time closing of all but essential industries . We shall also probably find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The merchandise is no longer being manufactured because it contains raw materials being conserved for more essential manufactures . Perhaps the missing merchandise was previously processed by machinery which can be more effectively converted to satisfy military needs or vitally essential civilian demands . And if these were not enough to harass our already beleaguered executive , the shipment of merchandise which was due three weeks ago has not yet arrived because the loading level in the home town of his supplier has been too occupied with industrial and military shipments . The most immediate and widespread effect of industrial mobilization will be in the control of prices . The Price Control Commission will be set up promptly after M-Day with representatives from all of the other war superagencies as well as the regular Federal commissions and divisions interested in the problem of prices . It is contemplated that the Commission will be able to prescribe : ( 1 ) maximum , minimum , or absolute prices ; ( 2 ) margins of profit to producers and dealers ; ( 3 ) differentials based either on primary markets or upon zones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different localities or for different uses in the same locality . Producers and dealers in food stuffs , certain basic raw materials , manufactured and necessary , will be put under licensed control . The licenses issued to them may specify margins of profit and other conditions under which the licensees are required to operate . Profiteering in food and other necessities will become the major target almost immediately upon the functioning of the Price Control Commission . In addition , in order to retard the anticipated war tendency toward an undue rise in the prices of real estate and rentals , a Presidential proclamation may be promulgated declaring it unlawful to buy , sell , rent , or lease any real estate at a higher rate or price than is in effect at the time designated . Modification of this ruling may then be made from time to time in order to keep these prices in consonance with wages and commodity prices . Enforcement of the price-control mechanism will be relatively simple . If our executive ? whether he he in the service , manufacturing , distributive , or merchandising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profiteering in view of the certain increased demand and expected desires to hoard commodities , the Price Control Commission will have recourse to one of the following alternatives . If the business operates under a license , the license will be revoked . By use of the priority function , the necessary power , fuel , labor , or transportation may be limited or stopped to any violator of a price decree . To regulate the civilian demand itself and therefore prevent the tendency toward increased price , necessary commodities may be rationed . Violators may be prosecuted under Federal law . Finally there always remains the same weapon for enforcement of this control as for all other controls ? the threat that any stubborn executive may have his entire place of business , plant , or equipment commandeered by the Federal Government ? or the business left in his hands with the Federal Government requisitioning the facilities or commodities . Actually , however , prices can not be completely controlled except where there exists physical control in one way or another over the goods or services . There probably never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices , even if it were desired . It is probable , therefore , that the initial effort will be made to control the basic prices , the prices of those goods and services which go into the elementary phases of the cost of living : food , clothing , rent , as well as the basic commodities which are needed for industrial manufacture . Fix these and the rest of the prices will adjust themselves . It is true that luxury prices if uncontrolled will shoot sky high . There is , however , little sound objection to this in face of the fact that the substantial portion of the profits of the luxury manufacturers , distributors , and sellers will be recovered in war taxation , if luxuries are still being manufactured . During the World War luxury manufacture was not only classified as nonessential , but the market for such articles was sharply curtailed by tremendous pressure against the consumption of goods considered luxuries . Probably the most striking example of wartime restriction in luxury production may be found in the World War history of the automobile industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an automobile was a real luxury . In order to release for more essential wartime uses the raw materials essential to automobile production ? steel , gasoline , rubber ? a program was carried out under which the industry curtailed its normal production of passenger cars 50 per cent during the latter half of 1918 . First it was agreed between automobile representatives and members of the War Industries Board that a 30 per cent reduction in the current manufacturing of passenger cars could be made without undue disturbance ; the 50 per cent reduction came later . It was believed that a 50 per cent basis would support the manufacturers until they could convert their facilities into production of direct and indirect war requirements . A similar curtailment in production of pleasure automobiles may be anticipated again . The industry has already made plans for the adaptation of its facilities to essential war needs . The Government 's appetite for airplanes and for mechanized artillery equipment makes this adjustment reasonably easy for the motor manufacturers . The variety and amount of normal business affected by any pressure against luxuries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the World War pamphlet " The Duty of the Consumer in War-Time " by Harold G. Moulton , a member of the recent War Resources Board . Lace , furs , jewelry , fancy bags , even silk hosiery and underwear are no longer apt to be included in feminine wearing apparel . The wide range in style of boots and shoes will he drastically constricted ; there will be a very few lasts and no more . A gentleman with a cane is not likely to be considered merely a dandy ; he is likely to be considered unpatriotic . The large variety and amount of cosmetics will if the war continues be sharply limited or even completely eliminated . Our eating and entertainment habits will also undergo a minor revolution . If past experience is any basis for judgment , liquors , tobacco , candy , chewing gum , and pastries will be severely condemned as luxuries . Interior decorating and the industries connected with it will undergo change almost overnight . The sale of art goods , pictures , mirrors , china , fancy glassware , carpets and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sharply curtailed . The current candid-camera fad is in for a sudden jolt after M-Day . Even pleasure cars , bicycles , and toys , commonly accepted elements in the nation 's standard of living , will in time of war be branded with the word " luxury . " The priorities accorded to essential industry and limited to less essential industry will leave the luxury manufacturer on a precarious limb . V The problem facing the executive concerning the availability of skilled labor and the maintenance of his key personnel has already been examined . Let us now turn to that portion of labor which remains behind for work . There is a peacetime difficulty of discussing publicly any limitation of the freedom of labor , particularly during an era when labor has just begun to lose its milk teeth and sink its new-found molars into substantial food . Recognize also that the conflict between the AF of L and CIO , which has certainly not been made any the less complex by the controversy over the NLRB , has not made this phase any easier to cope with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor control has been approached with a gentler hand and softer glove than any of the other factors involved in the economics of industrial mobilization . Despite this , however , certain factors as they affect the executive , his business , and his personnel can be stated . The American Legion plan for universal draft which would include mobilization for industrial activity , as well as mobilization for military activity , has been scrapped largely as the result of the unwillingness of the War Department itself to accept the principle that civilian labor be drafted for civilian operation . The control of labor in industrial mobilization is therefore limited to the assurance that labor will be available to those industries which are essential for the production of military needs and that labor costs will be regulated . Under our form of government , no matter how one-man the control , how drastic the regulation , the concessions which will be compelled from the various segments of our economic society must be bought . Thus if labor is to agree to an absolute non-stoppage of essential productive activity it will demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That industry will not be permitted to profiteer at the cost of the civilian population . ( 2 ) That industry will not be permitted to increase unreasonably the cost of living beyond labor 's ability to pay ; and ( 3 ) That labor will have the opportunity to earn its just share of any legitimate profits which war brings to industry and the assurance that the legitimate demands requested by labor will be forced by the Government if the freedom to strike no longer exists . Now we begin to see the interrelationship between the segments of our economic society as they will be co-ordinated under any industrial-mobilization plan . If labor is to pay its price it demands three guaranties which , in turn , are prices to be paid by industry . Will industry pay these prices ? Will it submit to profit control , price control , and collective bargaining ? The answer is " yes " if it , in turn , is guaranteed a number of things : ( 1 ) That labor will not be permitted arbitrarily or unreasonably to make demands for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry or the cost of living . ( 2 ) That labor will not be permitted under any circumstances to stop production in essential enterprise . ( 3 ) That industry will be assured adequate power , fuel , labor , and the necessary war materials which go into the construction of an essential commodity . ( 4 ) That any war-profits taxation will not only leave business with a profit but leave it with a cushion on which to fall during the post-war readjustment. ( 5 ) That it will be provided with the necessary labor , skilled and unskilled , despite protective mobilization , and that it will be able to retain those of its key men who are vitally necessary to its activity . ( 6 ) That the determination of what is essential enterprise and what is not essential in time of war , for the purpose of priorities and rationing of supplies , will be reasonable ; and ( 7 ) That industry will be promptly informed of the ways in which business men can best adjust themselves and alter their activity in order to avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Solution of the labor problem , particularly that of migration and wage demands , will probably be attempted by the following means : All wages will probably , sooner or later , he standardized and regulated in relation to the cost of living . A single , unified employment service will prevent exhausting competition for labor , and the disastrous labor migrations which characterized the World War . Public opinion will be developed as a check against arbitrary or precipitate labor action . Actually this will prove to be the most effective lever against strikes in an era of propaganda co-ordinated for one purpose ? continuance of activity , military and industrial . Compulsory arbitration of labor disputes after all means of conciliation and mediation have been exhausted seems a reasonable certainty . The National Labor Relations Act and the entire question of collective bargaining will unquestionably present one of the more ticklish labor problems for the War Labor Administration . As can readily be understood , the right to strike will become burdensome to the instrumentalities of national defense when it is exercised in industries which are producing the needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right to strike will be completely terminated , but also it is not probable that the ease with which it can be asserted under the National Labor Relations Act will be continued . Most likely is the adoption of machinery similar to that now used in the railroad industry , calling for mediation , conciliation , substantial notice and lapse of time before striking . These controls will assure continuous production without terminating labor 's rights to self-representation and collective bargaining . The Wage and Hour Law which now in peacetime affords protective guaranties to labor may , in time of war , become a knife cutting in the other direction . The law provides a formula which if necessary can apply the principle of maximum wages as well as , at present , it applies the principle of minimum wages . Existing prohibitions against the employment of women and children and limitations in the hours of work which may be performed by either group will also , after M-Day , become burdensome restrictions to industries depleted in manpower and required to intensify wartime production . And burdensome restrictions on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Industrial mobilization is planned economy ? planned economy for a specific purpose , but planned nevertheless . All life , all business enterprise , all economic functions , all normal incentives of a peacetime economy will on M-Day be forced into the mold of a wartime economy . This is the way of life on M-Day and this has been an understatement of the problems the executive must face the day war comes .                     