@@475709

BACK home which might have been Iowa or West Virginia or Oklahoma ? they probably called him Doc , and most likely Old Doc ; for he would be close to seventy , his untidy Van Dyke was white , his shoulders were stooped and there was a slight tremor in his fingers . Seersucker will not hold a crease and God knows how old his straw hat was . He liked to stand in a corner at one of the pharmaceutical exhibits in the Technical Exposition . Behind him were large charts showing the molecular structure of the firm 's newest product , photographs three feet by four showing how it was synthesized , and equally large graphs with red and green lines curling round the black to show its results in the treatment of anything you please ? rheumatic fever , hypertension , duodenal ulcer . Doc stood there and talked with the young man from the drug house who had all the statistics by heart and because he had been trained in public relations never gave a sign of boredom but went on smiling and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how he handled rheumatic fever or hypertension , and said he had always got good results from potassium iodide , and ended by taking out a pad and writing down his favorite prescriptions for the young man 's consideration . It must have been a different Doc from hour to hour and from exhibit to exhibit but he always seemed the same . One observer remembers him as clearly as anything else at the Centennial Celebration ( and ninety-seventh annual meeting ) of the American Medical Association , at Atlantic City in the second week of June . Everybody else was there too , at least by type and category . There were the elite : bigshots , famous researchers , occupants of celebrated chairs , heads of great clinics and great hospitals , representatives of the various government medical services , Distinguished Foreign Guests . There were the actual wielders of power and those assistants to them who have to be called the politicians : the Trustees , the House of Delegates which is at least theoretically a parliament , the presidents and secretaries of the state associations , many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public relations and hospitals and medical education , the permanent bureaucracy . There was every variety of physician and surgeon : young men recently out of the services and bewildered , older men looking for an opening , men of all ages apprehensive about their prospects or about what is happening to " medical economics " or about what is happening to the world . But mostly they were your family physician , come from everywhere in the United States to Atlantic City . for the purpose of learning something about what has been going on , and for the further purpose of having a good time . For this was a convention , the autocthonous folk-festival of the Americans that is part professional forum and exchange , part vacation , and part debauch ; and it had convened at Atlantic City , a specialized social organism that has evolved to take care of conventions . The town is a resort , atypical only in being oversized , with a range of accommodations from squalid summer flophouses for the impecunious to palatial-looking sucker-traps with Hollywood lobbies and battalions of servants in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to appear rich for a few days are robbed as arrogantly as anywhere in the world . Specialization achieves efficiency and the managers of this convention city , given in advance an estimate of the crowd they may expect , can calculate on a slide rule everything that will be needed , from the number of girls who must be kept on call to the number of coffins that will be required . The town is engineered to sustain a crowd on holiday . Municipally , it is a crowd , constantly changing in composition , forever the same in mood and behavior . So it has the anonymity of a crowd ; unless you go there with a convention you will never see anyone you know . T HE 15,667 doctors who convened there in June were by a good deal the largest assemblage of medical men in history . They did not wear comic hats or carry canes with pennants on them as a good many conventions do , from the BPOE to college classes on reunion , but they clowned just as much . If there was anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they looked a little more unhealthy than most . There were rather more men than one might have expected to see who were overweight and putting strains on their hearts that a physician would have cautioned them against , rather more men who looked underweight and harried , whom a physician would have suspected of gastric ulcers . Too many of them had not been getting any exercise ; too many worked too MAGAZINE hard and lacked the relaxation of hobbies and extraprofessional interests ; the incidence of hypertension was probably high ; Otherwise they were any Atlantic City crowd . They and their wives and daughters promenaded the boardwalk , that endearing climax of vulgarity , or were more slowly trundled along it in wheeled chairs . They dropped in on the auctions whose closing day has been tomorrow ever since the town was built and listened to the barker 's grief over the pittances bid for this genuine ormetclu clock , and sometimes bought it . Natural selection assisted by engineering research has given the boardwalk every conceivable device for lifting money from those who in a holiday mood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were brokerage offices with boards and tickers for the Michigan Boulevard diagnostician who wanted to keep an eye on his investments , and next door a humbler colleague could get " 5 photos while you wait for 25 . " Side by side shops offered mementoes for the doctor 's wife , a tenthousand-dollar diamond in the window of this one , a six-dollar diamond next door ; mink coats here and dyed rabbit two doors farther on ; the cottons that become linens newly arrived from Ireland on the way here from Paterson , and The Trousseau Shop , Lingerie of Distinction . Salt water taffy could be mailed home from fifty places , and there were at least that many where at any hour you could see your GP playing skeeball or pokerino , popping at iron ducks in shooting galleries , rolling the balls of innumerable prize-games , or peering into the optimistically advertised peepshows of the arcades . On the sun-decks the more affluent and especially their womenfolk sat disdainful of so much vulgarity , themselves surrounded by the town 's vulgarest gimcracks . There were always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blew in sometimes . From midmorning till late at night the boardwalk was murmurous with the sound of people having a good time . Inseparable from it was the rustling-straw whisper of surf and this grew louder after dark , the lights came on , the colored signs that are very beautiful when too far off to be read , the glare from concessions and amusement piers , and the shadows that are somehow darker because of the soft sea air . They had a good time , somewhat pathetically , in the manner of people who are usually too rushed to have a good time and are therefore a little awkward and press too hard when the chance comes . Certain manufacturers set up bars and held open house . When the cocktail hours came there were many parties , proprietary , official , private , select , political . By night one heard the usual singing and roaring . Physicians have to be abstemious when working at their jobs and surgeons have almost to be teetotalers , and moreover in our town a man has got to watch his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So the jubilation was in no light-minded mood . " My God , " a woman remarked at one of the parties , " if somebody should keel over with a heart attack there is n't anyone here sober enough to take care of him . " H PART of the gigantic Auditorium had been allotted to a display by the American Physicians Art Associa-tion . There was some magnificent photog-raphy , there was a scattering of sculpture , woodcarving , pottery , ironwork , inlay , but the medical man who takes up art appears most often to be a painter . The hundreds of canvases showed every degree of ability , from the Brooklyn-primitive to the very good indeed , and one observed that a conspicuous prizewinner was a study of a graveyard . The medical eye is glad to turn to landscape when it can ? the scar- : : ty of nudes is understandable ? and the medical landscapist is usually a romantic . Hillsides had evening mists on them , the prettiest vistas had the house by the side of the road to fill out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed shadows that were italicized mystery . The artists thought rhetorically of their profes-sion too , and if some had looked at surgi-cal operations for the moment of intensity , far more had looked at them for " the doc-tor 's consecration to his task " that pro-duces verbal rhythms whenever doctors congregate . In fact one manufacturer had offered prizes for paintings that would show the heroism and nobility of medicine . Here and there one found a canvas that had been done in an expressionistic or some other advanced idiom , but most of them were academic to an extreme . Artistically , medicine does not lean toward the experimental . M ANY acres of the exhibition floor were devoted to what the program called the Technical Exposition : in less scientific words , the advertising display . The program 's estimate of " more than 282 firms " seemed conservative and the show was inexhaustibly interesting . It fascinated the profession ; at any hour it was much more crowded than the other half of the floor , where the doctors themselves in the Scientific Exhibit displayed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrival and they went on registering at the Technical Exposition , lining up in queues to make sure they got the house 's literature . Their pockets gradually filled with comic devices like those you buy at a joke-shop and with samples of proprietaries small enough to be taken away . Samples of poison-ivy salves , vitamin tablets , liquids to be injected for bursitis , Old Doc 's potassium iodide in a new and handier form ? of the innumerable preparations that have just about relieved the modern physician from any need to study the United States Pharmacopoeia . Samples too of health breads , reducing wafers , dietary soups , a multitude of fruit and vegetable juices recommended for this or that condition , Pet and Carnation Milk , Heinz and Borden baby foods , Similar , Pablum . So much food was being given away that it must have reduced a good many expense accounts , and one saw demonstrators from the Scientific Exhibit slipping over to the advertising section for lunch . Everything that touched the doctor 's life or practice was there . He could begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that listed girls who were trained in the techniques of meeting patients and keeping their records straight . He could furnish his waiting and consulting rooms in complete sets or piece by piece . Every conceivable appliance for sterilizing instruments , assisting diagnosis or treatment , or facilitating the routine of medicine was on display ? X-ray and fluoroscopic equipment , a " cathode oscillograph , " an " infatometer , " ampoule openers , a " rhythmic constrictor for the treatment of peripheral vascular conditions , " " Tidal Irrigators , " One bystander sometimes left this multiplicity of machines to wander over to a display in the Scientific Exhibit and gaze at the booth which exhibited , with other devices , a set of Perkins ' Tractors , which in 1796 would diagnose and cure ailments of whatever kind . But he would come back again , remind himself how much capital it takes to practice medicine these days , and explore the exhibits some more . Operating tables , a thousand kinds of surgical instruments , sliced-ham machines for skin grafts , bronchoscopes with a display of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New Emerson Respirator Dome which maintains the patient 's breathing while his limbs and torso are being separately manipulated and which is equipped with a book-rest and a rear-vision mirror . There were competing makes and models of iron lungs and a variety of resuscitators , aspirators , and inhalators . Ansco had cameras to record operations , General Electric a pawnbroker 's window of devices for therapy , Bausch and Lomb a whole catalogue of ophthalmological equipment . About here the exposition became too much for the reportorial mind , which began to whirl with " insert diapers " called Disposees and other diapers called Chix and Chux ; cosmetics for allergic girls ; artificial arms with an armless veteran demonstrating them ; Sopranol far Linea pedis ( athlete 's foot in ads elsewhere ) , Globine Insulin , Gynergen , Cedilanid , Digilanid , Prostigmin Roche , Hygeia the Safe Nursing Bottle , Evenflo Nipples , Thyroid Armour ? just register here , Doctor , and we 'll make sure you get literature and samples . D ocToRs like something for nothing as much as the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-cent pack of cigarettes from the Philip Morris Company . While the queue inched forward they could read the plac-MAGAZINE ards and graphs that composed " A Tale of Two Cigarettes . " This monograph dealt with the rigorously scientific test which had established that the use of diethylin glycol instead of glycerine as a hydroscopic agent makes Philip Morris by a wide margin the healthiest of all cigarettes . It was disconcerting , fifty yards away , to see other hundreds in queues scrutinizing another display which established by a similarly rigorous accumulation of scientific data that most physicians smoke a cigarette which obviously had not proved so healthy in that test . But the Camel Company was not only giving away a twenty-cent pack of its product ; it was putting that pack in a ten-cent plastic case with Old Doc 's name stamped on it while he waited . Sharp &; Dohme had a series of six booths illustrating the manufacture of influenza vaccine and assured the most careful scientific attention to the process by having each step of it performed by a singularly pretty girl . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertisers sounding the Minsky note . Thus the demonstrators of the Mennen Company 's baby oil were fully adult and had been given costumes that left most of the torso bare . An untrained observer , however , would award the blue ribbon to the Richard Hudnut Company . One had not expected to encounter this firm at an AMA convention , but it runs what it calls the DuBarry Success School . A course there will improve the posture of any girl and will peel away the excess pounds in the suggested areas . There were large X-ray photographs that showed the spine of a graduate before and after she had taken the course . But a more telling testimonial was supplied by a girl who had nothing whatever wrong with her spine or any other part of her . She had survived a selective process that would have flunked mast movie stars and fashion models , and there had been applied to her , in small quantities , a fabric which stretched tighter than any other of which brassieres and briefs have yet been made . The Hudnut display @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturer was exhibiting a new kind of splint that could be washed and ventilated . But the chairs he had provided were usually occupied by specialists in anatomy preparing clinical reports on the Success School . IF THE Technical Exposition made the medical profession look like the crowd at a county fair , the Scientific Exhibit put it in the light that we and the doctors themselves most like to see it in . Here several hundred exhibits reported on the current progress of medicine , and ( since this was the centennial year ) a number of others on the progress of a century , and ( since this was the AMA ) still others on the activities of the bureaucracy . Into these displays had gone a labor and ingenuity that reflected the labor and ingenuity of the researches they were summarizing . Most of them were by hospitals , clinics , research foundations , or medical schools , though a few were by individuals and a few others by societies or institutions not directly connected with organized medicine . Many of them lacked the detail and complexity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the medical specialties . But they signalized one of the most heartening realities of life , the steady advance of medical science . The medical researcher and experimenter , while working at his trade , is just about the most admirable of human beings , and there is probably no other human activity that can show such steady and unchallengeable progress . The trouble is that , like a number of other sciences , medicine has advanced so far and in so many directions that the average practitioner can not possibly keep up with it . In many aspects his practice necessarily lags behind what has been made known . The convention exhibits and the discussions in the general and section meetings are an admirable way ( less valuable , naturally , than refresher courses ) of keeping in touch with what the researchers have been finding out . They are the chief professional reason why doctors attend the AMA conventions : of the sixteen thousand at Atlantic City a majority may be assumed to have come from small towns or at any rate from places that are remote from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the material displayed . * The exhibits ranged over the whole field of medicine . They used every kind of aid ? graphs , tables , drawings , specimens , especially photographs . ( Medical photography is superb both technically and esthetically and several exhibits gave instruction in its use and suggested new extensions in hospital and private practice . ) Most of them were staffed by men or women who had done the research and who were there to answer questions , explain methods , and consult with all inquirers about the problems involved . Most of them distributed mimeographed or printed reports or abstracts to be studied at leisure . The visiting doctor sought out the subjects of most interest to him and got a briefing on the latest developments . Three theaters ran motion pictures , most of them in color and with sound , of surgical operations , new techniques in anesthesia , diagnostic procedures , and a miscellany of problems in public health , the treatment of convalescents , health education , and related subjects . Such movies have long been used in medical schools and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is feasible to make movies they have a quality that the static exhibits can not achieve . One of them struck an ominous note ; it was by the military and it was called " Operation Crossroads . " A couple of goats that had survived Bikini were exhibited elsewhere . F OR two days the convention met as a whole , morning and afternoon , to hear papers and panel discussions on stop-press news from the research centers by exceedingly distinguished medical men . Thus Sir Howard Florey , one of those who developed penicillin , reported that the evidence did not support a spreading suspicion that micro-organisms could quickly develop immunity to it . Special- * A few samples : The treatment of rnacrocytic anemia with pteroylglutamic acid , advances in electrocardiographic diagnosis of myocardial infraction , the diagnosis and treatment of varicose veins , the two-hour pregnancy test , CDE blood antigens and antibodies , syphilis of the stomach , physiological changes during spinal anesthesia , chronic shock , treatment of speech and voice disorders , tumors of childhood , the pharmacology of antihistamine drugs , thromboembolic disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clinic reported on two substances ( one of them taken from fermenting hay ) which have sharply reduced the mortality from certain thrombo-embolic conditions ? they operate to prevent the formation of blood-clots and to break them up when formed . There were reports on the present status of streptomycin , of drugs used to treat various heart ailments , of experiments in the use of radioactive substances ? and so on . Then for three more days the convention broke up to meet in the seventeen " sections , " fields or specialties of which one could be designated no more exactly than " Section on General Practice of Medicine " and another one " Section on Miscellaneous Topics . " Here too there were papers and symposiums summarizing what the profession has come to know , and in a couple of sections what it has come to hope and fear . They were far too diverse to be touched on here but the roentgenologists , the allergists , the pediatricians , the otorhino-laryngologists and everyone else you please were reporting themselves for the benefit of your family physician . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the accelerating spread of the idea , which was derided by medicine as a whole less than a generation back , that the mind has an important relationship to bodily conditions . The psychiatrists have come in off the back porch and the psychosomatologists , who but yesterday were indulged as fanciful though probably harmless theorists , are practically drum-majors now . A patient 's ideas and emotions are now seen to be important to the way he feels physically . A few papers acknowledged that his social surroundings are important too ; this idea , for organized medicine , is radical indeed , and there was evidence that such a frame of reference will have to fight harder than psychiatry did . Here , one repeats , is where the medical profession looks best ? looks better than most groups of men , looks almost as good as the messianic or megalomaniac rhetoric of its orators makes out . Here it shows the attributes that have enabled medicine as a science steadily to push the frontier of knowledge farther into the area once marked unknown , and havekept medicine as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in pain , fear , and sorrow . Patience , ingenuity , courage , skepticism , faith , the experimental spirit , the open mind , readiness to test innovation , laborious and exhaustive analysis of data , a constant quest for new data ? such things as these have steadily carried medical knowledge onward to repeated victories , repeated subjugation of diseases that seemed impossible to subjugate , repeated solutions of problems that seemed insoluble . The mind of the medical researcher is the human intelligence at its greatest , and the total personality of the good doctor dealing with a patient is human skill and wisdom fused inspiringly . Moreover , the profession as a whole shows an eagerness for greater knowledge and greater skill that no other art or profession quite equals . Such realizations are forced on you when you see sixteen thousand medical men gathered in professional consultation . It is just as well , therefore , that different realizations are also forced on you when you see the austere scientific intelligence come out of the laboratory and consulting room , and either docilely or with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specialists in obscurant ism , neglecting to apply to an undiagnosed syndrome any of the processes whatever that it has been insisting on applying to other syndromes . MONSIGNOR Sheen reminded the as- sembled physicians of the nature of their relation to their patients and gave them some excellent advice , then marred it somewhat by delivering one of those sideswipes at psychiatry which have lately marked his discourse and which , a layman thinks , he would do well to discuss with his confessor . A past-president of the National Association of Manufacturers made a skillful speech ; there is hardly any need to tell you what he said : it is summarized when his former office is named . As you know , freedom , initiative , self-reliance , and risk capital have been dying in the United States ever since 1932 . As you also know , class-consciousness that will prove ( redundantly ) fatal is being systematically encouraged by our collectivist government , and taxes are ( fatally ) not being reduced , and ( fatally ) the faith of our people is being insidiously undermined , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquire a competence , and a hell 's brew of fatal hormones have been New Dealishly injected in the national bloodstream , and it is later than we think . The past-president of manufacturers had a progressive mind , as he freely confessed , and so he realized that organized medicine must find some way of enabling people with small incomes to procure adequate medical care for themselves ? to procure the kind of care for which the convention was repeatedly congratulating itself . He had applied hard thought to the problem , especially in relation to " politicians and reformers . " And he had reached a conclusion : that we would be wise to adopt " the voluntary plans for hospital and health insurance " that the AMA recommends . That was what he was brought to Atlantic City to say . And in the course of his inaugural address the new president of the American Medical Association found occasion to say it again . They were talking about a fearful bugaboo , a national health program , and they were voicing the party line of the present actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general realization that such a program is certain to come , a realization something like that of a town which learns by telephone that a dam up the valley has burst and a flood is on the way . The dam burst long ago and year by year the AMA has prepared to meet the flood by saying that it must not get here , that the flood waters are communistic , that we shall all be lost if they reach the city limits . YSTEMATICALLY and tirelessly , with all the means available to one of the most powerful pressure groups and propaganda machines in the country , the AMA has opposed every measure in which it detected any connection whatever with what is surely coming . It has done so sometimes suavely , sometimes with amaz-ing crudity , sometimes by individual pres-sure the most dishonorable , sometimes by flagrant mass appeals the most mendacious . Its performance has reached such a point that one of the most distinguished of American physicians , Dr. Edward A. Parks , formerly pediatrician-in-chief at the Johns Hopkins Hospital , by temperament and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Medicine a few months ago that " the behavior of organized medicine is humiliating and its leadership has seemed incredibly stupid . " Dr. Parks went on to say , " Its much-touted ten-point program is no program .. . but only a series of pious platitudes or highly qualified indorsements of policies or activities initiated in the first instance by isolated groups of liberal-minded , socially-conscious physicians or laymen working independently of it . Its primary concern throughout , as judged by its behavior , has seemed to be aimed consistently at the preservation at all costs of the medical care system as it exists today . " That system , he said , developed to fit the distribution of money , not the distribution of medical need ; it does not meet medical need and never can . Organized medicine , which means primarily the AMA and the hierarchy of state and county societies which support it and whose policies it in part controls ? organized medicine has , as Dr. Parks said , exerted its great power to prevent any change whatever in the status quo . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the AMA has had to adjust not only to pressures from the social organism but also to discordant energies within itself . Step by step its original absolute rejection of all change has been modified -- modified so slowly that the threat of public assumption of control has steadily increased , but modified nevertheless . It is only a few years since the WagnerMurray-Dingell bill was , in the editorials of the Journal of the American Medical Association , pure communism instigated by conspirators . in the national government who were acting on orders direct from Stalin . That bill contained six main provisions ; since Stalin supposedly phoned his orders to the New Deal the AMA has , by official resolution , indorsed five of them . in 1938 it met with all the ruthless force at its command the challenge to its policies made by the Washington Group Health Association . That fight ended , disastrously for the AMA , in the Supreme Court of the United States , and in 1947 there is no possibility that such methods can be used against such institutions ever again . Many smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rulers of organized medicine at first tried to maintain . All the outposts and subsidiary defences have been surrendered ; the rulers are now defending what they regard as the citadel itself . THAT ultimate and minimum is this : There must be no federally controlled health program ; the program whose coming is seen to be inevitable must be based on states rights . There must be no national imposition of medical standards apart from those which organized medicine itself imposes . There must be no federal control over the practice of medicine and no government or public control of the bodies that will ultimately direct the program : all effective power must be reserved to organized medicine . There must be no form of compulsory health insurance ? since this would make the previous provision impossible . There must be no " third party intervention , " by any nonmedical board or panel or supervisor , between doctor and patient . ( Medical third-party intervention is all right and nonmedical third-party intervention is accepted for the poor . ) And nothing , at least nothing not a part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choice of the physician , " a freedom which only a minute percentage of our population have now , which that percentage relinquish when they patronize any of the famous clinics , and which only a few of those who have it can exercise except ignorantly and as an act of faith . To sum up : organized medicine insists on complete , unsupervised control of any health program that may evolve ; and it requires that plan to interfere with the fee-for-service system as little as possible , not at all wherever there is any way to maintain the system . This stand , of course , is so unrealistic that it suggests the need of psychiatric scrutiny . Congress will not appropriate funds without providing for supervision oftheir disbursement , and if the AMA 's propaganda were a thousand times as formidable as it is it could not kid the public into accepting a plan which the public did not itself control . The greatest desideratum of any health program , the practice of preventive rather than remedial medicine , is impossible for most of the population without some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is no way of providing complete medical service , except by the group practice which organized medicine disapproves , or by setting the prices of " voluntary " schemes so high that they will be out of the reach of most people . At Atlantic City the realities had no force . Those who determine AMA policies certainly know that the Taft bill for a national health program is not meant to pass or even come to a vote , but they threw their support to it and an outsider can only decide that they did so to confuse the issues and to postpone as much action as possible as long as possible . The bill is a political measure only , an assist to Senator Taft 's Presidential campaign . It records him as favoring a national health program , which should get him a lot of lay votes , and it assures organized medicine that he wants that program left entirely to its control , which lines up one of the most powerful pressure groups in the United States in his support . It has the approval of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval of the rank and file . The governors have guessed that we are going to be Republican for a while and so there need be no further retreat , in fact much of the ground lost to modernity can be regained . The public relations counsel whom the AMA hired last year and who advised it to get in touch with popular demand , was allowed ? or forced to resign , on the ground that nothing need be done after all . The governors and the bureaucracy ( so far as these are not the same ) were at their suavest and most practiced in backstairs manipulation of downstage attitudes , in committee-of-the-whole disposition of dissents or proposals that might look awkward , at paralyzing with bureaucratic red tape the efforts of those who think otherwise than the governors think it best for them to think . In a way some of the resulting spectacles are truly superb . The practice of medicine is furiously competitive , and much of the behind-the-scenes activity at Atlantic City resulted from the AMA 's efforts to umpire and arbitrate competition ? feesplitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but there must be maintained a dignified outward pretence that doctors obey the code of ethics that forbids them to compete . Again , nothing is surer than that the evolution of health insurance and the like will provide not one health program but a good many ? as many systems of medical practice , say , as there are systems of banking , from wholly private to wholly public ? but the machine must continue to grind out the propaganda which the journal has been purveying for nearly twenty years : that the reds are forcing on us a single all-or-nothing , either-or , black-or-white choice between freedom and slavery . Again , throughout . medicine and even in the AMA there is much rejection of , and rebellion against , the official attitude toward what the propaganda insists on calling " state " or " socialized " medicine but at all costs or-ganized medicine must publicly appear to accept as inspired truth the party line of the Trustees , the House of Delegates , and the bureaucracy . F COURSE , a large part of the profes-sion does just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say he is , and the clinical researcher is ? inside his lab ? as inspiring a figure as he has been acknowledged to be herein . But they are busy men and they get little time to think about social matters ; and Dr. Morris Fishbein , the veteran editor of the Journal , has been providing them with approved ideas for a long , long time . Typically , when you ask them what they think about the Taft bill or the Wagner-Murray-Dingell bill , or compulsory health insurance , or federal provision for the " medically indigent , " you get back what Dr. Fishbein has been saying . When you press farther they tell you that they have n't read the bill , or have n't " looked into mat-ters " very far ; and when you ask why , you are told that the profession has delegated such problems to brilliant and specially qualified men and those men will find the right solution . If you still press them , a large part of the profession stops being practitioners and clinical investigators and begins to yell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has told them they must not be pushed too far . Scarcity of objective thought , ignorance of economic and social developments , neophobia , docile acceptance of the fuehrer-principle , above all conditioned response in the automatic functioning of institutions which work as propaganda machines at the very moment when they are also working as guilds ? these are the group characteristics one generalizes . They make the AMA , in regard to " medical economics " and the greatest single problem with which American medicine must deal , biased , obscurantist , and reactionary to an astonishing degree . But the AMA , like every other human institution , must yield to the pressure of events ; and it is yielding now . After all about thirty-five per cent of the doctors in the United States do not belong to the AMA ; that is a sizable group and its attitudes and actions will necessarily influence the AMA 's . Moreover , inside the AMA there are many groups whose attitudes toward the big problem are different from the official one , varying from passive dissent to active and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups are increasing ; with whatever reluctance and however slowly , the AMA must maintain with them a working compromise that will constantly give ground , for it can not afford rebellion and secession . In the county societies ( in many ways far more important to the individual doctor than the AMA ) , the headlong social change of these times is constantly forcing more doctors to practice their profession in ways , contrary to the official policies and therefore certain to alter those policies . A comparable influence is being exerted by medical schools and hospitals which have found that federal funds ? so subversive and corrupt in the official view a few years ago ? are increasingly desirable , and that the individual researcher who is supported by these funds is not a slave after all . From now on some of the ablest groups among the elite of the profession will have only formal reasons for supporting the party line . And there is the inescapable reality that the constant advance of medical knowledge constantly increases the cost of medical treatment and constantly reduces the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present system . IN SHORT , the AMA exhibits the paradoxes of any living institution and at this moment is more interesting than most in its all too human confusions . At Atlantic City there was always some orator telling you how noble medicine is , how selfless , how dedicated to the search for truth and the service of suffering humanity . He was right , when you listened to the papers or wandered through the Scientific Section ? and when the convention delivered a report on what may be expected in an atomic and biological war , a report thoroughly cool-minded and objective , an admirable example of the human intelligence at work on a tremendous problem . And also he was pure ham , the voice of any group of self-congratulatory men kidding themselves , succumbing to the rhythms of speech , mistaking prejudice for public spirit , and glossing over unpleasant realities with personal illusions . The same mind that produced an objective report on atomic emergencies also produced a resolution to the effect that students at medical schools ( who are indoctrinated with the official ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that they will resist Dangerous Thoughts . And that same mind could be heard bellowing or bawling with an emotion something less than scientific whenever Old Doc went into his political or his sociological phase . That seemed to be the moral of Atlantic City : the medical profession , so far as the AMA represents it , badly needs to bring a little of the laboratory method to the study of political behavior , and it needs some realistic instruction in the facts of modern life . Whether it will get them for itself or have them thrust upon it from outside made an interesting question to muse on as one watched the doctors strolling on the boardwalk in the fading afternoon . It seemed , as the former president of the NAM told them , later than they thought .                     