@@494202

THE ISSUE in the controversy between John L. Lewis and the United States is not the union shop , any more than the issue in the case of the Railroad Brother ? hoods is the question how large a wage increase they are to get . The specific claims and grievances in a dozen other strikes or threatened strikes are not the issue , as far as the American people and their government are concerned . The issue is that all these groups , mighty and less powerful alike , are willing to throttle the pro ? duction which is necessary if Nazism is not to trample on the democratic forces of the world , in order to gain concessions which mediators have not been willing to grant . They are ready to exchange their birthright for a mess of pottage . There are many who see the threatened civil conflict as a collision between the labor movement and an aroused public opinion , and welcome it as such . These champions of the upperdog have long fought the very existence of unions ; they have been anti-labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last , they believe , organized labor has so exposed its flanks by a rash offensive that they can deal it a decisive blow . Those responsible for this editorial are not of that persuasion . They are lifelong defenders of the unions ; those who are eligible are , without exception , union members . They express , not the opinion of some em ? ployer or advertiser , but their own . This opinion , they believe , is shared by millions of union members ; per ? haps by a majority . The difference between them and Mr. Lewis is that they make no distinction , in this crisis , between their loyalty to their union and theirloyalty to their country ; they know that the union can ? not be advanced at peril to the nation . It would be a different matter if the miners , the rail ? road men and all the others were oppressed and with ? out secure rights . But the opposite is true . The right to organize and carry on collective bargaining is now recognized by law and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union activity . Im ? partial boards of mediation have been set up to adjust all claims . The workers have obtained great advance ? ment in recent years and more is in prospect for them . We are aware that employers often fail to grant justi ? fied demands , and that pressure must be brought on them to do so . We know that when production is in ? terrupted by a strike , the employer must assume his full share of the responsibility . But we also firmly believe that in the present emergency , after all the resources of collective bargaining and mediation have been exhausted in any dispute , we must in our own interest refrain from exercising the right to strike . In spite of present denial of any advances to which we may believe we are entitled , we must close ranks to avert the infinitely greater danger . The leaders who incite us to do otherwise are incurring a fearful re ? sponsibility , the tragic consequences of which are cer ? tain to recoil , not only on their heads but on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others unani ? mously resort to strikes , there is no force in a democ ? racy which can stop them . Neither laws nor policemen can do it ; the army can take over the offices of the mines and railways , but it can not dig coal or run 684 trains . No doubt the union officials concerned rely on this fact to induce the government to grant de ? mands which they could not gain by argument . If they succeed , they will convict themselves in the eyes of all other American citizens of having exploited the national peril for their own advantage . Labor will not soon live down such a judgment ; the memory will breed a bitterness too dangerous to be courted in a world prone to the totalitarian solution of industrial difficulties . But the government may not always suc ? cumb to the pressure . Public opinion , as expressed in Congress and elsewhere , is flowing strongly the other way . There is no doubt about this ; the leaders of labor can breast the tide only at their peril . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If a serious general strike in a basic defense indus ? try actually occurs , there can be only two possible out ? comes . One is that it may be broken by defection of large numbers of strikers themselves , whose hearts will not be in a struggle allying them with Hitler . This would lead to damage to the unions concerned which might be irreparable and in any case would take long to repair . The other possible outcome is victory or compromise after a bitter struggle , the major result of which will be that during its course the tanks , planes and guns , for lack of which the defenders of freedom are dying , and for lack of which at the right time we would face disaster , can not be produced or transported . What of the union shop , for which Mr. Lewis threatens to imperil his country ? As an enemy not only of the President but of the defense program , he has shrewdly chosen his issue , for the union shop is en ? joyed by many labor organizations and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's power . On this issue he has already enlisted the support of other leaders who do not share his vanity or his personal feuds , and he may be able to stampede a large part of the labor movement into his ranks , regardless of the larger dangers involved . The union shop is not , contrary to popular under ? standing , identical with the closed shop . In the latter only union members may be hired ; in it any man who wishes a job must first join the union . If he is excluded for any reason or can not afford the price , he is auto ? matically denied employment . This gives the union organization monopolistic power over the'labor supply , which is sometimes used to restrict production or to extort bribes . In the union shop , on the contrary , the employer may hire non-members of the union . Usually he may do so only if no competent union member is available , but in any case entrance to the industry is not restricted if jobs are open . The only requirement is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join the union . In many union shops , employees who are non ? members when the agreement is signed are not re ? quired to join . THE NEW REPUBLIC The first argument for the union shop is that it prevents the employer from imperiling the existence of the union or undermining its power by building up a large body of non-union employees . Discrimination against union members in hiring is almost as dangerous to labor organization as is discharge of members for union activity ? and that is contrary to the National Labor Relations Act . Since , under collective bargaining , wages and work ? ing conditions are controlled for all by the collective agreements , it is not necessary for any given individual to pay union dues in order to enjoy union conditions if the union shop does not prevail . This gives rise to the second good argument . Why should the non-members enjoy benefits for which they do not pay or assume responsibility in enforcement ? Union membership is an obligation of industrial citizenship , and every citizen has a duty to pay his taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is reinforced in the case of progres ? sive unions which have assumed obligations to the industry to enforce discipline and prevent stoppages or other interferences with production contrary to the agreement . The union can exercise this responsibility only if it is strong and has a membership co-extensive with its duties . It is therefore necessary for the em ? ployer not to employ those who insist on continuing to be non-members . The arguments against the union shop center about the desirability of preserving the liberty of the indi ? vidual worker to join or not to join , as he pleases . We can see no good reason for maintaining this liberty , in the case of an honest and democratic union which already contains a majority of the employees . Ameri ? cans do not have the liberty not to be citizens of the nation , and thus to enjoy the benefits of our system without assuming its obligations . But , it will be instantly replied , not all unions are honest or democratic . When union members can not vote grafting officials out of office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be certain of honest management , how can they protest except by resigning ? Both the closed and the union shop discourage such protests by making resignation from the union equiva ? lent to resignation from the job . This objection does not rest on unwarranted assump ? tions . Some closed-shop unions , like the carpenters or the hod-carriers , have not had elections for years . Graft and tyranny , racketeering , extortion of money from employers or collusion with them are known to exist in sections of the movement ? and especially in the older unions of the AFL . The labor movement as a whole has been either unable or unwilling to purge itself or offer any guarantees of democracy in its con ? stituent unions . George Browne , recently convicted of extortion under a federal indictment , was even able to remain on the Executive Council of the AFL until a few weeks before his conviction . John L. Lewis him NOVEMBER 24 , 1 94I self , though not accused of financial dishonesty , has in the past exercised a brutal tyranny over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agree ? ments . We scarcely blame employers or mediators for reluctance to grant this power over hundreds of thou ? sands of men to such a vain , irresponsible and conten ? tious man as he has shown himself to be . What is the solution ? Legislation forbidding strikes would be unenforcible without labor 's cooperation . The best course would be repudiation by labor itself of its more reckless leaders . In the end , labor must be brought to abandonment of strikes until peace comes . The only good method of achieving that result is acceptance of voluntary mediation or arbitration , at least for the period of the emergency . Mr. Lewis has done his best to destroy the National Defense Media ? tion Board , and may have succeeded . But an alterna ? tive must be provided , as a substitute for open warfare . Labor must agree with employers and the government on some means of peaceful settlement . Lack of it will lead to bitter dissension in the nation , ending in defeat for all . Responsible labor leaders have great power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like exer ? cise of the power of Samson , to bring ruin on them ? selves as well as others . As for the union shop , legislation may help . Grant ? ing that membership in a union may be required as a responsibility of citizenship , it is necessary to assure the members , the employers and the public that demo ? cratic and honest government will prevail in the polity of which the workers are citizens . Unions are no longer merely private , voluntary organizations struggling for existence . They constitute a state within a state , having as large a share in the government of our economy as business corporations , and are as properly subject to regulation in the public interest . Experience has shown that many of the union leaders have abused their power . Expert auditing and regular financial reports might well be required of all unions enjoying any form of the closed or the union shop , or indeed , of all unions which have achieved recognition and collective bar ? gaining . The best unions already make this a practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal for union members victimized by undemocratic leadership . The government should have the power to order and supervise elections , not only , as at present , to decide what bargaining agency the workers desire , but also to choose officials or to conduct referenda on important issues of policy , in cases where fair elections are denied by union bosses . The union movement in this country is no longer an infant requiring protection . It has grown up physically , and if it is to conduct itself like a responsible adult it must be controlled by the same social discipline which governs the rest of the community . 685 To Japan : The Answer Is " No " It looks as though Kurusu , the Japanese special en ? voy to Washington , might as well go home . Tojo and Togo , the Japanese Premier and Foreign Minister , have apparently blocked the way to any possible under ? standing with the United States by their speeches of November 16 , just as Kurusu arrived in Washington . Japan insists we must stop helping China and resume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In return , she makes no promises of any kind . This is an ultimatum . It must and will be decisively rejected . It now seems clear that Japan is simply stalling for time , and the United States should put a stop to this game at once . The Japanese evidently still believe that Hitler is winning in Europe and that the longer they can wait , the better the terms they will be able to exact from us . No such thing must be permitted to happen . Our State Department , in spite of having ? at last stopped supplying Japan with war materials , still acts as though America were afraid of the Oriental member of the Axis . There is no reason for fear and there is every reason for prompt and resolute action . Instead of waiting meekly for a Japanese diplomat to fly to Washington with an ultimatum , why did our government not send an American diplomat to Tokyo with final and drastic American terms and a demand for an immediate decision ? Those terms should be simple : let Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invaded , and try in future to behave like a civilized nation . Any American agreement to anything less would constitute an inexcusable and disas ? trous Far Eastern repetition of Munich . Five-Ring Circus Japan 's new stand is best understood in relation to concurrent moves by Germany in Europe . As we point out on page 687 , a peace offensive is in the making and , like all Axis peace offensives , its aim is not conciliation but a strengthening of the Axis front . This front has been dented ? in Russia by military action , in the Medi ? terranean by increasing loss in troops and supplies en route to Libya , and in the United States by revision of the Neutrality Act . Hitler 's response must be the straightening out of his line by bringing up reinforce ? ments at strategic points . Japanese pressure must be exerted in the East , and simultaneously Herr von Papen must force on the Turks the idea that their function is that of a " bastion of peace " in the Mediter ? ranean . The threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Above all , the relations between Germany and the Vichy government come up for reinspection and change ? perhaps the most striking evidence of the Germans ' concern over holding their African front without French naval and territorial assistance . The Vichy drama is an old one , repeatedly revived with almost the same cast . First you pretend that 