@@174208

One of mankind 's most reassuring cosmic thinkers died last week . Death came at 61 to cool , unruffled Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington , Cambridge University astronomer , in a Cambridge nursing home . <P> To scientists , Sir Arthur was affectionately known as the senior partner in the firm of " Eddington &; Sir James Jeans , Interpreters of the Universe . " Shy , neat , reed-nosed Sir Arthur looked precisely like the British university don he was , and he discoursed on his cosmic subject with a wit and clarity rare among scientists . He set down in brook-clear language a masterly simplification of Einstein 's theory of relativity , spent most of his life explaining the enigmas of abstract science for the benefit of laymen ( The Nature of the Physical World , The Expanding Universe ) . He enlivened these lessons with attempts to calculate such incalculables as the heat of the sun ( ten to 25 million degrees centigrade ) , the number of subatomic particles in the universe ( the figure 3 followed by 79 digits ) , the universe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Arthur , a devout Quaker , lifelong teetotaler and bachelor , more philosopher than scientist , devoted his speculations mostly to the borderland between science and religion . Interested in the questions that science could not answer , he once remarked : " What do we really observe ? Relativity theory has returned one answer-we only observe relations . Quantum theory returns another answer-we only observe probabilities . " <P> To nose-grinding laymen , Eddington 's vast conceptions were somehow vastly comforting . He once predicted that the expanding universe , " this ball of radio waves , " would end in " one stupendous broadcast , " but gave assurance that this event would not take place for perhaps 90 billion years . As for man , Eddington dismissed him as " one of the gruesome results " of a cosmic accident by which " some lumps of matter of the wrong size have occasionally been formed . "                     