@@494252

No one need have been surprised at what Mr. ' Churchill and his group in the British government have done . His conception of democracy is and always has been an extremely narrow one ; his devotion to conservative capitalism and to the British Empire has been strong and all-inclusive . Giving the Greeks the democratic government they want would never seem to him important in comparison with the necessities , or even the advantages , of the British Empire . But for ? tunately Mr. Churchill does not represent the whole British people . More than half the Parliament refused to vote his way . Powerful British journalistic voices have been raised against him . And the Prime Minister has been bitterly excoriated in the French press . Amer ? icans are entitled to rejoice at the new attitude Presi ? dent Roosevelt has revealed in the statement by Secretary of State Stettinius , statements for which the President himself is , of course , responsible . The world today stands at a crossroads . Mr. Church ? ill 's path lends to power politics , imperialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The other path leads to democracy , peace and freedom . It is for people of good will throughout the world to fight , and fight hard , for the second road . The landing of the Seventy-seventh Division behind the Japanese lines at Ormoc is both a good illustration of the value of sea power and the evidence of what was gained in the second battle of the Philippine Sea . We are not told whether the convoy reached that area through Surigao Strait or that of San Bernardino ? probably the former ? but the important point is that either would hardly have been attempted while the Japanese fleet based on Singapore and Manila was still in a state to offer opposition . The chain of pas ? sages and reefs among the Philippines is strikingly similar to that through the Solomons , and it is note ? worthy that throughout the long campaign for the upper islands in the latter chain not a single American landing was attempted along the inside flank ; they all came from open sea , where they could have the protection of ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attended by its special drawback that all assaults were in effect frontal assaults . The naval victory of October has thus enabled Gen ? eral MacArthur to rescue a campaign that had pretty well bogged down , as evidenced by the complaints from his headquarters about difficulties imposed by rain and talk about the extent of the Japanese losses . ( Just why headquarters in the Philippines should be complaining about the rains is not exactly clear ; the army 's own manual on the Philippines , published for the delectation of every private , points out that rains in the Leyte area during December amount to between 25 and 40 inches a month , one of the heaviest rainfalls in the world . ) The point is that over-optimism at the start of the campaign , frequently described as an occupational disease of generals , has always found a particularly easy victim in General Douglas Mac ? Arthur . He apparently did not think that the Japanese would make the all-out fight for Leyte that they have ? another illustration of the truism that a military campaign consists of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the counter-plans of the other . The nature of the Japanese plan seems now fairly clear : they are trying to prevent American access to the coast of China until they have set up the long desired land-communication line across south China to the food and raw-materials areas of Indo-China and Burma . If this line is once set up on a firm basis , it would not matter whether they lost control of the South China Sea or not ; and this is why they were willing to sacrifice so much of their navy in the Octo ? ber battle . At the same time the indications are that the pre ? vention of such a line rests rather upon the MacArthur offensive than upon anything the Chinese themselves can do or upon the Allies working from north Burma . Chinese sources report a victory at Tuhshan , which has for the time being relieved the Japanese pressure in Kweichow and removed the threat to Kweiyang . It may or may not be a permanent victory ; there has been no indication in any of this year 's fighting that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted in China , and there has been no re ? ported victory over the other Japanese force work ? ing its way toward Kunming , which would equally sever the Ledo-Burma road connection toward Chung ? king , on which three years of painful effort have now been expended . In fact the announcement this week that General Chen Cheng planned to train 30 Chinese divisions with modern weapons early next year can only be interpreted as an admission of the complete incapacity of the Chinese armies to accomplish any ? thing with what they have at present . China has no facilities for making modern weapons and the announcement really means that the Kuomin ? tang government is offering to place enough men at the disposal of the Allies for 30 divisions to be formed if we can break through the line of the Philippines and establish communications into the up-country . The figure is itself illuminating ; the Japanese are supposed to have an army of 3.5 million men , or well over 125 divisions , very few of which have been engaged any ? where by modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they will be trained and equipped , would not go very far against such a force . The state ment amounts to an announcement of what a great many had suspected long before the Stilwell affair brought things to a head ? that the Chinese are very nearly as thoroughly fought-out as the Italians were at the date of the capture of Sicily and any further military help received from them in the war is not likely to be very substantial . In the meantime it would be interesting to find out what went on in Japanese minds when an earthquake and the B-29 's arrived simultaneously to celebrate the anniversary of Pearl Harbor . Of all the dictator na ? tions , the Japanese have made the greatest use of th ? dictatorship technique of keeping their people in ignor ? ance and superstition , and it is not too much to hope that they will get a certain amount of moral backfire out of a coincidence which their whole system of edu ? cation trains them to regard as something beyond mere chance . There is very little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remark that the losses are heavy ? there has been hint after hint leaking through the censorship that they are heavier than any this country has yet seen in the war ? and the advances slow . The announcements from headquarters and the correspondents who get their information there stressthat the objective is less territorial gain at the present time than the reduction of the German army by t process of attrition . There is something in this but there is probably a good deal more gain in the reduc ? tion of the morale of the German army . Ever since Frederick the Great nearly lost his army and his empire at Torgau , there has been a tradition ? with almost the force of absolute law ? in German military circles that German armies should not at ? tempt to fight winter campaigns . Hitler 's effort to override this tradition brought one disaster before Moscow and a second was forced upon the Nazis at Stalingrad . Now they are once again fighting a win ? ter campaign ? with great skill , holding in most cases to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be rendered less upon the battlefield than in the minds of the German soldiers of all ranks when the campaign merges into that of spring ? provided always that our own losses are not in excess of our capacity to furnish replacements . The reopening of the draft in the higher age-brackets has been explained as having been under ? taken to replace men released into industry . There is a certain suggestion of disingenuousness about this at a time when the army in France has been taking losses at such a rate , and it would be interesting to compare the casualty figures with those for new men accepted in the draft . Although the text of the Soviet-French pact of alli ? ance and mutual assistance has not yet been made pub ? lic , it is generally assumed that it follows roughly the Soviet-British treaty of 1942 . Like the latter , it is to run for twenty years , and probably includes war pre- ventive measures as well as the usual guarantees of military assistance in case of attack by a third power . But more important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty . It definitely has the effect of eliminating the danger that Europe may be split into two spheres of influence under British and Russian control , spheres in which the only active diplomatic agents would be these two great powers . The pact also suggests that in the postwar world the powers will not exclusively rely on such international peace machinery as envisaged at Dumbarton Oaks , but will continue to reinsure their security by a series of bilateral or regional agreements . In the interest of maintaining a balanced economy with ? out severe injustices to any one group , and to secure a firm basis upon which our reconversion and postwar economy may be built , there can be but one conclusion ? the national wage policy must he changed . There must be a realistic revision of the Little Steel formula to permit a substantial adjustment of wage rates at the present time . Philip Murray , president of the CIO , wrote that to President Roosevelt . CIO economists have pre ? sented figures which prove that raising steel wages , for instance , would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present tax policies , bond-pur ? chase plans , price control and rationing must be our defense against inflation rather than a slashing of wage standards . It is high time that the minimum wage al ? lowed under the minimum-wage law is raised . The Pepper bill raising the national minimum to 65 cents an hour is a good start . As we recently predicted would be the case , the re ? actionary forces in Congress are all out to steal the credit for reforming that body . Just as the House Rules Committee was reporting out the Maloney ? Monroney resolution to investigate congressional or ? ganization , patronage-minded elements in the House pushed through a bill which allows each member an additional $3,000 per year for clerk hire . There is no question but that congressmen need better staff assis ? tance than they are provided at present , but this bill is hardly the best answer to the problem . All expert studies that have been made favor in ? creased staffs for the standing committees of the two houses . A major point of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addi ? tions would do the most good . If passed as reported out of the Rules Committee , the bill will still do that . But there are limitations on it , such as the three-month time limit placed on the whole study , which rule out an honest reorganization plan . The decision of the Interstate Commerce Commis ? sion on Inter-Territorial Freight Rate Classification , which had not been expected before spring , will prob ? ably be handed down within the next ten days . Al ? most certainly it will be favorable to the South and the West , will remove at least some of the obstacles to the industrialization of these key regions and will underwrite hundreds of thousands of postwar jobs . Nevertheless , it will overcome only a limited number of obstacles . Many more steps will be required before freight rates are fully equalized . At its most recent meeting , the American Society of Newspaper Editors issued a statement with regard to free speech that deserves the full support of democrats everywhere . This usually cautious group , looking for ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? national communications , urged all governments to join in reciprocal declarations on the right of the people to read and listen to news without censorship . It urged re ? moval of all " political , economic and military barriers to the freedom of world information , " on the ground that such freedom is vital to an enduring peace . Spe ? cifically , ASNE calls for : T. Recognition that complete friendship with any other sovereign power is dependent on the freedom , the abun ? dance and the exchange of information between people . 2 . Recognition that any printed matter , film , broadcast or other medium of public information paid in whole or in part , directly or indirectly , by a government , organization or person , should carry conspicuous labels as to source . 3 . Recognition that any government or private monopoly of the media of information is inimical to the public inter ? est. ... 4 . Refusal to recognize the right of any government , organization or person ... to place any barriers against the free exchange of information between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of peace .... Exploratory talks with other nations on this question have already been announced by our State Depart ? ment .. This statement by ASNE should help to stimulate action . Ulric Bell , executive vice-president of Americans United for World Organization , is a man with a heavy load of responsibility these days . It is his job to explain the Dumbarton Oaks proposals to the Amer .. ican people and to swing public opinion in favor of them when the matter comes before the Senate for ratification . To be sure , Mr. Bell is not alone in work ? ing at this task . Other organizations , and other people in his own organization , are participating ; but if any ? one were to be named as the Eisenhower of this fight , it would be he . Americans United is itself a consolida ? tion of other groups , such as Free World Association , Fight for Freedom , United Nations Association , Com ? mittee to Defend America and Citizens for Victory . Federated with it are research and educational bodies , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and many others , each of which is contrib ? uting to the effort in its own way . Americans United by no means holds itself above the hurly-burly of politics . In the late election it fought hard and successfully for men who recognized Amer ? ica 's worldwide responsibilities against such people as Nye and Fish . Today , it is calling regional and local conferences throughout the country , some only for leaders of opinion , others for the public , to hear about Dumbarton Oaks . Under the auspices of Americans United , people as important as Admirals Hepburn and Wilson and the new Undersecretary of State , Joseph Grew , are going barnstorming on behalf of the new world organization . Like some other distinguished publicists , Bell hails from Louisville , Kentucky , and is an alumnus of The Courier-Journal . He came to his present work after long service as a Washington correspondent , from which he occasionally took time off to advise Secretary Hull on press matters during important international conferences . In his early fifties , he is calm , bland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . You may take it as settled that he will do a good job in his present important post . NEW YORK STATE has sent several of its Governors to the White House , including Franklin Roose ? velt . Its present Governor has been a presidential can ? didate and may be again . It is not surprising therefore that the political health of the state draws national at ? tention . For years , it has been common knowledge that the New York legislature was slipshod , if not actually corrupt , in many of its affairs . When Mr. Dewey loomed on the horizon as Republican presidential timber , more than the usual interest became attached to the doings of the Republican-controlled legislature . Several investigations have been started , some of them fishing expeditions by the Democrats , some of them intended as protective or reprisal efforts by the Repub ? licans . One investigation has been conducted by a distin ? guished New York attorney , Hiram C. Todd . Insti ? gated by Governor Dewey , it has certainly been no whitewash of the legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware that it would n't be . His interim report , just published , reveals a shocking state of affairs . The legislature spends more than twice as much as it did twenty years ago , with little to show for the increased expenditure . In the first six months since the investigation was announced , the legislative payroll has dropped by $157,000 , obviously because the members knew somebody was looking . Last year the legislators drew $56,000 as " lulu " allowances which were in fact for the most part secret additions to their salaries . Large numbers of employees get in the aggregate big sums for which some of them do little or no service . The payroll system is hopelessly confused and inefficient , for the deliberate purpose of concealing expenditures . Some people draw two or more salaries from different departments . Others are paid regularly while giving their full time to outside business . Among these Mr. Todd found a printer , a restaurant manager , a boxing promoter , a business executive , store clerks , factory workers , etc . He quotes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the state received $1 , o0o . I only spent four or five days in Albany that year $700 . I guess I did n't earn the money the state paid me $800 . Well , anyway , I ran a few errands $750 . I do n't recall doing a single thing for that money P , 000 . Let no one suppose that only the Republicans are wicked in Albany . The same system prevailed when the Democrats were in power . It goes on , in greater or less degree , year in and year out , almost all over the United States ; rarely do reform measures produce more than a temporary improvement , lasting a few years . To rid our political democracy of the ugly stain of corruption is one of our great unfulfilled tasks . Meanwhile , all we can do is to clean up the mess from time to time as best we can . Mr. Todd has made a fine beginning in Albany , in 1944 , by his interim report . 