@@470817

IF defeat of France which for many years to come will be a theme of dis-cussion , is a unique happening in history for a very precise reason : up to the present the world has never seen like military events entail like political con-sequences involving so many nations and in so brief a time . How many days actually did it take for the " Blitzkrieg " to succeed ? On June 20th Marshal Petain declared over the radio : " From June 13th the request for an armistice was inevitable . " As the operations did not begin in earnest prior to the day of the invasion of Holland and Belgium , the decisive phase of the war might be said to have lasted only from May 10th to June 13th ? thirty-four days . But one may conclude that the game was played in a still shorter span of time : the Corap army was broken through and our main forces completely dislocated by May 17th ; evidence subsequently available has indicated clearly enough that all was lost for France on that disastrous Thursday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our materiel , we were beaten in seven days . It is natural that the contrast between the magnitude of the catastrophe and the brevity of the struggle should have given rise to all sorts of fantastic rumors . How simple it would be to imagine that it was treason which caused the loss of France ; and how one could make the reader 's heart palpitate by asserting , for instance , that during a secret interview in Switzerland last winter a former French premier sold his country to Hitler for several bags of gold . . . . The truth is less picturesque and has to do more with political than with military considerations , as we shall see . The immediate military causes of the collapse have already been enumerated : Inferiority of aviation for several years ( many of those French pilots who are rated among the world 's best were waiting for airplanes last spring ) , tragic insufficiency in number of tanks ( during the whole winter season the industrial effort was concentrated less on tanks than on heavy artillery which , in view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no use ) , unpardonable delays of the anti-aircraft defense , deficiencies in the intelligence service or , more serious still , obstinacy in sticking to old plans and in not giving consideration to information that invalidated them . It is inexact to state that only the war of 1914 was prepared for ; but it is an incontestable fact that it was much better prepared for than the war of 1839 . Old commanders , that is to say those who remembered and limited their vision to memories of the other war , prevailed over the younger ones who devised new tactics . Memory spoke louder than the imagination . The Maginot Line , that enormous projection of the 1914 trench system , rose as a sort of protest of the old war against the new and would , it was fondly believed , annihilate not only the invader but all the new revolutionary military theories . Now , all that ? or nearly all ? was foreseen by the chief of the government who directed France 's destiny until the defeat . For long years M. Paul Reynaud boldly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doom ? which earned him Cassandra 's unpopularity ; yet his ministry was incapable of doing anything to prevent the final catastrophe . Heroic in his opposition , this statesman was incapable of acting when he was given the power . Here is a phenomenon it is most important to elucidate in order to get a general understanding of the French drama , and it has to do with a very different matter than just the fate of a prime minister . The day on which we lost the war , May 17th , the morale of the average Frenchman was still good , and the smallest success would have considerably strengthened it . The Reynaud government in all its public manifestations held to the slogan which had marked its birth : " Carry on the war with increasing energy . " Nevertheless , on May 17th MAGAZINE M. Daladier was still Minister of War in a ministry whose head was anything but his friend , while General Gamelin continued to be generalissimo , well knowing that the President of the Council lacked confidence in him . The conduct of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rested therefore to an enormous degree on a minister and a military leader whom the Premier desired to discard . Although M. Paul Reynaud had assumed the power in the name of ideas diametrically opposed to those which had reigned up to that time , the old faction still controlled the levers of command . In brief , and the facts are there to prove it , during the eighty-seven days that he was in power M. Paul Reynaud retained in their places for more than half the time his short and tragic ministry lasted the very men of whose defects and errors he war fully aware . Was it because M. Paul Reynaud lacked ideas of his own that he allowed others to continue expressing their ideas on the conduct of operations ? Not at all . The President of the Council had long ago formed nonconformist views on the great French problems , and well prior to his elevation to the premiership he had even established a sort of little " brain trust . " Yet in the ministry which he brought together the mediocrity of the men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of March 21st , the day his cabinet was formed , the Prime Minister said to one of his closest collaborators : " I have come too soon . " An utterance that has a strange ring to-day when everything proves that , even if he had come much sooner , M. Paul Reynaud would still have arrived too Late . The remark of the President of the Council had , nevertheless , a very precise parliamentary meaning . " I have come too soon " signified that the deputies who abstained from voting at the end of the session of the secret committee on March 20th wished to " scold " M. Daladier , like a schoolboy caught in a fault , but they did not wish to get rid of him . M. Reynaud had thought that another ministry ? one of those transition ministries which have done so much harm to the French Republic ? would take the power , and that only subsequently he , Reynaud , would become head of the government . M. Daladier had weakened much faster than anyone anticipated , obtaining only 239 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resign , his authority being so greatly diminished because of this disastrous reckoning . And that afternoon the President of the Republic summoned M. Paul Reynaud . Hearing the news , M. Paul Reynaud 's friends were overjoyed , but they were not the only ones to share this sentiment . That night another group were equally happy ? M. Paul Reynaud 's enemies . Indeed , among the entourage of M. Daladier it was thought that the new President of the Council would last only a few days , and that the former chief would return to the head of affairs Many deputies who the day before had not voted for M. Daladier came to beg his pardon . So that at the very moment when M. Paul Reynaud was listing the ministers that were to form his cabinet ( a very difficult one to compose ) M. Daladier 's political stock was already rising again . Informed of this , M. Reynaud modified his plans . He could not do without Daladier however much he wished . Daladier , head of the Radical Party , was , in short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His provincial aspect , his southern accent , his facile eloquence so easy to understand , moved soldiers , townsmen , and countrymen alike . Reynaud , on the contrary , intimidated the voter by his appearance of a moneyed bourgeois , his rigid bearing of a man of short stature , his nasal voice and the whip-lash style of his addresses . The former Premier had paid visits to the defenders of the Maginot Line wearing an old soft hat and a big leather cape fastened carelessly ; his successor visited them impeccably clad in a pelisse and derby hat . Daladier had repeatedly won popularity , Reynaud never . Therefore , on the 21st of March , M. Paul Reynaud was forced to include his adversary among the members of his ministerial family and , to his great regret , hand over to him the war ministry : the stiff derby could not manage without the co-operation of the soft hat . The new President of the Council , who headed no party , was unable to secure a majority , admittedly very difficult , while lacking the support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without which or against which no ministry could govern . In short , the parliamentary mechanism was thrown out of gear to such a degree that one saw a parliament overthrow a prime minister , welcome a successor supposedly chosen to put into action a different policy , and immediately thereafter compel the latter to retain the men and ideas of the former set . By these absurd contradictions the principles of true democracy were nullified . M. Paul Reynaud " resigned himself " to taking over only the portfolio of Foreign Affairs when he would have wished , by taking over the War Department , to apply in wartime and in critical circumstances the military theories he had championed in peace times . In that case , M. Paul Reynaud would immediately have appointed a successor to General Gamelin , superseded most of the old-school generals , and advanced enterprising commanders like General Giraud , for instance , who , unfortunately , later was taken prisoner by the Germans , It was , indeed , against his own wishes that the Prime Minister gave up the idea of entering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remain as before , the fief of M. Daladier and General Gamelin ) and installed himself at the Quai d'Orsay to direct the foreign policy of France . Public opinion , which at that time was unaware of the forces behind events , took no heed of them , but was profoundly disappointed by the names of the twenty-two ministers and thirteen undersecretaries of state , colorless , weak men , dent of the Council did not immediately decide to take such action . Meanwhile he limited himself to a " symbolic gesture " against the Soviets : a compromising telegram addressed to Moscow by the Soviet Envoy in France was published , and the diplomat had to leave Paris . This episode , as well as new measures against Communist propaganda and the announcement of a more energetic policy with regard to the neutrals , still failed to give the Prime Minister the prestige indispensable to the taming of Parliament . When for the first time he spoke over the radio on March 26th the President of the Council had nothing astonishing to tell Frenchmen . If he could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation demanded , at least he spoke courageously and , braving unpopularity , continued to demand sacrifices of his fellow-citizens . This was the same theme he had developed all through the period when he was Minister of Finance : the masses scarcely enjoyed this refrain and had no better liking for the sententious tones in which the schoolmaster read his lesson to his tax-paying pupils . What an astounding discovery ! As head of a war government Paul Reynaud now realized that in the eyes of the average Frenchman he either " did n't even exist " or that he appeared to turn positively antipathetic . Consequently , it was impossible for this Premier to accomplish what several of his predecessors had succeeded in doing : overawe Parliament by demonstrating that public opinion was on the side of the Executive . Not being able to achieve any of the bold exploits he dreamed of , M. Paul Reynaud had to make the same gestures as his predecessors ; so on the 27th of March he made the classic voyage of every French Prime Minister ? the voyage to London . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not accompany his President of the Council : as the ministerial days of Paul Reynaud seemed numbered , the journey seemed to himprofitless . It was during this London trip that the head of the French government pledged himself not to make a separate peace : it would have greatly astonished him had he been told that exactly eighty days later he would be asked to forswear his signature . When he returned to Paris M. Paul Reynaud had just time enough to announce the tightening of the blockade before the Parliamentarians returned to the capital . To tell the truth , the news of the strengthening of the blockade hardly made any impression and did not even convince its author . During the winter , while he was still Minister of Finance , M. Paul Reynaud , finding himself one day between the Minister of Blockade and the Minister of Armament , said laughingly that he counted less on his first neighbor than on the second to hasten the victorious end of hostilities . No , well informed people in France did not believe much in the importance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sojourn they had just made in their constituencies where they heard far from favorable echoes of the government 's announcement . Accordingly , a delegation was sent to M. Daladier to ask him : " When do you wish to execute Paul Reynaud ? The sooner the better . " But M. Daladier , certain of the imminent fall of the President of the Council , did not himself wish to give him the final push . In short , the farce of parliamentary play continued at its merriest . It was in the Senate , it seemed , that the Ministry would first engage in battle , and the amateurs of great parliamentary meetings had engaged their places for April 8th ; for it was known that the spectacle would be worth seeing . It was , indeed , a rare thing to see the Senate overturn a government of the Third Republic . Some days before the combat M. Paul Reynaud confided to his followers that if there were no more than sixty abstentions he would count himself lucky . At the same time the head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word that , contrary to certain rumors started by adversaries of the government , " Paul Reynaud was not the advocate of a great offensive . " But it came from other sources that the President of the Council had discovered in consultations with the military commanders that for the moment there was no project of this sort , and that they were leaving to Time the task of choosing the tactics to win a victory . During the first months of the war there was a widespread notion that a " long war " would bring Germany to her knees , and this notion was also very popular in London . Had not Mr. Hore-Belisha declared : " We shall win this war comfortably " ? M. Daladier , who knew the gaps in our defense and was not unaware that many of the figures communicated to certain commissions of the Chamber were wrong , had known , from September to March , moments of profound pessimism ; but he had nevertheless allowed France to believe " we 'll beat them without too much trouble , " and this implicit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when M. Daladier resigned , a certain obscure deputy became alarmed and , candidly voicing the electorate 's unexpressed feelings , cried out that the war under M. Paul Reynaud might possibly be conducted no longer " as democratically . " This was equivalent to saying : " Take care ! Perhaps now they 'll carry on the war energetically . " Because , alas , for certain persons " democratically " and " energetically " were two adverbs of contrary meaning . Lacking power to form any more ambitious project , it was therefore necessary to return to tightening the blockade , and that was what was undertaken on April 7th by placing the mine fields along the Norwegian coast to disrupt the traffic of iron ore . We know what the German answer was : on the 9th Germany invaded Denmark and Norway . It was now no longer a question of overturning the Ministry : the German initiative saved the life of the Cabinet . But the period of waiting , during which the Command and the French government might perhaps have been able to devise some plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disasler ? was forever ended . IV Whatever the government might do would be only a more or less tardy response , and one more or less abortive , to an adversary with the initiative . After the council held on April 9th at 7 A.M. at the Office of Foreign Affairs , there was a presentiment of this . When two days later Weygand left to return to Syria , a very warm bon voyage telegram was sent him by the President of the Council who bestowed flowers on the commander he had not been able to choose for the supreme position . The invasion of Norway changed nothing : the DaladierGamelin combination remained untouchable . Certain Frenchmen have held that if the French government had not , as it were , picked a quarrel with the Germans in Norway they would not have begun the series of aggressions which ended with our defeat . But the argument does n't hold for a very simple reason : in twenty-four hours one can not organize an army as perfectly organized and trained as was the German army which captured Copenhagen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have happened in any case . After April 9th events precipitated themselves . The fate of France no longer depended on its political chiefs , nor on its military commanders : mistakes committed over months or , rather , over the preceding years , will roll up , and in a single blow the weight of all their consequences will crush the entire country . The unfortunate head of the government talked of applying " revolutionary measures , " he threatened to change " men and methods , " meaning to replace the Generalissimo and Minister of War ; but these decisions taken in extrernis ( Weygand was named on May 19th when the war was virtually lost ) had no more value new and alarming . They wanted to stick to things already known ; the supreme law of commanders who decreed the military doctrine of France was the " law of the least imagination . " With political men it was the law of least effort that inspired decisions , and the two tendencies were in accord . The Cabinet Minister soothed the voter with the soft music that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscience by saying to himself that everything was for the best since he had the approbation of the military men . A politician who simply did what the generals told him to do was called a " good Minister of War , " The roles had ended by being reversed . All this might have had a certain coherence if France had not on the other hand followed on paper a foreign policy which charged her with responsibilities and made her implicitly the Number One policeman of the League of Nations . At the first crime committed in any part of Europe was the policeman to go and establish order , or was he to see that he was not prepared for punitive expeditions and would have to resign himself to staying in the armored sentry-box in front of his house ? In 1935 France had for Minister of War a soldier , General Maurin , and the official doctrine was expressed then without any of those oratorical precautions and contradictory developments in which political men excel . The General did not hesitate to affirm to the Chamber on June 3rd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinking of the offensive when we have spent billions to establish a fortified barrier ? Would we be mad enough to go beyond this barrier to engage in I do n't know what adventure ? " The following year in March Germany was reoccupying the Rhineland , and the King of the Belgians , freeing himself from his obligations , in October invoked the isolation to which his country would be exposed after the unexpected attack of the invader . After the reoccupation of the Rhineland , the Army had been consulted and had replied that nothing could be done without undertaking a large mobilization . As this was within six weeks of the elections , the government did nothing and limited itself to verbal replies . This mobilization might have been avoided if they had built up the professional army which had been clamored for unsuccessfully . In 1934 there had appeared in France a little book entitled Vers r aurae de metier , which did not receive any public attention . It contained statements of this sort : " Determined to strike us to the heart by the shortest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their principal direction the sources of the Oise , our weakest point ? . . . This means that France 's protection on the most dangerous route depends on Belgium . . , But this country of Belgium . . . how many reasons there are which some day may cause her to swerve from engaging in full force , and alone , as our advance guard ? " The author prejudged the value of the Maginot Line in its day of trial : " One can not estimate too highly the advantage that permanent works may furnish to resistance . But these organizations have only a limited depth . Al moreover , they leave the entire northern regions exposed . And how can one foresee the effects that modern engines of attack , planes , very heavy tanks , etc. might have on the defense ? " On another page minutely the author described , six years in advance , the war of 1940 : " Two thousand tanks , on a ten-league front , prepare to surge forward synchronously . . . . There will be no more continuity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossibility of developing local successes . " The author also foresaw aerial squadrons " endowed with lightning speed . . . striking vertical blows . " Incidentally he advocated " the initiative , the only fecund attitude toward Germany which , unrivaled in accomplishing a prepared plan , loses her ability if only she is fought in an unexpected manner , when she shows that clumsiness in adapting herself to the unexpected that explains Valmy , I6na , and the Marne . " This little book , signed by an obscure name , Charles de Gaulle , developed as never before the bold theories of the young school , the very ones that an officer of Marshal Petain 's staff had sketched since 1920 . The work was read with interest by M. Paul Reynaud and by the German High Command . The project which would have authorized numerous motorized divisions went before the Chamber in 1935 where it was very ably defended by M. Paul Reynaud , but it was voted down . Opponents invoked difficulties of execution or even reasons of economy . The real objection to the plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old formula , and it was whispered that a professional army was politically dangerous and risked being transformed into a Praetorian guard . The following year a general wrote that " pacific and defensive France could not but be opposed to motorization . " In 1936 M. Paul Reynaud addressed himself to this opinion : " Our defenses of the northeast are very strong , but it would be a mistake to regard them as absolutely impregnable . " He added : " It seems probable that the German army , preceded by powerful tanks , will break through Holland over Belgium , where it is to be hoped that the Albert Canal will be sufficiently powerfully fortified . . . . Failing that , it would aim for our 350-kilometer north frontier . " Public opinion paid no attention to the warning . Meanwhile they were organizing armored divisions , but tardily and in insufficient numbers : in other words , wastefully ; for , as M. Reynaud said one day in Parliament , " One must approach the military problem with greatness of spirit ; in war it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not been decided to build up sufficient resources to intervene in Europe if that became necessary , theycontinued to insist that they were not in any way renouncing the policy of mutual assistance . Early in 1937 M. Leon Blum , President of the Council , repudiated the theory of the perpetual defensive and gave assurance that France would not remain an indifferent spectator . M. Daladier , Minister of War , roused unanimous applause when he swore that " France would not stand motionless on her ramparts while the conflagration raged in Europe . " The same year a debate began on the northern fortifications which has a poignant retrospective interest : " Were they finished ? Were they as perfected as the Maginot Line proper ? " In February M. Daladier declared that he was prolonging the fortified system to Dunkerque , despite diverse opposition . In December he was more specific regarding the " opposition " and observed that high military authorities had refused " for years and years " to fortify the north frontier , saying that such fortifications were unrealizable . They could not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that work was being done and would be continued . Ditches were dug that " no modern engine could ever cross . " There was no lack of prophets in 1937 , and several deputies , seized by a strange presentiment , described exactly what was later to happen . A certain M , Parmentier observed that Belgium in her north and west regions , with the exception of the Ardennes , offers no difficulties of passage , and that is just where the invader will pass . . . . Yet it was in vain that civilians or military foretold the catastrophe : the average Frenchman did not believe in catastrophe . If behind each military error we find a political error , it should not be concluded that all France 's misfortunes are attributable to this one or that one of her ministers . For back of the political errors may be discerned a moral error , and behind all the culprits stands the average Frenchman . M. Daladier , whose honesty no one has ever doubted , showed a lack of farsightedness and courage : he would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more modest position . As for M. Paul Reynaud , his mistakes can not obliterate the memory that before the war he did more than anyone to awaken a somnolent public opinion . The masses , in fact , turned away from those who demanded exceptional sacrifices to parry an exceptional external danger ; they refused to give again to a sick democracy the energy it needed . Indeed , there is no living Frenchman who should not to-day declare his mea culpa . The average Frenchman , if put on trial , would say that he did not give sufficient thought to the coming war because he detested militarism . His ideal was not to march by fours , steal other men 's possessions and kill his neighbor , work twelve hours a day making munitions , etc . It is much pleasanter to go canoeing on the Marne , to eat white bread and butter than to go target shooting . But if the gentleman who lives in the next house is a gunman , what must you do ? Buy a revolver immediately , surely , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pay no attention to the counsels of friends of the gunman in disguise who tell you that , after all , one can get along with him . From the moment the Nazis took power and proved they were accumulating the means necessary to revise the map of the world ? an objective they clamorously announced the ideal of the exclusive pursuit of happiness became no longer possible ; the butter age had passed and that of the cannon begun . " There is plenty of time , " and " Everything will turn out all right " were two formulas fatal to the French . " How politically light-minded we are ! " M. Paul Reynaud used to say to those to whom he privately revealed his deep anxiety before the war . A pretended " sang-froid " and a mistaken " common sense " prevented Parisians and provincials alike from taking Hider too seriously . Therefore it was useless to be in too great a hurry : even during the war they acted ( notably in the purchasing policy in the United States ) as if they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended to be used in factories often still unbuilt where planes were to be manufactured and completed in 1942 ? A curious phenomenon ? the Army which several times had ordered prudence , at the supreme moment , September I , 1939 , manifested a confidence in our chances of success which astonished not only M. Georges Bonnet , Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time , but also M. Daladier , then President of the Council . Optimism increased with the danger . Nevertheless , from the moment of mobilization the laziness and heedlessness of the civilians gave place to the traditional virtues of the race : Mr. Bullitt was right in pointing out that the French soldier of 1940 gave all without counting the cost , as in 1914 . When troops became disorganized it was because they were surprised by new tactics which they had not been taught to practice themselves or learned how to combat . The combatants ' stupor and anger were those of the gentleman who plays at checkers and discovers that the fellow seated opposite him is playing chess . In the Army and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , proclaimed the evil with perfect clarity and cried to the regime : " Reform or die ! " For years they had pointed out the danger of a low birth rate , the crisis of authority , the fear of large-scale undertakings , individualism too often misconceived , and certain other evils that gnawed at a democracy which was no longer what it had been . It was the Event which finally taught the lesson , and what a lesson ! It can profit the nations that yet remain free in the world to-day , and the new France of to-morrow . dinary co-ordination of Hitler 's military machine . But what are the political implications ? Carl Dreher 's " Why Hitler Wins " is an engineer 's analysis of what Hitler has done , " a lesson in technological politics for Americans . " Machine politics is an old and familiar term in the United States . But Mr. Dreher is referring to mechanics of a different sort ; what Veblen and Rathenau tried to accomplish by reason and enlighten ment , Hider has effected with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After graduation from Columbia in 1917 , he went to work in the test shop of the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Company 's factory . He moved along with the development of radio and after four years of research under Dr. Alfred N. Goldsmith , he became radio engineer for the Radio Corporation of America . In turn he was engineer in charge of broadcasting and staff engineer of the National Broadcasting Company . After that he was sound director for one of the Hollywood studios . In 1936 he retired and since then has been in consulting practice . He now divides his time between Hollywood and a farm in upstate New York . He has written a considerable amount , both technical and otherwise . The section on broadcast reception in the Encyclopedia Britannica is his work . His most recent Harper article was a biographical portrait of a famous engineer in the Northwest , " J. a Russ , Public Power Magnate . " THE PEOPLE 'S CHOICE ? Ts order to gather the material for " The Ed- ucation of Wendell Willkie " Dorothy Dunbar Bromley went to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican candidate 's brothers , and then spent some time in Akron canvassing Wendell 's neighbors there . The author , who is a special writer for the New York Post , has written many articles for Harper 's . The most recent , " The Future of Eleanor Roosevelt , " appeared last January . Mrs. Bromley attended Northwestern University and since 1920 has lived in New York . For some years she held advertising and book publishing jobs ; then she became a free lance . From January , 1935 , to May , 1938 , she wrote for the Woman 's Page of the New York World-Telegram . Since then she has been writing for the Post . Her books include Birth Control , Its Use and Misuse and ? w ith Florenc e Haxton Britten ? Yout h and Sex . Pardon Me AFTER a five year make-ready , New York City has a new newspaper . PM , the afternoon tabloid , first appeared on June 18 , 1940 . After three months an appraisal is in order and this is provided by Ferdinand Lundberg . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he put in ten years as a newspaper man himself . Three of those years he spent in police and court reporting in Chicago . In one way or another his line of duty kept him near the activities of Al Capone , with time out to cover a chapter of the W. E. D. Stokes divorce . In 1927 Mr. Lundberg came to New York to work for the United Press . For three months late that spring he was at Roosevelt Field covering Lindbergh , Byrd , Chamberlin , and the other flyers who were taking off for Europe every few minutes , After that he worked at the Daily icews ropy desk and then , for seven years , was Wall Street reporter for the New York Herald Tribune , In 1934 he quit this job to write . His books include a biography of Hearst and a hook about America 's Sixty Families , which Mr. Ickes took for a text in a celebrated radio speech . Mr. Lundberg is now at work on a book about lawyers . Three chapters of this have already appeared in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now , his interest in news-gathering and news men is still strong . Last April he wrote an article for us about " News-Letters , A Revolution in Journalism , " the story of the rise of the Kiplinger school of reporting . TO ARMS ROBABLY no American newspaper man r has devoted more time to the study and investigation of armament manufacture than Frank C. Hanighen , author of " From Blueprints to Gunfire , " the story of the Defense Advisory Commission 's work from the beginning until press time . In collaboration with H. C. Engclbrecht , Mr. Hanighen wrote Merchants of Death , an elaborate survey of the international arms traffic which provoked much argument both here and abroad . This was a Book-of-the-Month selection in 1934.                     