@@494207

Why Henderson Goes THE FIRST GREAT BATTLE of our war effort was the battle fully to mobilize our resources . " It was n't a battle in which two opposing armies were joined on a clear battlefront , " Leon Henderson told an audience of housewives in the autumn of 1941 . " It was an intermittent conflict ? we expansionists had an army , if we had sense enough to find it ; you were that army ... and if you had had a rallying point you would have volunteered eagerly . . . . " A year later we are still a ragged force of irregulars searching for an army . For lack of a rallying point we have lost , for the time , one of the bravest and best of the generals that we possessed . If there was one high-ranking leader in government who was right on policy all the way through it was Leon Henderson . He was right on the battle for expansion , right on the steel-construction program ; right in demanding conversion a year before it was accomplished ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early , the necessity of adequate price and cost control . We can not afford to lose Henderson . There are in America only three or four administrators as good as he is . He must be brought back . Meanwhile , we must understand that the loss of Henderson is more than a personal loss ; Henderson was a symbol of toughness in government and his defeat may prove to be the defeat of an attitude of toughness , in particular in the agency which he established . If there was one group in Washington which was militant and forceful , it was the OPA , It was always denied adequate power ; it alone used to the hilt the power it possessed , and used it effectively . It held the rise in the wholesale-price index to less than six points in the past year , three of which were due to a statutory policy on farm prices . Under the OPA rent-control program , the rent index actually fell by one and a half points in 1942 . It was at the most critical point in its endeavor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this reason it is unbecoming for the irregulars to say goodbye to Henderson with a condescending lecture on his errors or a few well chosen words of sympathy . This is our defeat , for which we shall pay dearly , and we must find out why we were defeated . Henderson left the government because a powerful group in Congress made it clear that they were out to murder the OPA and its price program , and that the resentment which they had stirred up against him would make their task easier . The resentment was , of course , real , just as the intention was real . Small business men who found the burden of regulation heavy , white-collar workers , nurtured on contempt for government , farmers who had to motor twenty miles to theircounty rationing board for a few gallons of kerosene , even union organizers whose plans were upset by wage stabilization , were ready to be used against the OPA . Schemers such as Tydings and Byrd , and vested interests such as the farm bloc and the oil companies were able to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cheap and tawdry slogans , two fundamental charges were made by this group against the OPA . First , that it refused to allow industry to administer its own rationing programs ; second , that it failed to base its rationing proposals on a simple percentage cut in all consumption . If the new Congress amends rationing policy , it will be along these lines . Once again , Henderson will be proved right . It would have been easy to have given industry the task of cutting down consumption . It would have taken from government a part of the burden of resentment against lowered standards of living . Yet to have allowed the grocers to determine who should be given sugar , and the oil companies to decide what houses should be kept warm , would have been an inexcusable denial by government of its most basic responsibilities . British experience had proved that industry could not handle the distribution of scarce consumption goods , and in almost every case , industry itself urged the necessity of government 's administering the rationing programs . It would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilian consumption by a flat percentage rate . In the case of fuel oil this was particularly true . Yet the OPA was unwilling to place the distribution of fuel oil in the hands of the oil companies and it believed that a flat reduction was practicable only within narrow variations in supply , whereas the supply of fuel was subject to violent fluctuations . OPA engineers reported that many families were on the borderline of safety in fuel consumption in 194x while others were far above it . A 40-percent cut , based on 1941 consumption levels , would have led to great and unnecessary hardships . So , with the aid of its industry advisory committee , made up of outstanding heating engineers and housing and health experts , the OPA drew up its fuel-rationing plan . If the OPA failed on the policy level it was because it failed to establish itself as a policy-making body . in food and clothing , much of the determination of policy in price fixing and distribution lay with the Department of Agriculture ; in fuel , with the Petroleum Coordinator ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in rubber , with the Rubber CoOrdinator ; in other commodities , with the WPB . Each of these agencies was primarily concerned with production , and each had a vested interest in raising prices as a means of increasing production . Some , such as the industry branches of the WPB , feared rationing-as a technique of government control , and turned down plan after plan . In the absence of an economic general staff , this pattern of the tsars , as it emerged , left no agency , certainly not the OPA , charged with the responsibility of using rationing as a method of preventing inflation . The OPA could employ rationing only when a shortage has developed . The one major mistake of the OPA under Henderson was on the administrative level . Its administrative task was always difficult ; Congress , by starving the OPA of funds , forced it to rely heavily on a staff of 70,000 volunteers . Constantly the OPA was faced with the choice of a simple rationing scheme that such a staff could administer , or a real scheme , based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond its capacity . In addition , the OPA allowed Frank Bane to staff its twenty state offices through the machinery of the state administrations . This plan was accepted by officials who wished the price-control program to be a national program administered on a completely nonpartisan basis . The conviction that this was possible was derived from the White House . It was a generous notion , but misconceived ; for the price of power is self-consciousness of power . The Republicans had no illusions about non-partisan government , and many used the positions that they won to discredit the administration and to shift the balance of power in favor of maction , robbing the OPA of some of its best supporters in Congress . Yet the real reason why Henderson was defeated is that there is still no organization in America which speaks for the American people . Against the OPA , armies in close ranks hurled their shells . In Mobile , South Bend , Detroit , landlords moved into open rebellion against the OPA , raising slush funds to discredit it ; forcing it into expensive test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in resolving to disregard rent control entirely . Business groups and real-estate interests often took the same attitude . The Farm Bureau bound the large farmers into such an aggressive and irresponsible corps that the most crushing defeats left it uninjured in its attacks upon government In contrast , many urban representatives in Congress continued their tradition of non-interference in farm policy . The Democratic Party , far from defending the OPA , often provided the most vicious of its opponents . It was some Democratic Party officials who first demanded Henderson 's head as the price for their failings , and it was William Pawley , a former oil man in the Democratic headquarters who reported that Henderson was responsible for the defeat of November 3 . The attitude of labor towards the OPA was shameful . When wage stabilization became the only alternative to a rigid wage freeze , the CIO took the false position that stabilization and rationing were alternatives and that the OPA was cowardly for not following the second policy . Henderson was constantly under attack by the unions , and when the OPA raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions condemned the OPA in the most hostile way for not maintaining the ceilings through subsidies , although this was forbidden by Congress . With Congress itself , labor has been deplorably short-sighted , fighting for its own most immediate interest in wages-and-hours legislation , but , on the broad issue of price control , countering the furious offensive of the Farm Bureau with an attitude of indifference . Nor has labor yet attempted to join in a wider political alliance for liberal ends . It is because the irregular army of the American people has been given no rallying point that militant leadership in the OPA was allowed to go down . We need fighters now , who , as the frontiersmen used to say , will stick behind a log . If , as we lie behind our log , we tremble still at the shock of the first encounter , we need to remember that the heavy artillery of the new Congress is still to be brought up against us . We need to draw pride from this fight , not gloom and abject surrender . We need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to make certain that we are there and fighting back . On the price front , the farm bloc has already announced that it will not be appeased by the head of Henderson , but will press for a parity formula that will raise the cost of living by a margin sufficient to upset our entire wage structure . Already the meaning of the loss of Henderson is only too clear ; in the two days after his resignation , both . the New York Stock Exchange , and the farm component of the Bureau of Labor Statistics index leapt up three points in anticipation of inflation . The situation is so dangerous that if pressure on price control is relaxed , through congressional action , prices will go through the roof . - Our job now is to shout across this country , and particularly to the farmers themselves , that farm income has risen two and a half times as fast as non-farm income , until it has climbed one billion dollars higher than the dizzy peak of 1919 . Our job is to demand that the OPA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its job of rationing according to need . Because of our weakness , Henderson is gone ; through our strength , the militant spirit which Henderson created in the OPA must be guarded . Today the battlefield has become clear . We have an army ? you are that army ? and if you have a rallying point you will volunteer ... . We may seem weaker than we are ? that makes no difference . There was a time when the Midianites made life miserable for the Children of Israel . They encamped against them , and destroyed the increase of their earth , even unto Gaza , and left no sustenance , sheep , ox or ass . They and their camels were without                     