@@475186

IT IS surely ironic that just at the moment when paper is being rationed we should be in the midst of the greatest book-buying boom in our history . At the time of Pearl Harbor , American publishers were afraid , not without some justification , that war would turn the American public away from books , but quite the opposite seems to have happened . The pressure of wartime activities has not had the adverse effect that was anticipated , and the chief problem of publishers is how to manufacture , within printing and paper restrictions , enough books to meet the expanding market . Every kind of book is selling well ? not only the latest popular novel , whose success might be attributed to the desire for " escape " reading , but also history , technology , biography , and science . Even reprints and the classics arc booming , and library sets of the old novelists , which before the war had languished on the booksellers ' shelves for years , have now suddenly begun to move . To be sure , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? another straw in the wind of war-prosperity spending . Library circulation has not kept pace with book sales ; it has even somewhat diminished since the war and we can therefore conjecture that not all of the books that are being bought are neces sarily being read . On the other hand , it would be pessimistic and wrong to write off as of no cultural importance the amount of money we are spending on books simply because it parallels increased spending in theaters , restaurants , and department stores . A cultural advance of some significance has been made when a nation comes to think of literature as something worth spending its money on . And no cultural advance is accomplished overnight . There is reason to think that this present book boom has been in preparation for some years ? perhaps ever since the last war . Certainly in the past twenty-five years this country has measurably closed the gap between its so-called cultivated and uncultivated classes . Just as college education has ceased to be regarded as the prerogative of a privileged section of society , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the American popular imagination formerly consigned it . This is demonstrated , for instance , by the enormous success of the book clubs and by the spread of our lending-library services . The magazine field , too , illustrates the steady infiltration of literacy into all sections of American life . If the popularity of the picture magazine suggests a trend away from the printed word , the equal popularity of the digest magazine counterbalances it ; to read a digested book or magazine article may create lazy reading habits , but it creates and affirms the existence of reading habits of a sort . But if the volume of our reading is great , and if we could even say that America lives more easily with ideas today than it did a generation or two ago , this does not mean that we are in the midst of either a general cultural renaissance or a specifically literary one . Our actual creative achievement in literature is not precisely a cause for pride . The classics may be selling as they have never sold before but it is , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and we can boast no current writing boom to match our new popular enthusiasm for books . Indeed , I think most serious critics would agree that we are in the midst of a period of acute creative poverty . t II Tr is in the field of the novel that one I first looks for the expression of literary vitality . The sales of many of our novels and the language in which they are greeted by the reviewers may give the impression of a constantly flowing stream of gifted and important new works of fiction , but actually our novels are of low quality . We must keep in mind that sales reflect the desire for good books , not necessarily their existence , and that the popular reviewer forms his judgments on a current basis that is , by measuring the book under review against the books he read last week or the week before , and not against the truly fine book he may have read three , five , or twenty years ago . This is practically an open secret among reviewers . It removes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such books as A Tree Grows in Brooklyn or The Walsh Girls . Reviewers are perfectly aware that the novels they recommend are a commodity , not an experience ? for they know very well what kind of experience a really good novel gives . They have been brought up on the great French , English , and Russian novelists and their lives were shaped by them ; what is more to our point , most of them came of age in our own last distinguished literary era . It is keeping abreast of the market that obscures their recollection of what it meant to read Dreiser or Willa Gather , and for the occasion they persuade themselves either that the novelist under review is the Dreiser or Cather of this particular moment in literary history or ? more likely ? that since this moment has no Dreisers or Cathers , it is the part of generosity to celebrate without reservation the next best thing . There arc innumerable next best things on our fiction market and there are the usual number of best sellers . But I would venture to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put to it to name the novel of these war years which has been even a small landmark in their literary educations or their emotional lives . I know that I myself have read or glanced through some five hundred novels in the past two years . Some few were marked by literary talent and some few more were entertaining , but I have not had the impulse to save any for my library shelves and an eventual rereading ; all have gone to the second-hand dealer . And I am speaking of serious novels , novels written by people who were undoubtedly educated in the great literature of the past . It is not merely that these best of our current novels are not stamped by genius ; after all , genius is rare in any age . These best of our current novels are simply not alive . The one quality which all first-rate novelists or novelists who aspire to the first-rate have in common ? an energy of creation which touches everything and enlivens everything it touches ? is not to be found in the novelists of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course it will be protested that we are losing a whole generation of possible new writing talent to the armed services . That is true , and it may account for the fact that no new male writer of rank has appeared in the past two to three years . But the draft can not be blamed for the poor quality of the books written by men and women who are not in the services , nor for the low level of work during the ten years which preceded the war , including the work of our already established writers . It is not only the immediate creative scene which is so bleak . Our present poverty follows and continues a whole decade of poverty . OUR last period of novelistic glory began after the last war and ended with dramatic suddenness as the decade of the twenties drew to a close . Sherwood Anderson , Sinclair Lewis , Willa Cather , F. Scott Fitzgerald , Ernest Hemingway , John Dos Passos ? in fiction these are the names we associate with our last brief literary renaissance , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and died , artistically speaking , with the postwar decade ; only Hemingway has continued to sustain and mature his talent . Anderson 's last novels were feeble reiterations of the themes and method of the work that had brought him to fame . The later novels of Sinclair Lewis are juvenile compared to the relatively youthful Main Street and Babbitt . Of the three novels Cather has written since Death Comes For the Archbishop ( 1927 ) , only Shadows on the Rock can stand with her early work . Dreiser has produced nothing since An American Tragedy ( 1925 ) . The personal drama of Fitzgerald 's failure promises to outlive his few successful novels , and even John Dos Passos , while never weakening in intention , has weakened considerably in inspiration . In the decade of the thirties a few outstanding personalities did appear to replace these striking talents , but they loom large only in comparison with their contemporaries ; they are scarcely of the stature of these predecessors . John P. Marquand , William Faulkner , Thomas Wolfe , John Steinbeck , and James Farrell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staked out some claim for themselves in the decade of the thirties . But the novels of Marquand , readable and interesting as they are , surely reflect life rather more than they illuminate it ; Faulkner is essentially a virtuoso ; Thomas Wolfe 's great energy tends to obscure his limited range ; Steinbeck has a fatal softness at the bone of his social understanding ; and Farrell has yet to be able to enlarge upon his own restricted background . The past fifteen years have not been propitious to the novel and we can readily see why . The conditions of the external world have made the practice of fiction more than a little difficult . An era which witnessed not only a major economic depression in our own country , but the rise of Hitlerism abroad and the preparation throughout the world for a new world war , has put an unprecedented burden upon the imaginative writer ; and perhaps only the greatest novel could hope to hold its own against the urgent drama of modern times . Then , too , we have been living in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everywhere submerged in the problems of society as a whole . But the conflicts in individual lives have always been the most fruitful subject for fiction and the medium by which fiction sheds its light upon the world . Indeed , if one factor can be isolated as responsible for the decline of the novel in the past fifteen years I think it is this break in our tradition of individualism . For when the individual lost prestige in the modern world , the novel lost prestige . I have said that our last period of literary glory ended with the decade of the twenties . A more precise way to put it would be to say that the decline of modern American fiction dates from the depression of 1929 . With the collapse of our economic structure the American novelist began to identify himself with the social process and renounced his old artistic privilege of standing outside of it . I do not mean that the novelists of the twenties were out of touch with life , as they were later accused of being . We have only to glance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware of their vigorous social content ; as a matter of fact , it would be hard to equal , in the novels of a later generation , the conscience and commitment to life of our best writers of the twenties . The difference , however , between the social novels of the postwar decade and the social novels of the next decade is in the role that the author conceives for himself . In the twenties , the novelist was in individual rebellion against society ; he knew that the artist walks alone and is always at a vantage point to the rest of the world . In the thirties the progressive and sensitive novelist saw himself as the conscious instrument of social forces , even as someone who must take practical sides and make political alignments ; he not only renounced his own individual importance as an artist , but shifted the focus of his work from the outcome of the forces of society in the moral life of the individual to the morality of the social structure itself . It is a difference in point of view which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dreiser 's An American Tragedy of 1925 and Robert Cantwell 's The Land of Plenty of 1934 . We recall how , in the twenties , it was almost the boast of literacy to be ignorant of actual political-economic issues , but how almost overnight , with the depression , this situation altered . The American novelist of the thirties became a social theorist ; he dedicated himself to a formulated political purpose . Instead of being an expositor and critic of society , he became its policy-maker . But this was in effect to abdicate his chief function as a novelist ; we can go back to Dickens or the later Tolstoy to prove how heavily the conscious urge to reform has always weighed down even the most creative pen . Any good novel is socially useful , but the intention of being socially useful is likely to produce the works of Upton Sinclair ; it does not produce good novels . It is a paradox of our depression fiction that , quite in the measure that our writers renounced the individualism of the artist , they overestimated the powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a philosophy which had been designed to submerge the individuality of the novelist actually worked out to put upon the individual novelist more responsibility than he had ever before been asked to bear ? and it was a very immodest fiction that answered the current demand for the great American proletarian novel or the great American revolutionary novel ! In addition ? and this is another paradox of the time ? the novelist himself , seeing life in crude terms of social determinism and recognizing almost too vividly the interdependence of the individual and the group , came to look upon himself as a victim of society . One would have tosearch far in the literature of individualism to match the exacerbated self-pity that came into our literature simultaneously with this new sense of social responsibility and which has persisted even into our fiction of the present day . So recent a novel as Michael Blankfort 's A Time to Live is an instance of the ease with which a feeling of social guilt turns into self-commiseration . The degeneration of our Lewises and Andersons in the depression years was probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literary temper as to the pressure of the times themselves . There was never a less generous period than our thirties ; the younger novelists and our critics were all too eager to assist at the burial of our established authors . Even John Dos Passos , who more than any other writer of the twenties was a social novelist in the sense in which the next decade was to define it , faltered in the presence of the younger proletarian writers growing up around him . Yet the proletarian movement itself produced only one novelist of any note , James Farrell , and ? ironically enough ? Farrell was to suffer , as his decade passed , the fate that had been mocked in his predecessors , the fate of still saying the same things long after his audience had ceased to be involved . For the depression passed with no profound social changes accomplished . No revolution was fought in America , except on the literary front where it took such a sad toll of budding talents . To the novelists who launched their careers in the full tide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cynicism and disillusionment . Edward Dahlberg , Albert Halper , Meyer Levin , Grace Lumpkinthese are some of the promising talents we remember from our proletarian days , but of the four , to my knowledge , only Albert Halper is still producing novels ; and between his The Foundry of 1934 and his Only an Inch from Glory of 1943 there yawns the abyss of an enormous social weariness . Today one wonders , indeed , whether the writers of our proletarian vanguard were ever really as promising as we thought them , or whether they simply claimed so much of our hope because they were so sympathetic to the spirit of the time . And the novelists who fought against this dominant tendency of the thirties ? for after all , not all our writers took the revolutionary side ? of course suffered as much from the self-consciousness of conservatism as our Marxist novelists suffered from the false sense of political power . Especially the less forceful among them , the writers who lacked the conviction of their conservative positions , allowed themselves to be pushed further and further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so gifted a writer as Willa Cather under the pressure of the times retreated rather desperately along her favored historical path , just so the novelists of lesser gift were routed either into the past or into provincialism ; and it was in this period , as a matter of fact , that the historical novel and the regional novel came into a vogue which , with a new emphasis , has not yet lost its appeal . The stronger talents , writers like Marquand and Faulkner and Wolfe , continued to hoe their own rows and they even found large audiences ; but who can say how their work might have developed if they had not been writing against , as it were , the main current of their day ? III 11 ) ) 1.7r it would be false to give the 1 pression that because , with the of the thirties and the start of the war , revolutionary literature died in America , it left no heritage to its next in line . In the degree that our present fiction is still largely concerned with its social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inheritance from the depression . The political directives have changed ; fiction is no longer concerned to make revolutions . But the didactic impulse persists . By a strange political logic deriving from Russia 's position in world affairs , the vanguard of the proletariat has become the rearguard of democracy , and a section of our fiction is as busy today exhorting to democracy as it was exhorting to the class struggle ten years ago . in the nationalism of war , indeed , there has been a juncture on the literary front of the two armies of the left and right which were once so inimical . A literature of nationalism is no doubt inevitable in time of war . In this war we are producing few novels of out-and-out flag-waving like MacKinlay Kantor 's Happy Land , but Americanism is nonetheless being propagandized extensively both in our regional novels whose purpose it is to increase our love of country by acquainting us with little-known sections of the land , and in our historical novels whose purpose it is to point a lesson to present-day democracy . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth lingering over except to point out that it runs in a cultural current which our conservative writers have always kept alive . More significant is the national pattern of thought that is being unconsciously revealed by that portion of our present-day fiction which is not at all aware that it is teaching lessons . For if we can generalize of our literature of the twenties that it was a literature of the individual against society , and of our literature of the thirties that it was a literature of class against class , we can just as accurately generalize of our literature of today that it is a literature of acceptance of the status quo . The values of our present-day novels are the established values . Our fiction would have us love what we have and hold on to it . Or perhaps it puts it more precisely to say that our fiction of these war years would have us love what we once had and recapture it ? for while there is little actual nostalgia in our recent novels , it is unmistakable that they prefer the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebellion have gone and our fiction of the past two or three years is biased not only against social and political change but even against implied criticism . If the memory of our fiction is long , the will is short . There is little action in present-day novels because action has a way of disturbing the established order . A period of war is a period of great personal heroism , yet our novels are noticeably lacking in heroes and heroines again because , almost by definition , a hero acts upon his environment instead of remaining quiescent as his environment acts upon him . Our fiction is deficient in drama , plot , and even physical motion , most of its " story " taking place inside the minds of its characters . But even in their mental lives , our fictional characters are more complacent than daring , more conciliatory than energetic . p-rilus a book like A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is typical of our fiction of this war despite the fact that most of its action antedates the last war . In Miss Smith 's picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only sentiment ; the explosive family life of James Farrell 's realistic novels is replaced , in the " realism " of A Tree Grows in Brooklyn , by a sweet co-operativeness . National unity reflects itself in family unity , and fiction arms us with the illusion of domestic security against the insecurity of the world . This theme of domestic strength , indeed , is one of the leitmotifs of current novels . Sometimes , as in Janet Lewis 's Against a Darkening Sky , it is treated with a kind of poetic homeliness ; sometimes , as in Kathryn Forbes 's Mama 's Bank Account , with a quasi-robust humor . Always it is handled with a respect that contrasts strangely with the days when fiction was so busy questioning the sanctity of family ties . Family life is the safe way of life , and family life has little place for heroes . The leading character of Marquand 's So Little Time is typical as a contemporary substitute for a hero . He is not only middle-aged , and therefore adventures at the risk of making himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom reminiscent of another day , is finally and for no apparent reason made to return to the wife who has afforded him so little comfort and understanding . Again , in Elizabeth janeway 's The Walsh Girls , marriage is explicitly described as a fortress in a frightening world ; and certainly Helen Walsh , securely married , has few of the charms of the conventional heroine of fiction . The instances in which our novels put themselves at the service of established institutions could be multiplied endlessly . The pattern is subtle but pervasive . Sexual freedom , feminism , insight into the economic sources of our social ills , all disappear from a fiction determined to buttress us against the threats implicit in an uncertain political world . And the fact that , as I write , there are three religious novels ? The Robe , The Song of Bernadette , and The Apostle ? in a list of ten best sellers , is but added proof that the conservative impulse , although newly vigorous , falls back upon its oldest lines of defense . Of all categories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the longest tradition of rebelliousness , but even our contemporary version of the artist as a young man has ceased to struggle . If we compare , say , Robert Smith 's The Journey , published last year , with any of the classics of the type , D. H. Lawrence 's Sons and Lovers or Somerset Maugham 's Of Human Bondage , we are at once struck by the extreme subjectivism of our . present-day writer . There is no environment in Mr. Smith 's novel , and in so empty a world his artist is able to blame no one but himself for his spiritual emptiness. fl O EMPHASIZE the mood of inaction in our current fiction is not to overlook the violence which is natural to wartime . Juvenile delinquency and a certain lawlessness in civilian life are always a concomitant of war , and lawlessness is bound to appear even in novels whose chief movement is in the direction of safety and co-operation . But it is interesting that just as our patriotic feelings are open in our historical novels and hidden in our novels of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our novels about the past and hidden in our novels of present-day life . That is , more often than not there is no moral justification for the acts of violence committed in our pioneer novels or in our novels about nineteenth-century life in the South or West ; for example , when the cotton planter in John Faulkner 's Dollar Cotton kills his farmhand and then steals his widow , we are supposed to accept such conduct as all in the day 's work in a primitive society . It is as if , in dealing with the past , the novelist can not only admit our less pleasant human instincts but revel in them . In fiction of the contemporary world , however , only our novels of race conflict ? books like Lillian Smith 's admirable study of the Negro situation , Strange Fruit ? seem able openly to admit lawless conduct and at the same time condemn it ; apart from our race-problem novels , I can recall but one recent work of fiction , The Hunted , by Albert Guerard , which itself takes a clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American life . Our anti-Nazi novels in which violence is cloaked in political necessity , or even a novel like Nancy Hale 's The Prodigal Women in which , because the husband tortures his wife in the righteous cause of monogamy , the author seems scarcely to recognize that he is cruel , are much more typical of the way we disguise violence by virtue . It is to the past that the current novelist prefers to relegate the threatening personal emotions , and it is to the past that he also relegates certain subjects which , although they are clearly of the present scene , are evidently too disturbing to handle as of the moment . For instance , judging by our fiction , imperialism ceased to exist with the turn of the century . Or big business ? obviously as much an American institution now as it was in the twenties or thirties ? appears in our novels , if at all , only as in Marcia Davenport 's The Valley of Decision , as so much romantic backdrop to the pageant of the generations . Even romantic love @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a theme for novels , nor indeed has it been for some time . Hemingway is the only love-story writer we have had in this country since the twenties . For it is in the very nature of great love that it admits no barriers and defies the securities . IV HERE is this barrenness of scene , then , rra in present-day fiction , there is no action or drama , there is this blinking of contemporary reality . It is therefore small wonder that novel reading has lost something of its hold on our popular affections . And publishers have become aware of this important shift in the American taste ? from a preference for fiction to a preference for other kinds of writing . Not that novels have stopped selling , and in good quantity . But in recent years fewer novels have been winning great success , whereas more and more non-fiction books have reached enormous audiences . Of course this is not to say that nonfiction has achieved a higher intellectual and literary level than fiction , and any general assessment of the quality of nonfiction is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branches of non-fiction writing ? philosophy , criticism , biography , science , poetry , many of them directed to highly specialized audiences . But it is in the broad field of journalism that non-fiction has won its multitude of new readers and , questions of purely literary merit aside , it is surely understandable that our books of reporting , of political experience , and of personal history should be more attractive to the average reader than our novels . For if fiction pales by comparison with the facts of the present-day world , journalism is the facts of the present-day world . The excitement , the adventure , the drama which are so conspicuously absent from our current novels are present in full measure in the books of our war correspondents and in the personal reminiscences of people whose lives have been intimately touched by modern history . A book like Etta Shiber 's Paris-Underground , even a book like Burma Surgeon , holds our interest with an intensity that few modern novels can equal . Our fiction may be concerned with formulating and preserving a desirable order of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this lack of responsibility may reduce journalism 's intellectual standing ; it is true that the past fifteen years have produced no Lincoln Steffens and even that for every thoughtful book like Vincent Sheean 's Personal History there have been dozens of journalistic stunts . But at least journalism feels no need to retreat before the realities of contemporary life . There is a tempo and change of scene in our current journalism that parallels the movies and in contrast to which our fiction is bound to seem slow and static . The inability of our fiction to evoke clear visual images is one of its serious weaknesses ; it is journalism that has become the eyes of modern writing . Of course , journalism has been free to travel even in wartime , but this actual freedom of movement can not be the only explanation of the greater visuality in our books by reporters than in our novels . More likely it is because our reporters dare to see that they do see ; and it is because our novelists do not dare to see or want to see that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less inhibited by preconceptions than our fiction writers , our journalists even manage to tell us more about people than we are told by our novelists . Our journalists of the thirties , traveling across the country interviewing gas-station proprietors and factory workers and the unemployed , documented the American people in the depression with a suggestiveness that should have been a lesson to our depression novelists who were so busy modeling human character into social principles . Similarly , our present-day journalists are revealing the American personality of this time far more convincingly than our present-day novelists , who , whether they know it or not , are forcing human character into stereotypes . For example , the soldiers who appear in Ernie Pyle 's Here is Your War live and flower in our imaginations long after most of the characters in recent fiction vanish back into air . Nor is Mr. Pyle 's book the sole instance in which the photographic eye and car of the reporter turn out to be more creative than the ostensibly creative mind . We can compare the non-fiction features in The New Yorker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and people is caught by the Profiles and the Reporterat-Large pieces than by The New Yorker 's fiction . Todox.mrc at current writing , in other words , we would seem to have to conclude that there has been a curious reversal of roles between our fiction and our non-fiction , and that non-fiction -- or , specifically , journalism ? has taken over some of the prime duties of imaginative writing . It gives us our drama , it tells us about people , it even supplies us with our objects of admiration and our objects for identification ? the heroes who have disappeared from fiction . And we wonder if it is possible , then , that our novels can be wholly replaced and that fiction will disappear because it is no longer necessary . Well , I think this is hardly possible , and for one very important reason . There is still one sphere that journalism can not penetrate ? the moral sphere , which is uniquely the province of the novel . No matter how much of an illusion journalism can give us of reporting all of reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to be rendered by mere reporting . These moral elements can be reached only through the moral imagination . Without the free play of the critical intelligence , of course the moral imagination is crippled , and for some years now our fiction has abdicated the free play of the critical intelligence . Our novelists have been suicidally determined to reform , to comfort , or otherwise to find a place for themselves in society as anything but artists . Perhaps this has been an inevitable response to the confusion of modern life . But if literature is to carry its full share in our future culture , and if fiction is to carry its full share in our literature , the novel will have to meet confusion with art ? which , as E. M. Forster has said , is the moral order of the universe .                     