@@475818

This is the third and final installment of a three-part close-up of the universe . In Part I Mr. Barnett dealt with its fundamental building blocks ? atoms , electrons , energy quanta ? with their elusiveness , duality , and unpredictable behavior . He also related how scientific man , in trying to penetrate beyond the limitations of his senses , has found himself drawn ever farther from the manifest world into a misty realm of mathematical abstraction . In Part II he considered the three basic entities of the universe , space , time , and mass , and showed that contrary to classical physics they are merely relative concepts which vary for different observers in different places . He traced the reasoning of the Special Theory of Relativity and described how Einstein evolved new laws of motion and deduced from them a remarkable conclusion concerning the equivalence of mass and energy ? of world-wide importance in developing the atomic bomb and of cosmic importance in explaining the great age of the sun and stars . Part III which appears herewith discusses the gross structure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deep gulf that still lies between the outposts of man 's knowledge and ultimate reality. ? The Editors THE nonmathematician , " says Albert Einstein , " is seized by a mysterious shuddering when he hears of ' four-dimensional ' things , by a feeling not unlike that awakened by thoughts of the occult . And yet there is no more commonplace statement than that the world in which we live is a four-dimensional space-time continuum . " A nonmathematician might question Einstein 's use of the term " commonplace " in this connection . Yet the difficulty is more a question of wording than of ideas . Once the meaning of the word " continuum " is properly grasped Einstein 's picture of the universe as a four-dimensional space-time continuum ? and this is the view that underlies all modern conceptions of the universe ? becomes perfectly clear . A continuum is something that is continuous . A ruler , for example , is a one-dimensional space continuum . Most rulers are divided into inches and fractions , scaled down to one-sixteenth of an inch . But it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a billionth of an inch . In theory there is no reason why the steps from point to point should not be even smaller . The distinguishing characteristic of a continuum is that the interval separating any two points may be divided into an infinite number of arbitrarily small steps . A railroad track is a one-dimensional space continuum , and on it the engineer of a train can describe his position at any time by citing a single co-ordinate point ? i.e. a station or a milestone . A sea captain , however , has to worry about two dimensions . The surface ' of the sea is a two-dimensional continuum and the coordinate points by which a sailor fixes his position in his two-dimensional continuum are latitude and longitude . An airplane pilot guides his plane through a three-dimensional continuum , hence he has to consider not only longitude and latitude , but also his height above the ground . The continuum of an airplane pilot constitutes space as we perceive it . In other words , the space of our world is a three-dimensional continuum . To describe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not enough simply to indicate position in space . It is necessary to state also how position changes in time . Thus to give an accurate picture of the operation of a New York-Chicago express , one must mention not only that it goes from New York to Albany to Syracuse to Cleveland to Toledo to Chicago , but also the times at which it touches each of those points . This can be done either by means of a timetable or a visual chart . ( See diagram . ) If the miles between New York and Chicago arc plotted horizontally on a piece of ruled paper and the hours and minutes are plotted vertically , then a diagonal line properly drawn across the page illustrates the progress of the train in a two-dimensional space-time continuum . This type of graphic representation is familiar to most newspaper readers ; a stock market chart , for example , pictures financial events in a two-dimensional dollar-time continuum . In the same way the flight of an airplane from New York to Los Angeles can best be pictured in a four-dimensional space-time continuum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , longitude y , and altitude z means nothing to the traffic manager of the airline unless the time co-ordinate is also given . So time is the fourth dimension . And if one wishes to envisage the flight as a whole , as a physical reality , it can not be broken down into a series of disconnected take-offs , climbs , glides , and landings . Instead it must be thought of as a continuous curve in a four-dimensional space-time continuum . S INCE time is an impalpable quantity it is not possible to draw a picture or construct a model of a four-dimensional space-time continuum . But it can be imagined and it can be represented mathematically . And in order to describe the stupendous reaches of the universe beyond our solar system , beyond the clusters and star clouds of the Milky Way , beyond the lonely outer galaxies burning in the void , the scientist must visualize it all as a continuum in three dimensions of space and one of time . In our minds we tend to separate these dimensions ; we have an awareness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separation is purely subjective ; and as the Special Theory of Relativity showed , space and time separately are relative quantities which vary with individual observers . In any objective description of the universe , such as science demands , the time dimension can no more be detached from the space dimension than length can be detached from breadth and thickness in an accurate representation of a house , a tree , or Betty Grable . According to the great German mathematician , Herman Minkowski , who developed the mathematics of the space-time continuum as a convenient medium for expressing the principles of Relativity , " space and time separately have vanished into the merest shadows , and only a sort of combination of the two preserves any reality . " It must not be thought , however , that the space-time continuum is simply a mathematical construction . The world is a space-time continuum ; all reality exists both in space and in time , and the two are indivisible . All measurements of time are really measurements in space , and conversely measurements in space depend on measurements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks , months , seasons , years , are measurements of the earth 's position in space relative to the sun , moon , and stars . Similarly latitude and longitude , the terms whereby man defines his spatial position on earth , are measured in minutes and seconds , and to compute them accurately one must know the time of day and the day of the year . Such " landmarks " as the Equator , the Tropic of Cancer , or the Arctic Circle are simply sundials which clock the changing seasons ; the Prime Meridian is a co-ordinate of daily time ; and " noon " is nothing more than an angle of the sun . Even so , the equivalence of space and time becomes really clear only when one contemplates the stars . Among the familiar constellations , some are " real " in that their component stars comprise true gravitational systems , moving in an orderly fashion relative to one another ; others are only apparent ? their patterns are accidents of perspective , created by a seeming adjacency of unrelated stars along the line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two stars of equal brightness and assert that they are " side by side " in the firmament , whereas in actuality one may be 40 light years and the other 400 light years away . Obviously the astronomer has to think of the universe as a space-time continuum . When he peers through his telescope he looks not only outward in space but backward in time . His sensitive cameras can detect the glimmer of island universes 500 million light years away ? faint gleams that began their journey at a period of terrestrial time when the first vertebrates were starting to crawl from warm Paleozoic seas onto the young continents of Earth . His spectroscope tells him , moreover , that these huge outer systems are hurtling into limbo , away from our own galaxy , at incredible velocities ranging up to 35,000 miles a second . Or , more precisely , they were receding from us 500 million years ago . Where they are " now . " or whether they even exist " now , " no one can say . If we break down our picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of local time , then these nebulae have no objective existence save as faint smudges of ancient enfeebled light on a photographic plate . They attain physical reality only in their proper frame of reference , which is the four-dimensional space-time continuum . 1 r4 MAN 'S brief tenancy on earth he egocentrically orders events in his mind according to his own feelings of past , present , and future . But except on the reels of one 's own consciousness , the universe , the objective world of reality , does not " happen " ? it simply exists . It can be encompassed in its entire majesty only by a cosmic intellect . But it can also be represented symbolically , by a mathematician , as a four-dimensional space-time continuum . An understanding of the space-time continuum is requisite to a comprehension of the General Theory of Relativity and of what it says about gravitation , the unseen force that holds the universe together and determines its shape and size . II I N THE Special Theory of Relativity ( see Part II last month ) , Einstein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be no fixed standard in the universe by which man can judge the " absolute " motion of the earth or of any other moving system . Motion can be detected only as a change of position with respect to another body . We know for example that the earth is moving around the sun at the rate of twenty miles a second . The changing seasons suggest this fact . But until four hundred years ago men thought the shifting position of the sun in the sky revealed the sun 's movement around the earth ; and on this assumption ancient astron- omers developed a perfectly practical system of celestial mechanics which enabled them to predict with great accuracy all the major phenomena of the heavens . Their supposition was a natural one , for we ca n't feel our motion through space ; nor has any physical experiment ever proved that the earth actually is in motion . And though all the other planets , stars , galaxies , and moving systems in the universe are ceaselessly , restlessly changing position , their movements are observable only with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the universe were removed save one , then no one could say whether that one remaining object was at rest or hurtling through the void at 100,000 miles a second . Motion is a relative state ; unless there is some system of reference to which it may be compared , it is meaningless to speak of the motion of a single body . Shortly after publishing the Special Theory of Relativity , however , Einstein began wondering if there is not indeed one kind of motion which may be considered " absolute " in that it can be detected by the physical effect it exerts on the moving system itself ? without reference to any other system . For example , an observer in a smoothly running train is unable to tell by experiments performed inside the train whether he is in motion or at rest . But if the engineer of the train suddenly applies the brakes or jerks open the throttle , he will then be made aware , by the resulting jolt , of a change in his velocity . And if the train rounds a turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own body , resisting a change of direction , that the train 's course has been altered in a certain way . Therefore , Einstein reasoned , if only one object existed in the entire universe ? the earth for example ? and it suddenly began to gyrate irregularly , its inhabitants would be uncomfortably aware of their motion . This suggests that nonuniform motion , such as that produced by forces and accelerations , may be " absolute " after all . It also suggests that empty space can serve as a system of reference within which it is possible to distinguish absolute motion . To Einstein , who held that space is nothing and motion is relative , the apMA GAZINE parently unique character of nonuniform motion was profoundly disturbing . In the Special Theory of Relativity he had taken as his premise the simple assertion that the laws of nature are the same for all systems moving uniformly relative to one another . And as a steadfast believer in the universal harmony of nature he refused to believe that any system in a state of nonuniform motion must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature are different . Hence as the basic premise of his General Theory of Relativity , he stated : the laws of nature are the same for all systems regardless of their state of motion . In developing this thesis he worked out new laws of gravitation which upset most of the concepts that had shaped man 's picture of the universe for three hundred years . F 4oisrEiN 's springboard was Newton 's Law of Inertia which , as every schoolboy knows , states that " every body continues in its state of rest , or of uniform motion in a straight line , unless it is compelled to change that state by forces impressed thereon . " It is inertia , therefore , which produces our peculiar sensations when a railroad train suddenly slows down or speeds up or rounds a curve . Our body wants to continue moving uniformly in a straight line , and when the train impresses an opposing force upon us the property called inertia tends to resist that force . It is also inertia which causes a locomotive to wheeze and strain in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But this leads to another consideration . If the cars are loaded the locomotive has to work harder and burn more coal than if the cars are empty . To his Law of Inertia Newton therefore added a second law stating that the amount of force necessary to accelerate a body depends on the mass of the body ; and that if the same force is applied to two bodies of different masses , then it will produce a greater acceleration in the smaller body than in the bigger one . This principle holds true for the whole range of man 's everyday experience ? from pushing a baby carriage to firing a cannon . It simply generalizes the obvious fact that one can throw a baseball farther and faster than one can throw a cannonball : There is , however , one peculiar situation in which there appears to be no connection between the acceleration of a moving body and its mass . The baseball and the cannonball attain exactly the same rate of acceleration when they are falling . This phenomenon was first discovered by Galileo , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all fall at precisely the same rate regardless of their size or composition . A baseball and a handkerchief fall at different speeds only because the handkerchief offers a larger surface to the resistance of the air . But objects of comparable shape , such as a marble , a baseball , and a cannonball , fall at the same rate . ( In a vacuum the handkerchief and the cannonball would fall side by side . ) This phenomenon appears to violate Newton 's Law of Inertia . For why should all objects travel vertically at the same velocity regardless of their size or mass , if those same objects , when projected horizontally by an equal force , move at velocities that are strictly determined by their mass ? It would appear as though the factor of inertia operates only in a horizontal plane . Newton 's solution of this riddle is given in his Law of Gravitation , which states simply that the mysterious force by which a material body attracts another body increases with the mass of the object it attracts . The bigger the object , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is small , its inertia or tendency to resist motion is small , but the force that gravity exerts upon it is also small . If an object is big , its inertia is great , but the force that gravity exerts upon it is also great . Hence gravity is always exerted in the precise degree necessary to overcome the inertia of any object . And that is why all objects fall at the same rate , regardless of their inertial mass . This rather remarkable coincidence ? the perfect balance of gravitation and inertia ? was accepted on faith , but never understood or explained , for three centuries after Newton . All of modern mechanics and engineering grew out of Newtonian concepts , and the heavens appeared to operate in accordance with his laws . Einstein , however , whose discoveries have all sprung from an inherent distrust of dogma , disliked several of Newton 's assumptions . He doubted that the balance of gravitation and inertia was merely an accident of nature . And he rejected the idea of gravitation being a force that can be exerted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can reach out into space and pull an object toward it with a force miraculously and invariably equal to the inertial resistance of that object seemed to Einstein highly improbable . So out of his objections he evolved a new theory of gravitation which , experience has shown , gives a more accurate picture of nature than Newton 's classic law . III I N ACCORDANCE with his usual mode of creative thought Einstein set the stage with an imaginary situation . The details have doubtless been envisaged by many another dreamer in restless slumber or in moments of insomniac fancy . He pictured an immensely high building and inside it an elevator that has slipped from its cables and is falling freely . Within the elevator a group of physicists , undisturbed by any suspicion that their ride might end in disaster , are performing experiments . They take objects from their pockets , a fountain pen , a coin , a bunch of keys , and release them from their grasp . Nothing happens . The pen , the coin , the keys appear to the men in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them are falling , along with the elevator and the men , at precisely the same rate in accordance with Newton 's Law of Gravitation . Since the men in the elevator are unaware of their predicament , however , they may explain these peculiar happenings by a different assumption . They may believe they have been magically transported outside the gravitational field of the earth and are in fact poised somewhere in empty space . And they have good grounds for such a belief . If one of them jumps from the floor he floats smoothly toward the ceiling with a velocity just proportional to the vigor of his jump . If he pushes his pen or his keys in any direction , they continue to move uniformly in that direction until they hit the wall of the car . Everything apparently obeys Newton 's Law of Inertia , and continues in its state of rest or of uniform motion in a straight line . The elevator has somehow become an inertial system , and there is no way for the men inside it to tell whether they are falling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space , free from all external forces . Einstein now shifts the scene . The physicists are still in the elevator , but this time they really are in empty space , far away from the attractive power of any celestial body . A cable is attached to the roof of the elevator ; some supernatural force begins reeling in the cable ; and the elevator travels " upward " with constant acceleration ? i.e. progressively faster and faster . Again the men in the car have no idea where they are , and again they perform experiments to evaluate their situation . This time they notice that their feet press solidly against the floor . If they jump they do not float to the ceiling for the floor comes up beneath them . If they release objects from their hands the objects appear to " fall . " If they toss objects in a horizontal direction they do not move uniformly in a straight line but describe a parabolic curve with respect to the floor . And so the scientists , who have no idea that their windowless car actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situated in quite usual circumstances in a stationary room rigidly attached to the earth and affected in normal measure by the force of gravity . There is really no way for them to tell whether they are at rest in a gravitational field or ascending with constant acceleration through outer space where there is no gravity at all . The same dilemma would confront them if their room were attached to the rim of a huge rotating merry-go-round . They would feel a strange force trying to pull them away from the center of the merry-go-round , and a sophisticated outside observer would quickly identify this force as inertia ( or , as it is termed in the case of rotating objects , centrifugal force ) . But the men inside the room , who as usual are unaware of their odd predicament , would once again attribute the force to gravity . For if the interior of their room is empty and unadorned , there will be nothing to tell them which is the floor and which is the ceiling except the force that pulls them toward one of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " outside wall " of the rotating room becomes the " floor " of the room for the men inside . A moment 's reflection shows that there is no " up " or " down " in empty space . What we on earth call " down " is simply the direction of gravity . To a man on the sun it would appear that the Australians , Africans , and Argentines are hanging by their heels from the southern hemisphere . By the same token Admiral Byrd 's flight over the South Pole was a geometrical fiction ; actually he flew under it ? upside down . And so the men inside the room on the merry-go-round will find that all their experiments produce exactly the same results as the ones they performed when their room was being swept " upward " through space . Their feet stay firmly on the " floor . " Solid objects " fall . " And once again they attribute these phenomena to the force of gravity and believe themselves at rest in a gravitational field . F ROM these fanciful occurrences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To physicists it is known as the Principle of Equivalence of Gravitation and Inertia . it simply states that there is no way to distinguish the motion produced by inertial forces ( acceleration , recoil , centrifugal force , etc. ) from motion produced by gravitational force . The validity of this principle will be evident to any aviator ; for in an airplane it is impossible to separate the effects of inertia from those of gravitation . The physical sensation of pulling out of a dive is exactly the same as that produced by executing a steeply banked turn at high speed . In both cases the factor known to flyers as a " G-load " ( Gravity load ) appears , blood is drawn away from the head , and the body is pulled heavily down into the seat . But in one case the effects are produced by gravity , in the other by inertia . In this principle , which is the keystone of General Relativity , Einstein found an answer both to the riddle of gravitation and the problem of " absolute " motion . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about nonuniform motion after all ; for the effects of nonuniform motion which can supposedly reveal the state of motion of a body , even if it exists alone in space , are indistinguishable from the effects of gravitation . Thus in the case of the merry-go-round , what one observer identified as the pull of inertia or centrifugal force and therefore an effect of motion , another observer identified as the familiar tug of gravitation . And any other inertial effect produced by a change of speed or a change of direction can equally well be ascribed to a changing or fluctuating gravitational field . So the basic premise of Relativity holds true ; motion , both uniform and nonuniform , can only be judged with respect to some system of reference ? absolute motion does not exist . The sword with which Einstein slew the dragon of absolute motion was gravitation . But what is gravitation ? The gravitation of Einstein is something entirely different from the gravitation of Newton . It is not a " force . " The idea that bodies of matter can " attract " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has grown out of erroneous mechanical concepts of nature . So long as one believes that the universe is a big machine , it is natural to think that its various parts can exert a force on one another . But the deeper science probes toward reality , the more clearly it appears that the universe is not like a machine at all . So Einstein 's Law of Gravitation contains nothing about force . It describes the behavior of objects in a gravitational field ? the planets , for example ? not in terms of " attraction " but simply in terms of the paths they follow . Where the mathematical expression of Newton 's law involves dynamic concepts such as " force " and " mass , " the mathematical expression of Einstein 's law is geometry . To Einstein , gravitation is simply part of inertia ; the movements of the stars and the planets arise from their inherent inertia ; and the courses they follow are determined by the geometrical properties of space ? or more properly speaking , the geometrical properties of the space-time continuum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it becomes quite clear as soon as one dismisses the notion that bodies of matter can exert a physical force on each other across millions of miles of empty space . This concept of " actionat-a-distance " has troubled scientists since Newton 's day . It led to particular difficulty , for example , in understanding electric and magnetic phenomena . Today scientists no longer say that a magnet " attracts " a piece of iron by some kind of mysterious but instantaneous action-at-adistance . They say rather that the magnet creates a certain physical condition in the space around it , which they term a magnetic field ; and that this magnetic field then acts upon the iron and makes it behave in a certain predictable fashion . Students in any elementary science course know what a magnetic field looks like , because it can be rendered visible by the simple process of shaking iron filings onto a piece of stiff paper held above a magnet . ( See picture . ) A magnetic field and an electrical field are physical realities . They have a definite structure , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clerk Maxwell which pointed the way toward all the discoveries in electrical and radio engineering of the past century . A gravitational field is as much of a physical reality as an electromagnetic field , and its structure is defined by the field equations of Albert Einstein . J UST as Maxwell and Faraday assumed that a magnet creates certain properties in surrounding space , so Einstein concluded that stars , moons , and other celestial objects individually determine the geometrical properties of the space around them . And just as the movement of a piece of iron in a magnetic field is guided by the structure of the field , so the path of any body in a gravitational field is determined by the geometry of that field . The distinction between Newton 's and Einstein 's ideas about gravitation has sometimes been illustrated by picturing a little boy playing marbles in a city lot . The ground is very uneven , ridged with bumps and hollows . An observer in an office ten stories above the street would not be able to see these irregularities in the ground . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground and move toward other sections , he might assume that a " force " is operating which repels the marbles from certain spots and attracts them toward others . But another observer on the ground would instantly perceive that the path of the marbles is simply governed by the curvature of the field . In this little fable Newton is the upstairs observer who imagines that a " force " is at work , and Einstein is the observer on the ground , who has no reason to make such an assumption . Einstein 's gravitational laws , therefore , merely describe in terms of geometry the field properties of the space-time continuum . Specifically , one group of these laws sets forth the relation between the mass of a gravitating body and the structure of the field around it ; they are called structure laws . A second group analyzes the paths described by moving bodies in gravitational fields ; they are the laws of motion . It should not be thought that Einstein 's theory of gravitation is only a formal mathematical scheme . For it rests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarkable of these assumptions is that the universe is not a rigid and immutable edifice where independent matter is housed in independent space and time ; it is on the contrary an amorphous continuum , without any fixed architecture , plastic and variable , constantly subject to change and distortion . Wherever there is matter and motion , the continuum is disturbed . Just as a fish swimming in the sea agitates the water around it , so a star , a comet , or a galaxy distorts the geometry of the space-time through which it moves . When applied to astronomical problems Einstein 's gravitational laws yield results that are close to those given by Newton . If the results paralleled each other in every case , scientists might tend to retain the familiar concepts of Newtonian law and write off Einstein 's theory as a weird original fancy . But a number of strange new phenomena have been discovered , and at least one old puzzle solved , solely on the basis of General Relativity . The old puzzle stemmed from the eccentric behavior of the planet Mercury . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other planets , Mercury deviates from its course each year by a slight but exasperating degree . Astronomers explored every possible factor that might cause this perturbation but found no solution within the framework of Newtonian theory . It was not until Einstein evolved his laws of gravitation that the problem was solved . Of all the planets Mercury lies closest to the sun . It is small and travels with great speed . Under Newtonian law these factors should not in themselves account for the deviation ; the dynamics of Mercury 's movement should be basically the same as those of any other planet . But under Einstein 's laws , the intensity of the sun 's gravitational field and Mercury 's enormous speed make a difference , causing the whole ellipse of Mercury 's orbit to execute a slow but inexorable swing around the sun at the rate of one revolution in 3,000,000 years ( see diagram ) . This calculation is in perfect agreement with actual measurements of the planet 's course . Einstein 's mathematics are thus more accurate than Newton 's in dealing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far greater importance , however , than this mathematical solution of an old problem was Einstein 's prediction of a new cosmic phenomenon of which no scientist had ever dreamed ? namely the effect of gravitation on light . Iv T HE sequence of thought which led Einstein to prophesy this effect began with another imaginary situation . As before , the scene opens in an ele- vator ascending with constant acceleration through empty space , far from any gravitational field . This time some roving interstellar gunman impulsively fires a bullet at the elevator . The bullet hits the side of the car , passes clean through and emerges from the far wall at a point a little below the point at which it penetrated the first wall . The reason for this is evident to the marksman on the outside . He knows that the bullet flew in a straight line , obeying Newton 's Law of Inertia ; but while it traversed the distance between the two walls of the car , the whole elevator traveled " upward " a etrtain distance , causing the second bullet hole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the floor . However the observers inside the elevator , having no idea where in the universe they are , interpret the situation differently . Aware that on earth any missile describes a parabolic curve toward the ground , they simply conclude that they are at rest in a gravitational field and that the bullet which passed through their car was describing a perfectly normal curve with respect to the floor . A moment later as the car continues upward through space a beam of light is suddenly flashed through an aperture in the side of the car . Since the velocity of light is great the beam traverses the dis tance between its point of entrance and the opposite wall in a very small fraction of a second . Nevertheless the car travels upward a certain distance in that interval , so the beam strikes the far wall a tiny fraction of an inch below the point at which it entered . If the observers within the car are equipped with sufficiently delicate instruments of measurement they will be able to compute the curvature of the beam . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are still unaware of the motion of their car and believe themselves at rest in a gravitational field . If they cling to Newtonian principles they will be completely baffled because they will insist that light rays always travel in a straight line . But if they are familiar with the Special Theory of Relativity they will remember that energy has mass in accordance with the equation m = E/c-2 . ( See Part II last month . ) Since light is a form of energy they will deduce that light has mass and will therefore be affected by a gravitational field . Hence the curvature of the beam . From these purely theoretical considerations Einstein concluded that light , like any material object , travels in a curve when passing through the gravitational field of a massive body . He suggested that his theory could be put to test by observing the path of starlight in the gravitational field of the sun . Since the stars are invisible by day , there is only one occasion when sun and stars can be seen together in the sky , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that photographs be taken of the stars immediately bordering the darkened face of the sun during an eclipse and compared with photographs of those same stars made at another time . According to his theory the light from the stars surrounding the sun should be bent inward , toward the sun , in traversing the sun 's gravitational field ; hence the images of those stars should appear to observers on earth to be shifted outward from their usual positions in the sky . ( See diagram on the next page . ) Einstein calculated the degree of deflection that should be observed and predicted that for the stars closest to the sun the deviation would be about 1.75 seconds of an arc . Since he staked his whole General Theory of Relativity on this test , men of science throughout the world anxiously awaited the findings of expeditions which journeyed to equatorial regions to photograph the eclipse of May 29 , 1919 . When their pictures were developed and examined , the deflection of the starlight in the gravitational field of the sun was found to average 1.64 seconds ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prediction as the accuracy of instruments allowed . A NOTHER prediction made by Einstein on the basis of General Relativity pertained to time . Having shown how the properties of space are affected by a gravitational field , Einstein reached the conclusion by analogous but somewhat more involved reasoning that time intervals also vary with the strength of a gravitational field . A clock transported to the sun should run at a slightly slower rhythm than on earth . And a radiating solar atom should emit light of slightly lower frequency than an atom of the same element on earth . The difference in wavelength would in this case be immeasurably small . But there are in the universe gravitational fields stronger than the sun 's . One of these surrounds the freak star known as the " companion of Sirius "  - -  a white dwarf composed of matter in a state of such fantastic density that one cubic inch of it would weigh a ton on earth . Because of its great mass this extraordinary dwarf , which is only three times larger than the earth , has a gravitational field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times its size . It is also powerful enough to slow down the frequency of its own radiation by a measurable degree , and spectroscopic measurements have indeed proved that the frequency of light emitted by Sirius ' companion is reduced by the exact amount predicted by Einstein . The shift of wavelength in the spectrum of this star is known to astronomers as " the Einstein Effect " and constitutes an additional verification of General Relativity . V U P TO this point the concepts of Rela- tivity have dealt with the phenomena of the individual gravitational field . But the universe is filled with incomputable bodies of matter ? meteors , moons , comets , nebulae , and billions on billions of stars grouped by the interlocking geometry of their gravitational fields in clusters , clouds , galaxies , and supergalactic systems . One naturally asks , what then is the over-all geometry of the space-time continuum in which they drift ? In cruder language , what is the shape and size of the universe ? All modern replies to the question have been derived directly or indirectly from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe was most commonly pictured as an island of matter afloat in the center of an infinite sea of space . There were several reasons for this concept . The universe , most scientists agreed , had to be infinite ; because as soon as they conceded that space might come to an end somewhere , they were faced with the embarrassing question : " And what lies beyond that ? " Yet Newtonian law prohibited an infinite universe containing a uniform distribution of matter , for then the total gravitational force of all the masses of matter stretching away to infinity would be infinite , and the heavens would be ablaze with infinite light . To man 's feeble eye , moreover , it appeared that beyond the rim of our Milky Way the lamps of space became sparser and sparser , diffusing gradually in attenuated outposts like lonely lighthouses on the frontiers of the fathomless void . But the island universe presented difficulties too . The amount of matter it held was so small by contrast with the infinity of space that inevitably the dynamic laws governing the movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ droplets of a cloud and the universe would become entirely empty . To Einstein this picture of dissolution and disappearance seemed eminently unsatisfactory . The basic difficulty , he decided , derived from man 's natural but unwarranted assumption that the geometry of the universe must be the same as that revealed by his senses here on earth . We confidendy assume , for example , that two parallel beams of light will travel through space forever without meeting , because in the infinite plane of Euclidean geometry parallel lines never meet . We also feel certain that in outer space , as on a tennis court , a straight line is the shortest distance between two points . And yet Euclid never actually proved that a straight line is the shortest distance between two points ; he simply arbitrarily defined a straight line as the shortest distance between two points . Is it not then possible , Einstein asked , that man is being deceived by his limited perceptions when he pictures the universe in the garb of Euclidean geometry ? There was a time when man thought the earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth is round , and he knows that on the surface of the earth the shortest distance between two such points as New York and London is not a straight line across the Atlantic but a " great circle " that veers northward past Nova Scotia , Newfoundland , and Iceland . So far as the surface of the earth is concerned Euclid 's geometry is not valid . A giant triangle , drawn on the earth 's surface from two points on the Equator to the North Pole would not satisfy Euclid 's theorem that the sum of the interior angles of a triangle is always equal to two right angles or 180 degrees . It would contain more than 180 degrees , as a glance at the globe will quickly show . And if someone should draw a giant circle on the earth 's surface he would find that the ratio between its diameter and its circumference is less than the classic value pi . These departures from Euclid are due to the curvature of the earth . Although no one doubts today that the earth has a curvature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the earth and looking at it . The curvature of the earth can be computed very comfortably on terra firma by a proper mathe. matical interpretation of easily observable facts . In the same way , by a synthesis of astronomical fact and deduction , Einstein concluded that the universe is neither infinite nor Euclidean , as most scientists supposed , but something hitherto unimagined . i T HAS already been shown that Euclid- can geometry does not hold true in a gravitational field . Light rays do not travel in straight lines when passing through a gravitational field , for the geometry of the field is such that within it there are no straight lines ; the shortest course that the light can describe is a curve or great circle which is rigorously determined by the geometrical structure of the field . Since the geometrical structure of a gravitational field is shaped by the mass and velocity of the gravitating body ? star , moon , or planet ? it follows that the geometrical structure of the universe as a whole must be shaped by the sum of its material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a corresponding distortion of the space-time continuum . Each celestial body , each galaxy creates local irregularities in space-time , like eddies around islands in the sea . The greater the concentration of matter , the greater the resulting curvature of space-time . And the total effect is an over-all curvature of the whole space-time continuum : the combined distortions produced by all the incomputable masses of matter in the universe cause the continuum to bend back on itself in a great closed cosmic curve . The Einstein universe therefore is non-Euclidean and finite . To earthbound man a light ray may appear to travel in a straight line to infinity , just as to an earthworm crawling " straight " ahead forever and ever the earth may seem both flat and infinite . But man 's impression that the universe is Euclidean in character , like the earthworm 's impression of the earth , is imparted by the limitations of his senses . In the Einstein universe there are no straight lines , there are only great circles . Space , though finite , is unbounded ; a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the surface of a sphere . In the less abstract words of the late British physicist , Sir James Jeans : A soap-bubble with corrugations on its surface is perhaps the best representation , in terms of simple and familiar materials , of the new universe revealed to us by the Theory of Relativity . The universe is not the interior of the soap-bubble but its surface , and we must always remember that while the surface of the soap-bubble has only two dimensions , the universe bubble has four ? three dimensions of space and one of time . And the substance out of which this bubble is blown , the soap-film , is empty space welded onto empty time . Like most of the concepts of modern science , Einstein 's finite , spherical universe can not be visualized ? any more than a photon or an electron can be visualized . But as in the case of the photon and the electron its properties can be described mathematically . By taking the best available values of modern astronomy and applying them to Einstein 's field equations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In order to determine its radius , however , it is first necessary to ascertain its curvature . Since , as Einstein showed , the geometry or curvature of space is determined by its material content , the cosmological problem can be solved only by obtaining a figure for the MAGAZINE average density of matter in the universe . Fortunately this figure is available , for astronomer Edwin Hubble of the Mt . Wilson Observatory conscientiously studied sample areas of the heavens over a period of years and painstakingly computed the average amount of matter contained in them . The conclusion he reached was that in the universe as a whole there is **31;350;TOOLONG gram of matter per cubic centimeter of space . Applied to Einstein 's field equations this figure yields a positive value for the curvature of the universe , which in turn reveals that the radius of the universe is 35 billion light years or 210,000,000 , 000,000,000,000,000 miles . Einstein 's universe , while not infinite , is nevertheless sufficiently enormous to encompass billions of galaxies , each containing hundreds of millions of flaming stars and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stone and cosmic dust . A sunbeam , setting out through space at the rate of 186,000 miles a second would , in this universe , describe a great cosmic circle and return to its source after a little more than 200 billion terrestrial years . VI THE time Einstein evolved his cos-T mology , he was unaware , how-ever , of a strange astronomical phenomenon which was only interpreted several years later . He had assumed that the motions of the stars and galaxies were random , like the aimless drifting of mole-cules in a gas . Since there was no evidence of any unity in their wanderings he had ignored them entirely and regarded the universe as static . But astronomers were beginning to notice signs of a systematic movement among the outer galaxies at the extreme limits of telescopic vision . All these outlying galaxies , or " island uni-verses , " are , apparently , receding from our solar system and from each other . This organized flight of the distant gal-axies ? the most distant of them being about 500 million light years away ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nearer gravita-tional systems . For such a systematic movement would have an effect on the curvature of the universe as a whole . The universe is , therefore , not static ; it is expanding in somewhat the same manner as a soap bubble or a balloon expands . The analogy is not quite exact , however , for if we conceive of the universe as a kind of spotted balloon ? the spots representing matter ? one would expect the spots to expand too . But this can not be , because then we would never notice the expansion , just as Alice in Wonderland would have been unaware of her sudden changes in stature if all her surroundings had grown and contracted along with her . Therefore , as cosmologist H. P. Robertson of the California Institute of Technology has pointed out , in visualizing the universe as a spotted balloon , we must think of the spots as inelastic patches sewn upon the surface . Material bodies retain their dimensions while space stretches out between them , like the skin of the balloon between the patches . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis that indicates the recession of these outer galaxies is correct ( as most astronomers believe it to be ) then the velocities at which they are vanishing into limbo are almost beyond belief . Their speed appears to increase with distance . While the nearer galaxies , about one million light years away , are traveling at a mere 100 miles a second , those 250 million light years away are flying off at the fantastic rate of 25,000 miles a second , almost one seventh the velocity of light . Since all of these remote galaxies , without exception , are moving away from us and from each other , one must conclude that at some epoch of cosmic time all of them were clustered together in one fiery inchoate mass . And if the geometry of space is shaped by its material content then the universe in this pregalactic phase must have been an uncomfortably cramped and crowded receptacle , characterized by an excessive curvature and packed with matter in a state of inconceivable density . Calculations based on the velocities of the receding galaxies show that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ center " of this shrunken universe about two billion years ago . EVERAL theories have been advanced by astronomers and cosmologists to explain the enigma of the expanding universe . One , put forth by the Belgian cosmologist , Abbe LeMaitre , proposes that the universe originated from a single stupendous primordial atom which exploded and thus precipitated the expansion which we still perceive . Another , suggested by R. C. Tolman of the California Institute of Technology , suggests that this expansion may be simply a temporary condition which will be followed at some future epoch of cosmic time by a period of contraction . The universe , as Tolman pictures it , is a pulsating balloon in which cycles ' of expansion and contraction succeed each other through eternity . These cycles are governed by changes in the amount of matter in the universe ; for as Einstein showed , the curvature of the universe is dependent on its content . The trouble with Tolman 's theory is that it rests on the assumption that somewhere in the universe matter is being formed . Although it is true that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the change is all in one direction ? toward dissolution . All the phenomena of nature , visible and invisible , within the atom and in outer space , indicate that the substance and energy of the universe are inexorably diffusing like vapor through the insatiable void . The sun is slowly but surely burning out , the stars are dying embers , and everywhere in the cosmos heat is turning to cold , matter is dissolving into radiation , and energy is being dissipated into empty space . The universe is thus progressing toward an ultimate " heat-death , " or as it is technically defined , a condition of " maximum entropy . " When the universe reaches this state some billions of years from now all the processes of nature will cease . All space will be at the same temperature . No energy can be used because all of it will be uniformly distributed through the cosmos . There will be no light , no life , no warmth ? nothing but perpetual and irrevocable stagnation . And there is no way of avoiding this destiny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fateful principle known as the . Second Law of Thermodynamics ? assert that the fundamental processes of the universe are irreversible . Nature moves just one way . Yet Tolman proposes that somehow , somewhere , beyond man 's meager ken , the universe may be rebuilding itself again . In the light of Einstein 's principle of the equivalence of mass and energy , it is possible to imagine the diffused radiation in space congealing once more into particles of matter ? electrons , atoms , and molecules ? which then combine to form larger units , which in turn are collected by their own gravitational influence into diffuse nebulae , stars , and ultimately galactic systems . And thus the life cycle of the universe may be repeated for all eternity . This concept of an immortal pulsating universe is an agreeable one , for man inevitably finds thoughts of oblivion , however remote , displeasing . And yet Tolman 's theory has not been generally accepted because no real evidence has been found to support it . At one time it was thought that the mysterious cosmic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be byproducts of some process of atomic creation . But there is greater support for the theory that they are byproducts of atomic annihilation . Nothing in inanimate nature , indeed , can be interpreted as a creative process . Everything suggests that the universe is inexorably progressing ever faster and faster toward final darkness and decay . Yet there are compensations for this view . For if the universe is running down and nature 's processes are proceeding in just one direction , the inescapable corollary is that sometime , somehow , these processes were started and the universe brought into being . And most of the clues that have been discovered at the inner and outer boundaries of scientific knowledge suggest a definite time of Creation . The unvarying rate at which uranium expends its nuclear energies , and the absence of any natural process leading to its formation indicate that all of the uranium on earth must have come into existence at one specific time . The rate at which the wild electromagnetic forces in the interiors of stars transmute mass into radiation enables astronomers to compute with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evidence that points to the ultimate annihilation of the universe points just as definitely to a Beginning . And even if one accepts Tolman 's conception of an eternal , pulsating universe , the mystery of initial origin remains . It merely pushes the time of Creation into the infinite past . VII c osmoLocasrs for the most part maintain silence on the question of ultimate origins , leaving that issue to the philosophers and theology . Yet only the purest empiricists among modern scientists turn their backs on the mystery that underlies physical reality . Einstein , whose philosophy of science has sometimes been criticized as materialistic , once said : The most beautiful and most profound emotion we can experience is the sensation of the mystical . It is the sower of all true science . He to whom this emotion is a stranger , who can no longer wonder and stand rapt in awe , is as good as dead . To know that what is impenetrable to us really exists , manifesting itself as the highest wisdom and the most radiant beauty which our dull faculties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge , this feeling is at the center of true religiousness . And on another occasion he dec:ared , " The cosmic religious experience is the strongest and noblest mainspring of scientific research . " Most scientists , when referring to the mysteries of the universe , its vast forces , its origins , and its rationality and harmony , tend to avoid using the word God . Yet Einstein , who has been called an atheist , has no such inhibitions . " My religion , " he says , " consists of a humble admiration of the illimitable superior spirit who reveals himself in the slight details we are able to perceive with our frail and feeble minds . That deeply emotional conviction of the presence of a superior reasoning power , which is revealed in the incomprehensible universe , forms my idea of God . " So far as science is concerned , there are at the moment two gateways which offer the promise of closer access to physical reality . One is the great new telescope which soon , from Mt . Palomar , California , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time than ever were dreamed by astronomers a generation ago . Till now the extreme range of telescopic perception has essentially terminated at the faint hurrying galaxies 500 million light years away . But the two-hundredinch reflector of Mt . Palomar will double that range , enabling man to look upon whatever lies beyond . Perhaps it will reveal only new homogeneous oceans of space and new myriads of far galaxies whose antique light has swum to earth through a billion years of terrestrial time . But it may reveal other things ? variations in the density of matter or visual evidence of a cosmic curvature from which man can accurately compute the dimensions of the universe in which he so insignificantly dwells . The other gateway to this knowledge may be opened by the Unified Field Theory upon which Einstein has been at work for a quarter century . Today the outer limits of man 's knowledge are defined by Relativity , the inner limits by the Quantum Theory . Relativity has shaped all our concepts of space , time , gravitation and the realities that are too remote and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shaped all our concepts of the atom , the basic units of matter and energy , and the realities that are too elusive and too small to be perceived . Yet these two great scientific systems rest on entirely different and unrelated theoretical foundations . The purpose of Einstein 's Unified Field Theory is to construct a bridge between them . Believing in the harmony and uniformity of nature Einstein hopes to evolve a single edifice of physical laws that will encompass both the phenomena of the atom and the phenomena of outer space . Just as Relativity reduced gravitational force to a geometrical peculiarity of the space-time continuum , so the Unified Field Theory will reduce electromagnetic force ? the other great universal force ? to equivalent status . Since energy has mass and mass is congealed energy , matter will be regarded simply as a concentration of field . And so the distinction between matter and field will fade ; the distinction between gravitation and electromagnetic force will fade ; and matter , gravitation , and electromagnetic force will all thus resolve into distortions of the space-time continuum which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theory will climax the long march of science toward unification of concepts . For all man 's perceptions of the world and all his abstract intuitions of reality ? matter , energy , force , space , time ? will merge into one . And yet one may ask if science , for all its consolidating of premises and its increasing accuracy of description , is leading man toward or away from reality . In its attempt to penetrate beyond the limitations of man 's senses , science has tended ever more and more to interpret reality in terms of mathematical symbols . Man realized long hence that his senses were simply a clouded glass through which he vainly sought to discern reality . It may be that the lens of mathematics is simply another clouded glass . For man , standing between the macrocosm and the microcosm , finds barriers on both sides , and must perhaps conclude with St. Paul that " the world was created by the word of God so that what is seen was made out of things which do not appear . "   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         