@@487479

AMERICA 'S LEADING LIBERAL WEEKLY SINCE 1865 VOLUME 165 NEW YORK ? SATURDAY ? DECEMBER 6 , 1947 NUMBER 23 The Shape of Things PROCEEDINGS DURING THE FIRST WEEK OF the London conference provided little reason for revising the gloomy estimate of its success that we gave in our last issue . True , the Foreign . Ministers managed to agree on an agenda  --  a task that had defeated their deputies  --  but in the discussion of basic issues there seemed to be no meeting of minds . The chief matter in dispute has been the form and scope of a provisional German government . All four powers ? France , with many reservations  --  favor a politically and economically unified Germany , but at that point agreement ends . The United States , Britain , and France want a loose federation with large powers left to the constituent states ; Russia , a strong centralized government . Both sides , of course , are concerned about the way in which the balance of power will be tilted by the new Germany . Russia fears that our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bastion in Central Europe ; we dread a Communist Germany allied to the U.S.S.R. Since , unfortunately , neither fear can be dismissed as absurd , it would seem that Russia and the United States can hardly hope to make a joint peace with a unified Germany until they end their " cold war . " The strong probability of stalemate in the present conference has been underlined by Molotov 's demand that America and Britain renounce all thought of making a separate peace with a truncated Germany . Naturally , Marshall and Bevin have refused to commit themselves on this point . There is good reason to suppose that they are not anxious to play this trump card of dubious value , but at the present stage of the game they can not afford to throw it away . THE BRITISH LABOR GOVERNMENT , WHICH has suffered some hard knocks lately , has good cause to be jubilant at the victory of its candidate , Sir Richard Acland , at the Gravesend parliamentary by-election . In the recent municipal elections , as Aylmer Valiance reminds us in his article on page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ austerity " with very gratifying results from their point of view . Their successes , they claimed , showed that the tide had turned against the Labor Party , and they looked to Gravesend to provide a clinching proof . They had some reason to be optimistic . Gravesend is not a typical industrial constituency ; it is a mixed urban , suburban and rural district at the mouth of the Thames , with large farming and middle-class elements to balance a considerable population of longshoremen and factory workers . At the general election in 1945 , when Labor ousted a Tory who had held the seat firmly for twenty-one years , a " Liberalhad intervened , polling 5,000 votes . This time , there-was a straight fight , and the Tories confidently expected most of the Liberal votes to go to their candidate . Another point in their favor was that the election was called just after the inauguration of potato rationing , an unpopular if necessary measure . The Tories made much of this issue , even though they could not explain how or why the Labor government had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was , they tried to suggest , just another example of bad Labor planning , and they extolled , with Winston Churchill , " the marvelous'results of sweeping away controls " in the United States . At this point , President Truman unwittingly provided Acland with a powerful counter-argument by his request to Congress to reimpose controls and rationing . That seems to have been the turning point in a ding-dong battle which Labor won with a reduced but handy majority . BOSTON IS A CITY THAT BLANCHES AT A naughty word in type and keeps a convicted crook for its Mayor . Normally , we would not be too exercised over a commutation of sentence that freed a seventy-two-yearold man a month before his eligibility for parole , and we would not even be vindictive in the case of the Honorable James M. Curley if his release were not enveloped in a cloud of dubious politics . It is not every prisoner who has the minority whip of the House of Representatives circulating petitions in his behalf . Still fewer have a champion in the Cabinet , as Curley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And no jailbird we ever heard of had the mayoralty of a great city held open for him while he served his time . By commuting Curley 's sentence after five months , President Truman not only assured the venerable Mayor of a Thanksgiving dinner at home , a touching sentiment in itself , but left intact his civil ? rights . Cynical Republicans , with an eye on Curley 's usefulness to his party in 1948 , may puff up in righteous wrath , as some already have The NATION done , but their indignation can not be pushed far without coming up against the strange behavior of their own party colleagues in Massachusetts . After all , it was a Republican legislature that , in ninety minutes , rushed through the so-called " Curley law , " whereby the city clerk of Boston was made temporary mayor until the moment the convict , specifically named in the legislation , should again set foot in City Hall . And it was Republican Governor Bradford who signed the bill , presumably out of gratitude to Curley for making him governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago . Curley was greeted outside his home by a band playing " Hail to the Chief , " but the country has still to hear an outcry from those forces of piety in Boston to whom mail fraud apparently is the merest peccadillo beside the monstrous sin of birth control . THE MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 'S BOAST that it has not produced anything un-American was blown to pieces when its " leaders , " meeting in New York , announced to the world that they were firing the ten men cited for contempt of Congress for refusing to answer the questions of J. Parnell Thomas 's egregious committee . There is good reason for taking into account the political ' beliefs of people employed in the policy-making departments of government ; but when private industry begins to fire people for their suspected sympathy with , or membership in , a political group which is , after all , a legal party , every individual is laid open to an attack upon his right and his opportunity to work  --  and to think as he pleases . The actions of the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subservience to its whims by the heads of Hollywood is even more so . Those heads have always touched their heels , as it were , leaning over backward to conform to the mores of morons , as laid down in the Hays code . But this time , their antics are not merely ridiculous ; they are also dangerous . A court test is very much in order , and we hope it will be pressed . For the defendants are not just those few fellow-travelers who have the means to fight back and who do n't mind being martyrs anyway , but everyone who does not hold the thoroughly un-American view that all 's right with the world . PRESIDENT TRUMAN , IN HIS MESSAGE TO Congress on November 17 , asked that " some restraint should be placed on inflationary bank credit . " In this generalized form , the request seemed one of the least controversial in the Presidential program , and even Senator Taft indicated willingness to support it . However , if Congress gets down to brass tacks on the subject , it is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as much heat as price control . That fact has December 6 , 1947 been . made clear by the loud protests of the banking community against a plan offered , last week to the House Banking and Currency Committee by Federal Reserve Chairman Marriner Eccles . Mr. Eccles suggested that the Federal Reserve Board be given new powers to require all banks to hold special additional reserves of cash or short-term government securities . He proposed a maximum of 25 per cent against demand deposits and 10 per cent against time deposits , which , combined with existing requirements , could . mean that banks would be obliged to keep in reserve 39 to 51 Per cent of their time deposits , the actual ratio varying with location . This would increase the influence of the Reserve System on the money market and serve to constrict the banks ' ability to make commercial loans , which have been expanding at a phenomenal rate in recent months . We can see certain technical objections to his plan , but , since maximum legal reserves have previously been moved up and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything startlingly revolutionary about it . Nevertheless , the bankers view Mr. Eccles 's idea as nothing less than " a step toward socialization of banking , " and they obviously are prepared to fight it tooth and nail . Their chances of successful resistance are good , since Administration councils are divided , with Secretary of the Treasury Snyder taking his stand with his former banking associates . The Meyers Crackdown J HE sudden ferocity with which his former comrades in top echelons of the armed services have turned on Major General Bennett E. Meyers ( retired ) must be a shattering blow to even so cynical a character as " Benny . " Without the formality of civil trial or court martial , he has been denied further disability pension , stripped of his medals , and branded a " disgrace to the uniform " by his war-time commander . The self-portrait which the kiss-and-tell general painted in his curious " defense " before the Senate War Investigating Committee will ? still any protests which this summary crackdown might , arouse among civil libertarians . Yet the haste and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meyers 's version of his relations with Mrs. Lamarre and the resulting complexities will be weighed in the courts . On the record so far , we are inclined to agree with Senator Ferguson that the General 's explanation is even more damaging than the charges against him ; that if , in actuality , he promoted the Aviation Electric Corporation in order to retain the favor of the lady and her husband  --  he was using government contracts to subsidize his sex life . This is not usually considered conduct becoming a model major general . Mrs. Lamarre , in turn , accuses Meyers of rank boastfulness and insists he steadfastly pursued profit , not pleasure . This narrow609 clispite has undoubtedly buried some significant disclosures about the war-tinie A. A. F. But even so , the current military offensive against Meyers takes on a rather hollow sound when the following items are con-sidered : 1 . In the summer of 1945 , an anonymous member of the Air Forces wrote a letter to the FBI offering plain clues to Meyers 's " profiteering . " It was promptly transmitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Junius Jones , Air Inspector , has admitted that the charges were never investigated . With notable arrogance , he said he still thought it read like the work of a " reformer " and " crackpot , " and he deplored the failure of the author to sign his name . On further questioning , it developed that General Jones is the author of a manual stressing the need for investigation of leads in all anonymous letters . 2 . The letter was routed  --  inexplicably  --  to the office of General H. H. Arnold , war-time A. A. F. chief , where it gathered dust . Arnold had meanwhile sent a questionnaire to top procurement officers asking them to list their stockholdings . He assured them no " investigation " was contemplated ; he wanted the material as the basis for a " public-relations " campaign to refute ugly " rumors " about the procurement setup . When General Jones was asked why no effort was made to look behind the replies , he said the Air Forces had no power to " force " an officer to divulge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his angry public condemnation of Meyers , confessed that the errant general had discussed speculation in government bonds with him in 1943 . Yet the discussion apparently stirred no suspicions about the scope of Meyers 's extra-curricular activities ; Arnold simply declined to join in the deal . 4 . Colonel John W. Price acknowledged that he wrote a memorandum earlier this year recommending that the Air Forces , having pigeonholed the anonymous letter , withhold it from the Senate probers . It was only by accident that the document fell into the committee 's hands . General Jones thereupon announced that , " for reasons independent of this investigation , ' , ' Colonel Price would be transferred to another . post . Will General Jones get a medal ? - General Arnold and Mr. Symington now express confidence that General Meyers was " just one rotten apple " in a big barrel . We are also told that a new day in procurement is at hand and - that the unified services will prevent a repetition of these " errors . " The reorganization referred to will be welcome . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system will be only gently jarred in the process . It was that system as much as any other factor which protected General Meyers , sparing him such discomforts as inspection of his war-time financial operations . We hope the Senate investigators will not reduce the Meyers case to a saga of individual sin when they write their final report . United Nations Victory BY FREDA KIRCHWEY T HE Palestine decision was a victory not to be di-minished by the grimy background of intrigue and vote-trading from which it emerged . Nothing that went before can blur the outlines of the new Jewish state , defined in the language of the resolution , if not yet in structural form , and approved by more than two-thirds of the members . This is the Assembly 's one great accomplishment , and it went far to restore faith in the capacity of the United Nations to ad positively . The decision has been challenged by the Arab states and rejected by the Palestine Arab Higher Committee , but many signs already point to ultimate reluctant acquiescence rather than all-out rebellion . Not one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations ; as for the Arabs of Palestine , they may never accept partition but also they may not resist it  --  not , at least , as a whole people . Undoubtedly , there will be violence ; the warlike threats and preparations of the Mufti , across the border in Lebanon , have already touched off ugly outbursts in Palestine and Syria . But his efforts may ' e partly offset by the activities of certain opposition Palestinian Arabs , known even now to be in contact with King Abdullah and ready to take advantage of a possible future absorption of Arab Palestine by Transjordan . Faced with a United Nations decision carried out by a United Nations commission , Arab intransigence is likely to fade . In any case , the decision will neither be reversed nor nullified . Even Britain has officially stated its willingness " not to obstruct " any plan - adopted by the Assembly . So we may assume that the Assembly plan will be put in effect , at least in Jewish Palestine , and that by October the new state  --  or states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was achieved by eight weeks of parliamentary maneuver , lobbying , debate , and back-stairs trading ; more profoundly , it was produced , as ? the oranges and phosphates of Palestine have been produced , by a mighty faith and iron endurance maintained through twenty-five years of Jewish struggle . T HE battle in the Assembly was the pay-off . In time , it will be reviewed and analyzed in these pages . Here , only a few major points can be made : If Britain , whiCh gave the Palestine problem to the United Nations , had cooperated in finding a solution , the matter could have been easily settled . The United Nations Special Committee had submitted majority and minority reports and a wealth of supporting material . The views of the opposing parties had been well aired last spring . But because of Britain 's negative attitude , the whole procedure faced a series of roadblocks . The British delegates  --  first the Colonial Secretary , Arthur Creech Jones , and then Sir Alexander Cadogan  --  kept repeating the formula on which the session began : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined in London ; British troops would be withdrawn when the government saw fit ( in his last speech , Cadogan set August 1 as the date of final withdrawal ) ; Britain would not , at any stage , be responsible for helping establish or enforce a solution not accepted by both Arabs and Jews  --  that is , any solution conceivable . The subcommittee was left with the unhappy task of planning partition without knowing when , where , how , or under what authority the job could be accomplished . Even this difficulty might have been overcome fairly easily if the United States had taken a clear , strong position at the outset . Unfortunately , until the last days , the United States followed a policy of deliberate ambiguity . No one knew just where our delegation stood at any given moment  --  including the delegates themselves . As always , the State Department wanted to string along with Britain , if possible . Influential men in the department , with the Defense Department and the combined Chiefs of Staff in the background , favored a solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Oil and defense and old-fashioned imperialist interests were balanced against long-standing promises to the Jews , and President Truman 's inclination  --  personal as well as political  --  toward a Zionist solution . The result was a formal indorsement of the majority plan offset by a long series of delays and reservations . For days on end , the United States members of the subcommittee sat silent while the other members fumed and privately expressed their annoyance at American passivity . It was only when the press criticized the shilly-shallying of our delegates that they were jolted briefly into activity. ? But the deliberations were so endlessly protracted that the energetic Dr. Evatt finally invaded the sub-committee , demanded a report , and got one . How much of the trouble can be laid to the American members themselves , and how much to Washington , it would be hard to say . Certainly , General Hilldring , our delegation 's excellent adviser , did his utmost to force the issue . The best guess is that most of obstructions originated in the higher reaches of the State Department . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the account of a handful of men . Apart from Dr. Evatt , whose tenacity and parliamentary skill were a major asset ' December 6 , 1947 in the fight , great praise should go to three of the Latin American delegates ? Jorge Granados , of Guatemala , E. Rodriguez Fabregat , of Uruguay , and Pedro Zuloaga , of Venezuela . Fabregat and Granados , having served as members of UNSCOP , contributed immensely to the success of the working committee which was set up to resolve differences and prepare the detailed plan of implementation ; and all three showed skill in preventing serious divisions in the subcommittee . Equally effective was Canada 's able Under Secretary of State for External Affairs , Lester Pearson . Very hard-headed and direct , quick on the trigger , Pearson kept finding ways around the succession of barriers raised by the British and the Americans . Another man who deserves more credit than he got was Ksowery Pruszynksi , the subcommittee 's Polish chairman . Laboring under the handicap of a slow and reluctant English , Pruszynksi nevertheless held the group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the majority recommendations . He was himself unwavering in support of partition , and his tenacious good faith kept others in line . Finally , credit must go to Russia 's Tsrapakin who , from the moment Gromyko announced his support of partition , did everything possible to hasten agreement . No one could accuse the Soviet delegates of obstruction or any attempt to play politics with the issue . They were conciliatory and reasonable all through , and at several critical points accepted compromise solutions , as in the matter of Security Council authority over the Palestine commission , in order to speed action . Throughout , the representatives of the Jewish Agency showed statesmanship and a restraint which was the more impressive because they had waited so long for the day of decision . Dr. Abba Hillel Silver and Dr. Chaim Weizmann ably presented the Zionist case in the general debate while Moshe Shertok carried the whole weight of day-by-day negotiation with a skill and patience that every member recognized . T HE commission was hand-picked by the United States . Four out of five of the countries named @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bolivia , ' Panama , Denmark , and the Philippines . Czechoslovakia was chosen instead of Poland , which had earned a place on the commission . Bolivia was put on , while Guatemala and Uruguay were omitted  --  on United States insistence , after both had been recommended by the working committee . But the value of the commission will be demonstrated in action ; and its ability to accomplish the difficult task assigned to it will depend , in the end , not so much on its composition , though that is important enough , as on the attitude of the great powers toward its mission . How far will Britain go in maintaining order while its troops remain in Palestine ? Will it611 organize the process of withdrawal so as to facilitate the work of the commission , or pull out in the manner best suited to . its own convenience ? The answers to those questions will determine order or chaos in Palestine . Continued cooperation between Russia and the United States will play an immense role in insuring a successful transfer of power . Another factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ militia . Since no United Nations force has been provided to keep the peace while the commission governs Palestine , it is essential that the Haganah be quickly supplied with equipment and prepared to defend partition as it is carried into effect . The decision in the Assembly was won through the belated help of the United States , without whose help it could not have been won at all . Those Americans who - watched the struggle at dose range or , like the representatives of The Nation Associates , took an active hand in it , were not happy at the reluctant role their government played  --  particularly in view of past pledges and the evident necessities of the case . Now that partition has been adopted , the United States has an opportunity to see to it that the plan succeeds . If raids and terror rule in Palestine , the Security Council will be called upon to take action  --  and this is the contingency the State Department has been most anxious to avoid . The best hope of order , and effective implementation of the plan offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of the Jewish forces ? before the British troops withdraw . 