@@431403

You may recall that after Al Smith had been chosen to head the Democratic ticket he was challenged to show why his allegiance to the Pope did not make him a dangerous character and a tool of foreign interests . Once asked , the question traveled around like the offspring of the original Japanese beetle , " tolerance " disappeared , and a scar was left on the American social landscape which one can still see with the naked eye . But what is more surprising in retrospect is that the challenge was originally considered a godsend and an omen of Democratic victory . For some seasons prior to election year the Klan had held a record number of torchlight parades , only to wilt completely when the heat of publicity was turned on . Did this not mean that most Americans disapproved so strongly of religious bickering that anyone who invested in it would be hooted out of court ? Not a few reasonably hard-headed people thought so . We know now they were mistaken . When that kind of fire is started , somebody has to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blaze just kept on burning ? There has been slowly shaping up a Catholic-Protestant controversy which may , if it develops , scorch the roots of American democracy . The sources from which it derives are many . Current comment on Catholics may be summarized tersely . Here are some of the views held by many non-Catholics , including some who regard themselves as judicial and reasonable people : The strength of the Catholic Church can inspire uneasiness and fear . On a trip up the Hudson , one passes rows of former estates now chock-full of priests , nuns , and brothers working diligently to make America Catholic . They take their orders from their own brand of Comintern ? that is , the Vatican . Were they to succeed , what would be the lot of dissenters ? Does not the Church teach that once Catholics have gained control of the state they must abolish the civil rights of those outside the fold ? Do they not do so wherever they can ? Meanwhile the clergy drop hints as to what to  | expect when their power in America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prevent non-Catholics who want birth-control advice from getting it . And in a dozen ways they curb freedom of speech . Catholics operate a school system which erects barriers between Americans and therefore makes the realization of true democracy impossible . They have the effrontery to suggest that this system be supported from public funds . Finally , Catholics are intellectually grubby , socially smudgy , given to conniving with foreign Fascists , and sickeningly bourgeois . They talk a special brand of English , noted for mauve patches and rasping epithets , and they play bingo . The Catholic counter-attack is not without zest and flavor . Here are some of the views held by many on the other side of the con-troversy : Protestantism is in a state of decomposition . It believes in nothing , not even the Divinity of Christ , and can not agree to support any ethical principle . This sorry condition is the consequence of having been in error since the Reformation . Having traditionally looked down on Catholics , snubbed them when possible , and at regular intervals created Know-Nothing or Klan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such antics has passed . Therefore they stand ready to make an anti-Catholic pact with anybody , even Communists . In the political arena , Protestantism came to grief over Prohibition . Now its principal platform plank has become the iniquitous legalization of contraceptives , counted on to reduce the number of Catholics , who prevailingly inhabit urban areas . Having blindly relied upon the public school as the great American educational agency , Protestants now see that they have created a wholly secularist teaching profession , able to concede the existence of everybody and everything except God . Finally , Protestants are unimaginative , staid , stubborn , blue-nosed , and addicted to innocuous public prayers on insignificant occasions . This kind of pot will bubble if the fire is fed . When one bears in mind that the majority of Americans are to be found in neither camp , but that there is abroad in the land a notably wistful hope that religion might help us all to find a path across the dreary landscape modern man is fated to habit , the spectacle of two great Confessi , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paradox or Catholicism is that which it is outwardly strong and at least sin the Renaissance given to a cult splendor , its holy secret is its consciousness human weakness . And the paradox of Pr estantism is that , while outwardly disparat weak in its collective expression , and auste in its ecclesiastical forms , it feels blessed a consciousness of strength . I think this - the fundamental divergence , and that onl when it is surmounted can there be unity at least cordial friendship . A Catholic comes to his Church with t conviction that here , in a mystical but re sense , is the Bride of Christ to whom hay been given the beatitudes and the Eucharist ' Feast , the eternal creed and the immutable moral law . But he is from the beginning ' aware also of his own weakness and of human debility . It is expected that at the close of each day he will take stock of his defections . and that periodically he will make a clean breast of them to his confessor . To him it remains the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been lavished on man he is nevertheless a sorry mess . No matter how often this oddly fork-like animal turns the hose on his body . it will be dirty during some hours of the day . Can a human being say more of his mind ant ' spirit ? In a very real and not at all jocoso way the Church is a bath-house and a doctor 's office . Accordingly , if someone stands outside and points a finger at the foibles of which he and his fellows are guilty , the Catholic is not disturbed because he knows worse things already . He is aware that history speaks of despicable individuals seated on the Papal throne itself . He knows that nowhere are there more brothels than in some Catholic lands . Told of what celibacy has done to some , he must reply that marriage has done even worse to others . Nothing one could say to him would . I think , surpass his realization that when a priest prepares for the Mass he must follow , at the risk of incurring dire spiritual pen- alties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for soldiers on the eve of inspection . And the reason ? Priests have been known to be slovenly even when going to their highest and most sacred office . The Catholic , in short , is what he is precisely because the Church is holy and he is not . A Saint ? and there are not a few ? is merely somebody whose life reflects in a feeble measure the sanctity of his Church . THE protestant , on the other hand ? I say it tentatively and with affection ? seems cast in a different mold . What is the Church save a sacred fellowship in which one has parity by reason of election ? The Protestant often has a profound and humble respect for leadership , and will follow an able guide as resolutely as a Benedictine walks in the footsteps of his Abbot . But he is bound by no indissoluble ties . The time may come when he will sense the need of other guidance ; and in that case he must cut himself adrift and look elsewhere . Quest is therefore the first characteristic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One must have struck no permanent bargain , because only in the continuing incorruptibility of oneself is salvation made manifest . Thus there lies about the heads of steadfast and beleaguered Protestants a glory which commands respect . When one has known them at their best , as in the German Confessional Church which said no to Nazism at such dire cost , one has known humanity at near its noblest . Yet is it not true that this individualism , whether mystical or rationalistic , is a lonely creed , and that when its confessor looks about him it is difficult to find living comradeship out of which a human community might arise ? May it not be , in short , that some of the fear of the Catholic Church as currently voiced is rooted in nostalgic desire for the unity so evident in that Church ? These questions are asked in no querulous mood . Undoubtedly a Catholic makes a very considerable sacrifice of individual bent and desire . He does so when he is sincere because he believes he must , for his soul 's sake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such offering and remain honest . But he must as a consequence bear his own burden and it , too , is a heavy one . If , as more judicious men than I have said , this dichotomy could be resolved , fortune would smile again on Christendom . But this seems a remote goal , and the day belongs to those who foster that emancipation from religious ties to which the name of secularism has been given . Its seal is on nearly everything under the sun . Authority it has dubbed authoritarianism , and freedom is what anybody thinks it is . Superficially the Catholic is less of an obstacle to secularism than is the Protestant . For example , his mores frown less sternly on wine , gaming , and the dance . Yet when one looks at all deeply one sees that secularism has its implacable foe in the church of Rome . The Papal claim to speak authoritatively to individuals of the most disparate character in the name of unchanging truth tempts Protestantism to consider the secularist its ally . And so , no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time is whether the Protestant will succumb to that temptation . But what matters now is that the Catholic often most unwisely fails to discern his fateful brotherhood with the Protestants . HIS is the setting of the debate . And it is intensified by various emotional factors . Much about the outer spectacle of Catholic life ruffles the aesthetic nerves of those who lack native sympathy with it . Only an exacerbated anti-Papist would , I surmise , resent a Corpus Christi procession outside a town in Lombardy . Such an event seems to fit into an Italian landscape , and of course the connoisseur knows that each has a distinguished classical pedigree . But the Church in America is the common people decked out in a heap of European regalia , and the effect on the outsider is often fascinating , funny , or annoying , depending on his mood . It is said that St. Patrick 's in New York is what it is because somebody saw a postcard picture of Regensburg Cathedral . When one reflects that this structure was paid for by poor Irish newcomers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German neighbors a feud was in progress which subsided only when the young in the two groups cannily began to intermarry , the humor of this Teutonic art victory is obvious . But is the fun more uproarious than one can enjoy at Yale or Princeton ?  | Sometimes the Catholic immigrant 's homesickness has expressed itself with vigorous authenticity . If one stands on the campus of St. Mary 's College and looks across a fringe of trees toward Notre Dame University , all one sees is an elongated gilded dome thrust up into the sky . It is a rough copy of the Hotel des Invalides , of course ; and I often think that the French priest who caused that rocket of gold to explode there , in the wilderness , was truly a great , wild poet . Yet there is about many Catholic churches , in town and country , a fearful quantity of ten-cent-store arabesque ? inane statuary , painted glass dripping sentimentality , vestments made for thin people on fat people , and music designed to make one wish the singers would join the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well happen , all this is topped with a sermon combining a curiously ungrammatical orthodoxy , pot-shots at the rest of the world , and invitations to participate in varied gambling events , it can easily be that what is suggested is Coney Island on a religious binge . Candidly , I used to worry about it a good deal when I was young , but it has come to seem dear and even in a sense glorious . For where else shall the common people find a center round which they can rally their lives , or something that sets all they do in immortal perspective ? But I know there are many who , fearing this may be the tide destined to engulf American culture all the way from the cobbler 's bench and the hobnail decanter to Dartmouth 's Great Issues Course , see in their dreams four frowsy Catholic horsemen moving in on civilization . Little need be said about cultural prejudices which gnaw at Catholic composure because they can easily be imagined . ( The Protestant clergyman 's religion , one hears from many Catholics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few victims of insomnia by discussing the United Nations and Stalin 's more hopeful intentions . His congregation consists of people who secretly yearn to be Catholics but can not because rich grandmothers would disown them , or because they have never studied logic . What really keeps Protestantism going is arrogant disapproval of the Pope . ) That such unrealistic generalizations should be in vogue is deplorable . But for the moment they are fairly damp dynamite . III Now let us look at some of the issues . The first crucial question is : Does the Catholic Church teach that when a state is under Catholic control the civil rights of others may , or must , be abrogated ? If the answer is yes , non-Catholic Americans will of necessity consider the Church a threat to their basic liberties . Nor can the query be dismissed as purely theoretical . If population statistics show even a slight increase in the relative number of Catholics , a time may be envisioned when they will constitute a majority of American citizens . One may observe at this point that although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a net Catholic gain . Naturally it is also possible that , should a marked drift away from both confessions set in , Catholics may some day outnumber Protestants . Under such circumstances , a statement by the late Monsignor John A. Ryan , widely respected for his liberal views , that the pronouncements of Pope Leo XIII made it necessary to hold that the rights of dissenters were not recognized in principle by the Catholic Church was hardly soothing syrup . It deeply shocked American Catholics , too , because it made them , ethically , first cousins of the Communists , prone to claim democratic privileges until strong enough to deny them to others . Soon a group of moral theologians , led by eminent Jesuits , was at work studying the problem . There were conferences with representative Protestant scholars . Essays on the subject were circulated . Finally , during the summer of 1949 , a notable body of Catholic intellectuals met in St. Louis for earnest and searching debate . The conclusions reached were of necessity tentative . But I think that while Monsignor Ryan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one must add that Catholic moral teaching on the major issues has not been made sufficiently explicit . Until further clarity has been achieved , there may well be some further groping and contentiousness . On the other hand , reports from nearly all countries in Europe and Latin America indicate that Catholic thinkers are overwhelmingly opposed to Monsignor Ryan 's position . The pertinence of drab pages of history  | may be discounted . The contemporary mind is , however , greatly impressed by current practice . And so it is often said that whereas Catholics are free to practice their religion in the Scandinavian countries , where Protestantism is the established creed , they do not in Spain , for example , accord comparable liberty to Protestants . The conclusion drawn is what might be expected , namely that while Catholics may declare themselves in favor of civil liberties , what they do about them when they have a chance is another matter . Franco 's Spain has been hotly debated ever since the fateful day when his Moors left Africa , and I have seen no reason to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as one of the editors of the Commonweal , I said that tying the American Catholic kite to such a regime was a naive blunder and a moral disaster , no matter how deeply and justly one might resent Spanish anti-clericalism . ' Whatever attraction it may present as an asset in the tussle with the Soviets , Franco 's government has as many crimes in its record as one can find on a police blotter . It is a tightly controlled little experiment in unimaginative nationalism . Franco does not persecute Protestants , but he certainly hogties them . Catholics are also hobbled . Some of their ablest leaders are in exile , the treatment of the Basques remains scandalous , education is not free , and a Catholic publicist who spoke his mind would get thirty days on bread and water . The difference is that whereas Catholics who keep mum are accepted socially , it is deemed impossible that Protestants can really behave . The distinction may be subtle but it is important , and no one can be blamed for thinking so . IV IT IS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on one side and the laity on the other . In my experience , the percentage of priests who could not stomach Franco was as large as the percentage of laymen . At any rate , we may now cast a glance at " clericalism , " by which is meant the class-consciousness of the priestly caste , given to lording it over the faithful . Undoubtedly the clergy , apart from its hieratic functions , resembles the secular academic profession in feeling that the rest of the race is immature , that its own scholarly prerogatives are important , and that the student ( or sinner ) should be kept in his place . There are academic or clerical virtues and foibles , as any bishop or college president can tell you . In the United States the situation may be a little complicated by a form of hero worship which often compels the priest to seem a blend of Frank Sinatra and the Chief of Police . But the " conspiracies " are really not very impressive in either case . I may be able to illustrate the , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I translated a novel which the late Bishop Kelley read and told me he liked . A few days later he came round to say that a certain doughty and thunderous Monsignor wag in a dither about the book and planned a broadside . " I will review it before he lets off steam , " he said , and promptly sat down to write a notice which saved the day . Not long ago , just before a dinner meeting , I met the head of a Catholic institution , who proffered his sympathy to me as an educator . He thought it particularly distressing that I had to deal with Negro students . It so happened that the Archbishop of the city in question also spoke that night . He related that the morning before he had , while driving along , seen two Negro Sisters on their way to a convention . He had invited them to luncheon and asked them where they were staying . " It was a wretched place , " he added . " I said to them , Sisters , tonight you will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over which my interlocutor presided . Finally I recall that as formidable a martinet as the American hierarchy has ever known intervened to make a campaign against Catholic participation in the Berlin Olympics a failure . Twelve years later , he remarked , " Remember the Berlin Olympics ? Well , I was wrong . " You will gather that there is such a thing as " clericalism , " but it is not all of one piece . Were the Catholic laity of America as upright , intelligent , human , and individualistic as their clergy , we should have little to worry about . THE priest does wield extraordinary power in shaping the response of millions of people to certain basic life questions . What , for example , is a man to think about sex , marriage , and divorce ? Be- cause the priest sponsors views on these vital themes which differ from those entertained by what is now doubtless the vast majority of non-Catholics , he provokes discussion and resentment . For him the noblest human action is not the satisfaction of sexual desire but its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man and wife , and also their resolute desire to bring children into the world . He is the foe of trial marriage and premarital promiscuity . He is also opposed to what is called " birth control . " Doctrine on this last controversial topic is the outcome of ethical reflection rather than of dogmatic teaching . The Catholic pattern of relations between man and woman is , to be sure , the elaboration in terms of daily living of what the Christian repudiation of hardness of heart implies . Shall we not say that it is a variation on the great New Testament themes of love and duty and self-sanctification , and that therefore it is intelligible only to those for whom these themes retain their primal meaning ? But in it all there is no note more dissonant to human nature than the mandate that sexual intercourse must not be divorced from the risk of begetting a child . To be sure , there is no commandment ordering a number of children ; and Catholic ethics prescribe that parents must be able to assume responsibility for the needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercourse may be legitimate , and advantage may be taken of fluctuations in the fertility cycle . But the use of contraceptives is forbidden . Psychologists , physicians , and sociologists may object strenuously , but the Church is adamant . Thus a mighty barrier is thrown across the stream of that desire which runs deepest and strongest in human life and history . It is a hard doctrine , perhaps indeed the most daring prescription of asceticism made in the modern time . Should non-Catholics be forced to submit to secular laws designed to enforce such Catholic teaching ? The question has ceased to be relevant in this country except in Connecticut and Massachusetts , where laws prohibiting the dissemination of birth control information are kept on the statute books as a result of Catholic pressure on the legislature . In Connecticut , efforts to repeal the law have been made regularly since 1923 , and Protestants have been virtually unanimous in supporting these efforts . ' What comment is suggested by American tradition ? It seems to me that so long as Catholics are scrupulously careful to defend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society , and so long as they suggest that the issue be settled by referendum , they are being good citizens , willing to accept the will of the majority . But it is also clear that they must avoid every attempt to impose Catholic teaching on others , as well as all temptations to determine the outcome through reprehensible backstage political manipulation . There is a broader problem . What attitude should be taken toward any legislation the import of which is moral rather than utilitarian ? Unlimited divorce , pornography. abortion , sterilization of the unfit , pederasty ? at what point do these become practices which the common will accepts as permissible ? The reply necessarily depends on one 's definitions of rights and of freedom ; and it is precisely about these that liberal opinions differ . We have drifted along , crediting the benevolence of man and his enlightenment . until we have now found that no nine peopple can agree about even any legal principle or precedent . A society which thus rids itself of fences and landmarks fills the Catholic with consternation . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created by moral ambivalence demands it , the state will acquire a moral code like that of the Communists or Fascists . And so he feels that he may be doomed to become the inevitable bulwark of freedom , possibly its martyr . even though under prevailing conditions he no longer quite knows what freedom is . This sense of desperate uncertainty , reinforced by the constant stark news coming from abroad these past twenty years , he shares with Protestants . But he does not know it . To some extent this is his deplorable fault , and for it he unwittingly atones . Yet the guilt is by no means his alone . V WHAT is at stake may be seen more clearly if thought of in terms of education . His school system is in several ways the American Catholic 's greatest achievement . Offering instruction at all  | levels from the nursery school to the university , it serves in round figures 3,000,000 young people . There are other forms of organized religious education in the United States ? Jewish , Lutheran , Quaker , Adventist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complexity or extensiveness , even though a very large number of Catholic children still attend the public schools . The cost has been staggeringly heavy in terms both of money and of sacrifice . Thousands , many thousands , of the Church 's noblest women have given their lives to teaching children , often under adverse conditions and usually for no material rewards beyond the bare necessities of life . Theirs has been a genuinely heroic enterprise . Because economic resources have been so limited , the Catholic school has been entrusted to religious orders and the clergy to an extent unrivaled elsewhere , save possibly in Eastern Europe . It has therefore acquired a strikingly deep , sometimes almost mystical religious character , but it is also prevailingly an unworldly school , in the sense that transition from it to the dominant cultural moods and interests of the country is difficult . The public school , on the other hand , has become increasingly " secular . " Religious teaching was originally banned from it not because of some " law " implicit in the Constitution , but because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious instruction as the children in attendance received outside the school became quite peripheral , regardless of family background . The public school , profiting by compulsory attendance , relatively good teaching , and mighty resources , moved to the center of the cultural stage . It also became a community center , serving adults and young people alike , and often overshadowing the church or unintentionally sapping its vitality . Sunday Schools and similar institutions were frequently reduced to the status of poor relations . It can not therefore be denied that a marked separateness " between secular and religious education became a notable characteristic of American life . And as soon as this was apparent an urge to bridge the gap manifested itself . The Catholic school in particular badly needs a strong infusion of lay teachers and far more intimate and cordial parentteacher relations . Would it not be possible to secure these and other things as well if a measure of public assistance could be obtained ? On the other hand , religious leaders and others began to seek ways and means for assuring the religious education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time " was advocated . Supported primarily by Protestant groups but with Catholic and Jewish co-operation , the release-time movement made considerable progress . If one puts the two parts of the puzzle together , one sees that what was at work was a desire to bring about at least a measure of unity in American education . But so strongly was the secularism of the public school established by this time that what might have been taken for granted in 1890 was hotly contested in 1940 . Separating children for religious instruction would , it was argued , divide the American community , while state aid for parochial schools was deemed unethical . Pressure groups began to line up , and as so often happens one such group begot another . THE Nation controversy will illustrate . This magazine was ordered striken from the list of periodicals purchased for New York City school libraries because it had published a series of articles considered hostile to the Catholic Church . When the matter was first brought up , it was suggested that in order to enable young people to familiarize themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , certain well-known Catholic , Protestant , and Jewish magazines be added to the list . This very sensible recommendation was not endorsed , however , on the ground that doing so would mean admitting religion into the public school . The Nation was thereupon banned for having sinned against the doctrine that good-will must be fostered among all members of the American school community . Immediately thereafter a committee of notable citizens was mustered to defend the principle of free speech , held to have been violated . But what reason was there for assuming that the same principle had not been ignored when magazines like Commentary and America were ostracized ? Or had church and state grown so " separate " that while institutions controlled by the one might be  | used to attack the other , no kind of intelligent co-operation was any longer permissible ? When the debate had reached this stage , powerful Catholic pressure organizations emerged to support the caveat against the Nation while equally energetic groups on the other side rallied their faithful . The muddle of presupposition and practice , of freedom and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete . As IF this demonstration of nebulosity did not suffice , the Supreme Court added another . A taxpayer had brought suit to prevent the school authorities of Champaign , Illinois , from permitting a friendly association of Catholics , Protestants , and Jews to conduct religious classes in school buildings after hours . Like many another city , Champaign had apparently reasoned that since the schools when not in use were made available to reputable groups of citizens , there was no valid argument for excluding an amicable religious organization . But a majority of the Court held that the American doctrine of separation between church and state forbade " instruction in and teaching of religious education " on public school premises . Evidence to support the contention was found in the writings of the Founding Fathers . The value of that evidence is not under discussion here . But what was a public-school administrator to make of the verdict ? Presumably the Nation was doing religious education in its way , as this issue of Harper 's may also be . Could a Psalm be read or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something it did not define . How can the American school , desperately in need of the good-will of the whole community , prosper under such weird and cloudy formulations of educational philosophy ? That it can not was demonstrated by the discussion of Representative Barden 's proposal that Congress set aside a little money for public school purposes . While it is possible to contend that the proposal should have been worded differently , one may observe that whereas a substantial grant of federal aid to general education would be a major innovation , a similar grant to religious education would be a major revolution . Some Catholic bishops considered it unwise to mount any such barricade . Their counsel did not prevail , and I fancy that the reason was that the impact of preceding events was too strong to be resisted emotionally . The question , however many veils might still be thrown around it , had become this : if the public school is as " secular " as the Supreme Court says it is , why should a citizen with deep religious convictions be interested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as ominous a one as the nation could formulate . Anybody who knows the existing situation realizes that the plight of American education is so desperate that unless all citizens put their shoulders to the wheel their children will suffer appallingly . It is to be hoped that having come to this bleak point in our discussion , we shall quickly turn up another road toward a solution of this national problem . The task of American educational engineering is to find that road , and I sincerely hope it will . Concluding , I am conscious of having stalked many deer and shot none . We have discussed an important side of the life of Americans . What is neither very pleasant nor inspiring in the picture can be altered only by our people as a whole . I have just one bit of advice to offer : it will not help to play ostrich one minute and firebrand the next .  |                     