@@471064

ONE morning in 1934 Minneapolis awakened to find itself in a state of siege . The truck drivers under a set of Irishmen referred to vaguely by the newspapers as " the Dunne brothers " had forcible control of the streets and highways and they refused to let commerce move . Who were these Dunne boys ? Minneapolis watched them come to dominate the city 's labor movement and the city itself after a bloody three days ' battle with the organized local employers . It saw them extend their influence to the streets and alleys of a dozen States . And finally in the summer of 1941 the U. S. government charged the brothers and twenty-six of their associates with sedition . Eighteen of the defendants were , after trial , sentenced on December 8th to prison terms . Fabulous as they became , Minneapolis learned little about the Dunne boys ? not even knowing for sure how many there were . Yet they were native Minnesotans ? though one was born in Kansas City ? who had spent the major portion of their lives in Minneapolis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shared direction of the union : Vincent was the brains , the directing genius ; Miles , eloquent , possessed of a quick Irish wit , was the orator and front man ; Grant was most at home on the picket line . A fourth , Fenton , active in the early days of the union , dropped out . From the start they had a stern and relentless critic in their older brother , Bill . The Minneapolis Dunnes were Trotskyites ? dissident Communists whosplit with the main body during the long fight between Trotsky and Stalin ? though only Vince was an active party member . Bill , who left Minnesota early for a radical career in such varying places as Montana and Outer Mongolia , was a leader of the bitterly antagonistic American Communist ( Stalinist ) Party . Trotsky called Vincent Dunne the most effective labor leader in America . A slight , grave man , Vincent at fifty-three looks a half dozen years younger . His face is long and dark with cool blue eyes and he wears his hair close cropped . He resembles Humphrey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are much like those of Bogart in the one or two quiet Irish roles he has played . No one ever doubted that Vince was the " big Dunne , " but he seldom bothered to hold union office , preferring to rule by the force of his personality and the demonstrable accuracy of his judgment . Unobtrusive of dress ? though he wore a pince-nez when he read ? he was as apt to be seen puttering round the clubrooms or the bookstore of the Minneapolis Socialist Workers ' Party ( Trotskyites ) as in the union offices . Except in times of union crisis , when his appearances before membership gatherings were received with awed silence , his speeches and private conversations dealt primarily with " widening the political view " of his listeners . In smaller groups of union officials and party leaders ( he was credited also with a major role in formulating the policies of the national Trotskyite body ) his habit was to listen silently to the others , then to analyze and amplify their opinions , occasionally demolishing them with a mordant wit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Vincent preferred a behindthe-scenes role , Miles ( Micky ) Dunne , who studied to be an actor but spent his early years as a coal driver , liked the center of the stage . He too was small , with slick dark hair ; he might be described as a natty drcsscr . Convivial , fond of companionable drinking , prize fights , football , hunting , and fishing , Micky buttered up such opponents as it was considered policy to butter . And his vitriolic tongue was helpful against stubborn enemies . He served as the floor spokesman in conventions , as delegate to various central bodies , and served as union president or held other major union posts as the situation demanded . Grant Dunne , gassed in the First World War and thereafter subject to considerable physical pain and nervous disorders which made him often irascible , was of the greatest use when trouble was afoot . Very dark of skin ( the slight strain of Indian blood in their mother came out strong in Grant ) he had high check bones , straight black hair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he was most expert ? grievances against employers , welfare boards , and the like ? he bellowed and bluffed , but in physical action he was icy calm and entirely fearless . He shot and killed himself a few weeks before the sedition trial opened . Vincent and Miles , with twenty-six members of their union and the Socialist Workers Party , went to trial on October 20th in Minneapolis ' blackened old rock courthouse , charged with endeavoring to " bring about , whenever the time seems propitious , an armed revolution against the Government of the United States . " A few weeks prior to the indictments , which came on July 15 , 1941 , the Dunne boys in order to escape expulsion from the International Brotherhood by Daniel Tobin , its president , had sought refuge in the arms of A. D. ( Denny ) Lewis , John L. 's brother , who somewhat illogically issued them a charter in the CIO Building Construction Workers ' Organizing Committee . Tobin served as labor chairman of the Democratic National Committee in the last three Presidential campaigns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrests were a payment by President Roosevelt on the political debt owed to Tobin , and that the inclusion of other Socialist Workers Party leaders was mere camouflage . II The route traveled by the Dunne boys to leadership was circuitous and troubled . Old William Dunne , their father , who spent the last thirty years of his life sweeping out Pullman coaches in the Eighth Street yards of the Milwaukee Road in Minneapolis , had not been able to provide his eight sons and daughters with much of an education . An Irish immigrant , he had drifted over the country swinging a pick , skinning mules , hoisting mortar , and had finally married a French-Canadian girl from Little Falls , Minnesota . When his two elder sons were babies old Dunne was hurt in an accident and confined for a year to the poverty ward of a hospital . Mrs. Dunne took her babies home to her father 's little Minnesota farm . Dunne followed when he was able but he was badly crippled . Every hand was needed to scratch the land for a livelihood , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ older boys , Bill and Vince neither of whom was ever able to attend school consistently enough to rise above the sixth grade ? grew adept at reading . Vincc was the first to leave home . At fourteen , when he was about as large as he is now and passing himself off for a man , he went to work first for a farmer who had a contract to haul logs out of the woods , then as a full-fledged lumberjack . He spent the winters in the woods , the springs on the river drives ? where , being considered a cool head and a sound hand with the cant hook , he was assigned to ride the Jogs to break up jams . In the summer he was a gandy dancer ? member of a railroad section gang ? and in the autumns he followed the harvest . It was a hard , bitter life for a half-grown boy . The workday was twelve hours or longer ; the food was miserable and the camps verminous . No lumber camp was without its Socialist and his little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , a little later , joined the I.W.W. He : stayed in the lumber camps until the panic of 1907 drove him with hundreds of thousands of others on the road . In Seattle he slept on the sidewalks with rows of other bindle stiffs . The city was paying a nickel apiece for rats in an extermination drive , and he earned a few cents for meals by trapping them . Some rats were colored blue and red and turned loose again . The catching of these earned a prize . Vince never caught a colored one . After drifting from Portland to Los Angeles to Louisiana where he worked in the mosquito swamps cutting pine , he finally landed in an Arkansas chain gang . He thought he had had enough of the road . Escaping , he rode the rods home . About the same time a big Norwegian-Swedish youth named Floyd Bjornstjerne Olson , whose path was to cross that of the little Irishman , was also beating his way home to Minneapolis with an I.W.W. card in his pocket . The Dunnes had moved into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his pay was not sufficient to feed and clothe the family . The younger boys sold papers , searched the junk heaps for valuables , and picked up scraps of employment , attending a Catholic academy intermittently . Vince got a job teaming . He liked horses , handled them well , and after a while worked himself into the class of express drivers , sweeping through the streets ahead of the rest . The teamsters liked to warm themselves with coffee at the lunch counter in the Union Depot , where there was the additional pleasure of exchanging wisecracks with Jenny Holm , the pretty Swedishwaitress . Vince drank a good deal of coffee and produced a great number of epigrams , which he thought up while driving , before he managed a " date . " After that it was smooth sailing . Jenny Dunn ; small , blue-eyed , and now silver-haired , is extraordinarily fond of children . Besides raising their own son and daughter , they took in homeless children from time to time . In later years Vince 's parents ( old Dunne having been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Altogether , the frame bungalow on the North Side was a full and lively place . Vince maintained his interest in radicalism , paying his I.W.W. dues and passing out copies of the Appeal to Reason to other drivers . For that he was fired by the Wells-Fargo Express Company and blacklisted , but he was a good driver and after a few months found another job . Meanwhile news poured in of the adventures of Bill . He had had a somewhat easier time of it than had Vince . Bill was short , like the other Dunnes , but stocky with a barrel chest , bullet head , and the voice of a bull moose . After tossing about for a while at common labor jobs he had become a skilled electrician , rising in time to the post of business agent for the British Columbia branch of the electrical workers ' union . In 1916 he had gone to Montana as an engineer for the Anaconda Company , but , like Vince , he had been converted to radicalism , and when a strike of the miners developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieved a fair imitation of Victor Hugo 's florid prose style , he became editor of the Butte Daily Bulletin , which the strikers established in an abandoned church . Those were days of violence in the copper country . Bill 's admirers called him the " hero of Bloody Butte . " Gangs of riflemen attacked the Bulletin plant and were met by volleys from the standing Red Guard . Bill 's roars always carried well above the strife . In 1918 the labor voters of Butte elected him to the Montana State Senate where , though ostensibly a Democrat , he raised ' the slogans ( " all power to the workers and farmers " ) of Lenin and Trotsky , who had taken power in Russia . When the American Socialist Party split over the question of support of the Bolsheviks , Bill adhered to the left wing , becoming a charter member of the American Communist Party and a member of its central committee . Grant and Micky marched away to war . Vince was never called ? he thinks his employer had him deferred . Micky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the first of the AEF to reach the front . An ammunition dump from which he was loading was struck and blew up , wounding and shell-shocking him . After many months in a hospital he was brought home on a stretcher , and for three years was bedridden . There is some irony in the fact that a few weeks ago the surviving Dunnes assented to a military funeral with full honors of the United States government for the brother who died while charged with trying to subvert its armed forces . Vince had not felt quite sympathetic enough with the Socialist Party , then strong in Minneapolis , to join it . The new Communist Party was more to his liking and , besides , Bill was conducting a long-distance campaign by letter to recruit him . He joined , dropping out only when Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer drove the party underground ; he favored open agitation no matter what the consequences . When it reappeared he went back into its ranks and became a local leader . News in radical circles travels fast . In 1928 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editor of the Daily Worker and to occupy other important party posts , was in Outer Mongolia carrying on agitation for the Comintern ( the Communist International with headquarters in Moscow ) when he heard that Vince was siding with Trotsky in the epic Stalin-Trotsky feud . He fired a letter to Vince accusing him of treason , and Vince replied in kind . As each considers political opinions more important than blood , they have since referred to each other as complete strangers . Vince was now weighmaster ? a good job in one of the larger Minneapolis coal yards . Though he made no effort to conceal his views , peddling party literature and seeking office , his employer , who liked Vince and believed in free speech , took no steps against him . The radical parties assign " political tasks " to their members . One Sunday afternoon , in the parlor of his home , Vince , after doling out assignments to his handful of followers sitting round the library table , read quietly from his agenda " . . . and to Vincent Dunne the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His employer heard about it and for years occasionally inquired good-naturedly how he was making out . The man who was to place Minneapolis in a state of bloody siege and eventually to become one of the most powerful figures in the Middle West merely smiled ruefully , weighed up his coal , and answered truthfully that progress was practically nil . III Minneapolis has always been a rough city . To Bridge Square ? gateway to the Northwest ? in the old days came hordes of raw migrant workers to hire out for the railroad gangs , the lumber camps , the harvest crews . Washington Avenue on the square 's west edge , lined with cheap hotels , cheaper saloons , girl shows , and bawdy houses , became the toughest thoroughfare between New York and San Francisco . Gradually as the railroads were completed , the forests stripped , and the wheat fields put under the combine , the migrant workers settled in Minneapolis . Some got jobs in the flour mills and the foundries . Because Minneapolis is the distributing center for the Northwest , many became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused Iow wages and unemployment , and prevented the standard of living from rising much above that in the camps . Hennepin Avenue , which is the city 's Broadway , and Nicollet , its Fifth Avenue , run southwest out of Bridge Square , dividing the city into north and south sides . The buildings , many constructed of blackened red stone , are old and low . Ancient wide trolleys clatter on the brick-paved streets . Except for an area up and down Hennepin and Nicollet from Seventh Street ( department stores and dress shops on Nicollet , movies and Chinese restaurants on Hennepin ) , the commercial area is drab and sullen . Back of Hennepin after it swings southward is the city 's only elevation ? Lowry Hill , where , fittingly , the Empire Builders erected their mansions . These men had brooked no interference from the Scandinavians and Irish they had enticed from Europe for the heavy labor , nor had their sons any intention of doing so . Minneapolis was an open-shop town ; such strikes as occurred were skillfully and ruthlessly broken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employers . The depression had hardly begun when Lowry Hill saw trouble approaching . In 1930 young Floyd Olson , who had worked his way through night law school ( his father was a crossing watchman on the same railroad that employed old Dunne as a car sweeper ) to serve a couple of nonpartisan terms as Hennepin county attorney , ran for governor on the Farmer-Labor ticket and was elected . Armies of the unemployed marched regularly out of the North Side to harass city officials . The state of mind was illustrated when in 1933 Vince Dunne was fired by his heretofore tolerant boss after he had taken an afternoon off to lead a demonstration to City Hall to ask additional unemployment relief and at the same time to apprise the mayor of the rise to power in Germany of a dictator named Hitler . Vince had been finding a more fertile field for his agitation and now on relief , he had more time . When he had washed the coal dust from his face , Micky was a dashing young bachelor whose bosom drinking companion was Bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the side , was president of the puny teamsters ' local . Brown said he would take in any members they could get if the head brotherhood office would let him . Meanwhile Vince had secured a job as coal driver for his brother Grant , who had been thrown out of work as a plumbing estimator , and he aided in the organizing . In the yards was a gigantic Norwegian coal heaver named Karl Skoglund who , after being blacklisted by the railroads following the shopmen 's strike of 1922 , had studied Marx . He had been helping Vince hammer at the drivers . Between them they managed an abortive strike in a couple of the coal yards . It was the spark . Thousands of drivers of all categories flocked to them , and , after some argument , Bill Brown got permission of the teamsters ' international union to admit them to his local . IV The two Minneapolis truck drivers ' strikes of 1934 have been aptly described as civil war . Though the police had a part in the conflict , the Citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own army , while the still loosely organized and ill-financed union depended to a large degree on the unemployed and other sympathetic workingmen . Early in May both sides made preparation for what appeared an inevitable struggle . The young men of Lowry Hill and those who some day hoped to live there organized into brigades . Here was a serious matter and fun besides . Booted , six-shooters at belt ( they had been deputized ) , the flashier of them strode about Citizens ' Alliance headquarters getting the heft of new ax handles . The Union rented an abandoned garage safe in the heart of the North Side . A kitchen was set up in the old car-wash division , from which during the strike one hundred women fed thousands of pickets daily . Because police held injured strike leaders under guard in hospitals , thereby sometimes endangering the success of strikes , a comprehensive dressing station was established . The strike committee ? Vince , Micky , Grant , Brown , and Skoglund ? made elaborate plans for control of the streets and the roads leading into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rangy young engineer turned coal heaver named Farrell Dobbs sat behind a battery of telephones taking calls from picket captains and perusing reports from half a dozen motorcycle dispatch riders . Warned of an effort to move trucks , one of them grasped a microphone and shouted orders for squad cars to proceed to the scene . Once Vince made a serious error of judgment . A plump , fever-eyed youth named James Bartlett came in and said he wanted to help with the strike . " Have n't you been hanging around with the Stalinist crowd ? " Vince asked . Bartlett said he had . " Did n't you stand up on a soap box last week and call me a stool pigeon , a police spy , and a traitor ? " Vince went on . Bartlett agreed that he had but declared he had had a fight with the Communist leaders and was through with them . Vince assigned him to a squad . A few years later he regretted that he had not had Bartlett thrown out . Three blocks north of Hennepin Avenue is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deputies and police defeated the pickets . Sunday was spent by the union leaders in reorganizing their forces . One step was the highjacking of a truck load of hickory clubs which a local woodworks manufacturer was sending to the deputies . On Monday several hundred drivers secreted themselves in the basement of the Central Labor Union building , which lies between Hennepin Avenue and the market . The rest went to the market and by milling round managed to separate the force of deputies from the main body of police . A truck containing union men drove pell melt into the police , scattering them , and during the battle that followed the battalion from the Central Labor Union building , led by a Congressman , Francis Shoemaker , wheeled in almost perfect military formation to attack the deputies ' flank . Observers gave the edge to the drivers , but the battle was not decisive . Next day some twenty-five thousand spectators crowded the streets and nearby rooftops for the expected resumption of the fray . To accommodate those citizens who found it inconvenient to attend , a local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven hundred regular police , about one thousand deputies appeared . One , not without logic , wore a football helmet . A well-known local sportsman and mountain climber arrived in jodhpurs and polo helmet . The signal for action was not long in coming ? someone attempted to load a few crates of tomatoes . When the conflict was over ? in something less than an hour ? the deputies and police had fled , leaving a deputy , a successful young manufacturer , dead on the pavement . The union members thereafter referred to the contest as the " Battle of Deputies Run , " and Bill Brown maintained that for several hours , the police having been driven from the streets , union men directed traffic . Governor Olson was in a difficult position . He was a labor governor , but he was sworn to keep the peace . And he had been elected largely on his personal popularity with elements opposed to the strike . Tall , powerfully built , a Beau Brumrncl and at the same time a tobacco-chewing two-lister , he was a matchless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain he would become the nation 's first radical President . Reluctantly he sent troops to Minneapolis . The federal government dispatched its best mediators , and eventually a shaky agreement was reached . On the second day of the second strike , July 20th , the police under command of Chief of Police Mike Johannes ( thereafter called " Bloody Mike " by the strikers and , when the power of the Dunnes became strong enough , driven from the force ) opened fire on a group of strikers who were attempting to halt a truck . Two men were killed and sixty-seven injured , most of them shot in the back . Olson declared martial law once more , ordering no truck to move without a permit . Vince denounced Olson as a strike-breaker and ordered resumption of picketing , whereupon Olson 's soldiers raided strike headquarters ( and those of the Citizens ' Alliance ) , capturing Vince , Micky , and other leaders . Here was a situation suited to Grant 's talents . He exchanged clothes with a roughly dressed teamster , dirtied his face , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders to pick him up . He directed operations from a hideout until in a secret rendezvous he persuaded Olson to release his brothers . After a month of negotiation the strike was settled . Though not a complete victory , it indicated to the observant that the Dunnes were to have their way . Any criticism of the Dunne boys uttered on Lowry Hill was mild compared with that of big brother Bill in New York . Bill was dissatisfied with the whole performance . Each day as the strike progressed he had set down in the Daily Worker a list of suggestions for his brothers to follow . These had been ignored . Undiscouraged , he put together his ideas in a neat green pamphlet entitled Permanent Counter-Revolution : the Role of the Trotskyites in the Minneapolis Strikes . On the whole his approach was austere . He referred to the strike leaders distantly as the " Dunne brothers , " though in an instance or two he found the terms " palookas " and " traitors " more suited to his needs , and on one occasion he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or both . " The denunciation of his brothers came in time to be one of Bill 's major party " tasks . " He had grown fat in New York and was none too well . When he appeared in Minneapolis for addresses it was sometimes necessary to strap him to the platform . Micky went occasionally to heckle him , but Vince refused to at-MAGAZINE tend , declaring that " this Stalin bootlicker has nothing of importance for me to hear . " V Men who know the cost of internecine labor warfare estimate that the American Federation of Labor has spent in the neighborhood of a million dollars trying to dislodge the Dunne brothers from the labor movement . Tobin , the teamsters ' president for more than a quarter of a century , had denounced the strike leaders as Reds . When neither Bill Brown , the titular head , nor the membership chose to dissociate themselves from the Dunne brothers , he withdrew the Minneapolis local 's charter and induced A. F. of L. President William Green to send a personal representative with instructions to organize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of other representatives , whose profession Mr. Green would not want to disclose , were dispatched also . Dark alleys and streets became unsafe for either side . In the course of the struggle the Dunne brothers tried to widen their influence to include unions in no way connected with driving . They had established headquarters in an old three-storey warehouse on the North Side just off Washington Avenue , breaking up the building into halls and wallboard office compartments and installing a bar which Fenton Dunne , who had played a lesser part in the strike than his brothers , tended . Vince shared a cubbyhole with an organizer . It became understood that any union leader with a knotty problem could drop over to Drivers ' Hall and Vince would put his mind on it . Nor was Vince reluctant to offer assistance in instances where no invitation was forthcoming . One evening he dropped over to watch developments at a knitwear factory on strike . The police , clasping hands , had formed two long chains between which strikebreakers were being sent into the building . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the policemen 's arms and haul out strike-breakers . The cops were unable to catch him because to have broken their grips would have spoiled everything ; but a new detail arrived and took him inside . He emerged gray of face , and some of the pickets took him to a hospital where he had three broken ribs strapped up . After a couple of years of fruitless struggle , A. F. of L. officials decided to ask a truce . A compromise was rcached whereby a new local was established with half of the leaders drawn from Local 574 , the body led by the Dunnes , and half from Local 500 , the new group . The difference in numbers was split also : the combination became Local 544 . With the pressure relieved , the Dunne boys were able to extend their influence rapidly . Two methods were employed . The first was to proselytize young men into the Socialist Workers Party , then to assist them to important union posts . But the most rewarding method was plain power politics . Their union was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a strategic position in almost all strikes ? it avails a manufacturer little to hire new men to replace his striking employees if drivers refuse to transport raw materials or his finished product . The leaders of other unions could not help but notice that strikes which had the sanction of the Dunnes were successful while those ' they frowned upon were likely to fail . Often in exchange for cash gifts and other assistance , unions accepted a Trotskyite official or two . Each brother fitted into his niche according to inclination and ability . Grant , never an intellectual ( Bill expressed a doubt in one of his declamations that Grant had ever read a book ) spent his time agitating for better relief conditions for unemployed drivers , settling grievances , and negotiating the innumerable contracts which the union had with small concerns . Given to dark moods resulting from his wounds and shellshock , he sometimes stayed at home for long periods . Micky was best atsnapping him out of them . Grant 's wife , seeing his despair deepening , had sent for Micky just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth of power . Now he could wear good clothes in the daytime as well as in the evening ; his bearing was almost military . He polished his oratorical style , making up for the years when his histrionic abilities had been obscured by coal dust . The three brothers had built a cabin up north in the jackpine country , but it was Micky who used it most often , going there to hunt and fish . He occupied the largest office , had a clerical staff , and in general conducted himself after the manner of an executive . Most of the Iabor leaders round town were willing to credit Micky with being a dashing young man , but some of the A. F. of L. leaders who had fought the Dunnes during the 500574 split maintained that he had taken unfair advantage . The Dunne boys had always appeared to know the A. F. of L. 's plans . After the breach was healed Micky married the confidential secretary to the A. F. of L. 's head man without ever having let the opposition know he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheap store suits , refused to move into a full-size private office , and left most public appearances to Micky and the younger men . Because Micky was listed as the editor of the union paper , he was credited with its caustic green-whiskey tone . But it was Vince who was chiefly responsible , and in his spare moments he threw off sketches and an occasional poem . His satire dealing with Red charges was a favorite with Floyd Olson . There was a fanciful interview in which Trotsky instructed union leaders about activities in Minnesota : it Russianized all names and purported to show that even those men denounced by the Dunnes were under Trotsky 's thumb . As the leaders were making their departure Trotsky called them back and waved a warning finger . " But look out , " he said , " for Olsonovitch . " With union affairs progressing satisfactorily , Vince gave more time to the Socialist Workers Party , listing himself as State organizer , running for office on an involved platform of " criticism " of the Farmer-Labor Party ( being a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ snare and delusion ) , and addressing small party gatherings . Occasionally he unbent for a visit to one or another of Minneapolis ' few salons where , his pince-nez in one hand and a highball glass in the other , he gently dissected the world . Because the party had little or no labor influence elsewhere , its intellectuals flocked to Minneapolis in order to enjoy under Vince 's wing the illusion of participation in the actual affairs of working men . Now and again Vince set off for Mexico to visit his mentor , Trotsky . In contrast to the chatter of the bright young dilettantes who flocked to the exiled Bolshevik , he approached the master with reverence . " There , " said Trotsky after their first meeting , " is a man . " Vince always hoped to make Minneapolis the wandering exile 's refuge . The Dunnes kept steadily at work , year by year extending their power . A campaign in eleven Midwestern States netted more than two hundred thousand members for the drivers ' union . Their fame spread . News that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frightened bosses . Attacked from all sides and victorious in every encounter , they had grown full of power and a little arrogant . Even so they could hardly have predicted the intensity of the storm that was to break over them . VI The International Brotherhood of Teamsters ' decision to take back the Dunne local had not resolved the bad feeling . The Dunne boys felt that Tobin , the brotherhood 's president , was an old-fashioned craft unionist more interested in his salary than in anything else , and they did not improve matters when they fought , though unsuccessfully , a measure to increase his salary from twenty thousand dollars to thirty thousand dollars yearly . Tobin , on the other hand , did not want radicals in his union , and he was angered because the Dunnes refused to break up their groups , organized along industrial lines , into smaller bodies according to craft . For a while Tobin had hoped the men placed round the Dunnes by the merger would be able to isolate them , and he tried to detach their followers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Road organization was Farrell Dobbs , the youth pulled by Vince from behind a coal pile in the early days of the union . Tobin pushed Dobbs up in the national organization , only to see him , with a lucrative trade union future certain , resign to become national secretary of the Socialist Workers Party . Nothing seemed to work . In the end the Dunnes were laying plans for control of the brotherhood itself . Differences were strained further by disagreement on foreign policy ; Tobin supported the President while the Dunnes were vehement isolationists , the SWP not having joined the Stalin Communists in the flipflop after the Russian invasion . Early in 1941 a " Committee of 99 " composed of dissatisfied members ? partly , according to prosecution witnesses in the sedition trial , under the direction of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ? made its appearance in the affairs of Local 544 . Among its leaders was James Bartlett , the former Communist whom Vince had permitted both to work in the strike and to join the Socialist Workers Party . An earlier Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dunnes and place the union in receivership . The new committee made almost the same request , but put it to Tobin . The Dunne boys appeared before various hearings which Tobin held , but in the meantime Vince got a card from John L. Lewis to put up his sleeve . He tossed it on the table a few days before the expected expulsion . The Minneapolis union 's members voted to leave the A. F. of L. for the CIO , and Dunne-dominated unions in the surrounding States followed . Tobin , who heard about the move while at the brotherhood 's offices in Indianapolis , immediately sent a wire to President Roosevelt . " The withdrawal from the International Union by the Truck-Drivers Union , Local 544 , " he said , " is indeed a regrettable and dangerous condition . The officers of this local union . . . were requested to disassociate themselves from the radical Trotsky organization . . . . We feel that while our country is in a dangerous position , those disturbers who believe in the policies of foreign , radical governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course . . . . " Stephen Early , the President 's secretary , issued a statement from the White House . " . . When I advised the President of Tobin 's representations this morning , he asked me to immediately have the government departments and agencies interested in this matter notified , and to point out that this is no time , in his opinion , for labor unions , local or national , to begin raiding one another for the purpose of getting memberships or for similar reasons . " Tobin did not intend to ask the President to tote all his eggs . Virulent telegrams promising a last-ditch fight against the Dunnes went to all Midwestern affiliates . The St. Paul Dispatch estimated that three hundred Tobin organizers came to Minneapolis to bring the drivers into the new local , and members of 544 ? CIO declared later before a State labor board hearing that blackjacks and brass knuckles were used liberally by the visitors . At the same time William Green sent a committee of three , including Matthew Well , the A. F. of L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central Labor Union of radicals . That spelled danger for leaders of other A. F. of L. unions who chose to befriend the Dunnes . The Dunne boys ' harshest epithets are reserved for Minnesota 's Governor Harold E. Stassen . Curiously , they are in part responsible for his incumbency . Since the Socialist Workers Party had only contempt for " social democrats , " the brothers grew adept in subtly harassing Minnesota 's Farmer-Labor administration . Perhaps unintentionally , they contributed to its defeat in 1938 . Stassen 's labor board struck one of the hardest of all the blows at the Dunnes when it named the new A. F. of L. local the sole bargaining agent for drivers ? without a vote of the drivers themselves . Stassen , who hopes for the GOP Presidential nomination in 1944 , addressed a large meeting arranged by Tobin in Seattle at the time of the A. F. of L. 's recent convention there , and also addressed the convention itself . The Dunnes charge that there has been a deal . The government 's sedition charges ( of incalculable assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the three Dunne brothers , embraced subordinate leaders in the union and national officers of the Socialist Workers Party . Among the latter were James P. Cannon of New York , national secretary , a long-time radical who probably would have headed the American Communist Party had he not sided with Trotsky . Minneapolis defendants included Farrell Dobbs , who had returned to assist 544 when it joined the CIO ; Karl Skoglund ; Carlos Hudson , editorial worker on the union paper who was cut off by his wealthy Minneapolis family when he turned radical ; and Dr. Grace Holmes Carlson , an educational leader . The others were union officials . The government 's case , it developed , rested largely upon the testimony of James Bartlett , now an organizer for 544 ? A. F. L. , who , after several years in the Stalinist and Trotskyite branches of the Communist movement , felt that he was an expert on sedition . The government had promised sensational revelations concerning preparations for armed revolution , but in the end it chose to base its case on the Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government seditious whether accompanied by overt act or not , introducing as one of its chief exhibits Karl Marx 's Communist Manifesto . The defendants , while not denying belief in the inevitability of proletarian revolution in the United States , or their desire for it , stuck to the charge that the whole case was rigged by the Administration to help Daniel Tobin and to retaliate for opposition to its foreign policy . Ten of the defendants , including Miles , were acquitted ; eighteen of them , including Vince Dunne , Karl Skoglund , and Farrell Dobbs , were convicted and sentenced to prison terms . The future of the Dunne brothers as labor leaders is problematical . Miles was acquitted , Vince and two of his chief lieutenants must each spend a year and six months in jail . At this writing they are at liberty pending appeal . It islikely that the truckers will remain loyal ? wages almost tripled from the depression low during the period of their leadershipbut the State labor board has made it almost obligatory for drivers to join the A. F. of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary for Dunne followers . They will have to find a way round the ruling and already are testing it in the courts . The feelings of other Minnesota labor leaders are mixed . They credit the Dunne boys with having made Minneapolis a union city , and they are fearful of a labor board which does not inquire about the views of employees involved ; but they feel that life would be more comfortable with Vince behind the bars . Of one thing they are certain ? the Dunne boys have some cards left to play . Miles is free and his abilities lie in the direction of activity and action ; Vince did the thinking for them all and he can think just as easily in jail as out .                     