@@485112

THE Red Army 's counter-attacks all along the Russian-German front , from the Baltic to the Sea of Azov , are eloquent commentary on von Ribbentrop 's recent boast that Soviet resistance has been smashed beyond recovery . Notwithstanding the current Russian successes , however , the fact remains that the German lines still girdle a huge part of the Soviet Union , inhabited by fifty to sixty million people and encompassing roughly half of Russia 's agricultural potential , half of its developed mineral resources , three-fifths of its industrial establishment  --  including armament factories , arsenals , and shipyards  --  and a great part of its Western civilization and urban life . But even assuming that the Germans will be able to dig in without retreating much farther , it is still pertinent to consider whether Hitler 's Russian adventure has not cost him more in military strength than it has given him , or promises to give him , in the way of economic advantage . In this connection two questions arise : First , to what extent has Hitler been able to offset the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as his invasion proceeded ; second , to what extent will it be possible for him to integrate the sources of production he has acquired as permanent tributaries to his war economy , thus canceling the strangling blockade ? Dazzled by a swift sequence of victories and encouraged by propaganda , the German people have taken for granted that the great resources of Russia , especially the natural wealth of the Ukraine , would be fully accessible to them and that the danger of losing the war through lack of basic materials was over . Sober reflection , however , should have recalled Germany 's sad experience during the " peaceful occupation " of the " liberated " Ukraine by German and Austrian armies in 1917-18 . This chapter in the history of World War I has not been written down , though it is alive in many minds , including those of the German General Staff . I remember this episode very vividly , having lived through it from beginning to end in the capacity of deputy chairman of the Austrian Economic Commission on the Ukraine , an inter-departmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of regulating the expected influx into Austria-Hungary of food and raw materials supposedly abundant in the Ukraine . Great expectations then as now seemed justified because the military successes were so enormous . In 1917 , after the outbreak of the Russian Revolution and the collapse of the czarist army , the territorial conquests of Germany and its confederates in the east were not less extended than Hitler 's hold over Eastern Europe is at present . German armies then stood before Petrograd and not far from Moscow , with Poland and the Baltic regions behind the German lines ; the Ukraine was " liberated " and peacefully occupied ; the Donetz Basin was in German hands ; the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov were German waters . In the southeast the front line of the Central Powers bulged even farther into Russian territory than it does now , and , Turkey being in the same camp , no serious obstacle blocked the path to the Caucasus . The famished populations of the Central Powers were jubilantly awaiting the rich harvests of the Ukraine ? wheat , oil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to gather , transport , and distribute the treasure . Economic commissions were appointed for the exploitation of the " Bread Peace . " A German general , von Eichhorn , administered the region around Kiev , an Austrian general , von Sendler , governed in Odessa Transportation of the booty on the Danube River and the Black Sea was placed under a military " Black Sea Command . " In the Ukraine the harvest was already completed It had been a hot season , and the crops of the country , nowhere damaged by invasion or actual warfare , were supposed to fill all barns to capacity . To the wishful thinking of the statesmen and people of the Central Powers it appeared to be only a technical problem to gather and to transport the bread for which the starved cities of their countries clamored . All that seemed necessary was to offer the Ukrainian peasantry a plausible counter-value for the needed supplies . These " technical problems " were the subject of a conference held at the Austrian Foreign Office in August , 1917 . I attended the conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Commission on the Ukraine , and together with other Austrian advisers suggested that a broad program of agrarian reform be introduced in the Ukraine . The bulk of the Ukrainian peasantry consisted of landless tenants . Of pure Ukrainian ( Little Russian ) stock and adhering to the Greek Catholic church , the peasants differed from the Orthodox White Russian landowners in race and religion  --  the relationship between them was analogous in many respects to the historical antagonism between the Roman Catholic Irish tenant and the Protestant English squire or , in the Balkans , the Slavonic Christian colon or kiwi ' December 27 , 19 ' 41 ( tenant ) and the Mohammedan Aga , the Turkish landowner . Our plan was not meant to be a mere emergency measure , devised to lure the peasant into a friendly mood because he held the keys of the larder . A land distribution securing a plot of his own to the land-hungry peasant appeared to be just and timely , likely to counter efficiently the Communist propaganda penetrating the Ukraine from Bolshevist Russia . The Austrian reform program , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reactionary to the core , preferred administrative and military compulsion and an alliance with the landed aristocracy against the peasants . Creating an " independent " Ukraine , the Central Powers chose as their puppet and executive a Heinlein from the ranks of the hated landowners , first Skuropatzky and then Petliura of bloody pogrom fame . The character of a peaceful occupation was stressed by supplementing military requisitions with commercial purchases and unredeemable requisition receipts with money . In accordance with the best banking theory  --  an eminent German banker saw to the show side of this business  --  a Ukrainian National Bank was brought into existence . Its notes held a suspended gold promise and were " covered " in their gold value by credit accounts amounting to several million Kronen and Reichsmarks in the books of the Austro-Hungarian Bank and the Deutsche Reichsbank . Both currencies , Krone and Reichsmark , at this time being almost entirely bare of any substantial gold cover , the new Ukrainian currency was probably the most artful and deceptive specimen of Devisen currency ever tried until Hitler invented the " occupation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and put in circulation by the military authorities ; it was expected that by this means all salable food and goods in the country would be driven into the desired channels . Only picayune results , however , were obtained from all these preparations . The Ukrainian peasant did not collaborate with the occupation authorities . Though there was then no official " scorched-earth " policy , the stocks disappeared , buried or burned by the peasants . The new money did not impress the peasant as a real equivalent , and little could be obtained by - purchase . Offers to barter much-needed agricultural implements and tools  --  of which the conqueror countries themselves had little to spare  --  found no response . Very little grain or other supplies left the Ukraine for Austria or Germany . When General Alfred Krauss  --  later the first of the old imperial generals to join the Nazi Party in Austria  --  prevailed upon the reluctant Emperor Charles to drop the mask of a " peaceful " occupation and to try the " iron fist , " the refractory attitude of the peasantry grew into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The whole elaborate organization , including the Black663 Sea Command , finally broke down , and then the victory of the Allies and the Treaty of Versailles forced the Central Powers to retire from all occupied territories in Russia . In 1941 the invading German armies are in urgent need , as they were in 1917 , of foodstuffs , iron and steel , other strategic metals , fuel , and oil . Most of these needs were included in the Soviet-German trade agreement that was signed simultaneously with the Non-Aggression Pact in August , 1939 . Disappointing experience led to stringent amendments of this commercial arrangement in February , 1940 , and though results remained unsatisfactory , Germany actually received from Russia great quantities of wheat , oats , barley , fodder , and Oil , and even one million tons of manganese , chrome , and antimony from the Ural mines . But Germany needed still more . In the south of Russia , notably in the Ukraine , Hitler expected to obtain at least 800,000,000 bushels of grain , together with sugar beets , cotton , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time of 20 per cent of his vital food supplies and of important quantities of textile fibers . Even more ambitious expectations seemed to be justified . Having been industrially developed under a planned economy , the occupied country now seemed to offer to the conqueror abundant technical equipment for processing local raw materials , particularly coal and iron . Since 1917 great industrial centers had come into being in the south of Russia , methodically located around the iron-ore district of Krivoi Rog , the coal mines of the Donetz , the electric power of the Dnieper . The pig-iron capacity of the Donetz Basin had risen from 5,000,000 tons in 1918 to 10,000,000 tons in 1940 , and a huge steel industry had been built on this basis . The pits , mines , and factories in the western part of the basin were worked by means of new electric power generated by the Dnieper plant . Rich storehouses , a gigantic working arsenal , well-equipped shipyards in Odessa , Kherson , Nikolaev , and Mariupol , and , only one step farther , the oil wells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conqueror . The enemy , moreover , would be weakened at the same rate at which the German war potential was strengthened . None of these hopes have been fulfilled  --  not the short-term plan for immediate booty , nor the expectation that the Ukraine could quickly be converted into a German arsenal , nor the expected paralysis of Russia 's war production . When the Germans attacked Russia , the fields were still green ; the harvest , scarcely begun , was interrupted by the mobilization of many hands and by the invasion . The great central barns of the collective farms , where the crops are stored under the Soviet agrarian 664 The NATION system , were empty . Military grain and flour magazines and local stocks retained from last year for the use of the resident population , in quantity only a fraction of the total crops , - were either hastily removed before the Nazi onslaught or burned by enemy action or by the Russians themselves under the " scorched-earth " policy . Nor was it easy to proceed with the harvest behind the advancing German lines ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by troops and tanks . Where the fields were undamaged , agricultural workers were scarce , and where , behind the German lines , the hands could be assembled , new administrative and technical problems faced the invader . The new Russian methods of collective agriculture depend on complete motorization . But the tractors and other field machinery were either removed or destroyed , and they could not easily be replaced out of German stocks . Nor could the available hands be set to work immediately without using so far as possible the efficient and familiar methods of Russian collective farming . The Germans tried to give the kholhoz organization the shape of rural work cadres , pseudo-cooperatives under central leadership . Struggling with all these complex administrative and technical difficulties in the midst of a flaming Blitzkrieg , they were outraced by the early advent of winter . The remnants of the harvest of 1941 could not be saved . German reports boast of finding great quantities of butter and count the cattle on the collective farms but are remarkably reticent concerning grain and other crops . The conclusion is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region failed to yield the expected immediate results . In fact , Germany had got far more out of its previous trade agreement with Stalin . Moreover , there is reason to doubt that the harvests of occupied Russia next year  --  or in following years ? . will decisively improve the food situation that is worrying Hitler . With the exception of Poland , Czechoslovakia , and Hungary , no country now under his rule was ever self-sufficient in food , and even these former surplus areas are now reduced to scarcity . The practice of starving the vanquished has its obvious political limits . And not only might Russia be unable to fill the hole in Hitler 's bread basket , but the fifty or sixty million Russian people in the conquered territory might become dependent for their daily bread upon supplies from Germany and thus turn the conquest into a serious liability . Hitler can only prevent this by obtaining the full collaboration of the Russian farm worker . But the task of turning the minds of millions of Russians from collectivism to German fascism , of undoing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of Soviet rule , is not made easier by being urgent . Failure in this task is predicted for the simple reason that in handling the human and psychological side of his adventure Hitler has blundered politically . His war cry against collectivism and his sweeping promise to restore private ownership of farm land , designed to win over the peasant by appealing to his presumed anti-collectivist feelings , might have been timely in 1917 but comes much too late in 1941 . It is likewise too late to appeal to separatist Ukrainian sentiment , with a great many other nationalities the Ukrainians have been integrated into the Soviet state , and a strong all-Russian patriotism has been developed in them by a policy of allowing a great deal of autonomy within a centralized system . Actually many Ukrainians are prominent in Russia 's cultural , political , and economic life . Moreover , there is understandable doubt in the mind of the Russian worker as to who it is to whom Hitler intends to restore the land : greatest of all political blunders , Germany has again allied itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German war lord is temporarily master of the richest soil in Europe , only to see himself once more deprived of its coveted fruits . Equal disappointment awaited Hitler if he hoped to find in the mining and industrial sections of conquered Russia a workable arsenal , with adequate man-power available , with accessible stocks of the basic materials , coal and iron , and equipped with machinery and driving power . Germany 's own ample resources of coal and iron ( including imports from Sweden ) are strengthened by its control of Austria , Czechoslovakia , Poland , Luxembourg , Belgium , and France . But mechanized war is insatiable , and an arsenal behind the front would be an additional advantage . All these hopes were drowned in the floods of the bursting Dnieper dam , when the huge Dnieper hydroelectric plant was blasted by the retreating Russians . According to expert information , mining and industrial activities in the western part of the Donets Basin have been paralyzed for a long time to come . Pits are a quagmire of stagnant water , broken props , and submerged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to the best-informed experts , to restore workable order in the pits , and this would require the replacement of all mechanical equipment . In addition , the steel plants are reported to be completely unworkable , the fleeing workers having left molten pig iron in the cooling furnaces , which now are ruined beyond repair . Reconstruction is a huge technical problem , requiring not only time but great quantities of materials already so scarce that their use is forbidden to German industry for renovation and replacement purposes . Besides , the reconditioning of an industrial system behind the front lines of military operations is dependent upon two important conditions : first , a willing , dependable army of trained workmen , and , second , absence of disturbances caused by actions of war . The first condition is not secured even in occupied countries far away from the theater of war , as , for example , Czechoslovakia . The December 27 , 1941 second condition , implying a lull in the war , was envisaged by Germany as the result of a quick victory over Russia that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Russia 's oil fields , Hitler sees another dream shattered . He was thoroughly prepared for victory ; pipe lines had been prefabricated and shipped to the front . After acquiring the minor oil production of Galicia , he expected to extend his conquests to Grozny , Maikop , and even Apsheron ( Baku ) . This plan likewise miscarried . At the same time he has lost the oil delivered to him by Russia under the trade agreement , and has depleted his supplies in all theaters of the war by the enormous demands of the Russian campaign . As far as its own loss in material and equipment is concerned , Russia has not been dealt a deadly blow , though it would be foolish to underrate the magnitude of the damage . So far , no reports of critical scarcities have come from Russia , and its vigorous offensive indicates abundance of material . The territory behind the Russian lines produces 80 per cent of the country 's needs in food ; in these regions ? Central Russia , Siberia , and the Caucasus  --  harvests and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but an important item665 ? the food requirements of about 60,000,000 Russians in occupied territory are for the time being no longer the charge of Russia . Mutilated Russia has still a coal production of 70,000 , - 000 tons , not counting the rich potential production of the pits of Kuznetz in Siberia . Steel production has been halved , but 10,000,000 tons are still produced behind the Russian lines , notably in Magnitogorsk and other industrial centers . Thus the basic materials of armament production are not deficient ; new mines of manganese , iron ore , and bauxite are now being opened . With equipment saved from the grasp of the invading German armies in the west and brought to the center and east of the country , new armament factories are being set to work . It appears that the great western arsenals  --  the famous Voroshilov plant and the Petrovsky and Czerczinsky works  --  have been successfully transferred and reorganized behind the Russian front . Airplane production is now in full blast far from any interference by Hitler 's bombers . More important still , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The deeper strategic plan of the Axis , namely , to encircle the blockade of the Allies with an outer blockade , is still far from achievement . 