@@487834

WHEN SECRETARY OF STATE MARSHALL IN effect indorsed the Bernadotte Plan for Palestine , he touched off a chain reaction that has happily led to the reverse of his position . It was inevitable for pro-Zionist forces , in the face of an imminent election , to put the question squarely to the Republican nominee , by all indications the probable winner and next President . Mr. Dewey responded by reaffirming his " whole-hearted support " of the Republican platform pledge , calling for full recognition of Israel , with the boundaries as originally proposed by the United Nations . Whereupon the President found himself in a position of having to repudiate either his Secretary of State or the platform of the Democratic Party . To his credit , he chose the first alternative , though couching his statement in language least calculated to offend Mr. Marshall . Reaffirming his approval of the boundaries proposed in the U. N. resolution of November 29 , he urged that " modifications thereof should be made only if fully acceptable to the state of Israel " and , going Dewey one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ' Israel when a permanent Israeli government is installed . The President berated his opponent for injecting the issue into the campaign , but if Mr. Dewey had waited until November 3 , both party platforms might have slipped into the deepest obscurity , as such documents have been known to do after the votes are counted . IT WOULD HAVE DONE THE ' AMERICAN Legion good to have heard one of its heroes , Representative Nixon , of the Mundt-Nixon bill , discoursing on his Un-American Affairs Committee at the seventeenth annual Herald-Tribune forum . At their convention in Miami , the legionnaires tilted furiously against the red menace . They were for outlawing the Communist Party , passing the Mundt-Nixon bill , increasing the authority and appropriations of the Thomas committee , and " stamping out " American Youth for Democracy . The Illinois delegation wanted the difference between democracy and Communist dictatorship emphasized in every classroom and suggested that teachers make sure that " our system Is exalted " Some legionnaires choked on the word exalted , but their sensitivities did not prevail . The resolution carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , of which ha is a member , Mr. Nixon , in New York , admitted that he " would be the last person to assert that the committee has always conducted its investigations in a manner which was above criticism " and proposed the following sound rules for Congressional investigating committees : ( 1 ) any individual named as a possible loyalty risk should have full opportunity to present his side of the case in the forum where he was accused ; ( 2 ) ' such an individual should have the right to counsel at all times , to call witnesses in his own behalf , and to make statements pertinent to the issue involved ; ( 3 ) no report involving an individual 's loyalty should be issued by a committee until hearings had been held and the individual involved had had an opportunity to appear . Like Paul A. Porter , who shared the platform with Mr. Nixon , we would go farther . Mr. Porter recommended that a " moratorium " be declared on present Congressional and Administrative loyalty checks while the President  --  any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower , " to study the present uncontrolled drift toward suppression of ideas . " SPEAKING OF UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES , JUST how many investigators are needed to investigate them ? With the blessing of Representative J. Parnell Thomas , a nation-wide conference of state un-American activities committees was held recently in Los Angeles . Out of this meeting has come the Inter-State Legislative Conference on Un-American Activities , which intends to solicit the participation of scores of civic , veteran , patriotic , and fraternal organizations . It would seem to be merely a question of time until every state has a committee patterned after the six now in existence . At this rate , there will soon be several thousand investigators for every registered member of the Communist Party in the nation . AS SECRETARY SECRETARY MARSHALL STEPPED OFF THE ? plane that had hurried him to Athens last week , he was greeted with the report that the murderers of George Polk , former CBS correspondent in Greece , had been found . The timing of this announcement was not unrelated , as the New York Herald Tribune put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Greece at a moment when he was in great demand elsewhere . The crisis was the pay-off on the Truman Doctrine . The triThe . NATION umph of the American-supported Greek government over the guerrillas , so widely hailed a few short weeks ago , had disintegrated Into yet another failure . The government itself was torn by an unpublicized dispute between its moderate and monarcho-fascist members . Henry F. Grady , the American ambassador , had strongly implied to American reporters  --  by refusing to answer their pointed questions  --  that the State Department suspected the Greek government of failing to press the attack on the guerrillas in order to insure increased American aid . And the Polk investigation had , to all intents and purposes , got nowhere . The last was the easiest problem to " solve . " The Greek government told Mr. Marshall , and the world , that four Communists had taken part in the killing last May . Immediately thereafter , the guerrillas broadcast that Adam Mouzenides , the alleged " trigger man , " was killed fighting in the Grammos Mountains a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other alleged murderers had since been killed . Major General William J. Donovan , who is no leftist , regards the " solution " with suspicion , and is going to attend the trial  --  of those of the accused who can be found  --  as an observer for the Overseas Writers ' Committee . The Newsmen 's Commission to Investigate the Murder of George Polk is also planning to be there . Nobody  --  left or right  --  is satisfied , in fact , and the best example of this Is the New York Times , which urges that the case " not . . . be left unsolved . " UNDEVELOPED COUNTRIES EVERYWHERE are eager to increase their output of food , other natural products , and manufactures in order to raise their standards of living and strengthen their economies . A striking attempt to bring about such a development is to be made by Iran ? which has engaged Overseas Consultants , Inc. , composed of eleven of the greatest engineering firms in the United States , to advise it regarding a $650,000,000 program . The work will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but some of the foreign exchange needed for imported supplies-40 per cent of - the total cost  --  may be obtained through a loan from the International Bank . American engineers are credited with superior " know-how " because they have built the most highly productive industry in the world . Whether they can apply their methods to a more primitive type of economy , among a people with a tradition and culture which are strange to them , is worth testing . They may have as much to learn about the planned development of national economies as Iranians need to know about modern techniques and management . We hope that the experience will be mutually , enlightening and that the Iranians will receive their money 's worth . Certainly , the plan seems to offer better hope than hit-or-miss exploitation of Iran 's resources by , the more shady type of " yea- 16. .0 , xi : . ture capital , " and it might even produce better results than imported revolution . At any rate , if enlightened capitalism is to compete with communism throughout the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition than by armies and invective . OUR FEELING ' ABOUT CENSORSHIP BEING what It Is , none of our readers will be surprised that we take strong exception to the stand of the New York Board of Rabbis in the matter of the British film , " Oliver Twist . " Our information is that this otherwise unexceptionable movie is marred , from a social standpoint , by a Fagin even more repulsive and villainous , if possible , than-the Dickens original , a Jew in the worst tradition of cruel caricature . We imagine few Americans , seeing the picture , would accept Fagin as a symbol for Jewry , unless they were thoroughly anti-Semitic before they entered the theater , but even if the film were harmful in this respect , we can not see that the Board of Rabbis has dealt with the problem wisely or effectively . It is its right to criticize the picture or otherwise attempt to counteract its influence ; but to request a ban on its showing in this country is to encourage a kind of suppression that is bad in principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown here , the cause of race relations will be in no way improved by ' the public knowledge that the Board of Rabbis sought to have it shut out . In Toronto , where " Oliver Twist " has been shown , Jewish leaders took a sounder approach . They told the producer 's representative what they thought of the work but rejected the idea of asking for its withdrawal . . . . While we are on the subject , we note with pleasure the decision of New York 's Board of Superintendents to restore " Gentleman 's Agreement " to the shelves of the high-school libraries . The ban on this volume  --  as on some other censored . material we can think of  --  was based on arguments that eventually collapsed of their own illogic . Your Mandate E HAVE been at no pains to conceal our want of W for any of the Presidential contenders in next week 's election . As Freda Kirchwey pointed out in the last issue of The Nation , those who feel as we do will vote either for Truman as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Wallace or Thomas as a protest against both major-party nominees . What we hope .  --  ' :  - -  -  ,  - -   - -   ; uf  --  reaZeerc will do , out of cynicism or indifference , is to stay away from the polls altogether . The Congress of the United States has become far too weighty a factor in world affairs to warrant such - cavalier treatment . Some liberals feel that it is crucially important for the 479 Democrats to recapture the Senate . Since we do not equate the Democratic Party with liberalism , we can hardly commit ourselves to this objective for its own sake . An impressive argument can , in fact , be advanced against hamstringing a Republican President and House with a Democratic Senate . Where it would not actually block government business , it might add to the confusion by serving the Administration 's less desirable purposes . through a coalition of Republicans and Dixiecrats , regardless of the nominal alignment of party forces . As for committee chairmanships , there is admittedly nothing to ' gain by substituting a Connally for a Vandenberg as head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bridges on the Appropriations Committee , or a George for a Millikin on Finance . And , finally , there is something to be said , from the standpoint of the Democrats themselves , in letting their opponents take full responsibility for their conduct of the government without giving them a chance to blame their failures on an opposition Senate . While we do not regard technical control of the Senate as a vital issue , we know , at the same - rime , that the greater the success of the Democrats in both houses the more surely will the Eightieth Congress stand repudiated  --  with profound effect on the course of a Dewey Administration and on the immediate future of the country . Party labels are of no consequence as such , but it is hardly to be denied that in almost every instance the more liberal candidate for Congress , by our standards , is either the Democrat or the Progressive . Since , in our opinion , no more than two Progressive nominees have even an outside chance of winning , we can only hope that the Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - Only in this way will the point be driven home to the Tabers , Knutsons , Taft , and Hartleys that in expressing a preference for an " efficient " executive over , a peculiarly inept one  --  if that is fated to happen  --  the voters are registering no indorsement of the Eightieth Congress and its works . It is of the utmost importance to convince the Republicans that even if they win the Presidency , they are being given no " mandate from the people " to scrap the social idealism of the Roosevelt era , to give monopoly a free rein in the East and the despoilers of land a free rein in the West , to move on from the Taft-Hartley act to even more vindictive measures against organized labor , and to choke dissenting opinion in the name of national safety . There is no more vivid way of impressing this on Thomas E. Dewey and on the gentlemen on the Hill than by voting , whatever your district , for the nominee who , of all those with a conceivable chance to win , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Prerequisites for Peace ? THE dilemma facing both Russia and the United States at Paris can be expressed in a few words : how to avoid losing face by appearing to back down while at the same time convincing the world , and particularly their allies , that their intransigence is not going to force the issue to the point of war . Neither power believes it can afford to grasp either horn , and this is why the efforts of the so-called neutrals have been concentrated on finding a formula which will at once ( I ) satisfy the Western demand for an unconditional lifting of the blockade before talks are resumed and the Russian demand that the use of Soviet-zone currency in all of Berlin be guaranteed before the blockade is lifted ; ( 2 ) assure the Russians that the whole German question will be reopened in the Council of Foreign Ministers but imply , no advance concessions by the West regarding the unification of western Germany and its inclusion in E. R. P. Merely to state the issue is to reveal the ticklish nature of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As this page goes to press , Russia 's position on the compromise offered by the neutrals and accepted by the Western powers is still uncertain . But even if Vishinsky asks for changes , as is generally expected , or again challenges the competence of the U. N. to deal with the dispute , the search for a way out will continue . For one hopeful sign has appeared on the sky of Paris : the other nations of the world are fiercely determined to prevent a war . Nothing could have ' dramatized their feeling better than Mexico 's resolution , adopted without dissenting vote , which appealed to the great powers to " renew their efforts to compose their differences and establish a lasting peace . " A resolution does not make a peace , of course , but it registers a trend that neither Moscow nor Washington can lightly ignore . If Mr. Vishinsky thinks he can reject reasonable proposals for settlement and hold his present prestige , he is mistaken . And if the United States counts upon the backing of even its own Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a trick , it will soon be set right . The world , and Western Europe in par : ticular , wants peace more than it wants the United States to suck every possible advantage out of Moscow 's intolerable behavior in Berlin . The world wants time far more than it wants a showdown ; and it particularly wants to avoid a showdown on an issue that is in its broader terms far from clear . France and Britain have loyally backed America in its firm insistence on Russian retreat . They even indorsed , though with great reluctance , the appeal to the United Nations . They object to the blockade and recognize the impossibility of backing out of Berlin under threat . But both governments , and particularly France , regard war as an intolerable solution . Not only are they unpreparedto stand up against the Red Army . Not only do they foresee their own annihilation as the certain and immediate consequence of war . Apart from these elementary and compelling argiiments , the Western powers know very well that a war which arose , not because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was using extreme and provocative measures - to prevent the creation of a powerful western German state would be impossible to " sell " to a weary and skeptical people . In France , not one man on the street out of a hundred fully accepts American policy in Germany . The French government has swallowed that policy crumb by crumb , gagging over each fragment . In England , sympathy for German recovery is more general , but suspicion of American methods and motives is just as great . Only the extreme right approves the plan to curtail reparations and restore German industry to its former , largely Nazi , control . To the rest of the country , this method of " integrating Western Germany " into the Marshall Plan seems a most questionable way to resist the encroachments of communism . Russia may threaten the West , but the West is not yet prepared to fight Russia in order to gain a restored ; capitalist , neo-Nazi Germany as its ally . Fully aware of this opinion , Western officials , however anti-Russian , prefer to continue to talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Obviously , this situation gives the neutrals their great chance ; what is called for is a plan to make possible resumed negotiations on terms which will extricate both Russia and - America from their common dilemma . Only an intransigence that blinds them to realities will prevent such a plan from being found . For this reason , the Berlin deadlock with all its hazards has been useful . It has shown the participants the limits beyond which aggressive threats and political stubbornness dare not go . It has roused the other nations from their mood of cynical apathy . Russia has learned that it can not successfully resist Western political moves by brutal and reckless measures . The British-American air lift was an answer no amount of Soviet propaganda has been able to discredit . On the other hand , having gained this advantage , the United States discovered that it could not push it to the point of a final break without forfeiting the credit it had won . At this moment , Russia faces a similar choice . We are sure the Kremlin does not want war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peace . But it must be willing to accept reasonable terms for renewed negotiations ; otherwise world opinion , represented in the Security Council by the six neutrals , will swing against it . The hope of peace rests with this growing consensus , which is only beginning to realize and organize its power . If it succeeds in preventing the threatened showdown between Russia and the United States , it may be able to make its will felt at other critical points in the struggle toward a stable world order .                     