@@487836

AFTER a campaign as sluggish as it has been vapory I find myself looking toward the results with an " eagerness I hardly expected to muster . It is not the Presidential vote , of course , that will keep me glued to the radio on Election Night ? I can wait indefinitely to learn Mr. Dewey 's plurality  --  but rather the success or failure of scores of aspirants to lesser office . Dewey 's caginess plus Truman 's personal weakness minimizes the significance of the top choice as a public judgment on issues ; but the vote for Representatives , Senators , and Governors should serve as a guide to the country 's temper , give us some hint of the future , and color the behavior of the next Administration . Going over the political map , I expect to have items like the following in mind when , pencil in band and refreshment at my elbow , I tune in on the returns . New England : Connecticut Democrats , all but forgetting Truman 's existence , are concentrating fiercely on making Chester Bowles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside chance of beating the colorless incumbent , James C. Shannon , who hopes to draw some of the labor votes away from Bowles on the basis of having once been counsel to the State Federation of Labor . In effect this race is something of a test of public opinion on price controls . . . . More important than any of the political contests in Massachusetts are the referendums on birth control and anti-labor restrictions . . . . Should early returns show heavily industrial Rhode Island going Republican , you can turn off yourradio and wait for the morning paper to tell you about the G. 0 . P. landslide . Middle " Atlantic : New York , for a change , is one of the dullest spots in the election . With Dewey taken for granted and no race for Senator or Governor , interest centers on a handful of Congressional fights . Coalitions of the Republican , Democratic , and Liberal parties are likely to replace Representative Leo Isacson in the Bronx with Isadore Dollinger , an able state senator with a liberal record , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Abraham J. Multer . In both cases the issue is drawn between a Wallace Progressive and a New Deal Democrat . Vito Marcantonio is a good bet to return to Congress in spite of the energetic campaign waged by John Ellis , thirty-five-year-old navy veteran and nominee of the Republican and Liberal parties . The Democratic candidate is a Tammany hack whose role in the campaign is hardly noticeable . Ellis 's argument is that East Harlem will have to elect him to get needed improvements " because you ca n't get a bill anywhere in Congress with the name of Marcantonio on it . " Mayor O'Dwyer 's indorsement should help his brother Paul , running with Democratic and American Labor Party backing , to defeat Representative Jacob K. Javits , one of the few liberals  --  albeit a mild one  --  on the Republican side of the aisle . Last year 's local Democratic victory in Buffalo allows a faint hope that young Mary Louise Nice , a fine candidate running with labor and liberal support , will capture a Republican seat in the Forty-second Congressional District , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  by a Joint Labor Committee , the A. D. A. , and the Democratic Party  --  on behalf of Richard Mosher , a navy veteran with strong New Deal convictions . With Wallace candidates in Pennsylvania yielding the field in the few districts where liberal Democrats are running , speculation turns on the pleasant but not too lively possibility that Representative John McDowell of Pittsburgh will be retired to the obscurity out of which he emerged in the Republican sweep of 1946 . His Democratic opponent , Harry J. Davenport , has been campaigning on , the theme that J. Parnell Thomas 's lieutenant is a " screwball " and the Un-American Affairs Committee a " crazy show . " . .. New Jersey 's heavy registration , especially in the industrial areas , raises the hope that liberal Deniocrats may capture a pair of Republican seats . In the traditionally Republican Trenton district Charles Howell , who as a state assemblyman introduced Jersey 's Fair Employment Practices Act , is making a gallant fight with the vigorous support of the trade unions . The same goes for young Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , running for the seat vacated by Representative Hartley , in the Tenth . All three are making the Taft-Hartley act their principal issue . Border States : Major interest here is in the Senate races , with West Virginia and Kentucky promising to deliver to the Democrats two of the four seats they need to recapture the upper chamber . Truman 's successful tour of both states , coupled with Dewey 's continued snubbing of Chapman Revercomb , increases the expectation that West Virginia will send Matthew Neely to the Senate and that Kentucky will do the same for Virgil Chapman . With many Kentucky Democrats supporting the more personable John . S. Cooper , however , Chapman 's chances depend on the Truman plurality . Suspected of Dixiecrat leanings , Chapman is reported to have lost ground recently when Governor Clements privately rebuked him for failing to indorse the Democratic platform . . . Missouri 's Fifth District is likely to make a Congressman of Richard Bolling , formerly vice-chairman of the American Veterans ' Committee and an organizer for A. D. A. This Kansas City district is r @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a feud two years ago among the Democrats , who had previously held it for a generation . Dixie : Only a Dewey landslide , coupled with greater States ' Rights strength than there is reason to believe exists in Tennessee , can keep Estes Kefauver from gracing a seat in the Senate . If he wins , Tennessee can count out two of Its least attractive sons ? B. Carroll Reece and " Boss " Crump . The state is also worth watching as an Index of how far a candidate for Governor  --  in this case Roy Acuff , Republican nominee and star of radio 's Grand Ole Opry  --  can go solely , on the strength of hill-billy music . . . . Texas will be the tip-off on the changing political pattern of the South . The Republicans appear to be strong , and if sufficiently aided by the Dixiecrats may conceivably shock the country by electing a Republican Senator . . . . Virginia and Florida are worth - watching for similar developments , although Thurmond is believed to be losing ground as a consequence of having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West : In keeping with his unorthodox nature Hubert Humphrey , Minnesota 's meteoric candidate for the Senate , appears to be carrying the President on his coat-tails instead of the other way around . In this most important of all senatorial contests , from the liberal point of view , Dewey has swallowed his pride enough to have his lieutenants make an all-out drive for Senator Joseph H. Ball , who opposed him in 1944 . For full details on the Humphrey-Ball race and on the chances of Paul Douglas and Adlai Stevenson in Illinois readers are referred to articles by Bradley L. Morison and Robert Lasch elsewhere in this issue . . . . Stevenson , running for Governor , is generally credited with a better chance to defeat Dwight Green , whose state machine is riddled with corruption , than Douglas has to defeat Senator Brooks . The Republican machine at the last moment made a pious effort to get the Progressives on the ballot , a move that should convince even Henry Wallace that , motives aside , he has been buttering some strange bread in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined and definitely hopeful effort to elect a Senator , Guy M. Gillette , in Iowa of all places . The Dewey plurality is expected to be heavy ; but the Republican incumbent , George A. Wilson , is unpopular and Iowa 's cumbersome ballot is easily split . Harold Stassen appears to have cost the Republicans a good many votes in the corn belt by suggesting that his party was not wedded to the program of price supports . . . . The United Automobile Workers in particular and labor in general are doing what can be done to replace Michigan 's Senator Homer Ferguson with the liberal Frank Hook and to supplant their egregious Governor , Kim Sigler , with Mennen Williams . Besides being heir to a soap and shaving-cream fortune , Williams happens to be an aggressive liberal . Like Bolling , he has been active both in the A. V. C. and the A. D. A. . As in Michigan , the Democrats of Wisconsin are privately figuring in terms of building for the future rather than victory this year , but at least two very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Biemiller , one of the best Representatives to go down in the flood of 1946 , has at least an even chance of returning to Washington at the expense of Charles Kersten , a determined laborbaiter . In the northern reaches of the state the veteran Dan Hoan is giving Representative O'Konski the first real opposition he has faced in his six reactionary years as a Congressman . Far West : Four of the most vulnerable seats in the Senate are at stake in this area , three of them now held by Pemocrats and one by a Republican . In all four ? Montana , Wyoming , Colorado , and New Mexico  --  the odds favor the Democrats , though not by much and with the issue probably to be decided by the size of the Dewey vote . Senator James Murray , who won in 1942 by only 1,200 ballots , faces a stiff battle against a combination of Anaconda Copper , the Montana power trust , and Burt Wheeler , the unforgiving ex-Senator with whom Murray has had a long-standing feud , not to mention his opponent Tom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a big registration and powerful labor support favor Murray . . . . Clinton P. Anderson is pretty sure to dispose of the eccentric Pat Hurley in New Mexico unless Dewey sweeps the state , and Wyoming 's extremely popular Governor , Lester C. Hunt , has the advantage over the Republican incumbent , E. V. Robertson , a stiff , ultra-conservative , British-born cattle . man . . . . Whether or not " Big Ed " Johnson wins for the Democrats inColorado will make little difference in the ideological sense , but a big difference to the Democrats in their battle for control of the Senate . The very capable and liberal Representative John A. Carroll is almost sure to be returned to office . Pacific Coast : Now that the Progressives have thought better about opposing some of the best Representatives in the House , the California election will be interesting . . primarily as an index of Henry Wallace 's strength . Helen Douglas and Chet Holifield are virtually assured of reelection , with Frank Havenner due for somewhat rougher sledding . Details on California as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Carey McWilliams 's account elsewhere in these pages . . . . In the Northwest watch for the returns on Henry M. Jackson , the only enlightened Congressman left of what was once a liberal delegation from that region , and on former Senator Hugh Mitchell , now trying for the House seat of Homer Jones , a Republican hack with a dismal record . Progressive candidates are making trouble for both . * e * TO ASSURE Nation readers the pleasure of showing up a commentator , a right sanctioned by long usage , I rashly predict as follows : Out of an estimated ' - total vote of 55,000,000 , Dewey should poll 27,500,000 ; Truman , 23,500,000 ; Wallace , 2,250,000 ; Thurmond , 1,250,000 ; Thomas , 400,000 ; scattered , 100,000 . Brickbats , if any , should be sent prepaid. ,                     