@@485703

WHO GETS AHEAD ? : The Determinants of Economic Success in America . By Christopher Jencks . Basic Books . 397 pp. $17.50 . SMALL FUTURES : Children , Inequality , and the Limits of Liberal Reform . By Richard H. deLone . Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. 258 pp. $12.95 . T t is sad to have to report that Christopher Jencks , the principal author of Inequality ( 1971 ) , has now written ( with the help of eleven collaborators ) a sequel as trivial as it is misconceived . Who Gets Ahead ? is worth looking at , indeed , only as an object lessoh in what can go wrong with a social science that immerses itself in obscurantist statistical data without taking any serious pause for thought about the significance of what is being studied . In Inequality , Jencks set out to discover the causes of " inequality between individuals . " Two findings which seemed to flow from his data base sparked off an intense controversy . First , he argued that the differential quality of schooling did not seem to affect people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the single most important determinant of people 's success or failure , more important even than the nature of their schooling or of their family background or of their genetic constitution , was a residual varial. ble he called " luck " ? being the right kind of person in the right place at the right time . The latter conclusion infuriated people who had been looking for stirring conclusions about the effects of racism and poverty , not to mention of inherited wealth ; but then Jencks 's methodological focus on individuals , and a self-imposed , decision to study only quintiles of the population sample ( i.e. , from top 20 percent to bottom 20 percent ) precluded any findings relevant to those conditions . Overall , though , he was certainly right to emphasize that much of the time we simply ca n't figure Philip Green , a member of The Nation 's Editorial Board , teaches government at Smith College . 1out why one man " bettered " himself and another did n't . As to the former conclusion , his simple point , much misunderstood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pouring more money into schools by way of enrichment programs , etc. , was a very dubious way of trying to achieve equality of opportunity . Much of the criticism was inspired by the way in which , on a superficial reading , his analysis seemed to fit into Arthur Jensen 's overtly racist argument that education could n't improve the cognitive abilities of black people because they are genetically inferior to whites . But Jencks said no such thing ( though he did waste a good deal of effort reanalyzing the heredity studies Jensen had relied on ) ; and even though he failed to consider what schools might accomplish if we poured a lot more money into them on a selective basis to cut down average class size , his findings about the impact of schooling should have been very helpful to social reformers , had they understood him correctly . He was saying , " Look , there may be all sorts of good reasons to spend more than we do on our schools , but if we want to make Americans more equal with one another , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . " And of course he was right : people who propose that we achieve more equality through our schools are usually people who do n't have a burning desire for very much more equality . On the other hand , in his ultimate policy proposal , Jencks 's analysis became very strained , and that was an augury , it turns out , of things to come . His proposal was , in short , that the only way to redistribute income is to redistribute it directly by means of such mechanisms as wage supplements , not indirectly by such means as school reform . That much is indeed ' obvious , but so obvious that we are impelled to ask , why do we have to have a fine-tuned account of the " causes " of inequality in order to reach such a self-evident conclusion ? Would we change our minds about the virtue of wage supplements , or a negative income tax , depending on whether , say , " luck " accounted for twice as much of the statistical variance in income as did family background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , unless we conclude that something about the victims of inequality  --  some curable condition  --  is responsible for their state , rather than the nature of the system in which we all live . On the one hand Jencks was discussing the causes of inequality among individuals , on the other hand what to do about it : it did not occur to him that " maybe the two things have nothing to do with each other . His new collaborative effort now demonstrates that all along , his methodological focus was attuned to causes rather than solutions . Who Gets Ahead ? is a monstrosity of statistical irrelevancies , in which phrases such as " could be , " " might imply , " etc : , abound ; dubious corrections for imagined error inflate or deflate allegedly conclusive figures at will ; other people 's halfhearted conclusions about their inconclusive data are called upon when Jencks 's own inconclusive data are unhelpfuf ; single studies are culled for a " best available estimate " when other studies differ widely from them , and so on . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that in trying to account for " success , " the second study shows " family background " and college education to be somewhat more important than did the first ; a Piper Cub successfully knocked out of the air by a ground-to-air nuclear missile . What is the purpose of all this ? We already know that the children of the very rich hardly ever wind up being anything but rich ; the children of the very poor usually wind up being poor , or not much better , and the children of blacks wind up being black , which does n't pay off nearly as well as being white . Other than that , why should we care who gets ahead ? The response is that we can only care about the answer to such a question if we accept , as it now appears Jencks does , the American myth of equal opportunity . For it is indeed a logical outcome of that mythology that if " you " do n't get ahead , whoever you are , it must be somebody 's fault : yours , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvable social institution 's , in the eyes of liberal observers . ! ' Instead of thinking mythologicallyi 630 we need to forget about looking for micro-causes and consider the economic system itself for a moment . Within that system there is a sharply graded and differentiated hierarchy of earned and unearned incomes , from the billionaire 's inheritance to the handicapped person 's welfare pittance . Does family background " explain " the inheritance , and " bad luck " the pittance ? Of course not . What explains both the difference , and the incredible scope of the difference , is our version of the legal system of capitalism , which guarantees first , that property can be inherited , and second , that people have to do either skilled labor or skilled white-collar work in order to be paid the equivalent of a de cent living . Moreover , the stratification system is not only hierarchical but also takes the form of a steeply graded pyramid , not because that 's the way people are " naturally " ( on what scale ? ) but because that 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from trade unions , have successfully chosen to distribute wages and salaries . Thus , there must always be millions of people suffering from inadequate levels of income through no fault of their own , while a relative handful benefit from undeserved levels of income through no real merit of their own . There is no distributive justice in such a society because no ethical principle Can justify the nature and depth of the distinction . All of this comes about because that is the way our version of liberal capitalism has been institutionalized . To be ' sure , from the point of view of capitalism itself ( that is , the point of view that most of us are presented with in the course of our socialization ) the additional group inequality which has been visited on women , and on black Americans , Native Americans , Hispanic Americans , etc. , of both sexes , is unjustifiable in any sense because it has been discriminatory . But to overcome discrimination we need only eliminate its effects by adopting appropriate compensatory programs of " affirmative action " ; we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of the discrimination , since none of them would have been of more than marginal significance ' in the absence of a desire to discriminate . It is typical of Jencks 's irrelevancy that he deals with this source of inequality only in passing with respect to blacks , and not at all with respect to women , who in fact are complete nonpersons as far as virtually the entire litThe Nation . erature of " equal opportunity " is concerned ; thus again he reinforces the erroneous and ideologically conservative ' notion that it is something about " individuals " that creates inequality . But even if and when we ever overcome group discrimination , what will be the virtue of a notion of " equal opportunity " that conjoins social mobility with a good deal of class stratification and an immense amount of economic differentiation ? The effects of our perverse way of stratifying " earnings , " even if the results are fair as among discrete social subgroups , must still range from the institutionalized betrayal of political democracy ' ( the better off always have more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is visited on those in the bottom strata . If exclusion from political influence and the psychic and physical results of economic marginality were visited on adults randomly rather than according to the social class or caste of their parents , the society would be somewhat more just and quite probably less brutal . But it would still be built around unnecessary and rationally indefensible levels of economic inequality , based on arbitrary gradations that create deep and destructive distance between social classes and groups . From that perspective , Who Gets Ahead ? is devoid of feeling ( even of real content ) . The virtue of Richard deLone 's Small Futures is that , even though mired in the same quicksands of " social mobility " and " equal opportunity " as are most American writers on the subject of equality , he manages to put a proper emphasis on the pains and costs of inequality , rather than on its ( alleged ) causes . Anyone who is not a hopeless ideologue of inequality ought to be moved by the picture he presents of the " small futures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they are born into the wrong corner of the social order at the wrong time . DeLone has been subjected to the complete arsenal of criticism that The New York Times can bring to bear on an author who steps outside the bounds of approved moderate discourse . In his case , the heavy guns are triggered by Albert Shanker , Fred Hechinger and Diane Ravitch . Their charge is that his scathing assault on conventional liberal reformism makes the task of needed social reform that much harder by tarring all liberal social programs with the same indiscriminate brush , just as Jencks was December 15 , 1979 accused of retarding needed school reform a decade ago . ( Ravitch , in The New York Times Book Review for September 17 and November 11 , also falsely accuses deLone of misrepresenting the classic empirical literature on " equal opportunity " ; her ' sleight of hand is most visible in her treatment of Blau and Duncan 's The American Occupational Structure , in which she parades one of their statements about occupational mobility before unsuspecting Times readers as though it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite different conclu-sions about interclass mobility . ) In fact , deLone states a much more sophisticated position very clearly : We can not brand all liberal reform programs as failures without some qualification . We are not suggesting that poor children would be better off with bad education or no education at all , or that efforts to provide health care to migrant Workers are a waste of time and money , or that welfare is such a mess that the best thing for the government to do is stop providing any money to poor families . Nor are we arguing that discriminatory school placements are a trivial matter or that separate can long mean equal in American society . We have no quarrel with the argument that education or hialth care or good parents or rich early childhood experiences are important . However , he adds : The liberal tradition has not enabled the children of the poor to have anything like the same chance as the children of the rich for attaining economic security . . . . The ultimate failure of liberal reform is that in making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' it has spawned a set of ideas and institutions the inherent contradictions of which undermine their explicit goals . . . . The persistent belief of liberal reformers has been .. . that the elimination of inequality does not depend on redistribution from rich and powerful to poor and powerless ; rather that the way to change society is to change individuals . He goes on to indict those pseudoliberal reforms that most need indictment , such as the very destructive Aid to Families with Dependent Children program and the worst aspects of the juvenile criminal " justice " system . And he points out that the emphasis on " helping " individual children , when it ( predictably ) eventuates in something , December 15 , 1979 less than general success , produces a backlash in the form of doctrines ( such as Jensen 's ) that blame the individuals who 've " failed " to respond properly , rather than the reformists ' own belief that " equal opportunity " could be bought on the cheap . For this insight he is labeled an enemy of " individualism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be pleasant to be able to believe that only irresponsible radical critics somehow keep equality from realizing itself in the United States . But deLone is only telling the plain truth ( though I think it would be fairer to many liberal reformers to insert the word " massive " t before " redistribution " in the second quoted passage above ) . The likes of Shanker , Hechinger and Ravitch certainly defend the best " War on Poverty " programs ( such as Head Start ) against demands that we should do much less , and that is to their credit . But deLone asks them to defend liberal reform against the demand that we should do much more . Ravitch indeed does this  --  but only by misrepresenting his suggestion for an " egalitarian family policy " as though it consisted chiefly of proposals for ' governmental meddling in family life , instead Of ( as he again makes very clear ) proposals for a full-employment policy , income redistribution and nondiscriminatory access to supportive services in the short run , and workplace reorganization and economic planning in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have any alternative program to offer in their own right , the hundreds of weekly columns Shanker has - produced for his house organ have yet to reveal it . There are many weaknesses in deLone 's treatment of the subject of " equal opportunity , " but he enables us to see the main point , which Jencks once knew The Nation . but now seems to have forgotten : we do n't need a new " strategy " from the academy or the social'welfare establishment for " understanding " or even " attacking " inequality ; we need a democratic mass movement that will repudiate it . ? 