@@492360

Trouble in the Northeast By A R TH U R W. BALT M HE very apex of pride and parental smugness is easily the barnyard hen with a flock of fluffy yellow chicks at her heels . But after a very few weeks of matriarchy , when fuzzy down has changed to feathers and the chicks develop capable and active legs and beaks , the mother hen becomes just one of the girls , and a realistic one at that . It becomes a question who is going to get the dropped kernel of corn or the unlucky grasshopper , hen or chick . With size thus leveled off and independence established , the hen and her brood may remain a family , but there is no lingering nonsense about food . An edible bug belongs to the one who can catch an edible bug . Stretch the barnyard weeks into decades and add the civilized benefits of taxes , reconversion and other modern endowments , and the life pattern above is a pretty good parallel for American population and industry . The United States is a hen-andchicks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled geographical matron east of the Mississippi and north of the Ohio and the Potomac . Here lies the pride of parenthood . Here lie the greatest concentration of people , the most industry , manufac turing and trade , most of the money and property wealth , and all the greatest cities but one . The Northeast has always been the national hen . It is so now . And it will be for a long time to come . But , relatively , it is not so sure of the grasshopper as it used to be . The bouncing chicks of the South and West are beginning to be annoyingly competitive with mamma . It is the admitted function of highly industrialized centers , as they age , to incubate new enterprises which , when they mature , break away to fresh regions . That this destiny of the parent to grow middle-aged and to sponsor new growth is natural and even desirable will never be denied in Texas and California . But the industrially sedentary American Northeast finds middle age painful and surprising , and the wandering offspring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over this state of affairs showing up east of the Mississippi . Pennsylvania is still the foremost heavy industrial state of the Union by a wide margin . Massachusetts is a vigorous and potent industrial state , and New England as a whole remains a powerhouse of industry . By comparison , the Carolinas , Texas and California are still in their industrial pinfeathers . But the process of decentralization , or a sort of indirect migration , or what one economist has called " differential growth , " is slowly but steadily leveling off the differences . The trend is not even new . It has risen to a priority spot in economic discussion only because the industrial benzedrine of war has speeded up this scattering and may leave permanent changes . The South and West did very well during the war and are by no means willing to give up their gains . Dozens of congressmen and businessmen from seventeen Western and Southern states are clustering defiantly around their new industrial plants , hoping to protect them and to retain the people who moved in to man them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was sent to these defensive chicks . On that day the Interstate Commerce Commission ordered a 10 per cent reduction in Southern and Western railroad freight rates for manufactured articles , and a 10 per cent increase for the same freight within the Northeast . The order was temporary , a stopgap designed to fill an interval  --  probably years  --  during which the nation 's entire rate structure is to be unified in some as yet unknown way . What a Change in Freight Rates Means R EGARDLESS of the merits of the ICC decision ; it has an implication that can hardly be denied . It suggests that the commission now considers the industry and manufacturing of this country spread out to a point where preferential rates for the heavy traffic of the Northeast should be modified in favor of the growing traffic in the South and West . Moreover , the Northeast believes that the ultimate goal of the unification of rates may very well be something approaching rates by mileage rather than by traffic volume , an ominous possibility for the present industrial heart of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states celebrated the decision as a giant step toward industrialization of the land of cotton . Even a New York Times comment on the decision bore the headline : ICC MOVES TO DECENTRALIZE INDUSTRY . On the day the rate change was ordered , hundreds of bosses asked , " What does this mean to our company ? " and hundreds of traffic managers scraped through their rate books to find as many answers as there are class freight rates and exceptions thereto . Only a fraction of national traffic was affected , but the direction of the change was clear enough , and many bosses in the Northeast had glum comments on the news , Like this one , the head of a medium-size Pennsylvania corporation , who said , " We will simply have to divert more of our production to the South . We can expect to move some machines from our Pennsylvania plant to our Carolina plant , perhaps even to think about a new location somewhere in the Southwest . " Whether they were good or bad , freight rates prior to the ordered change were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for instance , the product of a Detroit company which meets on equal price terms at Vicksburg , Mississippi , the same product from a competing company in , say , Brunswick , Georgia . Under the new rates the Detroit product is not affected , since its freight bill is a through-haul bill into the South and that haul remains unchanged . But the Brunswick product will now have 10 per cent less freight to pay between the home factory and Vicksburg . Presumably it can undersell the Detroit product in Vicksburg by that amount and as far beyond Vicksburg to the west as the freight cut lasts . Just how big a bite will this take out of the territory in which Detroit has heretofore been able to wrestle on even terms ? Statisticians Bring Out Their Crying Towels take a prosaic lawn mower made in Chicago O and sold in grassless New York City . Before the ICC decision , the Chicago lawn mower had a fortyfive-cent edge on each 100 pounds against a lawn mower made very nearly the same distance away at Atlanta , Georgia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Atlanta class minimum , reduces the Chicago margin to twelve cents . This may seem picayune , but assume that Atlanta lawn mowers have been doing all right in New York against Chicago lawn mowers under a forty-five-cent handicap , perhaps because of lower labor coats or the advantages of a milder climate or whatever . Now the Atlanta product should do just a little better . The difference is not enough to ruin Chicago lawn-mower manufacturing , but it wo n't help it either . The only thing that is likely to be helped , even slightly , is the current of decentra liration under way in this country . Few industries are truly foot-loose , but few are as solidly anchored to their home regions as might be expected . Even though Pennsylvania 's remarkable coal veins can not be packed up and moved to Louisiana , or Oregon , a shift of people can make other and lesser coal beds competitive with Pennsylvania 's , and , even more important , competitive fuels can produce the same effect in a coal community as if the coal-mining company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scarcely be uprooted and moved , but new steel mills and new branch mills need not necessarily be built where the industry has always prospered if new production and marketing factors overcome those that made the original site a good one . No matter how seemingly immovable an industrial mass might be , it can either migrate or give the effect of migrating . These elephantine and frequently imperceptible earth waves of change are not mere matters of statistics . They affect the number and quality of jobs , the attendance at local movies , the number of ice-cream sodas served at the local fountains , the money in the local banks , and the heads of lettuce sold by the local grocer . Entire states and regions have nerves that are quite sensitive to them . And in the Northeast these nerves are presently aquiver . Some time ago , in a burst of mournful bickering within the family , Pennsylvania and Massachusetts fell to arguing about which was worse off . A Massachusetts legislative commission filed a report saying that the state 's real-estate-tax burden was threatening the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be sharply cut if the commonwealth was to maintain its competitive position among the industrial states of the nation . Massachusetts , it concluded , has suffered a sharp decline in its share of national wealth , taxable valuations , industrial production , its share of the national income , and its share of the national population . Indignant at this competitive show of self-abasement , Pennsylvania rushed up and , in effect , said , " But you ought to see our scars ! " The Pennsylvania Economy League , a public body interested in better government , immediately pointed out that between 1910 and 1940 Pennsylvania dropped from 8.3 per cent of the national population to 7.5 per cent  --  worse than Massachusetts . Pennsylvania lost in percentage of national income a total of 16.3 per cent  --  worse than Massachusetts  --  between 1919 and 1943 . Between 1922 and 1937 Pennsylvania showed a decline of almost 10 per cent in her share of national wealth , between 1910 and 1939 lost 24.4 per cent in her share of manufacturing production , and fell from 29.8 to 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And so on . These declines are not always absolute . In many cases they are like relative changes in the recipe for horse-and-rabbit pie . Starting with an original recipe of one horse and one rabbit , a sensational change in the percentage can ostensibly be had by making it one horse and two rabbits , but the pie will still taste like horse . In population , for example , both Pennsylvania and Massachusetts gained people between 1910 and 1940 ? but other parts of the country gained relatively more . And in the period 1935-40 both states were listed in an internal-migration table as net losers . Moreover , interstate migration in the three and one half years following 1940 was twice as great throughout the country , but with much the same trends , as in 1935-40 . Neither Pennsylvania nor Massachusetts was imagining anything when they pulled off their economic shirts and revealed the scare of time . Without prejudice , Pennsylvania . the traditional leader of Northeastern industry , may be used to examine forces that have over a period of years attacked her and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State College in 1941 undertook a study of industrial trends within the state since 1914 , the authors stacked most of the commonwealth 's basic manufacturing groups against the national average and discovered that twenty-nine out of forty were declining . As bare figures , these need not necessarily be bad , but it happened that they were rather more than less painful because among the twenty-nine which slipped were two strong industries , iron and steel , and textiles . And in another great state pillar , industries , coal was a bleak spot , showing both a relative and an absolute decline in bituminous and anthracite . In 1936 , for the first time in American history , Pennsylvania yielded first place in mineral production to another state  --  Texas . The Pennsylvania State College study in blue used figures that in most cases carried up only to 1937 or at best 1941 . But since the war , which affected industrial peaks almost everywhere , Northeastern industry , whirring as it may be , has slipped even further in relation to the rest of the country . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the period mid-1940 to mid-1943 with a base of total manufacturing , production and investment in " 1939 , found Pennsylvania had slipped from second in the nation to sixth . All together six of the nine New England and North Atlantic states , measured in the same way , had dropped one or more places in the national rank . The No . I spot had not , however , escaped from that area which the railroads call " official " territory  --  east of the Mississippi and north of the Ohio . Leadership bad gone west from New York , but only to Michigan . The regional significance here is not great , since Michigan and its surrounding east-north-central states , although they were one of the earliest chicks to break away and flourish at the expense of the hen , have during the last decade and a half slowed down to a standstill in capturing more than their share of the nation 's industry . The really significant change in rank was California , which , passing New Jersey , Ohio , Illinois and Pennsylvania , climbed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term combining the value of supply contracts and new industrial facilities . Of these two ingredients , the new industrial facilities  --  the factories , the mills , the yards  --  are much more important in thinking about regional shifts because they will endure , whereas war orders for ships and tanks and planes have stopped . Hence it is interesting to discover that the South and West did much better than the Northeast in acquiring new facilities during the war . Neither the New England nor the Middle Atlantic states came anywhere near getting a percentage of total new industrial facilities comparable with their percentage of national prewar industrial activity . The Commerce report drew this conclusion : " Wartime investment on the Atlantic Seaboard . . is relatively much smaller than the prewar manufacturing importance of these regions . . . . " And again , " Thus , on the whole , the wartime program of new capital investment has tended to bring about a geographic diffusion of American industrial plant . . The geographic dispersion of industrial plant is not a wholly new development , but rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " geographic diffusion " and " dispersion " really mean that a mechanic named Joe and his wife and kids and Aunt Agnes have moved from Aliquippa , Pennsylvania , to Vallejo , I. California , and are buying their groceries from Safeway Stores instead of the A. and P. This is the sort of thing that is giving chambers of commerce , railroad industrial agents and some politicians in the Northeast occasional twinges of frustration . It is the function of state and local commerce chambers to coax new businesses and industries into the state and into respective communities , of railroad agents to lure new business into the railroad 's territory . Politicians are sometimes helpful , sometimes not . When the luring strength of their areas iSweak , they often pretend that nothing whatsoever is wrong , but privately agree to correct it , if politically possible . It is a venerable form of industrial warfare . Cash baits for industrial newcomers used to be common , but that practice has ebbed . Today , inducements often take the form of local tax exemptions or free land . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ markets and costs proving to the prospect that a given site in a given area is to his long-term advantage . Within this never-ceasing regional competition the depression of 1932-33 was a major milestone , for it greatly increased the importance of the factor of taxes in regional bidding for industries . Highly industrialized states , as the South and West will find out someday if their dreams of industry come true , pay enormous bills for government during depressions , and they sometimes load these bills on their home industries . Pennsylvania  --  again picking on this typical industrial state -- is a vivid example of the practice . The commonwealth 's expenditures following 1933 were so large that huge emergency taxes were required to meet them , even after great help from the Federal Government . Coincidentally , a little New Deal administration was voted into office , and in 1935 not unexpectedly chose business and industry as good mules to carry a heavy share of the tax load . It might have happened to any state . California , in fact , has narrowly escaped administrations which would have burdened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But ten years later , even after a swing in the political pendulum , there has been little change in Pennsylvania taxes . Additional adjustment is promised , but in 1941 Pennsylvania collected the very high total of 35.1 per cent of its total tax revenues from direct taxes on business . Few Pennsylvania industries actually pulled up and left the commonwealth because of state taxes , although some of them threatened to do so . But embarrassment fell heavily on communities within the commonwealth trying to attract new business or to induce resident corporations to expand within the state rather than outside of it . A good many chamber-ofcommerce deals fell through , and , although the industrial prospect is usually reluctant to tell just why he picks one state or community against another , Pennsylvania industrial promotion people could see prospect after prospect balking at the hurdle of high taxes . A recent example is the big automotive company which was shopping for a multimillion-dollar assembly site in a region that included Eastern Pennsylvania . Here was a postwar catch and a lush one , for it meant several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal of freight business for the railroads , and even a jot of prestige for the area that captured it . The pursuit went on for eleven months and at least three states were in the bidding . No possible industrial site was overlooked by the railroads , nor by chambers of commerce . The attractions of each site were listed and persuasively presented , the market areas measured and available services lauded . It is quite possible that state-government people suggested forms of capitalization which would make the branch least susceptible to taxes  --  they sometimes do that . But when it finally came to picking the spot , the auto company by-passed Pennsylvania and picked its spot in Delaware . Frustrated Pennsylvanians were positive they knew why . " Taxes , " they said . That fox chase happened to be a regional matter . The auto company 's plant was bound to land within a limited area , but Pennsylvania has had disappointments much further afield . Several years ago the town of Bloomsburg was happily convinced that it had been chosen as the site of a big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the field had pledged itself to give Bloomsburg very serious consideration . Bloomsburg citizens had worked months to get the plant . But at the last minute word came that , because of state taxes and labor conditions , the company had bought 300 acres in Front Royal , Virginia . A dozen or more such cases are listed in a bulletin issued by the Pennsylvania State Chamber of Commerce in 1938 indicating the trend at that time . The taxes which bowed the broad back of Pennsylvania industry were the depression-inspired levies of 1935 . At that time , among other things , an exemption which spared manufacturers from the collection of a capital-stock tax was nullified . The result was that Pennsylvania 's businesses were brought under both a heavy corporate-income tax and a heavy capital-stock tax . Moreover , the capital-stock tax was calculated on the actual value of capital stock , an onerous method of figuring used by no other state . In 1943 it was decided to restore this exemption after the war . Meanwhile , alarmed at Pennsylvania 's shrinking place in the industrial sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem and last January a Tax-Advisory Committee consisting of 163 of the best tax minds in the state published a series of suggested remedies . Two of the announced purposes of the recommendations were " to make Pennsylvania a more attractive state for the expansion of existing business and industry , as well as new capital enterprises , thereby stimulating employment and production in the postwar period " and " to stimulate and encourage conversion in the ' distressed areas ' of the commonwealth , which are fast becoming depleted of their natural resources through extraction of their coal , oil and other natural wealth , to a more healthy and diversified industrial basis . " But in case this did not make the problem clear , the committee stated flatly , " Over the past twenty years there has been a steady decline in the proportion of national population , national wealth and national income enjoyed by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania . These alarming developments , " and so on . Flirthermore , it was conceded that the war had accelerated former trends . The inference is clear . Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hit the comeback trail before it gets too rugged . Admissions like these should make charming reading in the South and West . But the uneasy behavior of Southern and Western industry backers in trying to pin down their gains through Government action suggests that there are things in their own regions which concern them . One such nagging worry sticks out very clearly . It is quite true that the South and West got more than their statistical share of new bricks and I beams during the war . it is doubtless also true that what the Northeast received in new facilities was more often a new building for a plant or an addition built by knocking out the end wall and sticking more capacity on . Now a question arises : Which is the better postwar asset , a new building built for war or an addition to a plant that once produced for civilians and can slide right back into that same production ? The Northeast considers that a Western shipyard with no peacetime ships to build or a Southwestern aircraft factory with no planes to build may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a column that presents only a square-foot total . In other words , there is a chance that the process of differential growth looks worse on paper than it actually is . Of course , there is need for caution in this analysis too . It is a reckoning in bare bricks and metal , and it forgets people . Not all the people who shifted South and West during the war  --  and it was the greatest migration in our history  --  will come back . Those who stay in their new-industrial-frontier homes will unavoidably make bigger markets there . And industry , whenever raw materials permit , has a habit of following people just as people have of following industry . It is unlikely , too , that where restlessness had attacked Northeastern industries before the war , it will be forgotten now . Just before the war a highly concentrated industry in Ohio was looking for towns of 15,000 to 50,000 population in which it could break itself up and find an average of better conditions . It can reasonably be expected to resume that effort at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , is entirely without crosscurrents and counter eddies . At the very moment when industrial Pennsylvania was losing the sweet automotive-assembly plant to a neighbor , it was acquiring from out of state two large canning plants in a single one of its prosperous agricultural counties . Looking over its record in this food-processing field , Pennsylvania can surprise itself by discovering that it has been improving quite rapidly . Paradoxically , also , while Pennsylvania has lost ground in the textile industry as a whole , it has gained spectacularly in the manufacture of apparel , which happens to be one of the pet industries of Los Angeles . A couple of recent additions in the apparel field have landed in Lackawanna County . Lackawanna is that anthracite county whose famous coal production just before the war was down to a third of its peak of twenty years ago . Nor does the state permanently kiss good-by to any textile operation that leaves for out of state . There are examples of mills which moved South , only to return later , giving as their reason dissatisfaction with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Northeast continues to hold the ace of prestige . It is worth a good deal to apparel makers , for example , to be able to say that a product of theirs was launched in New York City and is sweeping that town . And it is easier to achieve that result from near by . There are other undeniably bright flashes . Still clinging to Pennsylvania as typifying the whole industrial Northeast , it is worth noting that the state has developed an interest in p.astics and obviously has raw materials useful in this field . Throughout light manufacturing , too , its record is much better than in the heavy industries . Nevertheless , these little whitecaps must be considered as no more than counter eddies in the broad tide that is slowly spreading industry more evenly across the face of the land . There is good reason to believe that during the war the population center of the country hopp  --  d across the Indiana line into Illinois for the first time in our history . If so , it carried to a still farther distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might forever retain their overwhelmingly predominant share of the nation 's industry . But any way you look at it , of course , it is still all in the family . 