@@494281

Reparations for Peace by Heinz Eulau AFTER WORLD WAR I the Allies faced the dilemma of either obtaining large reparations payments from Germany , thereby strengthening her economically and politically , or reducing their demand for compensation . The result is well known . In order to acquire foreign exchange for monetary reparations , Germany not only had to expand her foreign commerce , making possible a favorable balance of trade , but she was forced to depend on a continuously increasing influx of foreign credits in order to meet her obligations . The ensuing distortion and finally the collapse of the world economic structure in the great depression was due , in part , to these arbitrary arrangements . This experience has given direction to Allied reparations policy after World War II . That Germany should repair the damage inflicted on the victims of her aggression is only just . But in order to avoid the disastrous consequences of monetary reparations , it was decided at the Potsdam Conference that Germany 's payments should be covered chiefly by the removal of industrial capital equipment . This policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program which is designed to deprive Germany of her capacity to produce for war . The basic features of Allied reparations and disarmament policy were outlined in the Potsdam Declaration . But a new dilemma became immediately apparent . As critical observers ? the editors of the New Republic among them ? have pointed out , if for reasons of security Germany 's economy is greatly weakened , her economic difficulties might again threaten the political stability of Europe . This would certainly have been the case if the loosely worded Potsdam Declaration had been interpreted in terms of the Morgenthau plan which envisaged the de-industrialization of Germany and her transformation into a predominantly agricultural country . It is significant , therefore , that the American State Department has now published its interpretation of the Potsdam Declaration regarding reparations and Germany 's peacetime economy . Its key is the statement that " it is our desire to see Germany 's peacetime economy geared to a world system and not an autarchical system . " In other words , it recognizes that peace is more than military security , that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The choice is not between security and prosperity , but of security through prosperity . Equally important , perhaps , is the State Department 's clarification of the highly controversial clause of the Potsdam Declaration that in organizing the German economy " primary emphasis shall be given to the development of agricultural and peaceful domestic industries . " This clause is to mean , according to the State Department , that " the maximum possible provision be made for exports from sources other than the metal , machinery and chemical industries . " It is not to mean , as the advocates of the Morgenthau plan hold , that Germany should support herself chiefly through home-grown agricultural products . If the proponents of the Morgenthau plan had their way , Germany 's deindustrialization and transformation into a predominantly agricultural country would have had the inevitable effect of depressing the whole international economy whose continued expansion is the only sure road to peace . Both the reparations and industrial-disarmament programs are predicated , therefore , not on an arbitrary decision , but on the ultimate economic recovery of Germany and her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage , which is now under way and which is to end on February 2 , 1946 , when the two-year reparations and industrial-disarmament stage is to begin , the eventual economic unification and recovery of Germany and the termination of military occupation are to be taken into account . The first objective is , of course , that Germany make the maximum possible contribution to the liberated countries , even at the cost of delaying her own recovery . A major item would be the export of coal . It has now been reported that the British government intends to place the Ruhr coal fields and other Ruhr industries under public ownership . Administration of Ruhr resources and industries would be put into the hands of an international commission , including representatives of the four occupying powers as well as Belgium , Holland and possibly Luxembourg . Socialization of the Ruhr industries under United Nations control would not only deprive Germany 's once powerful industrialists of their influence in German politics , thus eliminating one of the chief causes of the country 's aggressive foreign policy , but it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrasts favorably with the de-industrialization schemes planned in other industries . It suggests , for instance , that a similar procedure might be adopted in the case of the I. G. Farben . By taking private profit out of the Ruhr and I. G. Farben industries , a solution would be reached which would serve the needs of Europe and the rest of the world without destroying the sources on which the Germans depend for their livelihood . While the liberated areas will enjoy a higher priority than Germany in terms of world supply , sufficient food will be made available to prevent mass starvation . To maintain the level of 1,500 calories , substantial imports of foodstuffs , especially wheat , will be necessary . As the Potsdam Declaration has made no provision for the German standard of living during the first two periods of Allied occupation , these imports are to be governed by the " disease-and-unrest " formula . Such imports as will be made are designed , however , not only to prevent starvation , disease and political unrest , but also to serve " our interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of foreign exchange and as far as possible . repay the past outlays of the occupying powers on imports . " Even if there were no occupation and reparations program , German industrial production would be low for some time and the German people ill fed . But in the second stage , Germany is expected gradually to recover . Although industrial capital equipment will be removed as reparations , " plants will be earmarked for retention . " Larger amounts of coal will be allocated to the German economy to increase industrial production . German exports should begin to approach a level where they can finance necessary imports . TNDER THE Potsdam Declaration only such indus- ? trial capital equipment is to be removed as is " unnecessary for the German peace economy . " If this provision applies to those industries which were primarily engaged in the production of armaments , the removal of plants can be regarded as salutary because , as Mr. Byrnes has pointed out , they " never served the German civilian " anyway . It should be emphasized in this connection that fascism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that word , of the German working class . Moreover , the top-heaviness of German industry , chiefly because of easy access to coal and iron resources , was to no small degree responsible for the vast expansion of the economically worthless manufacture of armaments . Reduction of the output of her heavy industries can not , therefore , be considered economically harmful , provided an expanding consumption-goods industry can absorb the labor surplus . But the needs of Germany 's peacetime economy are also to determine the volume of available reparations . In other words , reparations proper are to be measured not arbitrarily , as was the case after the last war when her ability to pay was greatly overrated , but by a definite criterion . This criterion is to be the average stand- ard of living of the European nations , except the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom . The standardof-living criterion refers to the third stage of Allied occupation policy only . It means that after 1948 the German standard of living , in theory at least , is to be equivalent to the European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will in fact reach that level . ) In other words , the removal of industrial capital equipment shall not force a reduction in German living standards except as such reduction is required to meet reparations payments . It is not the intention of the United States , the State Department declares , " wantonly to destroy German structures and installations which can readily be used for permitted industrial activities . . . The reparations and security policies of the United , States are not designed to result in punitive destruction of capital equipment of value to the German peacetime economy . " H OW IS IT POSSIBLE to ascertain the average European standard of living in 1948 which Germany is not to exceed , but will in turn be used to determine the needs of her economy and , consequently , the amount of removals ? The State Department assumes that the European standard of living in 1948 will approximate the average standard over the period 1930-38 . The German standard ? the basis of what is to be removed and of what is to be earmarked for retention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Department , ? 93y use of German consumption data a year in which the German standard of living , as measured by national income indices , most closely V ' proximated the 1930-38 average in Europe . " The State Department realizes , of course , that a number of adjustments will be necessary in order to estimate this average standard : allowance must be made for the territorial amputations in the Fact which , owing to expulsions ) will greatly increase the population in the rump Reich ; account must be taken or notable deviations in the pattern of German consume ' tion from the normal pattern in the selected year ; reasonable allowance must be made for reconstruction , of the widespread damage in Germany herself ; . sufficient resources must be left to enable Germany to exist without external assistance , s. . e. , . expert-1 ? 1-port requirements must be taken into consideration . .1 In spite of recognizing that these adjustments 1 ' 7.11 have to be made , the State Department fails to pot out that national income is not necessarily an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Particularly true of the . German economy under fasc15.1 : * Germany 's national income soared from 45,000 117 lion marks in 1932 to almost 80,00o million in 1939i But while in 1932 only two percent of the nation income was expended for armaments , in 1938 013 ment expenditures absorbed 34. percent . And while the cost-of-living index rose from 100 in 1932 to 107 in 1937 , net real-wage rates declined from 100 to , 871 1 . e. , 13 percent during a period when business activity rapidly increased . Between 1932 and 1938 , moreover , consumption of foodstuffs per head of population declined measurably , and there was a considerable deterioration of consumer goods . This decrease of the standard of living of the German people between 1932 and 1938 can hardly be gauged by the national income . It is expressed in the following statement of Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , who probably understood the working of the Nazi economy better than anybody else : " The less the people consume , the more work can be done on armaments production . The standard of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposite directions . " G ERMANY 'S EXPORT NEEDS , therefore , are possibly a better criterion to estimate the amount of industrial equipment to be left in the country than the standard-of-living test , particularly since , as the State Department realizes , her standard of living will depend to a large extent on her export trade . The United States , the State Department declares , " does not seek to eliminate or weaken German industries of a peaceful character , in which Germany has produced effectively for world markets . " All narrow considerations on the part of this or any other country are explicitly ruled out . The United States , the statement continues , is opposed to the attempt of any other country to use the industrial-disarmament plan of the Berlin Declaration to its own commercial ends at the expense of a peacetime German economy . . . . The United States should not approve removals on such a scale that Germany would be unable , owing to a shortage of capital equipment , to export goods in sufficient quantities to pay for essential imports . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for export goods which yield enough foreign exchange to pay for the imports required for a standard of living equal to the average in Europe . This policy makes sense and should be accepted by all the occupying powers . In practice , however , the picture looks somewhat different . The Russians have not only removed heavy industrial equipment in their zone of occupation , but also plants producing consumer goods . According to the New York Times of July 4 , 1945 , " the Russian dismantling of German industry is not confined to armament works . In the Zehlendorf district , now under American control , a spinning mill , a sugar mill and various other plants have been thoroughly cleaned out . Factories of all types in the Russian-held areas are being combed in the same fashion for machinery needed in the Soviet Union . " On August 9 , 1945 , the Times reported : " Industrial surveys of the British and American sectors show that it will be easier to restore so percent of prewar production to the Ruhr than Eve percent to Berlin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone . Many factories suffered heavily from bombing , butt the official finding is that in the British sector of Berlin factories have had 9o , percent of their machinery and raw materials removed . " On September 9 , 1945 , Curt Riess reported in the Times Sunday Magazine : " It is well known that wherever the Red Army came , it proceeded to take apart speedily what was left of Germany 's industrial plants and shipped everything to Russia . This has been going on , and still is , on a genuinely ' total ' basis . I visited a number of such plants which were in relatively good working order when the fighting ended . Now the machines are gone . So are the freight cars and even the rails . So are the typewriters , fountain pens and all office equipment . . . . " If these reports are true , the calculations of the State Department are largely theoretical as far as eastern Germany is concerned . Since ( during the Weimar Republic ) approximately 43 percent of industrial enterprises , employing about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area , German production for export will be much smaller than might otherwise be the case . The State Department may have had these removals in mind when it declared that after reparations have been made , " it is doubtful that the German economy can operate for some time up to the limits of remaining industrial capacity , due to the limited availability of fuel , food , raw materials and the slow progress which can be made in filling the gap left by the Nazis in the economic and political organization of Germany . " It may therefore be necessary for the United Nations to pay for imports over a longer period of time and to a greater degree than envisioned at Potsdam . But as a statement of our reparation and industrial-disarmament policy , the State Department declaration is on the whole economically sound and politically desirable . Its chief merit consists in its realization that after Allied occupation troops have been withdrawn , the German people must be permitted , " under a peaceful democratic government of its own choice , to develop their own resources and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reparation and occupation periods . ? a . E. , subject only to such restrictions designed to prevent production of armaments as may be laid down in the peace settlement . " T r-r1HE , FUTURE of Germany is inextricably linked to the future of Europe . Her political , economic and social problems are Europe 's problems . Europe can not be politically stable if fascism is not completely uprooted . German democracy can not flourish if Germany is deprived of the ability to provide a decent standard of living for her people . Reparations will only replace the damage caused by Nazi aggression . After reparations have been made and industrial disarmament has been accomplished , Germany must be permitted to expand her economy to the advantage of her own people and the peoples of Europe . If Germany is made a slum area , the whole Continent will suffer . Ours is One World , and Germany is part of that world .                     