@@493597

HIGH STAKES IN CALIFORNIA none in the urgency of its social problems and the complexity of its election laws , is about to have he biggest political battle in its history . A great new political empire has sprung up in California , amorphous and unpredictable . Its six million established residents are notoriously independent in voting . Its four million new residents are without settled political allegiances . The problems they face and the power they represent constitute a challenge to politicians as dramatic as the discovery of gold a century ago . For after the 1950 Census , California will boast the second largest Congressional delegation and the second largest bloc of electoral votes in the nation . The faction or party that controls the state will have a formidable voice in national politics from this time on . California , as Carey McWilliams says , is " still the pace setter , falling all over itself , stumbling pell-mell to greatness without knowing the way , bursting at every seam . " It has raced ahead of its Western neighbors in economic development . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its capacity to govern in the general interest . California has the highest unemployment rate , the highest immigration rate , , the highest rate of exhaustion of natural resources of any state in America . It faces problems today that will beset all America 20 years hence . California has always been a state of extremes . Its employers and workers have been concentrated into groups hostile to each other , resulting in patterns of violence . Its shifting population ? has turned to many fantastic political , social and religious panaceas . Its farm laborers and migrant workers , disenfranchised and dispossessed , have lived in shacks stretching up and down the state in what Ernesto Galarza of the AFL calls " the largest continuous line of rural slums in all the Americas . " California 's industrial expansion in wartime has left in its wake unparalleled shortages of housing , power , " William Harding " is the pseudonym employed by a well-known student of conditions in California . In concentrating its growth so heavily in California 's two great metropolitan districts the West may be building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California 's economy towers higher and higher its dependence on the cooperation of a capricious nature increases commensurately . . . . In terms of its resource space , California is probably being drastically oversold . Three issues -- water , power and land ? dominate California 's political future . Three-quarters of the land of Southern California relies on water pumped from underground . In large areas of the Salinas , Santa Clara and San Joaquin Valleys the underground water table is falling so fast that the land is buckling and cracking , while 2,000 feet down pumps suck air or strike a final granite floor . It is not the flow of water that is being used up but the irreplaceable geological reserves . No systematic conservation policies are followed . More and deeper pumps compete in more desperate efforts to follow the falling water levels . California has no coal . Its oil and gas reserves are estimated to be good for only 80 years . The demand for power is doubling every 10 years . Already the state has experienced " brown outs . " It faces a critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halt . Land is getting short in California . The growing population can maintain its standards only by the most efficient possible use of what is left . The Central Valley , 500 miles long , 100 miles wide , holds one-half of California 's water reserves , yields a half of its farm income , holds 63 percent of its irrigable land ; only four states in the whole country produce more food . The Central Valley Project , critical in California 's political life , will irrigate the valley by pumping water southward in two stages , and will provide cheap and ample power . The project , the largest single development ever undertaken in America , is near completion . The question arises : who will control the valley ; by whom will its incomparable resources be DECEMBER 26 , 1949 worked , and for whose benefit ? The Reclamation Act of 1902 offers the only present answer . Under its water-district system the benefits of its water supplies are limited to farms of 160 acres or less . In the past the Act has served only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none previously existed . But the Central Valley is privately owned : there , the Act may require the break-up of the huge tracts now held by such " farmers " as the Southern Pacific Railway , Standard Oil and the Bank of America . Senator Sheridan Downey , who went to Congress in 1938 as a left-wing Democrat , has led the fight against the established reclamation policy . He has fought the 160-acre limitation and filibustered against the Department of Interior appropriations to prevent any funds being paid to two reclamation officials , Michael Straus and Richard Boke . Downey maintains that the acreage limitation is futile , since all water in the earth under the valley lies in a common pool , available to any well digger , and the 160-acre clause which forbids membership in a water district to a large landowner is helpless to prevent him draining out all the water he can get . Most liberals , while they concede that many problems are involved in breaking the huge corporate farms of the Central Valley , maintain that Downey 's argument is part of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large landowners . Harold L. Ickes , who as Secretary of Interior had a substantial part in advancing the Central Valley Project , recently testified before a Congressional committee that Downey " never became identified with the project until he set out to wreck it if he could not annul the sound provisions of the 160-acre law . " Downey , who won his Senate seat by defeating another Democrat , William Gibbs McAdoo , could expect reelection if he had to run against a Republican . But he may suffer McAdoo 's fate : a dramatic challenger , Representative Helen Gahagan Douglas , has entered the Democratic primary . In contrast to Downey 's traditional method of appealing to the primary interest of each pressure group , Mrs. Douglas realizes that the general welfare itself is endangered by accumulating problems and requires swift and drastic action by an aroused electorate and a militant legislature . She is a candidate because she believes that the problems of her state are far too urgent to permit solution by Downey 's kind of leadership , and that only if the Democratic Party offers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' California 's hard-pressed voters . Apart from reclamation , Downey has been largely 15 a mute Senator in Washington . In the southern part of the state a poll by the San Diego Journal indicated that although most voters knew that William F. Knowland was their Junior Senator , few could remember their Senior Senator 's name . Downey made no appearances on President Truman 's behalf in the 1948 campaign . Only on the pension issue has he made a name for himself , winning as his strongest ally the old-age-pensions machine recently whipped together by George McLain . He has worked closely with the Republicans , and his present campaign manager , Robert Franklin , is a friend and ally of Republican Attorney General Frederick Napoleon Howser and a former public-relations man for the extreme right-wing Associated Farmers . Mrs. Douglas , on the other hand , played a leading role in the 1948 campaign , and has been active in the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the debates in the UN General Assembly . She was a sponsor of the Atomic Energy Act . She has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberties . She , alone in the California delegation , insisted that title to California 's offshore oil be held for the federal government . She was influential in winning appropriations for a steam plant and public transmission lines for the Central Valley Project in 1949 : appropriations which failed because neither Downey nor Knowland would sponsor them in the Senate . Although he has been absent on several crucial roll calls , Downey 's voting record is generally good . In California in 1950 is that enough ? California Grange Federation leaders are overwhelmingly for Mrs. Douglas , whom they support as the champion of Central Valley 's small farmers . Whatever position the trade-union officials take , Mrs. Douglas is likely to win the labor vote . As for the Democratic Party , most of its local leaders are devoted to Mrs. Douglas , but some of its largest contributors , like Edwin Pauley , support Downey for his efforts on their behalf in tidelands oil . In addition , under California 's baffling system of cross-filing and cross-voting , Republicans will swarm to the Democratic primary booths to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unless they believe that they can win the Democratic primary for a Republican . The second major race in California concerns the governorship , and is likely to be dominated by two appealing and ambitious men , Earl Warren and James Roosevelt . Warren must be reelected if he hopes to remain in the national picture . He will be seeking a third term , if he runs , and California has never elected a third-term GovernOr . He has other serious handicaps . On the two occasions when he was elected Governor , Warren won with the help of Democratic votes . He sponsored a health-insurance program over the protests of his own party . He has avoided statements of the ultra-conservative Republican variety . He has made gestures toward public housing and has garnered considerable labor support along the way . But this year , California Republicans seem tired of bipartisan candidates , no matter how successful , and Warren faces a fight in the primaries . The change in sentiment may be partly due to a feeling among party leaders in the state that Warren , second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Presidential possibility and therefore of doubtful use to them . At any rate , Lieutenant Governor Goodwin S. Knight , who had counted heavily on being head of the state government by this time , has announced his candidacy for Governor , and says he will stay in the race whether Warren decides to run again or not . The state 's most conservative newspapers show signs of lining up behind him . If Warren wins in the primary he will have to do it without Democratic votes . For the Democrats may be busy making a choice between James Roosevelt and E. George Luckey ( or a candidate backed by Luckey for the purpose of defeating Roosevelt ) . Luckey , a wealthy rancher and Democratic state leader who supported Truman vigorously in ' 48 , has had a stop-Roosevelt movement under way a full year and apparently intends to continue it , although Roosevelt 's strength has been mounting steadily . Luckey 's grudge against Downey for his behavior in the 1948 campaign is twice as bitter in the case of Roosevelt , for Jimmy , after being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , joined the Draft-Eisenhower movement for a while . This defection caused bitter feeling in the California delegation . Most of the party leaders are resigned to the Roosevelt candidacy at this point and believe Jimmy is the only man with a chance of beating Warren , but apparently the Luckey-Pauley faction would rather lose with another candidate than win with Roosevelt , just as many Republicans seem to prefer losing with Knight to winning with Warren . If Knight and Luckey should finally capture the nominations of their respective parties , the gubernatorial race might degenerate into , a battle of pygmies , with no national significance . Despite the lack of cordiality toward Roosevelt in his own party , he has assets that make him a formidable contender . His platform is liberal , although less outspoken than that of Mrs. Douglas . He has been on the air for months with a popular radio program . He sounds like his father . He has that magic name . Roosevelt may get the support of the McLain oldage-perision organization , provided that organization is still in existence ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was adopted last year . Governor Warren was for repeal . If the McLain machine survives a series of recent scandals involving its leaders , it will put on another referendum campaign next year , considerably complicating the 1950 race . But already a rival pension machine , a coalition of the men who ran the Ham-and-Egg and Townsend movements , has started collecting signatures to put a measure of its own on the ballot next ' year . It proposes higher pensions , financed through legalized gambling . The McLain amendment raised old-age-assistance payments to $75 a month ; lowered the eligible age from 65 to 63 ; relieved children of the responsibility for supporting their parents ; and considerably increased the amount of property that old people might own before they became ineligible for pensions . Shortly before the 1949 vote on repeal of this amendment , a committee of the State Legislature found that the McLain Citizens ' Committee for Old Age Pensions had paid $132,000 to an advertising agency which had been owned successively by one of McLain 's associates and by McLain , within less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payments for advertising , including a 15-percent commission to the agency . Meanwhile , a scramble is on to win the old-folks vote for candidates , quite apart from measures . Governor Warren is talking about a special session of the legislature to patch up and liberalize what remains of the state pension law . He promises that administration of the new law by state officials will be liberal . Oliver J. Carter , Democratic state chairman , goes even farther , and asks that the legislature lower the pension age to 60 and again relieve relatives of legal liability . There is still another factor to be reckoned with in casting up the balance sheet on California . ' That is Artie Samish , the super-lobbyist , who boasts that the State Legislature is his puppet , and says his power is greater than that of the Governor . Some time next year , it will be possible to say whom Artie is supporting . Now it 's safe only to bet that he will pick his men with care , in accordance with the interests of his clients , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will move heaven and earth to see that they win .                     