@@475656

EVER since they staggered away from their Battle of Bull Run last November , the country 's liberals have been pasting Band-aids on their wounds and commanding each other , in the sternest tones , to rally for a counterattack on the advancing hordes of Reaction . They have , moreover , reformed their ranks with uncommon promptness and energy . Hardly a week has passed in the last five months without the founding of some new liberal organization . True enough , each of these refitted battalions is likely to claim that it is the sole custodian of the martyred Roosevelt 's somewhat raveled banner ; and several of them ? in the fine old liberal tradition ? are not on speaking terms . For example , Americans for Democratic Action , who bar Communists from their barracks , are decidedlycool toward the Progressive Citizens of America , who welcome fellow-travelers on grounds that there is no harm in being just a little bit pregnant with Communism . Nevertheless , liberals of whatever complexion can now find a regiment to suit their taste ; the bugles are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New Republic , Nation , Progressive , New Leader , and half a dozen other left wing journals ; and money is beginning to trickle into the depleted ammunition chests . Already successful guerrilla actions are being fought along a few sectors , notably Alabama , Texas , and Georgia . Long before the 1948 campaign , the Army of Righteousness should again be ready to march in fairly good array . One little difficulty remains , however . Nobody is quite sure where to go . For the liberals have come to the edge of the dependable old battle map which they inherited from earlier campaigns . They desperately need a brand new set of directions ? and until they get it , all of their brave trumpeting and reorganization is n't likely to carry them very far . FOR the last thirty-five years , the American progressive movement has been living on a collection of ideas which was put together at about the turn of the century . This credo was originally hammered out by a group of first-rate political thinkers , including such men as Brandeis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pinchot , the elder LaFollette , and Theodore Roosevelt . Their doctrine was purely native . It grew out of the cankering grievances of American farmers , laborers , and middle class business men , and it owed virtually nothing to Marx or other European theorists . It guided the prolonged offensive against the " malefactors of great wealth " which was cut short only by our entry into the first World War . With minor refurbishing , it provided almost the entire battle plan of the New Deal . It was a splendid body of doctrine , and it led to great accomplishments ? from the direct election of senators to social security , slum clearance , and TVA . Today , however , the old set of ideas is pretty well used up . The bulk of it has now been enacted into law and accepted by the whole nation ? including those who once were its most implacable , enemies . The few items left over are mostly out of date and irrelevant to the mountainous issues which will make up the political battleground of the next generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its inability to create a new stream of political thought strong enough to keep its intellectual reservoir filled . There were , of course , plausible excuses for this failure . The whole New Deal decade was a period of struggle ; the men who were fighting to get the old liberal creed onto the statute books simply did n't have time to figure what ought to come after that . Moreover , the best of FDR 's lieutenants exhausted their ingenuity intrying to reconcile the many conflicting strands of New Deal policy ? trust-busting vs. the NRA aberration , to cite only one notorious example . Others wore themselves out in footling bureaucratic squabbles , and in the two-front civil war against the conservative Southern Democrats and the few Communists who had managed to sneak into the New Deal councils . Then , too , many liberals got into the bad habit of leaving everything ? including long-range strategic planning ? to their adored leader . But that was one job , unfortunately , which Mr. Roosevelt was not equipped to handle . As a field general he was superb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original political thought . Indeed , he apparently never had any coherent economic and political philosophy , of the kind which distinguishes a Jefferson or a Hamilton . The result of all this was an intellectual bankruptcy which set in long before the New Deal finally died in 1941 . It left no legacy which would enable its heirs to cope with any of the main political problems emerging at the end of the war . In the field of labor , for instance , liberals inherited only three articles of faith : 1 . Every working man ought to be free to join a union . 2 . Higher wages would be A Good Thing . 3 . Never criticize labor ; for any public discussion of such peccadillos as racketeering , feather-bedding , Jim Crow rules , Communist infiltration , and monopoly practices would simply play into the hands of the union-busting reactionaries . They had no theory of any kind about the relationship between organized labor and society . None had been necessary in the days when labor was too weak to be really significant ; and none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Consequently , when the country was suddenly confronted with last year 's great railway and coal strikes , most American progressives were completely lost . What were they supposed to say , when a Whitney or a John L. Lewis tried to paralyze the whole nation ? There was no answer in the traditional canon of liberalism . All they could do was wring their hands in helpless bewilderment , while the Republicans ? who did profess to have an answer , however short-sighted and vindictive ? took over Congress and started to write a batch of new labor laws . ( Incidentally , it is noteworthy that the British Labor party is in much the same fix . So far it has dodged the question of the role of trade unions in England 's newly socialized industries . Are they free to strike against their new boss , the state ? Indeed , can collective bargaining work at all in a socialist economy ? If not , how are wage rates to be determined ? And how much freedom for labor can a Labor government really afford ? These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British history ; and so far the Socialists have not even begun to find the answers . ) T . liberals are equally behind the times in their formula for dealing with modern large-scale industry . Their traditional ideal was a nation of small , independent , highly competitive businesses ; and their doctrine , as it took final shape in the Wilsonian era , was designed to preserve that pattern . It depended on two basic devices . One of these was trust-busting , to whittle Big Business down to proper size . The other was federal regulation , by such agencies as the Interstate Commerce Commission , Securities and Exchange Commission , and Federal Power Commission , for situations in which trust-busting alone obviously would not work . No doubt these devices still have a limited sort of usefulness ; they discourage some of the cruder forms of corporate burglary and extortion . Clearly , however , they have failed in their main purpose ? and even the purpose itself has begun to look quaintly old-fashioned and impractical . Today the truly independent small business survives almost nowhere except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it retains only a humble and precarious finger-hold at the fringes . All of the key heavy industries ? steel , aluminum , chemicals , oil , electric power , railways , automobiles ? have long been dominated by a handful of king-size corporations . ( Even before the war the Temporary National Economic Committee reported that one-tenth of one per cent of the corporations in America owned about half of the country 's production facilities . ) Small enterprises can exist in these fields only as vassals , supplying parts and marketing the finished products for the Big Boys . The machine shop making bolts for General Motors , the filling station peddling Standard 's gasoline , the little fabricator dependent on U. S. Steel for all his raw material , have no more actual independence than the medieval serf who chopped wood for the neighborhood baron . In short , the kind of economy the liberals have yearned for has vanished about as completely as the livery stable . Nor is it ever likely to return . As the two Congressional Small Business Committees recently pointed out , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war ? and the process is still continuing . Before Pearl Harbor about 65 per cent of the nation 's manufacturing facilities were owned and operated by only 250 corporations . These same firms handled the major slice of war production ? one hundred of them corraled two-thirds of the prime contracts ? and they have now bought up more than 70 per cent of the war plants built with government funds . They also are steadily absorbing their smaller competitors by purchase and merger . For example , eighteen of the biggest corporations ? those with assets of more than $50 million each ? have gobbled up 242 lesser concerns since 1940 . There is no prospect whatever that this concentration of economic power will be broken up by anti-trust proceedings or any other means . For the next fiscal year the Justice Department 's anti-trust division will have a budget of less than two million dollars ; and any one of the heavy-weight corporations would be prepared to spend more than that in fighting a single antitrust suit . The liberals who still place their faith in this tool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ice pick . Even if American industry could be dismantled and rearranged into its pre-Civil War pattern , it is by no means certain that this splintering would be a good thing . In its present structure , our industrial goose is capable of laying the most glittering and magnificent golden eggs the world has ever seen . True enough , it sometimes quits laying , as it did in 1929 , and the eggs often do n't get to the right people . But arc we really likely to cure these bad habits by chopping the goose up into a thousand little goslings ? Before we reach for the axe , at any rate , would n't it be worth while to try to teach our goose to lay regularly , and to make sure that every plate on the family breakfast table gets a fair share of the omelette ? Well , then , maybe that other ancient recipe of liberalism ? more regulation ? is what we need ? This might be a comforting answer ; but a hard look at our past experience with federal regulatory agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With a few happy exceptions , such as the SEC and Federal Power Commission , government regulation has proved singularly clumsy and ineffective . If you want to prove it for yourself , just switch on your radio . Under federal supervision ( administered by a better-thanaverage group of New Deal appointees ) the public 's air waves have been loused up with the medley of singing commercials , patent medicine ads , and stale Hollywood gags which recently drove Lee de Forest , the father of modern radio , to lament : " This child of mine has been resolutely kept to the average intelligence of thirteen years . . . a stench in the nostrils of the gods of the ionosphere . " Yet the Federal Communications Commission has never revoked a station 's license ? although its own Blue Book recently cited blatant violations of broadcasters ' promises to provide decent programming . An even more instructive example is the Interstate Commerce Commission , dean of the regulatory agencies . It even failed to hobble such buccaneers as the brothers Van Sweringen ; and in many instances it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests it was supposed to police . The most notable result of its thirty-year stewardship is that complacent lack of initiative , infecting the railway industry like sleeping sickness , which Roger E. Tornell described in the February issue of this magazine . A bigger dose of such regulatory sulphur-and-molasses hardly sounds like a plausible treatment for the growing ailments of our monopolistic industry . Until the liberals can bottle up a fresher and more potent mixture of ideas than that , they are never likely to fetch the customers in any paying number . W HAT American progressives need most of all is a new set of ideas for coping with the next depression . Here they have inherited the only important economic theory the New Deal produced ? the Keynesian theory of government spending to create jobs during hard times . It was a reasonably persuasive notion back in the good old days of the thirties , when our national debt was only a piddling forty billion dollars . Then the glib young New Dealers could argue ? as I did myself ? that a rising debt did n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all owed within the family . What we had to pay out in interest simply moved from one pocket to another in the same pair of pants . Besides , we could always slap on high taxes and pay the debt off at the peak of the next boom , could n't we ? Today , with a national debt bloated to six times its depression size , that argument does n't sound quite so convincing . Carrying charges , plus the unavoidable defense and veterans ' expenses , will swallow up a substantial slice of the national income for a long while to come ; and under these circumstances , any sizable increase in the debt load is likely to feel pretty burdensome , no matter who owns the bonds . In practice , moreover , the deficit spending theory has developed one gaping flaw which the New Dealers did not foresee . Obviously the scheme can not work unless it is pursued with rigid consistency in both bad times and good ; what the government borrows during depressions must be paid back on the up-swings , or the plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boom almost inevitably sweeps into office a conservative Congress , which will have no truck with Keynesian economics . Such a Congress is much more interested in cutting taxes than in paying off the debt ? as a glance at the present performance on Capitol Hill amply shows . Still another practical difficulty was uncovered by the New Deal experience : it is very hard indeed for the government to spend money fast enough ? at least on conventional public works projects ? to boost the country out of a really deep depression . Until the rearmament drive got going , Mr. Roosevelt was never able to spend more than about eight billion dollars a year , and less than a third of that was invested in public works . As all of us can well remember , that was n't enough to give our bogged-down economy the giant shove it needed to get rolling again . The most plausible estimates I have seen ? those of the National Planning Association ? indicate that in another depression the government would have to pour at least twelve billions a year into public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rely on federal spending as our main remedy . It seems extremely doubtful whether we could find enough worthwhile housing , conservation , health , and highway projects to soak up public investment on that scale for more than a year or two . ( Such projects now blueprinted and on the shelf add up to only about three billions . ) The tempting alternative , of course , would be to put the money into armaments ? and we all know the abyss that leads to . Maybe it would be smart for the liberals to think up some other scheme for curing depressions ? or , better yet , for preventing them . III T HEY wo n't have much time . If our most respected economic soothsayers are correct , the postwar boom may not last beyond another five or six years . Before that time the progressives will have to come up with a fresh and workable program ? for if they do n't , the violent extremists of either the left or right may have an excellent chance to take over the country in the crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , and among the best of them a lot of hard , earnest thinking is already under way . It is still too early to tell what shape their new proposals may take ; such doctrine always grows piecemeal , out of prolonged ? and probably acrimonious ? debate . Even now , however , it is possible to make some guesses about where the new ideas may come from , and the kind of pressures which seem likely to mold them . First of all , it seems to be a safe gamble that the new credo will not pick up many useful contributions from organized labor . None of the present union generalissimos has ever shown much adventurous political insight : some of the most powerful ? such as William Green , Big Bill Hutcheson , and John L. Lewis ? are notorious conservatives . No heir has stepped forward to claim the late Sidney Hillman 's crown as Labor 's Statesman . Moreover , most union leaders are now thoroughly preoccupied with their own internal problems ? the struggle against Communist infiltration , the AFL-CIO conflict , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fight against punitive legislation , the effort to hold their membership now that easy wage increases are no longer possible . They are not likely to have much energy left over for political pioneering . Whatever liberal program eventually develops must be acceptable to the unions , naturally , since it could never get to first base without labor support ; but there are few signs that the first seeds will sprout in the union halls . Nor is there much hope that a treasury of really valuable ideas will be minted by the so-called Left Wing Intellectuals . These characters make up the gaudiest and most publicized wing of the liberal camp ? a sort of Zouave regiment of radicalism . They sometimes describe themselves , over the canapes , as The Vanguard . Their group includes Vassar girls who got bored with the Junior League ; contributors to obscure neo-Marxian quarterlies ; a certain number of middle-aged authors with quaint old farmsteads in Connecticut ; and a lot of those Broadway and Hollywood types who formed the old Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts , Sciences , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Progressive Citizens of America . Frequently their only political equipment consists of plump checkbooks , uneasy consciences , and a throbbing frustration with their jobs in the movies , radio , college classrooms , and advertising , As propagandists these people are , of course , highly skilled ; and they are always ready to raise a tidy sum for The Cause ? almost any Cause . ( A favorite device is a twenty-dollar-a-plate banquet at the Waldorf . ) Their manifestoes , however , never seem to have much relationship to the main current of American political thought . Many of them , indeed , are afflicted with a special kind of emotional flabbiness which makes them suckers for any fast-talking Communist ; and as a result their names decorate the letterheads of countless party-line organizations . For that reason they generally prove more of an embarrassment than a help to the liberal movement . 4VER since Andy Jackson 's day , most of the hairy , snorting , and vigorous progressive movements have started in the South and West . Populism , Free Silver , the IWW , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sons of the Wild Jackass , all bubbled out of that soil . This is no accident of geography . The West and South have always been victims of that colonial exploitation by Eastern business interests which Bernard DeVoto analyzed so pungently in the January issue of Harper 's . As a consequence , they have long cherished a tradition of protest and rebellion . Here , moreover ? especially in the South ? poverty and injustice are endemic ; and here the most wrenching social changes of our generation are now taking place , as new industries and mechanized farming replace the old feudalisms of cotton and cattle . In such a culture the yeastier kind of politics ferments fast . It would hardly be surprising , therefore , if the next wave of progressivism should also surge out of the West and South . In fact , there is some evidence that the tide may be rising already . Because the claghorning of the Bilbos , Rankins , Talmadges , and O'Daniels attracts most of the attention , many people have overlooked the fact that a new crop of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these regions . Among them are some of the ablest politicians and publicists in the progressive ranks ? Ellis Arnall , John Sparkman ( one of the few Southern senators who wears a Phi Beta Kappa key ) , Lister Hill , Jim Folsom , Wayne Morse , Glen Taylor , Ralph McGill , Minnie Fisher Cunningham , Estes Kefauver , Mike Monroney , Lucy Randolph Mason , James E. Murray , Jim Patton , Helen Gahagan Douglas , Brooks Hayes , Dick Neuberger , Jimmy Allred , Mark Ethridge , Barry Bingham , Lyndon Johnson , and Wilson Wyatt ? to name only a few . When the chips are down and the voters head for the polls , such people are infinitely more effective than the more spectacular " liberals " of the Elliott Roosevelt type . In a handful of states they are now building the first ward-and-precinct political machines that American liberalism has ever had . If this group contains a top-flight political theorist , he is still well concealed . So far none of them has produced one of those prophetic statements like Wilson 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for millions of less articulate followers . Yet there are many indications that a current of fresh political thought is beginning to stir . It shows up in such documents as the Murray and Kefauver reports on the concentration of American industry ; in Arnall 's testament , The Shore Dimly Seen ; in Senator O'Mahoney 's little-noticed suggestion for the federal chartering of giant corporations ; in the Farmers ' Union proposals for a full employment policy . Other straws crop up occasionally in the court house speeches , pamphlets , small town newspapers , and cracker-barrel bull sessions which form the historic political forum of the South and West . From such clues it is possible to patch together some estimate ? tentative and full of gaps ? about the kind of doctrine the new progressives seem likely to evolve . For example , the principle of States Rights , in a remodeled version , apparently is creeping back into favor among the liberals ? thus reversing one of the chief trends of the New Deal . In part , this is a natural result of the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an old phenomenon of American politics that the men who hold the reins in Washington ? of whatever party ? come to believe devoutly in the blessings of a strong federal authority ; while those in opposition automatically turn into valiant defenders of decentralization and local self-government . But there is more to it than that . As they watched what went on in Europe ( and the United States ) during the past ten years , a good many progressives began to grasp the profound truth in John Chamberlain 's famous dictum that " freedom lies in the interstices of the economy . " No man is really free unless he can tell his boss to go to hell , and then get a job somewhere else ; no society is truly free if one authority makes all the important decisions . What is almost equally important , no organization ? political or industrial ? can operate efficiently if the decisions are too tightly centralized . The United States is simply too big to be run out of Washington . That lesson was hammered into the skulls of everybody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be the most valuable lesson we got out of the war . For these reasons , we are likely to hear a lot of shouting from the liberals about the dispersal of power ? both governmental and corporate . ( The argument fits in nicely with their pet scheme for shifting industry to the South and West . ) From time to time they may demand a greater degree of public control over such things as water power , medical services , housing , and natural resources ? but they will not be whooping for nationalization , on either the Russian or the British model . More probably they will plump for local management in a wide variety of forms ? by river valley authorities , public power districts , co-ops of the REA type , soil conservation districts , and non-profit state corporations . Another item high up on the progressives ' slate almost certainly will be conservation ? on an immensely broader and more effective scale ? of our fast-dwindling natural resources . Most Americans ( especially the city people ) have not yet begun to realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timber , strategic minerals , natural gas and oil , and the very earth itself . When they finally do catch on , the conservation issue will gather a lot of political momentum . For it is no longer a matter of interest only to a few wild-life enthusiasts and soil scientists ; it has become a question of survival . Chancellor Robert M. Hutchins of the University of Chicago recently summed up the sombre facts : ( a ) " About one-quarter of the arable land in this country is now ruined or severely impoverished , and the damage is continuing " ; ( b ) " Soil losses in the United States total more than five billion tons annually " ; ( c ) " There has been a greater loss of productive soil in the world in the last two decades than the accumulated loss in all previous time . " And he concluded : " Another century like the last , and civilization is through . " That possibility does n't seem to interest the conservatives in either party ; but it is bothering the liberals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a network of river valley authorities ? at least nine of them , with the Missouri first on the list ? modeled after the astonishingly successful TVA . The pattern will vary from region to region , of course ; and one characteristic of TVA may be abandoned entirely . Because of the liberals ' new interest in decentralization , they probably will insist on a large degree of local control for future river valley authorities , rather than sole management by a Washington-appointed directorate of the TVA type . A revised draft of the MVA bill , now under discussion , for instance , would give a local advisory council , answerable directly to the people of the watershed , considerable responsibility for policy guidance . ry T HE valley authority concept obviously is not aimed at conservation alone . It is a multi-purpose tool , designed to solve a whole bundle of related problems ? ranging from flood control to water transport , cheap power , the orderly development of neglected resources , and a better balance between farming and industry . It has caught hold of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big enough to work where a hodgepodge of little , disconnected schemes had all failed . A thing of that kind gives people notions . Inevitably , as they looked at TVA , some of the more venturesome progressives began to cast around for a similar big , multi-purpose idea which might work equally well in other fields . " Maybe we have been wrong " ? so their speculation runs ? " in tackling labor troubles , monopolies , and trade cycles as separate , unrelated problems . Maybe all of these things are merely symptoms of an industrial system which is somehow out of kilter ? just as a silting creek is a symptom of breakdown in agriculture . In the Tennessee Valley we never got anywhere until we quit messing with each separate creek and cornpatch , and began to handle the whole watershed as one piece . We finally got it through our heads that everything happening on every farm and wood lot affects everybody in the valley . Could it be that we need to look at the industrial machine in just the same way ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward an entirely new conception of the modern corporation . For more than a hundred years we kept up the pretty fiction that each industrial enterprise , no matter how big , was a purely private concern . How the managers handled it was nobody else 's business , so long as they kept away from the less conventional forms of fraud . They were sup-posed to be responsible to the stock-holders alone ; their operations ? in theory ? were of no interest to the rest of the community : This curious fancy survived only because it was tied up with another polite fiction ? the pretense that there were hundreds of independent little firms in each industry ; that competition would keep all of them on their best behavior ; and that everything somehow would work out automatically in the public interest . For a long time now it has been perfectly clear that both of these theories are wildly unreal . Most of the nation 's key industries are now dominated by companies which you can count on the fingers of a mutilated hand ? for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in steel ( 64 per cent ) , four in copper ( 82 per cent ) , two in aluminum ( more than 90 per cent ) , and so on through the list . What competition still remains usually is concluded with gentlemanly restraint . And as everybody knows , the business of such companies no longer is a merely private concern . When the board of U. S. Steel makes a decision on prices ? or on wages or its rate of new investment ? every citizen of the United States is affected , just as truly as he would be by an act of Congress . Frequently even more . Many laws touch us only lightly ; but if any one of the two hundred top corporations starts to jack up prices or to lay off men , that means money out of our pockets . If many of them act together ? as they generally do ? it may mean lost jobs or short rations for millions of us . When a giant American oil company makes a deal with its British counterpart for the exploitation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effects of a treaty . It expresses the national interest in one of the world 's most vital resources , and it commits American diplomacy ( and ultimately American fives ) to defend that interest . p ERHAPS it is time , then , for us to recognize the obvious truth : such decisions can not properly be made in the secrecy of a private board room , by men who bear no direct public responsibility . These are political questions , in the fundamental sense of res fiublica ; they are matters of first consequence to the entire body politic . They ought to be debated as openly and fully as any act of Congress ; and the men who decide them must somehow be held publicly accountable for their decisions . This would mean a new status for a relatively few great corporations -- the two hundred , more or less , which make up the central switchboard of the nation 's economy . It would mean that these companies ? less than one per cent of the country 's total number ? would no longer be regarded as private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer be responsible to the stockholders alone , but to all the people . Their first duty would become , not simply to earn the biggest possible profit for each individual firm , but to keep the whole economy running smoothly on the tracks . Such a concept need not involve public ownership . On the contrary , its aim would THE LOST he to avoid that wholesale nationalization ? with all its dangers to freedom , initiative , and efficiency ? which is almost certain to engulf us ( as it already has engulfed most of the rest of the world ) if we collapse into another major depression . Nor would it necessarily mean more interference with business . For some 99 per cent of America 's business firms , it might in fact result in considerably less regimentation and direct government supervision . What it would mean is a new kind of responsible capitalism . It would mean a new relationship between the government and the two hundred strategic corporations , which would leave them under private management but which would insure that their power to control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public interest . The idea is by no means new . In Great Britain certain big corporations have long worked so closely with the government ( especially in foreign affairs ) that it is often difficult to tell just where their private business leaves off and His Majesty 's business starts in . The Bank of England . of course , is the classic example . Although its stock was privately held , and paid handsome dividends , the Bank behaved for many years as if it were an arm of the cabinet . It became the main link between the government and the business world , the central mechanism for managing the British economy ; its governors thought of themselves as statesmen , whose first responsibility was to the nation rather than to their stockholders . Consequently , when the Bank was finally nationalized a few months ago , the ceremony was purely symbolic the same gentlemen in striped trousers and black homburgs kept right on doing the same things in precisely the same old way . In this country too , the idea of responsible corporate behavior already has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for instance , normally consult the State Department on the big policy decisions concerning their foreign operations . So do investment bankers engaged in large-scale foreign lending . In the domestic field , a few of the wiser monopolies , such as AT &T; and Western Union , conduct their day-to-day affairs very much as if they were government agencies -- presuma Hy on the theory that this is the surest way to stave off public ownership . Recently one or two big companies ? notably Ford and International Harvester ? have cut prices in the avowed interest of national economic stability , although this action cost them plenty of money and was not forced by either competition or market conditions . Through their Committee for Economic Development a good many business men have made a tacit and rudimentary acknowledgment of their joint responsibility for long-range economic planning , and such leaders as Beardsley Ruml , Henry Kaiser , and Charles Luck-man have become forthright spokesmen for a new business philosophy . V o FAR , however , these are sporadic cases , arising out of the occasional in- sight of a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extend this pattern of behavior ? to establish it as a consistent habit among all the men who run our strategic concentrations of economic power . This can not , of course , be accomplished merely by exhortation . It requires a new relationship between the dominant corporations and society , under which rewards and honors will go to those managers who act as responsible stewards , and penalties will fall upon those who persist in behaving like robber barons . The carrot and the stick are still the only reliable means for keeping the donkey moving down the straight and narrow path . If liberal political theory develops along these lines ? as I think it may ? its chief task for the next decade will be to work out the techniques and nuances of this new relationship between government and big business . For a concept of this kind can not be brought to life simply by passing a law or setting up a new regulatory agency . It will require many devices , hammered out through a tedious process of trial and error . Some of the machinery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , by the President 's new Council of Economic Advisers , which seems destined to develop into a sort of economic general staff . As a first step it might well undertake an inquiry into the present structure of American industry , with the purpose of drawing up a master list of the two hundred or so corporations which exercise working direction over ' the nation 's economic life . Its report could set forth ? for future guidance ? just how each of these strategic firms fits into the intricate mechanism of control , and how it manipulates the lower echelons of business by means of purchasing and marketing agreements , financial connections , patent licensing , interlocking directorates , and similar administrative levers . On the basis of such a report , the Council could then ask Congress to recognize formally the crucially important role of the Two Hundred , by conferring on them a special status and special responsibilities . Perhaps this could be done most easily by some such scheme as Senator 0 ' 111a-honey 's plan for federal incorporation . These key companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under federal charters , providing specific guarantees of responsible behavior . They would have to agree , for example , never to use their vast quasi-monopolistic powers to restrict output , extort unjustified prices , or rig cartel agreements with foreign concerns . They would also be required to conduct their affairs in a goldfish bowl , just like any other public institution ; and the Economic Council no doubt would need to develop a specially trained staff to keep their records and day-to-day operations under constant scrutiny . Publicity probably would serve , in normal circumstances , as the only weapon needed to enforce these rules . No executive would care to have the Economic Council announce that he was cooking up a little stock deal for his personal profit , gigging the customers with a price-fixing scheme , bribing a state legislature , flirting with a Swiss cartel , or otherwise disporting himself in a manner unbecoming to a corporation officer and a gentleman . To deal with any recalcitrant survivors of the old publicbe-damned school , however , the Council might occasionally have to turn to the courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because our anti-trust experience has shown that they are seldom MAGAZINE an effective deterrent to wealthy transgressors . Instead the courts might be empowered to rule that any official who does not live up to his august responsibilities should be barred forever from employment in any of the two hundred key corporations . The social stigma of such a decree might become , in time , almost as fearsome as imprisonment . T HE management of the Two Hundred could well be called upon to shoulder certain group responsibilities as well . Their most important decisions , from the standpoint of the national economy , are those concerning the volume of corporate savings ( in the form of reserves , depreciation , and undistributed profits ) and the rate of new investment . These are the two gyroscopes ? as Mr. Keynes has taught us ? which largely govern the stability of the economy . When they get out of kilter , so that savings pile up faster than they can find an outlet in investment , the result is a depression . Consequently , the Economic Council might call the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for savings and investment . ( After all , these firms directly control something like sixty per cent of the total stream of investment , and indirectly they influence a good deal more . Similarly , their wage , dividend , and price policies largely determine the rate of individual savings and consumer spending . ) If it should appear that business investment for the year is likely to fall short of the total necessary to keep the economy rolling , the Council might suggest that they revise their estimates upward . Their incentive to oblige would be strong , because the alternative would be government investment in public works to fill the gap ? and that money , in the long run , would mostly come out of business 's pocket in taxes . In like fashion , whenever savings began to stack up at the expense of consumer purchasing power , the Council might recommend price cuts , higher wages , and lower profit margins . No prudent management could ignore such hints ; for if it did , responsibility for the ensuing smashup would be inescapably fixed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way toward.curing our labor troubles , because it would aim to end that insecurity ? that haunting fear of unemployment ? which underlies most labor unrest . Moreover , the unions presumably would sit in with government and management in the planning process ; and the sharing of responsibility is the surest way of learning responsible behavior . In a few peculiarly vital industries , however , labor might have to forego its right to strike ; and in return it would have to receive a special standing and special privileges comparable to those of the civil service . Railway labor already has something approaching this status . It works under a special law , the Railway Labor Act ; it has its own security legislation in the Railroad Retirement Act ; its union contracts have established a sort of civil service procedure on promotions and working conditions ; and President Truman ( with overwhelming public support ) recently denied its right to paralyze the nation by striking . In any such industry where strikes are clearly intolerable , labor probably would demand ? and should get ? one further guarantee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have to be set up for the periodic review of wages , so that increases would come automatically with every increase in labor 's productivity . C ERTAINLY it would not be easy to make a responsible and directed capitalism of this kind work . It would require , first of all , a new attitude among both our business leaders and our bureaucrats . Government employees would have to quit talking about business men as if they were all public enemies ; and industrialists would have to learn that Washington is not populated entirely by crazy college professors and disguised Bolsheviks plotting to wreck The American Way of Life . A certain minimum of good faith and respect on both sides would be indispensable ? plus a mutual willingness to give the scheme a fair trial . Also necessary would be a thoroughgoing reorganization of the government , to bring some order out of the present demented jungle of overlapping and uncoordinated agencies . Until Washington develops a machinery for producing prompt , consistent policy decisions , it clearly will not be able to give much useful guidance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as long as a dozen different bureaus and commissions are belaboring them with conflicting advice . The creation of a competent and well-paid civil service , capable of attracting really first-rate men , together with a coordinating cabinet secretariat of the sort recently suggested by Joseph and Stewart Alsop , might be a good first step . Obviously , too , the system would be beset by dangers , as any adventurous undertaking is bound to be . Some extreme left-wingers no doubt would seize upon it as a first step toward a Communist society , while their counterparts of the extreme right might try to convert it into a corporative state . Constant vigilance would be necessary to keep either the government from trying to run the Two Hundred Corporations , or the Two Hundred Corporations from getting ambitions to take over the government . In addition , it would have to be made perfectly clear that the special status of the selected corporations would not imply either an excuse for inefficient management nor a promise of public subsidy . But these difficulties are not necessarily insuperable ? and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any program for handling the impending economic crisis will bristle with dangers and difficulties . They can be avoided entirely only by doing nothing ? which is , of course , the most dangerous choice of all . Whether the country 's progressives will in fact work out a new road map of the kind outlined so sketchily here is , at the moment , a matter of sheer guesswork . All that can be said is that some of the most thoughtful are feeling their way in roughly this direction . What they produce is not , however , the most important question : it is whether they produce anything at all . For if the liberals do not come up with a fresh and coherent doctrine before the onset of the next depression , they almost certainly will lose for good their power to operate as an effective force in American politics .                     