@@470704

CC first question for America , " says Esworth Barnard in " War and the Verities , " the leading article of this issue , " is not whether we can keep out of war but whether we ought to . " Mr. Barnard argues the other side of the case in opposition to the contentions of Charles A. Beard , C. Hartley Grattan , and others whose discussions of the question have appeared in these pages . As these pages are written , the Russians have set to work on Finland and the war in the West is confined for the most part to forays in the North Sea and the British channel . But underneath , among Americans , there is persistent questioning . Mr. Barnard is an instructor in the English Department at Williams College . He writesabout himself : " I was born in 1907 on a farm in Shelburne , Massachusetts , on the eastern edge of the Berkshires ; and I incline to think that man 's real original sin was beginning to live in cities . I went to Massachusetts State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College , please ) whence I went with a B.S. degree to get an M.A. in English from the University of Minnesota ; then back to Massachusetts State for three years as instructor in English and then back to Minnesota for two more years and a Ph.D . Then I spent a year teaching at the University of Tampa in Florida , and in 1937 I came to Williams as one of the last of Tyler Dennett 's appointees . My favorite course is freshman composition . My favorite poet is Shelley , whom I worship . My doctor 's thesis was on ' Shelley 's Religion ' ; it was published in 1937 by the University of Minnesota Press , and I recommend it both to those who think that Shelley did not have a religion and to those who do not think that it matters whether he had one or not . I have just finished editing the Shelley volume in the Doubleday , Doran series in Literature . I think that Shakespeare is vastly overrated . I am a baseball fan and hope to live long enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I think hunting is barbarous . I am a vegetarian from principle . In politics I am inclined to be conservative ; I think that the sole and sufficient justification of democratic government is that it is the least bad of all the forms of government that have yet been invented . I have never before had an article published by a magazine . " Dorothy Dunbar Bromley 's " The Fu- ture of Eleanor Roosevelt " traces the public career of the lady from the time when she first attracted attention as the peripatetic wife of the President down to this latter day when she has become a public character in her own right . Of course the fact that she is the President 's wife is never forgotten and this enables Mrs. Roosevelt to turn the everyday incidents of her life into remarkable human interest copy . Look , for instance , at this paragraph from " My Day , " describing how she spent the afternoon of the day following the departure of the King and Queen of England , and revealing that she had not lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over to Fishkill Farms to thank Secretary and Mrs. Morgenthau for the delicious strawberries which we all enjoyed at the picnic on Sunday and received some extra quarts because they did not think Miss Thompson and I had had enough on Sunday . A puncture on the way home delayed me , but nothing had to be done , so I could chat inconsequentially with some people at the garage . Here 's another " Day 's " comment about the cornerstone laying for the library of the President 's papers at Hyde Park on November 20th : Before the ceremonies many people came into the house to shake hands with the President and have a word with him . Just as everyone was leaving the house I heard a crash and discovered that one of the card tables around which some people were sitting had collapsed and all the china had fallen to the floor ! It was too bad to break the china , but I had to laugh , remembering that table which collapsed when the King and Queen were with us . We must have something collapse when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was broken on this occasion . Mrs. Bromley conducts a column called " Strike a Balance " in the New York Post . She attended Northwestern University and since 1920 has lived in New York . For some years she held advertising and book publishing jobs ; then she became a free lance . From January , 1935 , to May , 1938 , she wrote for the Woman 's Page of the New York World-Telegram . Since May , 1938 , she has been writing her Post column . Her books include Rirth Control , Its Use and Misuse and ? with Florence Haxton Britten ? Youth and Sex . She has written numerous articles for HARPER 'S during the past ten years . The most recent was " Birth Control and the Depression " in October , 1934 . PEDDLER 'S INDIAN SUMMER c cR . PENFOLD " is our first H. E. Bates M story . For a man only thirty-four years old Mr. Bates 's output has been prodigious . Ile has written six novels ? The Two Sisters , Catherine Foster , Charlotte 's Row @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House of Women . In addition he is the author of five volumes of short stories and two of essays . This makes thirteen volumes in fourteen years . He was born in provincial England and for a time worked as a clerk , writing in his spare time . An article about him in the London Times Literary Supplement says : " Countrymen close to the soil , artless girls or domestic women , children ? these are his favourite and most convincing types . Even his town dwellers in Charlotte 's Row are instinctive countryfolk at heart , cheated of their heritage by forces they do not and in the main make no effort to understand . Mr. Bates has never drawn a fully conscious man , or even , persuasively , a markedly educated one . In the result the modern world , as such , can scarcely be said to exist in his pages . His world is in the main hardly more than a narrow strip of lovely South Midland countryside , set with some pleasant villages and an ugly town or two . .. . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the most universal emotions , and deliberately avoids the quality of contemporaneity beIN the vicious guttural language of Kultur , the degree A. B. means Bachelor of Atrocities . Are you going to let the Prussian Python strike at your Alma . Mater , as it struck at the University of Louvain ? cause he would not obscure the unchanging issues of birth and love and death . " USED TO BE N or fifteen years ago ? when automobile vacationing got on a mass production basis ? ghost towns began to attract attention . They became American museum pieces and tourists in the West would recall articles in the Saturday Evening Post about Tombstone and Rhyolite and hunt them up . There was a peculiar thrill in stopping before the windswept Allen Block in Cascade Springs , South Dakota , and imagining the days when the boomers had been there . Central City , Colorado , was rediscovered and its famous opera house dusted out and made the center fur an annual dramatic festival . Finally , this past autumn , the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo stylized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towns have moved up on us . The communities which Harold and Stanley Ruttenberg describe in " War and the Steel Ghost Towns " are the result of a contracting economy and technological change . At the moment there is a flush of life in some of these towns as a result of the European war , but the Ruttenbergs ' contention is that technology does not pause in its advance and the towns have no future as steel producers . The difference between New Castle and Rhyolite is that the steel folk of New Castle ca n't move on as the Rhyolite boys did . The Ruttenbergs are brothers ; they were born in a coal mining town in western Pennsylvania , went through Massanutten Military Academy in Virginia , and later were graduated from the University of Pittsburgh . Harold Runenberg has been Research Director of the Steel Workers Organizing Committee since its inception in June , 1936 . Since the fall of 1937 he has also been Assistant Regional Director of the Northeastern Region , covering the middle Atlantic and New England states . In 1933 he worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steel Industry , by Carroll R. Daugherty and associates , published by McGraw-Hill . In 1934 he worked as an investigator for the United States Senate Munitions Committee . Articles by him have appeared in Nation , New Republic , Survey Graphic , and Harvard Business Review . Stanley Ruttenberg was Research Director for the C.I.O. in the Cincinnati , Ohio , district in 1937 , and in 1938 was Research Assistant to Charlotte Can at Hull House . He left Hull House several months ago and has traveled extensively throughout the country and worked with his brother on several pieces of research . niETER HENRY BUCK , the anthropologist , is J the Director of the Bernice P. Bishop Museum at Honolulu . He was born in New Zealand ; his father was a native of Galway and his mother a member of one-of the Maori tribes . Buck has written many books on the ethnology of Oceania and the culture of the Polynesians . It was from a chapter in one of these volumes . that Leonard Bacon got the idea of " The Trail of the Rooster . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article he says that he " would have raised the question of Rennell Island which ought to be investigated by scientists within a year or two before it is exploited by Commerce or Religion . Rennell Island is the last surviving stronghold of the Stone Age . There alone life goes on as it went on in literally ten thousand other islands a hundred and fifty years ago . Previous knowledge will be lost forever , if no way is found to get there before the arrival of two disparate schools of thought which are apt , nevertheless , to travel together . " ( Question for Ask Ale Another addicts : To what nations do the following islands belong : Jarvis , Palmyra , Christmas , Easter , and Johnston ? ) Readers will remember Mr. Bacon 's " Seascape with Figures " and " Great Hawaii , " accounts of his visit to the Hawaiian islands , which appeared in the August and October numbers . This year we also published three chapters from Mr. Bacon 's autobiography , Semi-Centennial . For thirteen years ? from 1910 to 1923 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Since then he has lived mostly at Peace Dale , Rhode island , with a three-year interval in Italy from the end of 1928 to the beginning of 1932 . On one occasion Mr. Bacon identified himself as " a comic poet " ; comic or grave , he has published six volumes of poetry : Ph.D . ' s , Animula Vagula , Guinea Fowl , The Legend of Quincibald , Lost Buffalo , and The Furioso . DEATH ON A PALE HORSE cc e Problem of Influenza " is the fifth in THGeorge W. Gray 's series of articles on recent developments in medicine . The preceding articles were " Sleep and Insomnia , " " The Strange Ways of Allergy , " " Anxiety and Illness , " and " The Control of Pain . " Mr. Gray describes the outbreak of the great influenza pandemic of 1918 . A paragraph from the Britannica may he of interest . " This outbreak , attributed by France to Spain , by Spain to France , and by America to Eastern Europe , seems to have appeared almost simultaneously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and amongst all those communities in intimate touch with them and in the closely linked theatres of war . It showed the explosive character that is pussidle only for a highly invasive infection assisted by conditions of swift communication such as obtain in modern war . . . . The first wave coincided with the arrival of the first drafts of American troops in Europe , who must have brought into common circulation pathogenic strains that had long remained dormant in isolated and relatively immunized communities . The crowded troopships afforded just the incubation places that would permit of the maturation of such an infection ; and Europe , with its crowded concentration areas and billets , offered an unequaled opportunity for its spread . " Mr. Gray is an old HARPER author . Once a New York newspaper man , he eventually became a free lance , giving all his time to writing about new discoveries in the scientific field . He is the author of two very successful books : New World Picture and Tice Advancing Front of Science . CULTURAL BAEDEKER liNT November , 1927 , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Racket " which introduced a new character to the stage in the shape of Miller , a police court reporter . The reporter was played by Hugh O'Connell , who made a reputation for himself in the part , and beat " The Front Page " reporting gentry into town by a whole season . Previously reporters on the stage had been minor figures , stock characters recognizable as reporters because they always kept their hats on indoors . ( Readers will please suppress any desire to write calling the editor 's attention to the fact that two newspaper plays were produced more than twenty years ago : " The Fourth Estate " and " The Stolen Story . " ) The point about O'Connell 's reporter was that he was a carefully worked out character , cynical and derisive and played to the hilt . A copy of The American Mercury stuck out from the pocket of his dingy overcoat . Thousands of reporters took Mencken as gospel . Audiences saw the familiar green of the magazine cover and laughed uproariously . Ten years later , Morris Watson of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mencken faith as any , was the central figure in a celebrated labor case before the United States Supreme Court , Associated Press v. National Labor Relations Board . It is these ten years that Frederick Lewis Allen is exploring in " Since Yesterday : The Social Climate of the Nineteen-Thirties . " This month we print the third and last of his three articles , all of which will be embodied in Mr. Allen 's Since Yesterday , a history of the nineteen-thirties , which will appear in a month . or two as a companion volume to his well known Only Yesterday . Mr. Alien , who is Associate Editor of HARPER 'S , has also written The Lords of Creation , the story of American finance from the organization of the United States Steel Corporation down to 1935 . He wrote the text for two picture books : American Procession , an American history in photographs , and Metropolis , the photographic story of life in a great city . WOODROW WILSON would probably have been outraged if he had been told , on the 4th of March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that within four years his administration would have set up a great war propaganda machine . But that is what happened . The chief business of the so-called Creel Committee was to put the American people into a fighting mood and the Committee made a supersuccess of its job . We reproduce one of the famous pieces of propaganda put out by the Committee on Public Information . This advertisement was used as an illustration in the exhaustive study of the Creel Committee 's work called Words That Won the War , by James R. Mock and Cedric Larsen , published only a few months ago . Along with this propaganda there went the business of censorship and in " Wartime Censorship in the United States " Lucille B. Milner and Groff Conklin examine the record . The same authors wrote for us the article on " The Conscientious Objector " which appeared in the October number . Mrs. Milner , who is Secretary of the American Civil Liberties Union , had firsthand experience in the events she describes . She was associated with the National Civil Liberties Bureau during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up in 1920 she was one of those who helped to organize it . She has taken a special interest in recent years in refugees from Europe and dictatorships and has made three trips abroad in this cause , attending conferences and investigating the status of German refugees . Groff Conklin is a free lance writer and researcher , the author of several books , whose interest is divided between the history of civil rights in America and a contrasting subject , the better use of photographs as an aid to understanding in books for young people . His forthcoming book , All About Houses , for high schools and colleges , will contain 370 photographs in the space of 180 pages , using the illustrations as an integral part of the text . of s month we print the third installment Aldous Huxley 's new novel , " After Many a Summer . " Two more installments are yet to come . In the portions already printed the action has reached this point : Having accumulated many millions in oil , Joseph Stoyte had gradually withdrawn from business , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had built near Los Angeles . In this fantastic castle with its towers , moats , drawbridges , and air conditioning , he installed an equally fantastic household . It included his mistress , Virginia Maunciple , a softhearted redhead from Portland , Oregon , who found it hard to refuse anyone anything , particularly the determined wooing of Dr. Sigmund Obispo . Stoyte lived in terror of death and Dr. Obispo 's first duty in life was to watch over the oil king 's blood pressure . He had a laboratory assistant named Peter Boone , a veteran of the Spanish Civil War , whose adoration of Virginia was as intense as Obispo 's but more high-minded . In this message dwelt the great Stoyte surrounded by El Grecos , Louis XV soda fountains , and elevators decorated with Vermeess . His brief working days now were devoted to land grabbing , the casual oversight of the Beverly Pantheon , a huge and grotesque Los Angeles cemetery which had proved a successful speculation , and watching the Dust Bowl refugees who worked at sweated wages in his orange groves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the castle . This is Jeremy Pordage , a middle-aged English researcher , who has been imported to investigate and catalogue the mysterious Hauberk papers . ' These Hauberk papers are the accumulation of family records and memorabilia of an ancient British house which moved through knighthood and barony until it became the earldom of Gonister . The Earls of Gonister had passed through various vicissitudes , the family had gone to seed and at present consisted of two old women inhabiting a mouldering ruin of a country residence . Poverty had driven them to sell the Hauberk papers ? which had never been examined ? to the Stoyte agents . Mr. Pordage has barely begun his investigation of the papers when Dr. Obispo interrupts to take Pordage on a tour of the Stoyte laboratories . Obispo has used Stoyte 's constant fear of death as a lever to equip the laboratories ; and has embarked on a variety of experiments to discover means of prolonging life . Among the exhibits arc a pair of two-hundred-year-old carp brought alive from a Continental preserve . Obispo is much absorbed in these carp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhere down there in the gut " HONORIS CAUSA THE award of the 0 . Henry Prize for 1939 to William Faulkner for to counting up how this Magazine has been faring in this annual prize-giving . The 0 . Henry Memorial Award is offered for the best short story by an American author published in an American magazine , in the opinion of a board of judges which varies from year to year . The first year was 1919 , and the 1939 award was thus the twenty-first . During those twenty-one years the prize has gone to a story in HARPER 'S seven times : 1923 ? " Prelude , " by Edgar Valentine Smith 1926 ? " Bubbles , " by Wilbur Daniel Steele 1927 ? " Child of God , " by Roark Bradford ( the story which was the germ of the Marc Connolly play , " The Green Pastures " ) 1933 ? ' Gal Young Un , " by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings 1935 ? " The White Horses of Vienna , " by Kay Boyle 1938 ? " The Happiest Man on Earth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by William Faulkner In addition , the first prize for 1930 was divided between " Dressing-Up , " by W. R. Burnett , which appeared in HARP ? R 'S , and a story which appeared in Century ; and in several other years the Magazine has been represented among the winners of second , third , or special prizes . The quality of a short story is likely to he a matter of fierce disagreement . The three judges for the 0 . henry Memorial Award disagree often if not usually , and resort to the point system of scoring for their choice . It is gratifying to find a competent body of critics which offers the only prize of its sort in existence in this country making its selection so frequently from pages of HARPER 'S , and particularly gratifying that we have provided the winner in four out of the past seven years .                     