@@450510

MILITARY psychiatry differs from civilian psychiatry in that the Army must be totally responsible for a man ? not only for his food and clothing , but especially for his ability to participate in his particular mission . Consequently , when a man did not fulfill his function , the Army had to find the cause and , if possible , remedy it . In many instances the cause lay in his personality and in his emotional difficulties . Since there is a human tendency to retreat into illness under stress , it was not surprising to find that many men became ill when they were unable to meet the demands of the new life . Military psychiatry differs also in quality from civilian psychiatry . In the Army much more effort and time are invested in a preventive psychiatry ? an attempt to keep men healthy and to seek out causes for poor morale . Until comparatively recently , the majority of civilian psychiatric patients had to be brought to the psychiatrist by relatives , usually after a long period of " putting up with " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last few years , and many intelligent individuals seek psychiatric help on their own initiative . In the Army , psychiatric patients were discovered more quickly than they can be in civilian life . Men lived in such close contact that there were many observers of every man ? his bunkmate , his sergeant , the dispensary surgeon , the flight surgeon , a general medical officer . When one of these noticed unusual attitudes or behavior , the soldier was often referred to the psychiatrist . Whether because of nostalgia , palpitation of the heart , disobedience , or " the shakes , " a considerable number found themselves referred fo the mental hygiene consultation service in the training camp ( between 4 and 6 poi cent of all men in basic training ) or to the neuropsychiatric ward of the station hospital . It has not been uncommon in any large camp for an outpatient psychiatric service to have as many as five hundred consultations in a month . These consultations seldom lasted less than half an hour . About 5 per cent of the men seen were sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , certainly would not have been a matter of concern to relatives in civilian life . This ratio of consultation , higher than in civilian life , is directly related to the structure of the Army , which requires every man to be a follower and many to be leaders ; when he fails in either of these roles , he may become a " case . " Certainly the enlisted man was in no position to choose a different leader ; usually he could not change his job . When a leader failed in his responsibility , his methods may have increased the possibility of maladjustment among his men . When a follower failed to accept his role , his behavior was likely to increase the maladjustment of others in his unit . In military life the emphasis is on group welfare rather than on the welfare of the individual . In civilian life , however , the physician 's interest is primarily centered on his patient and on improving the environmental situation for the benefit of his patient . Except for court and legal psychiatry , it is rarely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's behavior on the total social situation . In the Army , the psychiatric management of one soldier might vitally affect the morale of his group ; For example , if he was a " goldbrick " and obtained a medical discharge on psychiatric grounds , or if he was a seriously maladjusted psychopath and was permitted to hide behind the skirts of psychiatry , the morale of his unit suffered . The Medical Department was not authorized to discharge a man who may have jumped ship or forged checks or gone AWOL , but it did its best to help such maladjusted persons . Ninety-eight per cent of the doctors in the Medical Corps came from civil life . In some instances , the doctor 's own resentments and his reactions to them came to the front in his relation to his patients . Especially was this obvious when the physician had little interest in psychiatric disabilities , yet was responsible for their treatment . Such a physician was prone to call the patients names , to " tell them off , " to be tough ? with no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortcomings onto his patient . The trained psychiatrists themselves had to wrestle far more frequently with their own emotions than was necessary in civilian life , for they too were cogs in the Army . Where the psychiatrists came front At the time of Pearl Harbor , the I hirty-five psychiatrists of the regular Army Medical Corps , with few exceptions , were assigned to neuropsychiatric work in the Army hospitals in this country and our possessions . One of them was located in the Office of the Surgeon General for the principal purpose of reviewing the medical papers of officers being retired . The growth from these original thirty-five to approximately twenty-four hundred men practicing psychiatry was made against great odds . At the beginning of the war , the official organization of psychiatrists ? the American Psychiatric Association ? had fewer than three thousand members , and this membership included 95 per cent of the recognized and qualified men in the field . Of these , approximately two hun dred joined the Navy , and about six hundred came into the Army . The great majority of the psychiatrists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their work had been limited almost , if not entirely , to the care of " insane " patients ; in the Army , they found that the psychotic patients constituted less than 10 per cent of their cases . We found that the psychiatric sections of Army hospitals were caring for about 10 to 12 per cent of the total patients with the help of less than 3 per cent of the physicians . Obviously such increasing psychiatric service called for additional help . We were given sometimes surgeons , often pediatricians , most often young physicians just out of their civilian hospital internships . A special training school for 30 men each month was started in January , 1943 . In 1944 this was expanded into a three-month course for 100 officers , and supplemented by a similar curriculum given by the faculties of New York University and Columbia University . Nearly 1401 ) medical officers , three fifths of the physicians practicing psychiatry in the Army , have been so trained . The opportunity to specialize on any specific treatment was not possible , because of the demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Psychiatrists were early placed in induction stations ; they conducted outpatient clinics in basic training camps ; they functioned in replacement centers overseas and in redistribution centers in this country ; they served in disciplinary barracks and rehabilitation centers ? the correctional installations of the Army ; they served on every hospital ship and transport carrying neuropsychiatric patients ; they were included in every Army and each division of that Army ; they are today in every separation center ? where men leave the Army . Perhaps 60 per cent conducted the treatment in hospitals ? evacuation , convalescent , station , regional , and general . The shortage of psychiatrists was somewhat compensated for in 1944 when clinical psychologists ? Ph.D . ' s and M A. 's ? were placed in every general and convalescent hospital , in every outpatient clinic in the basic training camp , and in every correctional institution . An equally great , contribution was made by the psychiatric social workers who were assigned to practically every installation where a psychiatrist was working . The actual number of graduate psychiatric social workers was small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the social work was performed by members of the Women 's Army Corps , many of whom had never had special training . One of the most progressive steps taken by the Medical Department in this war was the development of a consultant system . Soon after Pearl Harbor the Surgeon General appointed experienced specialists from civilian life , including twenty-five consultants in neuropsychiatry , to establish the professional divisions of Medicine , Surgery , and Neuropsychiatry . ? Thus there were consultants for each theater surgeon , each Army surgeon , and each surgeon in the nine Service Commands in the United States . As a result of these appointments the consultant system inaugurated and enforced a standard of professional work which was higher on the average than one would find in civilian institutions . But the job of psychiatric treatment could never have been accomplished with this personnel , even with the consultant system and with nurses specially trained for psychiatric work , had not a final step been taken ? namely , the concentration of patients . In 1943 , twenty-two general hospitals were designated as psychiatric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Twelve convalescent hospitals were functioning late in 1944 , with sections in which the milder typos of mental illness called " psychoneuroses " were treated . On the first of September , 1945 , there were 37,000 neuropsychiatric ' patients under treatment in this country , approximately 50 per cent of whom were in these convalescent hospitals . Induction As each man came into the induction center , he was given a series of examinations , the last of which was made by a psychiatrist . It is difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of these sketchy neuropsychiatric examinations . The total result was good , for certainly the examination kept out of the Army many men who would have been failures ; on the other hand , it probably also kept out some who would have been successful fighting soldiers and who were greatly needed . In the space of from one to five minutes the physician was supposed to do some sort of crystal gazing to determine whether an inductee , strange to him , might fit into an unknown job under unknown leadership with unknown motivation toward doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , not only by the medical profession , but by the civilians and by Army personnel . No psychiatrist , no matter how great his ability and experience , could look at a man , chat with him briefly , and adequately evaluate the functioning of his personality under great stress . At best he could be expected only to pick out the gross misfits . Out of 4,650,000 men rejected for all causes , 1,825 , - 000 ? 39 per cent ? were rejected for some type of personality disorder . What do these figures mean ? From the Army 's point of view the only meaning was that these men were not thought able to withstand the greatest stress . As the war continued and manpower needs became more acute , modifications were made in the neuropsychiatric standards so that men with " mild psychoneuroses " and " transitory psycho-neuroses " were inducted . Experience showed that individuals in this category often made good soldiers . Roughly , between 2 and 5 per cent of the draftees were rejected for psychiatric causes in World War I. In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming up for examination were rejected for neuropsychiatric reasons . Despite these differences , the incidence of mental illness among the troops was probably higher in the second than in the first war . There is no one reason for this apparent discrepancy , although one can point out several extremely significant factors . What contributed to mental illness ? One important difference was related to the ma tivation of the average soldier . World War I was fought " to make the world safe for democracy . " In World War II no such simplified objective emerged , and the average soldier was none too clear as to why he was fighting , despite the Army 's efforts to indoctrinate him . In World War I the band and the populace saw " their boys " off on the train . In World War II the men reported individually to the induction center , with the public apparently indifferent to their going . The average inductee regarded his induction with a certain degree of fatalism ? certainly with no enthusiasm . It was largely left to the Army to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his job was essential , and that he must be willing to sacrifice perhaps even his life to accomplish the Army 's mission . The absence of motivation is believed to have contributed significantly to the high incidence of psychiatric casualties . A second factor in tho increase of mental illness in World War II , despite the improved induction screening , was the type of warfare . World War I was a static war , largely fought in trenches , from which there was periodic relief for combat soldiers . It was localized in a relatively small area and , at least for American soldiers , was of comparatively short duration . World War H was a mobile war fought with the tremendously increased power of its instruments of death . It was fought in every climate , over every sort of terrain . Bombing , more powerful artillery , tanks , flame-throwers , rockets , suicidal attacks , and , other devices intensified the strains of war a hundredfold . In addition , there were long periods of isolation , prolonged tours of duty , and recurring exposures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All these increased the psychological stress . A third factor in the high incidence of mental illness was the greater knowledge of personality disorders . Psychiatrists , with the experience of the last twenty-five years , identified personality maladjustment sooner and more effectively than in 1917 . Types of neuropsychiatric casualties In spite of the screening process at induction centers , numerous psychiatric casualties were sustained both by the troops in this country and by those sent overseas . Statistics tell the story : 314,500 men were discharged for neuropsychiatric causes up to July 1 , 1945 . This figure constituted 43 per cent of all men discharged for medical reasons ; to it must be added 130,000 additional men discharged because of personality defects which made them incapable of fitting into the Army . The largest single category of evacuees from the Pacific consisted of neuropsychiatric cases . Surprisingly enough , the war , with perhaps one exception , ? that of " combat exhaustion , " ? has not produced any new types of mental illness , any new clinical syndromes ( particular group of symptoms ) . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justifies a description of the more common reactions , There is no essential difference between the clinical picture of a soldier who broke down in Camp Shelby and one who ? without battle experience ? broke down in Algiers . The reaction was determined very largely by the individual 's personality structure . One type of illness was called " simple adult maladjustment " for lack of a better descriptive term . It was widely used to refer to the milder reactions of a normal personality to an abnormal situation . In the enlisted man 's language it was most aptly described as being " browned off . " Soldiers subjected to isolation , monotony , uncertainty , tropical heat , lonesomeness , for an indeterminate period , might be expected to develop " simple adult maladjustment . " Sometimes the picture was associated with poor leadership , alleged unfair treatment , broken promises . Sometimes the fates combined to develop in the soldier a morbid resentment , a hostility which was expressed toward everyone and everything in his environment . By far the most common mental illness was some form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is almost always related to earlier forgotten experiences , and it usually occurs in those who present evidence of periodic or constant minor maladjustment in their previous life history . Under special stress , anxiety emerges with varied symptoms . Some men develop fear , others vague , ill-defined tenseness and apprehension ; some become obsessive or compulsive ; still others reflect this anxiety through physical symptoms localized in the stomach or heart , lower back or head . Such people are suffering from a neurosis , but they are not and will not become " insane . " Through perhaps unfortunate publicity the diagnostic term " psychoneurosis " ( " neurosis " and " psychoneurosis " are used interchangeably ) came into some ill-repute . Even by many intelligent persons , the prefix " psych- " on any word was interpreted to mean psychotic ? " insane . " Every psychiatrist has patients who can and do recover from a neurosis by making only minor changes in their environment or by quickly gaining an understanding of their conflicts and adjusting to them . Others may need prolonged treatment , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become well . Few people recognize that many superior individuals are highly neurotic and that some of them adjust very well as contributing members of society . Army personnel , as well as civilians , too often interpreted this diagnosis as meaning a non-effective individual who could not be salvaged . The result of this misconception was the abuse of medical channels for the quick disposal of men by giving patients this label as a convenient method of getting them out of the Army . They might have been non-effective for many reasons ? because of attitude , ineptness , inadaptability , lack of physical stamina . But with patience many of them might have been salvaged . Later this practice was stopped by using administrative discharges for those without physical stamina , while many men with psychoneurosis were salvaged for further duty . Outside the Army a certain number of employers and even some government agencies would not employ a man if they knew that he had been discharged with a psychoneurotic diagnosis . There was never any logical basis for such a refusal except the employer 's lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfectly capable of making a civilian adjustment . In an attempt to alleviate this situation , the Array changed its policy in February , 1945 , and no longer permitted the recording of the term " psychoneurosis " on the man 's individual medical record . Instead , the medical officer was required to specify any one of the eight recognized types of neurotic reaction : anxiety reactions , disassociated reactions , phobic reactions , conversion reactions , obsessive-compulsive reactions , somatization reactions , hypochondrial reactions , and mixed reactions . Frequently individuals were encountered whose characters or personalities were definitely warped . Often they were very intelligent but were never able to profit by their mistakes or even by punishment . They were not able to maintain a lasting loyalty to any person or group or code . Such persons are not to be confused with the calculating criminal , but all too frequently they were on the verge of criminal conduct and at times became involved in it . There was a curious disharmony between their intelligence and their apparent inability to control their behavior . Only occasionally are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then usually because their families grow weary of their misbehavior or their broken promises . They were extremely difficult to detect in the superficial examination at induction . The majority of the 130,000 men discharged administratively fell in this group . They were not " sick . " They were misfits before their entrance into the Army and continued to be misfits after they were taken in , Until World War I , psychiatry 's major interest and concern lay in the group of illnesses known as psychoses ? insanities . By 1941 , however , perhaps 90 to 30 per cent of the American psychiatrists carried on a practice in which they rarely saw a psychotic person . In the Army less than 10 per cent of the patients were in this category . At the beginning of the war such patients were usually promptly transferred either to state hospitals or to Veterans Facilities . Later , because of increased treatment efficiency in Army hospitals , at , least five out of six of these patients were sufficiently recovered to return home . They were in an age group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered in the Army early in the progress of the illness , treatment proved much more effective than in the case of a cross-section of patients with comparable illnesses in civilian life . The high percentage of recoveries among the psychotics is one of the major achievements of Army psychiatry . " Combat exhaustion " As I suggested earlier , perhaps there is one new mental illness which has come out of the wan It has been variously termed " combat exhaustion , " " combat fatigue , " or " operational fatigue . " The official Army diagnosis is " combat exhaustion , " but no term is entirely adequate . The symptoms varied widely but always were related to the stress of combat . The reactions of the fighter pilot differed some-. what from those of the infantry soldier . In all cases great stress had acted upon what was presumably a normal personality . In its most severe form , combat exhaustion manifested itself in what was termed a " pseudo-psychosis , " an apparently complete disorganization of the conscious personality . The individual might act entirely irrationally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run wildly about , even toward the enemy lines . He might display an excessive emotional reaction with tears or great agitation . Often he might have " the shakes " ? a gross body tremor . He might be so sensitive to noise that he would attempt to dig a foxhole or run for shelter with any noisy stimulus . With appropriate treatment the combat exhaustion case often cleared up in a short time . Probably the most amazing salvage rates in the entire war occurred in this group . The experience in the First , Third , Fifth , and Seventh Armies all indicated that approximately 60 per cent of such casualties could be returned to duty in the Army area within two to ten days of treatment ? over half of them to actual combat ? and that another 30 per cent could be returned for non-combat duty in the zone of communications in the theater . Only the 10 per cent remaining had to be evacuated to the United States . The frequency of these cases is best indicated by the established ratio of approximately one neuropsychiatric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ran as high as one in three ; in a few instances , under superb leadership , it was only one in ten . Perhaps the most unfortunate connotation of the term " combat exhaustion , " and of the other expressions for the same condition , has been the suggestion that fatigue was the incapacitating factor . It has been variously estimated on expert authority that fatigue is in itself the major factor in from 3 to 5 per cent of these casualties . ( Research was badly needed to determine its actual role . Perhaps it might have been measured by blood chemistry studies and muscle metabolism investigations made on a large scale at the front lines . Such a study had been outlined for the Mediterranean Theater but the war ended before it could be undertaken . ) There is no doubt , however , that the chief factor in most instances was the psychological trauma . Physical fatigue combined with psychological stress resulted in a type of illness in which psychopathology was the important feature . A word about shell shock . This misnomer from the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an exploding shell in some way physically affected the nervous system ? a theory that was entirely debunked even during the 1917-1918 conflict . It is difficult to determine the physical and physiological effect of concussion on the nervous system . There is a group of combat neuropsychiatric cases in this war ? perhaps less than 5 per cent of the total ? which have been termed " blast injuries . " Even with the aid of the electroencephalograph , a machine which measures brain waves , there are many cases in which no positive diagnosis of " blast injuries " can be made . Furthermore , even in blast-injury cases , the psychological element is often the incapacitating factor . The results procured by the Army and division psychiatrists were outstanding . They were accomplished against great odds , the chief of which was the failure to plan for treatment in forward areas . When the American troops first began combat in North Africa , psychiatric casualties were conveyed back to the general hospitals in the rear . The transfer required from one to fiVe days , depending on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the cases much more difficult to treat . When a man has been so far removed from the front area , it takes a big boost to get him back to his unit again . Thus less than 10 per cent of all psychiatric cases that developed in forward areas were salvaged for duty . Through the combined ingenuity of the theater surgeons , psychiatric consultants , and division psychiatrists , improvised treatment facilities were moved forward . Eventually a system wasevolved whereby the casualty was treated in the clearing station with the division psychiatrist supervising the work , usually within five miles of the front line . Those soldiers whom the psychiatrist could not salvage in forty-eight hours ( he did salvage from 30 to 40 per cent ) were referred on to an improvised unit termed the " exhaustion center , " where over a period of from five to eight days an additional 80 per cent were salvaged . The system was the more phenomenal because the entire program was worked out after the fighting had begun ? in fact while it was in progress . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army , became the pattern later used by the First , Third , Seventh , and Ninth Armies . How genuine were the cases ? In light of the considerable numbers of neuropsychiatric casualties , psychiatrists are occasionally asked whether or not these cases were genuine . The answer is that they were . The psychiatric casualties in the Army could roughly be divided into two large groups : those soldiers who had previously made a good adjustment in their civilian lives but broke down in the Army because of the emotional stress of the new life ; and those who at best had never maintained more than a marginal mental health when they were civilians . In peacetime the men in this second group were not sick and the majority never went to a doctor . But they may have been excessively dependent , overseclusive ; they may have had periodic stomach disturbances or other recurring physical complaints ; they may have shown varying degrees of emotional instability or had difficulty in getting along with people ; they perhaps shifted jobs frequently . Many of these men wanted to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training , even life in camps , was sufficient to throw the balance of equilibrium toward mental ill-health , with latent symptoms expressing themselves or existing mild symptoms being aggravated . The Army psychiatrists had to differentiate between these two groups , indicating those whose illness developed in line of duty and those in whom it had existed before they came into the Army . Another differentiation difficult to make was that between those individuals who were truly sick with a neurosis or psychosis and those who presented lifelong character defects or problems of faulty attitude . Many of the men passed by induction boards had always been misfits as civilians and could not possibly fit into the Army . There was the occasional soldier whose attitude was faulty ? he did n't warn to be in the Army and manifested his aversion by passivity or active hostility ; there were many who very early felt that they had done their share and quite deliberately " would buck for a discharge . " Malingering Was rare , however , if we adhere to the definition that it is an act or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evading military duty . That some men capitalized on symptoms by exaggerating them or by endlessly complaining about them is certainly true . But one should recognize that evading or delaying a disagreeable or difficult job is a universal human technique . The total number of men who were out of line and failed to do their part was very small . On the whole , America has every right to be proud of the performance of the men in the service . It is only the oldster or the misinformed person who assumes that there is any deterioration of American youth . Treatment No distinctly new methods of psychiatric treatment were created during the recent war although three were developed far beyond their pro-war usage : psychotherapy under sedation , group psychotherapy , and the treatment program in convalescent hospitals . There are many types of treatment for mental ill-. ness , but fundamental and basic to all of them is the procedure called psychotherapy . Oversimplified , it is the management by the physician , who presumably knows the anatomy and psychology of the psyche , of a psychological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict might be likened to the treatment of a boil . The physician has to know how , deep the boil is , its particular nature , when and how it should be lanced , and whether lancing is a good idea . In the same way psychotherapy ( treatment of the psyche ) sometimes is suppressive to avoid the lancing ; the psychiatrist recognizes that a conflict should not be opened up and the patient should be helped by reassurance , encouragement , and introduction to new interests . On the other hand , sometimes psychotherapy is best directed towards allowing the patient to see the nature of his conflict and the steps he must take for his relief . Ideally psychotherapy should aid the patient in gaining an understanding of himself , why he is sick , how he became sick , and how he , can best modify his life to regain and retain his health . This treatment is ordinarily a slow , painstaking process , and the handful of psychiatrists in the Army could not devote the , required time to each patient . Furthermore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedures were to be used . Both psychotherapy under sedation and group psychotherapy were expedients developed to meet the situation . Psychotherapy under sedation  --  variously termed narcosynthesis , narcoanalysis , abreaction , and hypnoanalysis was used initially almost entirely for combat soldiers and flyers . Subsequently , it was used more widely and proved itself of tremendous value in competent hands because it was simple , produced results quickly , and had no serious complications . It was effective probably because a great majority of combat soldiers , even though they became quite ill , were essentially normal personalities prior to their combat experience . Man 's psychological apparatus operates in such a way as to exclude from his conscious recognition certain painful and unpleasant memories . But even though the memories are repressed from consciousness , the emotional charge attached to them remains and gives rise to feelings of anxiety . There was the infantry soldier who went through hours , days , weeks of hell , with death strewn around him and always in constant , terrific fear for his own life ; then finally his buddy was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language " he blew his top . " There had been some evidence of his tension even before the final straw ? jumpiness , increased irritability , difficulty with sleeping , loss of appetite . He had run a continuous , rapidly changing gauntlet of traumatic emotional blows . When the final event occurred he " blacked out . " He became amnesic and was literally engulfed and paralyzed by his own emotion . When he was ...  - -  evacuated , the amnesia continued . He received psychotherapy under sedation . ? ? In this treatment the patient is giyen an intravenous ' dose of a sedative drug ? amytal or pentothal . Some psychiatrists have very effectively used hypnosis with no drugs . In a few instances ether was used , and nitrous oxide was tried . In a semi-stupor the patient is encouraged to talk , to relive the emotionally traumatic experiences he could not talk about , and often not even recall . He is given " free and adequate drainage " for this emotional tension . With the help of the psychiatrist , he can reconstruct the memory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then he is able again to retain and to integrate these memories into his waking state and into his current situation ? one of safety and security in the hospital . If he takes this step successfully , the physician next helps him to gain insight into those factors of his experience which have contributed to his illness . The procedure is not automatic and only a skillful psychotherapist is likely to be successful . The use of psychotherapy under sedation has been carried far beyond the uses indicated by our previous understanding of its possibilities , through the brilliant work of Grinker , Speigel , Dreyer , Ludwig , Gaskill , Needles , Lemkau , and a host of other American military psychiatrists in overseas theaters . The experience of Kaufman , Beaton , Markey , and others in the use of hypnosis on Okinawa accomplished the same aim . Thousands of patients were given psychotherapy under sedation and from these cases we have learned much about psychodynamics ( emotional tension and its release ) and also the indications for and against this method . The application of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the practice of civilian psychiatry , both in exploration and in ventilation of unconscious emotional conflicts , in certain types of psychiatric illness . . The second major development of psychiatric treatment in the Army was the increased use of group psychotherapy . It was impossible for the psychiatrist to spend much time with any particular individual . Consequently doctors treated several patients at the same time , a practice ' which had been tried , particularly with children , prior to the war . The technique is still not standardized , but it has proved its worth in many Army hospitals . Ideally a group of patients with similar problems meets for an hour every day under the leadership of a psychiatrist or , in some instances , a clinical psychologist or a psychiatric social worker . The best results have been obtained when the group numbers between fifteen and twenty-five . Various principles have been evolved for its effective management . The members compare their experiences , analyze each other 's problems , and under the skillful guidance of the therapist gain insight into their own difficulties and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs the therapist continues with the same group through a series of from ten to thirty discussions . Initially there is often some degree of hostility or skepticism , but the skilled leader welds the group into a closely knit unit , of which every member feels that he is an important part . There is no prescribed outline of discussions , although most therapists have pointed them into such general subjects as group orientation , emotional symptoms , how these are converted into physical symptoms , normal physiological expressions of emotions , constructive solutions , and so on . The discussion plan is occasionally varied with what is called psychodrama , in which the patients , in cooperation with one or more members of the staff , act out an anticipated situational problem . The hospital At first all psychiatric patients were sent to general hospitals . There they lived in a hospital environment , lounging around in bathrobes , often with little or no daily program . There was too much opportunity for them to discuss their symptoms among themselves without guidance , and actually to regress under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hosPital invalidism . To get away from this situation , twelve regionally located convalescent hospitals were established for all psychiatric patients who were not actually in need of nursing care . Here a man could look after himself ; he could live in barracks ; he could follow a daily program of activity particularly designed to meet his emotional needs . As of July 1 , 1945 , approximately half of the 57,000 Army psychiatric patients in this country were located in these hospitals . In addition to the individual and group psychotherapy provided by the psychiatrist and his staff of associates , clinical psychologists , and psychiatric social workers , an elaborate program of activities was initiated . Every patient had a prescribed daily program which included occupation , recreation and sport , and education . The occupational activities included not only occupational therapy in its well-established and recognized form , but also the diver- sional activities provided by the Red Cross ? hobbies and handicraft skills . The educational opportunities were almost unlimited . They were planned to be pre-vocational excursions , a trial for the patient to . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On this basis the hospital was equipped with elaborate shops . In some instances as many as sixty different courses were offered ? music , art , commercial subjects , mechanics , machinery , automotive subjects , electric welding , basic educational courses in reading , writing , and . arithmetic . In addition to these three major developments ? psychotherapy under sedation , group psychotherapy , and the treatment p ; pgram in convalescent hospitals ? the Army , has utilized various other methods although it has not contributed new ones . It has ? electro-shock therapy for its more severely mentally ill , the psychotic patients . It has used the insulin shock therapy and even more extensively sub-shock dosage of insulin . Investigative work was carried on with ergotamines for combat exhaustion . Hydrotherapy was provided in every general hospital . Prevention One of the largest services in the Medical Corps is concerned withpreventive medicine . It interests itself in every possible method of preventing disease , from immunization to mosquito control , from water purification to quarantine . Curiously enough , the field of " preventive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevention of mental ill-health despite the disturbing figures indicating the size of this problem . As a result the psychiatrists in the Army , in addition to their responsibility for screening and treatment , had to assume the leadership in all psychiatric preventive efforts . From the beginning it was believed that the state of mental health was very largely the charge of the commanding officers of troops . The leader is in a position to make or break his followers , particularly in the organization of our Army . A man 's assignment ? or his misassignment ? was of vital importance to his mental health , as were the training methods , the living conditions , and the possibilities for recreation . Because of the importance of these factors , a series of six lectures on mental hygiene was published under the title " Personnel Adjustment " ? this term being used to forestall prejudice . Orders were issued that this course should be given to all officers . It was an attempt to enlighten the line officers in the matter of mental health and their responsibility for it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the title of " Personal Adjustment " to aid them in adapting themselves to Army life . Both sets of lectures were to be given by the psychiatrist in each post , camp , station , or division . Preventive psychiatry was most effectively carried out by those who conducted outpatient clinics in each of the basic training camps and in the divisions . Not only did they provide the necessary outpatient treatment for soldiers with minor maladjustments and thus preserve manpower , but it was this group , above any other medical specialists , that assumed the responsibility of advising those officers in command of troops regarding mental health . Their patients represented the failures in the training camp . The psychiatrists were in a strategic position to learn from them the factors contributing to their failure . In most camps they made a study of the AWOL rate , the company sick-call rosters , the company punishment rosters . In many instances they were able to indicate to the commanding generals that something was wrong with the leadership in a particular company , battalion , or regiment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were made to various divisions within the War Department as to methods by which mental ill-health might be prevented or reduced . Probably the most important of these were made by Major John Appel . His recommendations were circulated throughout every theater , looking toward t he establishment of a specified tour of duty of a definite length for the combat infantry soldier . He also suggested that replacements should be sent in as units instead of as individuals . In order to practice preventive psychiatry , it was necessary to keep a constant running tabulation of the statistics which would indicate the trend of mental health ; consequently psychiatrists at many levels had to become statisticians . At headquarters these figures were cnnsolidated so that one could read the telltale story of which diyisions had the greatest numbers of neu ? opsychiatrie casualties . This permitted the ferreting out of the causes for the high rate of mental illness in a particular division . Only by tabulating such figures was it possible to discern the variants in the interpretation and application of standards for selection , treatment , or discharge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant , no one assumed that they could tell all the story , and alone they might even give an erroneous impression ; therefore , it was always necessary to compare them with the personal inspection reports of the consultants in the field . Implications for the future What can we estimate about the future of the tune who became psychiatric casualties ? There must , of course , be guesswork in any answer . ? To discover that 14 per cent of all men between 18 and 35 years of age who appeared for the draft were disqualified because of personality disorders was surprising . The great majority of those men were not sick ; they would have had no difficulty in keeping up to their former level of adjustment . There was no basis for either them or their employers to ' doubt their ability to continue at their jobs . The , draft examination did not change therm ? But the figure does have a major social significance . When so large a segment of the presumably healthiest age group in our population presents such defects , en @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family structure , unemployment , recreation , and all the other major interests of American life should be studied in terms of their effect on the mental health of the individual . Such a survey should guide us to corrective measures , so that problems of social welfare can be more intelligently attacked in order to improve the general level of mental health . Experience in the war has tremendously increased the usefulness of psychiatry . Its social applications were tried in the Army and proved helpful in prevention of ill-health , in influencing motivation , in guiding orientation , as an aid to training and to the rehabilitation of social offenders . Psychiatric principles were applied generally to " normal " men to keep them " normal " in a very abnormal situation . Psychiatry made definite gains in the realm of prevention and treatment of mental ill-health . Society has an opportunity to take advantage of this experience ? in industry , education , recreation , criminal and penal work , community life . If ' it does so , psychiatrists must expand their work far beyond their hospitals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more adequate understanding of personality deviations , through a major revision of medical education . They must attract to their field more men and women and continue their study of human behavior and ways of enabling people to adjust more easily to life . The great majority of veterans who were discharged because of psychiatric illness will make a good adjustment . Surveys have indicated that they can and do return to work . Some are not entirely well when they leave the Army because their total recovery is dependent upon their integration into their family , community , and work . A few will need a long convalescence . The very nature of neurotic illnesses would indicate the desirability of providing these men with treatment instead of an indefinite pension with its unconscious incentive to remain ill . They rate special consideration , sometimes special planning . The great majority will be " healed when they return , but because a man 's broken bone is sufficiently knit to bear his weight does not mean that he is in shape immediately to play football . The same is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affection in the home , social and economic security , and satisfaction in work and play are the best medicine to supplement his assets gained from his war experience ? greater maturity , pride in having contributed to a vital mission , the acquisition of new skills and abilities and of lasting friendships . Psychiatry is at another and important crossroads . Will society accept its verities ? Will psychiatry and medicine make them available ? The immediate future will give the answer .                     