@@487513

NOBODY , we are reasonably certain , thinks of us as a curmudgeon just because we occasionally point out a flaw in an erring fellow-creature . But just to prove we are no such thing , we herewith present holiday awards to those who during the year we may gently have chided : To Fulton Lewis , Jr. , who has done so much to promote imaginative fiction on the radio  --  an engraved copy of " Roll , Jordan , Roll . " To Senator Patrick McCarron , who reports that the D. P. camps of Europe- are good enough for their tenants  --  a long lease on . a Quonset but to be built for displaced Senators . To President Juan Peron , whose popularity has lately required reinforcement by strong-arm methods  --  the free and invaluable counsel of former Ambassador Spruille Braden , who seems to have known the country . To John Foster Dulles , whose statesman 's toga got soiled in the November campaign  --  a collection of the Lincoln-Douglas debates , with diagrams to show the difference between making history and hysteria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high fever  --  a carload of aspirin and absolute quiet . To Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper , who ca n't told crate inefficiency of any sort  --  a job under David E. Lilienthal as soon as a dozen private enterprises learn which of them is to win the benefit of his " incredible mismanagement . " To Prime Minister D. F. Malan , who suggests that his racist goverriment may have to " protect the aborigines " of Southwest Africa against the " interference mania " of the U. N. ? a certificate of honorary membership in the Dixiecrats personally signed by John Ranking To General Harry H. Vaughan , officially aide to the President but politically no aid at all  --  a uniform adapted to ' the quick change of temperature required for sudden shifts from deep freezes ' to hot water . To Senator Elmer Thomas , who is still doWn on the Swedes for not paying him the homage due to a Capitol Junketeer  --  transfer of his seat to Minnesota . To Generalissimo Francisco Franco , whose hopes for respectability have been raised unduly by wandering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and observe for himself the esteem in which he is held . To Andrei Vishinsky , who found the conviction of eleven American Communist leaders a " violation of human rights " ? a transcript of the Moscow trials of the Mid-thirties , in which prosecutor A. Vishinsky gave Russia 's political dissidents the human right to confess before being shot . To Westbrook Peglerywho has discovered that living persons , unlike ghosts , can sue for libel  --  an up-to-the-minute necrology from which to select targets for the coming year . To these recipients , cited at random out of a few score , go our ever hopeful greetings . To the hundreds . of millions who rate no prize go our fraternal wishes for a happy holiday and the prospect of peace . The Shape of Things BECAUSE THEIR PRIMARY OBJECTIVE WAS the admission of Andrew Roth to Japan , the editors of The Nation have remained silent for nearly a year in the face of military arrogance and dictatorship . The statement on page 609 of this issue details the successive stages of the process by which this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unstated charges , and sentenced to exclusion from Japan . Seemingly , Roth 's sin lay in his uncompromising independence . It is hard to find other grounds for his banning . Andrew Roth needs no defense by The Nation . He is a capable , honest reporter who has been on top of and ahead of the news in the Far East for three years , He predicted that the Dutch would take unilateral " police " action in Indonesia more than two months before they actually did last December . His book , " Dilemma in Japan , " expressed fears about the results of American policy in Japan which have been more than borne out . He has been , to our mind , the best kind of representative that the American press could have in the Far East . It is intolerable that because he has expressed strong disagreement with General MacArthur he should be banned from further on-the-spot reporting in Japan . If this ban ? 06 The NATION is upheld , then the United States can not go on claiming in the United Nations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporters the world over . ONLY TWO MORE MONTHS NOW AND THE Republican Party will have a policy , with principles and everything . In casting about for reasons to explain the party 's periodic disasters , some of the leaders recently came up with the idea that perhaps a program could help . Guy Gabrielson , the national chairman , thought it worth a try and sent out feelers to soma 125,000 toilers in the party vineyard . On the basis of early returns he is convinced that the approach is sound , and he and his colleagues are now hard at work on a draft for the national committee 's February meeting . Report has it that the response shows great antagonism to the " me-too " policy that has allegedly prevailed in the past three or four national elections . At the same time , some of the letters are said to reflect a demand for expanded social security . Arthur E. Summerfleld , chairman of the strategy committee , which met in Chicago last week , is all for having the party " divest itself of ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly and unmistakably in opposition to that offered by our opponents . " One would think that this was precisely the policy tried out in the ill-fated campaign of John Foster Dulles in November , but the strategists seem to feel that the whole question is one of semantics . Thus Senator Taft , appreciating the futility of attacking the " welfare state , " is prepared to attack the " handout state " instead . But even here the usually dogmatic Senator from Ohio is a bit woolly . He favors " some government assistance " to farmers . in order to give them " an equality of position " with business , some public housing , some subsidies to industry and transportation , and some federal aid to the schools . These are not " handouts , " for he wants to be regarded as a leading opponent of the " me-too " line . In short , the strategy appears to be : talk out of the right corner of your mouth to get the big contributions ; out of the middle to get votes ; and out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WESTERN GERMANY can not come as a surprise to our readers . But we confess that we never believed the renazification of Germany would be accomplished with such speed . If any one still cherishes any doubt he has only to consult the articles by Drew Middleton published during the past week or two in the New York Times . Three pro-NazI groups , the German Union , the German Right Party , and the Association of Independent Germans , now drawing closer together , threaten . to become stronger than the already doubtfully " democratic " coalition headed by Chancellor Adenauer . More disquieting still December 24 , 1949 is the reappearance , under different names but with the same spirit , of the " voluntary formations " of former army officers which flourished in the early twenties , hamstringing the Weimar Republic and murdering moderate political leaders such as Erzberger and Rathenau . One of these groups , the Brotherhood ( Die Bruderschaft ) , is already operating in the open without any restraint from Western occupation authorities . Just as important are certain organizations of another kind about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headquarters are in Madrid and Buenos Aires . In Madrid , under the protection of Franco , a large association has been formed which includes the numerous Nazis who fled into the country from France and Germany at the end of the war , plus those who since 1936 had been in the service of the Spanish dictator . Their funds have been transferred from the Banco Aleman TransantI ? ntico de Madrid to Argentina , where the vigilance of the Allied intelligence services can more easily be eluded . Paralleling this action , the Nazis in Buenos Aires have lately been reorganized on a grand scale ; we shall soon print a full report of their names and their activities . HOW IRRESPONSIBLE CAN AN INDUSTRIAL behemoth be ? We are glad that Senator O'Mahoney intends to put that question to the directors of United States Steel , who have just announced price increases averaging $4 a ton . Their move will of course be followed by the rest of the industry , which always accepts the " price leadership " of Big Steel . And although the actual addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great , it may have a strong psychological ' influence on prices generally . There is quite a little inflationary tinder lying around , and a few sparks like this can easily start a price conflagration . President Benjamin Fairless of Big Steel , however , disregarded these implications of the corporation 's decision . He justified the increase by referring to " substantially higher costs , " especially those resulting from the recent strike settlement . ( He failed to mention that some steel costs , notably that of scrap , are much lower than , a year ago . ) Just how much the pension and insurance plan will cost Mr. Fairless refuses to say , but the estimate of outside experts is not more than $3 a ton . We suspect , therefore , that the real reason for the increase in prices is not so much costs as the current very heavy demand for steel , a deMand accentuated , of course , by the strike . No doubt the traffic can temporarily be made to bear the additional burden for the benefit of United States Steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year were already 50 per cent higher than in the corresponding period of 1948 . But in the long run this policy of grab may prove contrary to the interests of the corporation 's 607 owners . Taking advantage of temporary shortages is not the best way to secure the high , stable rate of output on which the permanent prosperity of the industry depends . NATIONAL SECURITY WITHOUT MILITARISM is something that all but a handful of Americans must want desperately , but until last week it might fairly be said that only on the political extremes was the relationship getting much attention . On the far right security and militarism are held to be inseparable ; government 's prime purpose is to prepare for the more or less inevitable war with Russia , to which end social-welfare programs must be curtailed , secrecy enforced , and political dissidence suppressed . On the other- side the followers of Henry Wallace appear to believe that the cold war itself can be ended overnight by an act of will on our part , and that only in this way can we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those of us who fear the menace of militarism at home and still recognize the enormous complexities of our relations with Russia  --  after all , the success of political democracy in capitalist America is not among the Soviet objectives  --  will be heartened by the report of the Committee for Economic Development on " National Security and Our Individual Freedom . " Here is a group representing some of the biggest industrial and banking concerns in the country devoting itself to the national dilemma , genuinely concerned over " the great increase in the role of the military in our government , " and prepared with a program to check it without jeopardizing the national security . To these leaders of enlightened capitalism security is " only partly a matter of rearmament " ; it is also a healthy economy , " welfare programs for reducing inequities in our system , " effective diplomacy , an " alert and responsible citizenry " fortified by information and the freedom to debate , and a revamped National Security Council strengthened by civilian members whose function it would be to igtegrate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic people . If the recommendations are not as concrete as they might be , the report is none the less a far-reaching contribution and a tribute to the good-will of its authors . CERTAINLY THE MORE CANDID ATTITUD prevailing toward sex education for children of grammar-school age has made it easier for teachers to handle the subject . Along with this , new and extremely helpful teaching methods have been introduced , such as docu- , mentary films . These films have been checked by competent medical , religious , and educational authorities . Realizing that a certain number of parents would object to having their children view such movies , school supervisors have generally polled the parents to determine the sentiment of the community . If a majority approved , a film was shown , but children could be excused on the request of their parents . The New York State Department of Health recently distributed prints of the excellent film " Human Growth " for permissive use in the public schools . This act has been condemned by the state 's Catholic Welfare Committee as a usurpation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejecting the demand that he cease distributing the film Health Commissioner Herman E. Hilleboe firmly restated his policy in words which we think might be useful to other officials , similarly attacked . " If large groups of non-Catholic parents and teachers wish to show these films , " he said , " . . . the Health Department should meet these demands . . . . The department proposes to use its scientific knowledge to help parents who seek our assistance in bringing health information to their children . . . whether they are Catholic , Protestant , or Jewish . " All convinced democrats , we are sure , will be disturbed by the answer of Bishop Joseph F. Flanelly to Dr. Hilleboe 's statement . Such a policy , said the Roman Catholic prelate , might result in a public official bowing down to " a vociferous mob or group which wanted to impose something on this country . " THE SOUTH AND THE WEST ARE SWITCHING basic crops . The livestock industry of the Southwest , based upon the use of extensive range lands , is gradually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proving more efficient . On the other hand , cotton growing is rapidly moving from the South to the Southwest , with major social , economic , and political results . This year California , Texas , Arizona , and New Mexico will produce 7,636,000 bales of cotton , or almost 50 per cent of the country 's ; total . California will rank fourth among the cotton-producing states , after Texas , Arkansas , and Mississippi in the order named . As The Nation pointed out earlier this year ( Cotton in California , February 19 , 1949 ) , the Southern states , which rely , largely upon hand labor , are finding it extremely difficult to compete with the mechanized technique of the Southwest . This year the states east of the Mississippi , long the chief cotton region of the world , will produce slightly less than 30 per cent of the nation 's crop . A basic factor , of course , in this regional shift has been the government 's policy of supporting the price of cotton at 90 per cent of parity . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bales , an increase of 2,800,000 bales since August 1 . How long will California and the other Western states , with their higher yields and lower costs , be able to keep up the pretext that they are entitled to benefits originally intended for the low-yield high-cost production areas of the old South ? Home groom Rebellion BY FREDA KIRCHWEY IF THE defections in Eastern Europe were primarily the result of Titoism  --  an epidemic spreading from a single source  --  they could perhaps be extirpated by terror . This is what the prosecutors of Rajk in Hungary and Kostov in Bulgaria tried to establish , and the two Communist leaders were hung as traitors who had conspired with the Yugoslav rebels to overthrow their own governments . This is what the Muscovite regulars in other ' Eastern countries have charged against various fellow-Communists now disgraced and awaiting their own turn in.a Peoples ' Court . The purge under way in every satellite state is based on the contention that a major conspiracy , with headquarters at Belgrade , is threatening the solid front of Soviet support . Possibly such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's so far successful rebellion is said to be spreading in the neighboring countries , and pro-Tito sentiment has invaded the French and Italian parties . Whether this will result in permanent schism and the creation of an independent Communist international de- pends upon Tito 's capacity to survive without losing his revolutionary franchise through concessions to the West . If the Yugoslav resistance should collapse or be defeated by Russia 's implacable hostility and the offensive it is organizing throughout the Eastern bloc , the movement as such would doubtless evaporate . But even this circumstance would not rule out the rise of a new Rajk or a new Kostov . For the Communist leaders who have fallen under Moscow 's displeasure in Hungary and Bulgaria were not followers of Tito , though they attempted , in more modest fashion , to follow his example . Their dissidence ' grew out of events and facts in their own countries . Like Tito they discovered that " party discipline " was one thing when you were a Communist official or agitator ; it took on a different aspect when you became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's right to assume leadership in the alliance of peoples ' republics , they obviously came to feel that he should be " first among equals " rather than a supreme dictator . They challenged Moscow 's assumption that the entire life of their countries , economic , political , and military , should be subordinated to the national interest of Russia , and that agents of the Kremlin should be given special rights of investigation and control . They believed , not unreasonably , that Stalin 's favorite doctrine of " national sovereignty " should be applied to them as well as to Russia . It was for this that Rajk and Kostov died , for this that Gomulka , Polish Communist leader and former Vice Premier , will probably stand trial . Rajk admitted the crimes of treasonable conspiracy December 24 , 1949 and heresy in a confession so contrary at so ' many points to the known facts that it may have been intended to arouse suspicion among his informed comrades . In any case , as Hungarian Foreign Minister , Rajk was regarded as a tough and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his country 's interests and his government 's authority . According to well-informed observers , he did not like Tito arid had made no overtures to him ; Yugoslays have told me that Rakosi was always far more friendly and ready to co- , operate . Much the same story is told about Kostov . He too ' was a Communist whose record in the liberation fight and in the party itself  --  he had been a member of the Central Committee since 1924 ? was one of courage and rigid orthodoxy . In Bulgaria he was regarded as a national hero to the day of his arrest . Accused of plotting with Tito against Dimitrov , Kostov in fact differed with both of them . It was Dimitrov , the old Bulgarian leader now embalmed and lying in permanent state as a Soviet hero , who was close to Tito and was forced by Moscow to recant their common and sensible intention to create a federation of South Slav ' states . As for Gomulka , charged by the party with a variety of offenses including the major crime of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reputation for party regularity . Certainly he is not kno'ivn to have had any illicit dealings with Tito , his one form of deviation having been , to quote Critic in the New Statesman and Nation , to disagree " with the Cominform policy of trampling on national Communist parties when they dared to put in a word for the interests of their own countries . " Recently ousted from the Central ComMittee of the Communist Party , he is expected to face formal indictment . This sort of resistance is not easily ended by hanging a few leaders . For the circumstances that created it , in loyal and disciplined Communists , will do so again . Purges may succeed in terrorizing other potential rebels into temporary subservience to Moscow rule , but they can not permanently suppress an opposition that arises from the sense of being ruthlessly exploited . On the other hand , what other way remains open ? For Russia to end its extreme pressure on the satellite states would be to admit an error so monstrous that it could hardly be lived down . Only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the West would permit Moscow to retreat from the policy it has adopted to scotch rebellion among the ruling group in its own orbit .                     