@@485604

WHEN the flag of revolt was raised over northern Iran , it signalized much more than independence for the Azerbaijans , until then one of the world 's unconsidered minorities . It was a sign that the power poli-tics of the Big Three , for better or worse , had taken definite shape . Most persons who have been following the course of international relations , whether hopefully or cynically , have realized that in the end Washington , London , and Moscow must develop mutual trust on major issues , including the atomic bomb , or revert to the pattern of checkerboard politics . The Azerbaijan revolt , part and parcel of Big Three maneuv-ering in - the Middle East , proves that the trend is toward power politics . It is appropriate , therefore , that the current conference of foreign ministers , should consider the incident . The revolt was not a spontaneous affair ; the conditions which provoked it were not new . The revolt could , in fact , have taken place at any time since December , 1943 , and under almost the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any consideration of the present crisis . In 1941 the Red Army moving from the north and the British army moving from the west ( Iraq ) invaded Iran andtook the country into protective custody . The Allies feared at the time that Hitler 's plan for world conquest involved a double thrust through Russia and Egypt which would meet in- Iran and from there go on to link up with the Japanese in India . Hitler 's armies were moving toward the Caucasus in the north and within striking distance of the Nile Delta in the south . The Japanese were making threatening gestures in the direction of India . A large German minority in Iran waited for the Reichswehr to appear at the frontier . Ready to serve it were iron foundries that had been built on credit by the genius of Hj almar Schacht at sites commercially unprofitable in peace but invaluable to an invading army from the north  --  one was at Kazvin , north of Teheran ; in the barren southern deserts through which lay the road to India were enormous wheat silos , with enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Fortunately a premature Nazi-inspired revolt in Iraq , Iran 's - Western neighbor , betrayed the enemy 's strategy while there was still time to act . It became clear that an elaborate schedule had been worked out by the Germans . A chain of airfields ' in Syria had even been placed at their disposal by 734 Vichy France to aid a full-scale paratroop invasion . The revolting Iraqi army occupied Bagdad . A surprise attack on the R. A. F. base at Hableaniyeh near by failed , but the British garrison there was besieged . The German minister to Iraqappeared at Mosul , center of the British oil fields in the north ; the oil fields and installations were seized , and Luftwaffe planes brought in Nazi technicians who knew the function of every knob and dial . Only the British gift for improvisation in an emergency prevented the rebels from gaining complete mastery . Troops were rushed from India to Basra , the Iraq port at the head of the Persian Gulf , and quickly subdued the resistance there , making it possible to fly supplies from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been reduced to lobbing home-made bombs over the side of antiquated observer planes on to the massed ranks of the Iraqi army . The Arab brigade of Major Glubb piled into old trucks and taxicabs and plowed across the desert from Transjordan to relieve the defenders . Suddenly the Germans lost their nerve , and the oil technicians fled from Mosul . Their leaving without destroying the installations can only be explained by the supposition that they expected an imminent breakthrough in southern Russia and then a concerted drive on the heartland of the Middle East . At this stage Churchill and Stalin decided that the preservation of a neutral Iran between British and Soviet spheres of interest in the Middle East might prove , too expensive a luxury . On August 25 , 1941 , the British and Russian armies marched simultaneously into the country , meeting only spasmodic resistance from the German-trained Iranian army . The Shah , Reza Khan , abdicated in favor of his son . Iran concluded a treaty with the Allies , and by general consent an attempt was made to forget the invasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " the unhappy event of Shahrivar " ( Shabrivar is the Persian calendar month from August 21 to September 21 ) . After Pearl Harbor the United States opened a supply route to Russia across Iran and established the Persian Gulf Service Command under Major General Connolly . Connolly 's men were almost all technicians , engaged in operating the railroad across Iran and a fleet of Diesel . trucks . To the British army was delegated the role of safeguarding the supply line as far as the Russian zone , at which point the Red Army took over . One would like to think that in this zone where the American , British , and Russian armies first met , there was fraternization among the troops , and on higher levels inter-Allied cooperation which could be used as the foundation for cooperation after the war . ' Unfortunately , however , there was nothing of the kind . Fraternization between American and British troops was less extensive than in any other war theater I have visited . Fraternization between Red Army troops and either Americans or British was almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said is that an efficient liaison was built up . Meetings were on a purely business basis , except for the occasional official party or reception given as a matter of course by the heads of the three commands . The Russians , however , did not neglect to foster political and cultural contacts with the Iranians . After the collapse of the Reza Khan dictatorship , which for years had prohibited The NATION Iranians from having contact with the British and Russians in the country , several new parties came into being . Among these was the Tudeh , or Workers ' Party , which was subsidized and otherwise supported by the Russians . Economic hardship and political unrest provided fertile soil for its growth and the Tudeh , organized in Teheran , spread quickly to the provinces . Critical of both British and American influences in the country , it organized agitation against the economic mission of Dr. A. C. Millspaugh , who was attempting to bring order into the country 's finances , disrupted by shortages and rising prices . Dr. Millspaugh was hampered by the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rice and wheat districts round the Caspian , were in the Russian zone , sealed off from the rest of the country . The Tudeh Party ignored this circumstance and attacked the mission as inefficient . By June , 1944 , the party felt sufficiently strong to join forces with certain parliamentary deputies from Azerbaijan . The new group in the Parliament took the name of " Liberty " group , and proceeded to attack what it described as unjust conditions in the north and the oppression of Teheran . That summer the governor of Azerbaijan , an Iranian appointed by Teheran but functioning by grace of the Russian military authorities in the area , came out with a demand that the northern zone be given autonomy . He was hastily recalled to Teheran and a new governor sent out . The Russians accepted the new official and left the world to guess what was behind the incident . When the British realized their post-war weakness in the Middle East , they tried to induce the United States to share responsibility in that critical region . Their oil negotiations with Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view ; oil concessions for the United States in the Middle East , they believed , Would arouse American economic interest and , eventually , a general awareness in the people . While the Ickes talks were proceeding in London , two American oil expertS were negotiating in Teheran with the Iranian government for oil concessions . As is well known , the oil deal never came off , partly because the large American oil companies opposed what they called the unwarranted interference of government with private enterprise and partly because the Soviet government , on learning of the Teheran oil talks , filed its own application for oil concessions in the country . The Iranian government then found itself in the embarrassing position of being unable to refuse the Russian application without at the same time refusing the American , which it had privately welcomed . When both applications were refused , the Soviet - government showed no ill-feeling beyond pressing for a new Russo-Iranian economic agreement . Our entry into the Middle East was postponed until a new approach could be devised . This new approach is found in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solving the problem of Jewish Immigration Into Palestine . It Is a more logical approach , for the human issues of Palestine are nearer to the American heart than the oil wells of Iran . Of course , the Palestine question involves not merely the Jews but Moslem communities far beyond the Jordan . Against this background the Azerbaijan revolt is seen partly as a Russian attempt to counter America 's move on the Middle December 29 , 1945 Eastern checkerboard . The more quickly America acts to follow up its entr  --  e , the more completely will Russia throw its weight behind an independent Azerbaijan . Russia is getting tougher with Turkey . It is hard at work in Syria and Lebanon , Efficient Soviet information bureaus are functioning in both Damascus and Beirut . The Patriarch of the Soviet Republic of Armenia has recently toured the Armenian communities in Syria and Lebanon for the purpose735 of setting up youth hostels in those two young republics . As significant as the status of Azerbaijan are the demands of the Armenians in Azerbaijan for union with the Armenians in eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their fellow-Kurds in the Mosul oil fields of northern Iraq . These are minority problems such as the late President Wilson never dreamed of when he formulated the theory of the self-determination of peoples .                     