@@492308

OME years ago , before time banked the fires of hid temper , this writer did a thing which every pedestrian must often have been tempted to do  --  took a punch at a driver who forced him to scurry for his life . The provocation in this case involved an all-toocommon example of dangerous hoggishness by some drivers . The scene was 45th Street and 7th Avenue in New York , one of the busiest intersections in the world . The light changed in favor of pedestrians waiting to cross 45th Street , and this writer and several ethers stepped off the curb . The big sedan , going west on 45th , actei as if we worms did not exist . It kept on coming and then , with a blast of its horn , sent us leaping back to the haven of the sidewalk . It did not halt until it was astride our proper path and its front bumper jutted into 7th Avenue . To get across , we pedestrians had either to detour around the rear of the sedan and weave through a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step into the perilous rush of 7th Avenue traffic . The driver , lordlike behind the wheel , did not even deign to look at us . That did it . It was at least the fifth time that day that I had been forced to scuttle out of some driver 's way . Something snapped . Hopping upon the running board , I punched the driver in the mouth . It was an illegal act of violence ; it was taking the law into one 's own hands , and , as such , it is not to be condoned . But it also gave a fine feeling of satisfaction , even though , delivered awkwardly through a partly opened window , the punch did n't do much damage . For once a lowly pedestrian had turned ; for once a hoggish driver got at least a taste of what was due him . Probably fortunately for me , the driver did not try to retaliate . After a moment of startled bewilderment , he did look as if he might get out of the car and make something of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began honking . Prodded by the horns and perhaps also by his conscience , the driver drove on . This incident is cited not merely for the psychic satisfaction it may give fellow pedestrians but because it epitomizes the continual , curse-laden , running feud between pedestrians and motorists . It is a Doctor Jekyll and Mr. Hyde sort of feud , since all motorists are at times pedestrians , and very many pedestrians are also motorists . The same man who rages at " the crazy drivers " will , when in the driver 's seat himself , snarl at the " damn-fool pedestrians " who get in his way . It is a feud which has sired innumerable jokes , because man is a peculiar creature who helps condition himself against the fear of recurring danger by laughing about it . But it is also a vicious , blood-drenched feud which almost continuously keeps the shadow of death hovering over every family in this country . In this feud the pedestrian practically always loses . He risks his life and limbs almost every time he steps off the curb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be safer on a lion-infested African veld or in man-eating-tiger territory than he is crossing a downtown street at dusk . Steel-jacketed monsters which outweigh him from IO to I to 100 to 1 come roaring at him from several directions . The pedestrian is much like a hunted animal , always in season . Armored only by thin layers of clothing and , own tender hide , he is being slaughtered at the rate of about thirty a day and mangled at the rate of nearly 700 a day . The result is that the pedestrian toll is the most serious segment of our several-sided and critical traffic problem . More than 10,300 pedestrians , mostly small children and people past middle age , were killed by motor vehicles last year . When bicyclists , who in a sense also are pedestrians , are added , the score rises to nearly 11,000 . That 's more people than live in any one of the vast majority of American towns . And that was in a so-called " good " year . On the basis of automobile mileage , last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shop ! Year after year , pedestrians are the victims in an average of two out of five of all fatal traffic accidents . In the past ten years , motor vehicles have killed close to 113,000 pedestrians and more than 6000 bicyclists , for a total of nearly 120,000 . That 's somewhat as if an invader had massacred every man , woman and child in any of these cities : Wichita , Fall River , Erie , Fort Wayne , Spokane or Camden , New Jersey . Nobody has been able to figure out the exact number of smashed arms and legs , broken heads and permanent cripplings , but on the basis of ratios worked out by the National Safety Council , the roster of pedestrians mowed down in traffic must total about 250,000 names a year . That 's as if the entire population of Akron or Birmingham or Providence or San Antonio , or of the state of Delaware or Wyoming , were killed or injured in one year . When computed on a ten-year basis , the casualty list becomes shudderingly astronomical ; roughly equivalent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iowa or Virginia , and nearly double the population of Nebraska . Who is to blame for this perennial orgy of killing and mangling ? Part of the answer given by experts may be quite surprising , particularly to pedestrians . Much of the blame , of course , rests upon some drivers , as shown in previous Saturday Evening Post articles . The " spooks " who drive so irresponsibly , the chronic speeders and the drunken drivers are all pedestrian killers . So are the hoggish drivers who wo n't give a pedestrian an even break -- the motorists who get a sort of king-of-the-road complex behind the wheel . The ones who rely for the most part on their horns rather than their brakes , honking imperiously , as if to say : " Get out of my way , you common people ! " Much of the blame can easily be traced to state and municipal authorities . Most traffic laws are primarily for the benefit of motorists and to expedite vehicular traffic . In many cities and states the traffic rules do not even mention Lo , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a trite , overworked expression , but that is exactly what the pedestrian is in most places . There are Rules for Pedestrians Too ABOVE all , however , the pedestrian is himself to blame . In this bloody feud he is his own worst enemy . The experts are agreed that the main reason so many pedestrians are mangled or killed is their own damn-foolishness . And as one possible cure , some of the experts argue that foolish and reckless pedestrians should be put in jail . Impressive statistics are cited to buttress the claim that it 's mostly the poor pedestrian 's own fault . A survey by the National Safety Council indicates that " two of every three pedestrians killed by motor vehicles were either violating a traffic law or acting in an obviously unsafe manner . " In New Jersey , the State Motor Vehicle Department reports that 75 per cent of the pedestrians killed there last year were victims of their own carelessness , such as stepping from behind parked cars , strolling in the roadway and jaywalking . A study in Cleveland one year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 65 per cent of those injured were either drunk , crossing against the lights or jaywalking . These figures sounded so preposterous and so cruelly unfair to the harried pedestrian that this writer became suspicious . All of them were , of course , based on police reports . Might n't it be possible that some police officials were rigging the figures ? I voiced these suspicions to William S. Canning , engineering director of the Keystone Automobile Club . He did n't bother to argue . " Come for a ride with me , " he challenged , " and let me show you some of the damn-fool things some pedestrians do . " " There 's no use in that , " I objected . " I 'm both a pedestrian and a driver myself , and so I see what 's going on from both sides of the fence practically every day . " " No , you do n't , " Canning declared . " Like everyone else , you 're too preoccupied with other matters to notice . Come on . What have you got to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philadelphia to Baltimore , where we cruised the business section and some residential streets . We rode some 125 miles with our eyes really open , actively looking for and registering traffic incidents . It was a shocking experience . The wonder is not that so many pedestrians are killed or mangled , but why only so few . Canning is not only a noted safety expert but an extraordinarily skilled driver who did not once break or even slightly bend a traffic rule . Yet on that trip , most of it through sparsely settled stretches where we saw no pedestrians , we nearly killed twenty-seven pedestrians and saw seventy-nine more nearly killed by other cars . We hardly had got started from downtown Philadelphia when we saw an almost perfect example of bow otherwise intelligent pedestrians invite sudden death in the streets . A very well-dressed man of about forty , carrying a brief case , stepped off the curb almost directly in front of us . He looked like a successful lawyer or executive ? a member of some skilled profession requiring brains . Yet he started diagonally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ block , against the lights , and without even glancing to see what was coming . Only Canting 's alertness saved that man from immediately becoming an item in the pedestrian-toll statistics . The man obviously did not realize his narrow escape , and probably would have shrugged it off if he had . We saw two other cars barely miss him before he got across . Later we debated whether he belonged in the " Nearly Killed by Us " or " Nearly Killed by Others " section of my notes . Nearly Killed  --  that does at first sound inexcusably exaggerated and lurid . At the start of the trip 1 wrote down " Nearly Killed by Us " and " Nearly Killed by Others " only out of politeness , because Canning , my host , suggested it . I had no expectation of making more than one or two entries at the most In those columns , and no intention of using such a term in an article about commonplace traffic incidents . But , watching the scene with new objectivity , I soon saw that Canning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeated brushes With sudden death in traffic that when trucks barely ' miss us , or automobiles swerve or brake at the last split second , or cars zoom by us with only inches to spare , we hardly notice the incidents and do not think of them as truly narrow escapes from being killed . How Not to Get Out of a Parked Car IF a bullet missed us by a few inches or feet , or even if a gun went off by accident anywhere near us , we understandably would have the jitters for at least hours and probably would tell and retell for days the graphic tale of how we were " nearly killed . " There would be the same reaction if we scrambled over a fence just ahead of a charging bull . But a 3000-pound automobile or a 20,000-pound truck is more dangerous than a bull and far more potentially lethal than a bullet . It is an interesting commentary upon our motorized civilization that it took a special effort , plus coaching by an expert , to make a trained reporter realize that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so many routine pedestrian-vs.vehicle incidents . No further notes were made in Philadelphia because , though Philadelphia belongs almost in the horrible-example classification , Canning and I agreed that I was too familiar with that city to take a truly objective look at its traffic scenes . Outside the city limits , the first thing worthy of note was a man getting out of a parked car . That act changed him from motorist to pedestrian . His first step in the latter role almost cost him his life . To save himself the trouble of sliding across the seat to the curb side of the car , he got out on the traffic side . A light delivery truck whizzed so close to him that the slip stream billowed his shirt . Before the trip was over we saw seven more examples of that way of being nearly killed by an automobile . Outside Chester , Pennsylvania , we neared two men plodding along the highway . They had their backs to us . They were so engrossed in conversation that they did n't even glance at us as we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as I could . They never once looked back to see what was coming . Those men would not have dreamed of turning their backs to a bull in a field . But on a highway they trusted their lives entirely to the judgment and skill of drivers some of whom had less sense than bulls and who were equipped with weapons far more dangerous than horns . I do n't list those two men as " nearly killed , " but perhaps I should have . More than 1000 of the ... - destrians killed last year were walking along the rc , . away with their backs to traffic instead of facing it . On 3rd Street in Chester , .. we saw an attractive young woman step into ( sC:ontinued on Page 63 ) ( Continued fram Page 13 ) traffic from behind a parked truck . A boy on a bicycle had to brake so hard to avoid her that he fell off . If it bad been an automobile , she would n't have had a chance . An automobile swerved just in time to miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hit another car . The young woman showed no realization of the chain of near-tragedies she had caused . After momentary hesitation and faintly indignant glance at the sprawled boy , she continued across . We saw four more examples of step-Ping into traffic from behind parked cars , and in one instance , involving two men on Hanover Street near Redwood in Baltimore , only Canning 's wariness saved them from the fate of more than 900 pedestrians killed and 32,500 injured last year because they stepped from behind parked cars . We went straight through Chester and Wilmington , Delaware , since we planned to concentrate on Baltimore , a larger and more representative city . But on the outskirts of Chester we almost ran down a drunk , weaving blearily across the street . The perils of drunken pedestrians are not so well realized as those of drunken drivers , perhaps because of the erroneous legend that nothing serious ever happens to drunks . The National Safety Council reports that one out of every four Pedestrians killed last year " had been drinking , " and a study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two out of five . One obvious way to get killed by an automobile even though sober is to walk into traffic without looking . That 's so obvious that before this trip I would have bet heavily that examples of so stupid an action would be very rare . But in little more than an hour 's driving in Baltimore we saw forty-one instances . They came so fast and so often that after a while I could n't keep up my notes , and simply made check marks for them . On St. Paul Street near Eager we saw a man step off the pavement , take two paces into the path of traffic , then Steed there with his back to the onrushing cars , gazing absorbedly at something farther south . We missed him , and so did about a dozen other cars , but if any of the drivers had been forced to swerve or had looked away at the wrong moment , that man would have been a hospital or morgue case At Light Street and East Camden , into which we turned , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into our path , without a look in our direction . . . or any direction . Their pretty legs and figures remained unbroken and unscarred only because Canning stepped on the brake fast and hard , and their maidenly ears remained unsullied only because they could n't hear what Canning and I said about them . The most frequent examples of entering traffic lanes without looking came on streets where there were trolley tracks . Intent on grabbing the next trolley , people walked right out into the street in utter disregard of automobile traffic , obviously not even thinking of whether motorists would see them or could stop in time . We saw a dozen people do that at Fayette and Charles streets , where the trolley would have stopped for them anyway . At Greenmount Avenue and 30th Street we had to swing around a woman in a red jacket who stood halfway in the street , though the trolley was still more than a block away . Five blocks farther on , a young couple waited alongside the trolley tracks , though no trolley was in sight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they probably would n't have known when it came or what had bit them if they had been struck by a truck . A very good way to get killed by an automobile is to cross an intersection against the lights or to cut diagonally across it in order to save a few steps . More than 900 pedestrians were killed doing that last year , and if the thirty-five examples of such risky timesaving we saw that afternoon were typical , not all of them were dopes . We saw two cars barely miss a well-known Baltimore lawyer as he cut diagonally across at Fayette and Calvert streets , and on University Place , near the Johns Hopkins University stadium , we saw a medical student blandly defy traffic and fate by crossing against the light . But the surest way to get killed by an automobile is to try to cross the street in the middle of a block or anywhere away from an intersection . This practice , the most popular form of jaywalking , cost 4281 pedestrians their lives last year , and caused about 92,500 others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many examples of this that after the twenty-fifth I marked down only the most flagrant cases of flirtation with death . There were , for instance , the two young women who started to dash across Orleans Street near Broadway . They probably considered themselves agile enough to make it safely , but one third of the way across , one of the girls slipped on an oily spot and went down . She escaped with a soiled skirt , bruised derriere and the embarrassment of publicly displaying too much of her Legs and lingerie , but if the huge truck bearing down upon her had n't had air brakes she never would have been embarrassed about anything again . On Orleans Street above Kenwood we saw three nearly grown boys and a smaller one dart through traffic halfway across the street , then get stuck in the center . They stood there trapped , looking for an opening , while cars zipped hy , only inches away on either side of them . We saw the same thing happen to a girl who tried to cross North Howard Street below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fayette . If anything had caused any one of the dozens of cars going by in any of those instances to swerve , there would have been at least another item in this year 's pedestrian-casualty lists . One survey indicates that you are fifty-one times more likely to be killed trying to cross in the middle of the block than at an intersection . Even excellent drivers relax somewhat between intersections , not expecting pedestrians to pop up elsewhere . What is to be done with pedestrians such as these , to save them from themselves ? Most experts are agreed that they should be treated like reckless drivers ? that is , arrested or at least handed summonses and forced to pay fines . There apparently is much merit in this suggestion , harsh as it may sound upon the poor pedestrian , who always loses in an argument with an automobile anyway . A comparison between Baltimore and Washington , thirty-eight miles away , seems to furnish proof that this idea works . Baltimore has very little pedestrian regulation , and practically never punishes its stupid pedestrians . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the list in NSC traffic-safety ratings . Washington began emphasizing pedestrian control in 1939 , and still does it . If a pedestrian starts to cross against a light in central Washington , a policeman whistles or waves him back . If the pedestrian persists , the policeman takes his name and address and hands him a traffic ticket , unless the pedestrian can prove he is a stranger , in which ease he is let off with a warning . The ticket means that the pedestrian must put up collateral and either stand trial or forfeit the collateral . If the home-town pedestrian argues overmuch or did something particularly dangerous , the cop may drag him off to jail . In the first five months of that method , pedestrian accidents in central Washington dropped nearly 17 per cent , and in the first full year of getting tough with pedestrians Washington jumped into first place in the national ratings . It has remained near the top ever since . Getting tough with pedestrians has done wonders practically everywhere tried . South Bend started a pedestrian safety program in 1940 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obey . By 1945 the pedestrian death toll was down one third . In Wichita , as part of a co-ordinated safety drive , police photographers roamed the streets snapping pictures of jaywalkers . Then the jaywalkers were warned or arrested and the enlarged pictures posted in the lobbies of downtown movie houses . The first full year of that treatment cut Wichita 's traffic-death toll nearly 50 per cent and gave Wichita a clean sweep in all traffic-safety contests for cities of its class . Detroit passed a pedestrian protection ordinance which not only helped put it into second place in traffic-safety ratings but also helped it catch two crooks . The ordinance states that a pedestrian must stop and look both ways before crossing a street intersection . But a bandit from Benton Harbor , Michigan , did n't know that . He stepped into Michigan Avenue before the light turned green , and a cop grabbed him . When he argued , the cop took him to the station house . There it was discovered that he had held up a radio store and that he was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ River Avenue against a light , was grabbed by another cop . It turned out that this pedestrian was in such a hurry because he was wanted for passing a bad check . He landed in jail . Arrests and summonses can not , however , be applied to the child-pedestrian problem . Though safety teaching in the schools , safety patrols and the posting of policemen at school intersections have steadily cut the toll of children , that still remains a serious problem . Eight hundred children under five were killed by automobiles while walking or playing on the streets last year , and 1250 others under fifteen . Another 340 were run down and killed while riding bicycles . In the majority of the cases the children were doing something wrong . A study in Connecticut indicates that in 85 per cent of the accidents involving child pedestrians , an action of the child is at fault . While Canning and I were cruising in Baltimore , we saw enough examples to explain to us why so many children are killed by automobiles . On 38th Street east of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hitting five preschool children playing in the middle of the street . They were so intent on their play that they were not aware of the car until Canning at last was forced to sound the horn . We saw no sign of any parent watching . Still farther east , on 39th Street , we saw two tiny girls in pink dresses , followed by their floppy-eared pup , dart into the highway to retrieve a ball . This is a well-to-do neighborhood , but again there were no parents or nursemaids in sight . On Barclay Street south of 21st we crawled through a group of small children , holding our breaths for fear we might hit one at any moment . The gathering consisted of what looked like a three-year-old , a couple of four-year-olds and three five-or-six-year-olds . All were running around in the middle of the street as if it were their back yard . One could hardly blame them , for at the same time and place we saw a grown woman ? perhaps the mother of one of the children  --  strolling diagonally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other cars . And on Guilford Street at Mt . Royal , where there are trolleys in addition to automobiles and trucks , we saw a mother with two children ? a girl of about four and a boy of about six  --  crossing against the lights . The boy may have been taught safety in school , for he seemed to have more sense than his mother . He was trying to drag her back . As far as this writer knows , no safety expert has suggested arresting the parents of child pedestrians , but in some cases that might not be a bad idea at all . Of course , arresting pedestrians wo n't solve the whole tragic problem . In fact , merely making the pedestrian the goat does n't work at all . Punishing the pedestrian gets results only when used as punctuation for a co-ordinated safety program . Where city officials tried getting tough with pedestrians without at the same time putting on intensive educational programs , cracking down on motorists and eliminating pedestrian booby traps , they had to give up . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city and state officials are morally if not legally guilty of being accessories before the fact or of contributory negligence in many pedestrian deaths . Too often , in too many places , when millions are spent for traffic improvement , not a cent is earmarked for pedestrian protection . Everyone who gets around has seen scores of elaborate ramps , clover-leaf arrangements , traffic Circles and underpasses and overpasses to keep cars from smashing one another , but no haven for scurrying pedestrians . In most cities , trolleys load and unload in the middle of the street without platforms or other safeguards . Hoggish motorists are allowed to cheat on the lights . Crosswalks for pedestrians are notamarked , and busy intersections are left unguarded . Complicated turns are permitted which often cause the pedestrian to be trapped halfway across the intersection , with vehicles bearing down on him from practically every direction . And then , if he escapes death or injury , he gets bawled out by the drivers . Pedestrians ca n't be expected to behave when the negligence of their own officials forces them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if some officials were sent to jail when pedestrians were killed in traffic booby traps which the officials could and should have eliminated . There are literally hundreds of thousands of such traps . There is , for instance , the one we saw at Lester , Pennsylvania , on our way to Baltimore . Lester is a factory town of about 1500 population , with a main highway running right through it . The highway is so heavily traveled by huge trucks that it is known as the Industrial Highway . The posted speed limit on the part that runs through Lester is thirty-five miles an hour , which means that most drivers do forty or forty-five . Many of the residents need to walk along that highway to get to and from work and stores . There is a school right alongside the highway , and school children use that road . But there is no trace of a sidewalk or any sort of walkway for them . There are graveled shoulders , but these were not built for pedestrians . They were constructed for the safety of trucks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or other causes . The lives and limbs of the community 's school children and other pedestrians apparently were not even considered . Such calloused negligence is terrifyingly common . Most states make no allowance for or even mention of walkways for pedestrians in their laws and appropriations for state highways . On our drive to Baltimore we passed at least a dozen villages , some of them , in Delaware , straddling main highways with up to fifty-five  --  niles-per-hour legal speed limits , with no protection for the pedestrians . On another trip , near Fair Hill , Maryland , I saw miles of road passing several schools and small towns without a foot the pedestrian could call his own . That is country inhabited by a horsy set which dearly loves to chase a fox . I saw a number of special overpasses for the convenience and safety of horses and riders , but not a single pathway for children . More than 1800 of the pedestrians killed last year were hit while walking in the roadway . Of these , 1650 , or more than 90 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no choice . There were no sidewalks or walkways . Such deadly pedestrian traps are not found only in wide-open country . In 822 of the cases where the slaughtered pedestrian had had no place to walk in safety , the scene was in an area classified as urban . That sidewalks and walkways save pedestrian lives should need no proof , but there is plenty . For instance , Massachusetts completed 500 miles of such pedestrian havens one year . Within six months , despite 12 per cent more cars on the road and a 50 per cent rise in mileage , pedestrian deaths on those roads dropped by nearly one third . Harried pedestrians also need havens where they can catch their breaths or retreat while crossing busy or wide intersections . The cost of pedestrian islands is comparatively trifling , but they always save lives . This is sharply exemplified by experiences in Chicago and Philadelphia , both cities with very bad over-all pedestrian records . When Chicago installed safety islands on some streets , pedestrian accidents at those points went down 33.7 per cent . And when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accidents at those locations went down 44 per cent . Such islands also helped in Perrysburg , Ohio ; Miami Beach ; South Bend ; Rockford and Peoria , Illinois ; and Detroit . Even inexpensive painted lines to channelize turns and mark stops and pedestrian crosswalks save lives . Such paint jobs cut accidents in Miami , Kalamazoo , and Clifton , New Jersey ; and when combined with pedestrian islands in Fort Wayne , Indiana , they cut pedestrian accidents 44 per cent in one year . But many cities have n't got around to even that much protection for their pedestrians . In most places , traffic lights are set mainly for the benefit of vehicular traffic , not the pedestrian . The lights either make no allowance for his crossing without ducking turning cars or fail to give him time to get all the way across the street . Apparently he is expected , if he survives , to become a breed as quick as a rabbit . Where lights are properly regulated , more pedestrians stay alive . South Bend , for instance , had five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lights which gave pedestrians at least an even break were installed , accidents at those intersections dropped 40 per cent . The hours of darkness are the most deadly ones for pedestrians . Seventy per cent of the pedestrian slaughter takes place at night . When the fewer numbers of pedestrians and cars abroad at night are considered , that means that a pedestrian is ten times more likely to be killed by an automobile at night than in the daytime . The longer hours of darkness is the main reason why more pedestrians are killed in January than in any other month , with December the second most dangerous month and November right behind it . Many ways have been suggested to cut this darkness toll . One safety adage says : " When walking at night , wear something white . " Around 1800 , according to an old diary , " at Dursley , in Gloucestershire , when ladies and gentlemen used to go out to dinner together on dark nights , the gentlemen pulled out the tails of their shirts and walked before to show the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It also has been suggested that pedestrians wear reflectors or carry lanterns . Those are good ideas for walking on country roads . But a much better way elsewhere is to improve street lighting . That may even be the most important single step for pedestrian safety . The Philadelphia Department of Public Safety thinks so . It frankly has attributed a major part of that city 's shocking pedestrian death toll to poor street lighting . Wherever proper lighting has been installed , the results have been spectacular . Perhaps the most conclusive example is what happened in Hartford , Connecticut . That city installed improved lighting on a large number of its streets . During the year before , thirty-two pedestrians were killed at night on those streets . In the year after the new lights were turned on , there was only one night pedestrian fatality on all those streets . In the final analysis , it is up to pedestrians to save their own lives , not only by being more careful but by vehemently demanding that officials give them at least an even break @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and most democratic ways are , of course , through petitions and votes . But in Annandale , New York , a group of thirty-five mothers resorted to more direct action when a seven-year-old boy was killed after their pleas for a cop to protect a dangerous school crossing had been ignored for six months . They marched to the crossing and took over control of traffic themselves , and they did n't give motorists the best of it . Within two hours a cop was assigned to guard that crossing . In two areas in Philadelphia , mothers linked arms and formed human chains to halt all traffic while their children were going to and from school . They promptly got what they wanted  --  policemen to protect those school crossings . Those were extreme measures  --  though not nearly so drastic or illegal as punching a hoggish motorist in the mouth  --  but apparently strong measures are sometimes required if the pedestrian slaughter is to be cut to an unavoidable minimum . 