@@485685

The timing might be queAtioned , but certainly not the - truth of Senator Edward Kennedy 's obseivation that " our firm national commitment to the safe release of the hostages does not and can not mean that this nation must condone . the Shah and the record of his regime . " The - Administration 's charge that Kennedy showed bad judgment in raising the issue when national ' unity is required is , however , - one of the more cynical , developments of the political season . Kennedy made it quite clear that he fully supT. , ported President Carter 's goal of the release of the hostages with no conditions attached . His comments on the Shah of Iran , in the absence of White House disavowals , would have , been chiefly notable as sentiments the Administration itself should have voiced before , and could have voiced after , the hostages were 1 taken . By calling Kennedy 's comments " counterproductive " the Administration falsely presents the country as , divided on the hostage issue . Furthermore , the Administration is painting itself into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Iranians the one thing ( short of promising to send the Shah back ) that they want to hear ; namely ? that the American people ' are aware of the torture , degradation and plunder visited on Iran by the Shah . Surely the White House could have allowed Senator Kennedy to reply ' to suggestions by Ronald Reagan and others that the Shah be granted permanent asylum here . , This does not ' mean that the Shah 's record should be judged before a kangaroo court in Iran , or that we have the ability to prevent the ultimate tragedy that may be , unfolding in Teheran ; but so long as the communication lines with the Iranians are open , the President ought to ac-knowledge that only the hostages are protected by diplomatic immunity  --  not the , record of the Shah 's crimes . CLEAR AS KRISTOL BUSINESS 'S NEW CLASS ' STRUGGLE DAVID VOGEL Since the early 1970s , businessmen in the United States have become persuaded , that ideas have political consequences . A number of neoconservative intellectuals have helped convince , many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the attitudes and beliefs of a " new class " of upper- , middle-class professionals . As a result , corporate executives are now engaged in an unprecedented , effort to influence the social values of the nation 's highly educated citizenry . Businessmen have been haunted by the lack of public confidence in ' their leadership ever since public opinion polls began to report a decline in public approval of " Big Business " during the mid-1960s . Believing that elected officials care only about , pandering to the public 's whim , they ' found the substantial legislative gains of the consumer and environmental movements during the late 1960s and early 1970s , very puzzling . The performance of the economy during the second half of the 1960s was , if anything , superior to that of most of the postwar period . So why had , the public suddenly become , so receptive to public policies critical of business ? Inspired in part by the rhetoric of Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew , most corporate execu-tives initially blamed this lack of public support on the liberal biases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At a series of private conferences of corporate chief executive officers that I attended in 1974 and 1975 , , all but a hand-ful of the participants were firmly convinced that public disapproval of their performance was based on nothing more than misunderstanding . ( Continued ' on Page , 625 ) -t is " open season " on the Federal Trade Commis-sion , observed one Congressman three weeks ago , and " the smell of blood " is in the air . From Exxon to the local undertaker , business has ganged up on the commission ? and the hapless consumer  --  already battered by a string of Congressional setbacks  --  will soon lose one of his ' few vigorous protectors ( see editorial , " Getting the F.T.C. , " The Nation , October 13 ) . The consumer lobby is the weakest it has been in years , and the Carter Administra-tion , its usual legislative ineptitude compounded by the Iranian crisis , has been unable to stop what one Congress-man , who , is no F.T.C. partisan , called " a frenzied and fool-ish crippling : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks ago , the Carter Administration 's Regulatory Council praised the F.T.C. as one of only three agencies that really analyze and understand the costs and benefits of their actions . Despite a heavy Democratic majority in ( 3th houses of Congress and a President originally praised by Ralph Nader as the consumer 's friend , business has never been stronger nor the labor-consumer coalition feebler . Because of its broad mandate to go after unfair practices throughout the economy , the F.T.C. affects more interest groups in the country than any other agency . These interests have enlisted some of Washington 's most puissant lobbyists to gut the agency . More than half the agency 's investigations are under fire and all may be affected . Funerals . Almost two million people arrange funerals every year and spend about $2,400 per funeral on the average , making it the third most expensive consumer purchase after a house and car . The abuses are notorious and well documented . Funeral directors pressure bereaved families into buying funerals they ca n't afford by refusing to quote itemized prices and giving only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law on such matters as embalming , and hinder consumers or competitors from providing alternate funeral arrangements . After a six-year study , the commission proposed a trade-regulation rule requiring itemized price disclosure and forbidding misrepresentation and other unfair practices . The consumer savings on embalming alone are estimated to be many millions , and the rule could ultimately result in a savings of $1.5 billion . But because there are so many funeral directors in every Congressional district , their political clout is enormous  --  and so the House voted to kill the F.T.C. rule . Insurance . Insurance is supposed to be regulated by the states , but as Senator Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio , supported by numerous Federal studies , has shown , they do a poor job of it . Pursuant to its specific authority to study economic problems , and urged on by various CongressiOnal committees and state officials , the commission issued a report on the cost-disclosure problem in life insurance . The industry did n't come out too well , so Senator Howard Cannon , chairman of the Commerce , Science and Transportation Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even to make studies of the insurance industry . Children- 's TKAdvertising . Consumer and parent groups have long been dismayed by television advertising aimed at young children that pushes highly sugared cereals . The commission has been studying the issue , and the cereal , advertising , television and other affected industries do n't like that . And so , in the International Year of the Child , the-Senate commerce committee voted to effectively halt the commission 's efforts . Standards and Certifications . Many private groups set product standards and issue certifications relating to design , safety and performance . These groups have enormous power and there is evidence that some use this power anticompetitively . The F.T.C. is trying to open up the standard-setting procedures , at a possible cost saving to consumers of billions of dollars in hospital , energy and construction costs . The commerce committee killed this F.T.C. action as well . Agricultural Co-Ops . Agricultural co-ops were given a limited exemption from the antitrust laws , but there are indications that many of these co-ops  --  often aggregations of huge agribusiness corporations  --  have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged that Sunkist Growers controlled 75 percent of the production and marketing of Western lemons and oranges and was engaged in anticompetitive practices . In an unprecedented interference with an ongoing enforcement proceeding , an interference condemned by numerous legal experts , the House voted 245 to 139 to kill the F.T.C. action . Professionals . There are indications that when the F.T.C. legislation comes to the Senate floor , more special interests will take their licks through amendments blocking the F.T.C. 's activity against them introduced by a neighborly Senator . For example , Republican Senator James McClure has already announced that he will try to block the commission from moving against doctors , lawyers or other professionals regulated by ( often ineffective ) state laws . Legislative Veto . Perhaps most far-reaching is the provision passed by the House that would alldw either chamber sixty days to veto a commission action affecting an entire industry , subject to reversal by the other chamber withinthirty days . The provision is of dubious constitutionality and unprecedented . Although the Senate previously has refused to ratify such a measure , which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year it might go along . ( See Robert Reich , " Politicizing the Fourth Branch , " The Nation , September 15 . ) These proposed restrictions on the commission  --  and there are many more  --  relate largely to the p.T.C. ' s consumer-protection responsibilities . Industry lobbyists have gone after the F.T.C. 's antitrust jurisdiction as well . In the last few years , the Justice Department 's antitrust activities have been sluggish and uninspired . It has concentrated on conventional price-fixing cases , and even these have languished . The commission , however , has innovatively moved in a variety of areas against oil companies , cereal manufacturers , Du Pont , the banking industry , dominant outboard motor manufacturers and others . Lobbyists for these industries cajoled Alabama Senator Howell Heflin into introducing legislation that would effectively kill all these proceedings . A part of Heflin 's staff memorandum supporting his proposal was lifted verbatim from a brief filed a few years ago by the Washington lawyers representing General Mills , a defendant in the F.T.C. cereal case . Apart from direct interference with ongoing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this proposal . This proved too much for the commerce committee 's Republicans , of all pe  --  ple  --  including Senator ; Barry Goldwater  --  who announced they would unanimously vote against the Heflin proposal , and it was shelved . It will probably re-emerge in a few months . The attack against the F.T.C. is obviously only the first of many ; other vigorous agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission are almost certainly next . Consumers are ravaged by inflation , abused by the oil companies , soon to be gouged even more by oil-price decontrol , chiseled by many small-business men who are themselves hurt by inflation ; they need more protection than ever . But business is in the driver 's seat , and it looks as if the rest of us will be taken for a ride . Asset Grab I n the last few months we have all learned that yes , Virginia , there is a Chase Manhattan Bank , a David Rockefeller , a Henry Kissinger and a John J. McCloy . They do have unfettered access to the President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment on a truly pivotal issue collides with that of the State Department and the President 's own advisers , they do prevail . If the daily revelations about the Shah of Iran 's admission to America leave anyone unpersuaded , let him reflect upon the meaning of events since President Carter froze Iranian Government assets held in the United States . The day before the President signed his executive order , the chairman of the very bank whose collapse a generation ago during the Great Depression wrecked the international monetary system  --  the Kredit Anstalt Bank Verein of Vienna  --  warned that the curDecember rent state off world finance was " almost intolerable . " He was particularly disturbed by the current interest-rate war , which has in recent months led to the ratcheting up of interest rates , as American bank chairmen struggle over international deposits . , The next day , the Iranian Government threatened to withdraw its official funds held in American banks . It appears that substantial sums were indeed withdrawn from the Chase Manhattan Bank , but most of the Iranian money was tied up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be immediat  --  ly removed . After consulting with some Congressmen , central banks and Arabs , the President ordered ' the assets frOzen anyway . Treasury Secretary G. William Miller described American bankers as " greatly relieved , " and said that-the action had been taken to protect American creditors , whose claims against Iran had been piling up . Walter Wrist'On , chairman of Citibank , proclaimed the decision a " firstklass job . " The ink on Carter 's proclamation was barely dry before Citibank announced that it was applying part of the Iranian deposits it held to pay off ( or " offset " ) loans it'had made to Iran . A day later , Chase , Bankers Trust and Manufacturers Hanover followed suit . 1 his ' move was . strongly criticized by some other banks . Loans to Iran are spread among a number of banks , with Chase , Citibank and Bank of America 1 ' commonly agreed to have the most exposure . , Iranian deposits , however , are more concentrated than the loans , with the big banks getting more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing to offset with , and are thus left out in the cold . New York 's Chemical Bink declared that the assets belonged to the United States Government , and that Chemical could there- , fore do nothing with them without the Government 's permission . Citibank admitted not consulting Treasury but its spokesman was quoted in The Wall Street Journal as saying " obviously we ' think it 's legal . " The Journal also reported that " a Treasury Department spokesman said that Citibank would have to restore the funds ' if the moves turned out to violate the law . But senior Treasury . officials are said to favor allowing banks , to exercise the right of offset if possible . " . It is scarcely surprising that the Treasury officials were reported as sympathetic . The number-two ranking official at Treasury after Secretary Miller is Robert Carswell . Carswell , who has figured prominently in the Administration 's handling of the crisis , and has frequently been quoted in the commercial , " if not the mass-circulation , press , came to Treasury from the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happens to be the law firm of Citibank . ( The third ranking official at the Treasury Department , Under Secretary forMonetary Affairs Anthony Solomon , has been closely associated with David Rockefeller as a member of the Trilateral Commission : ) Subsequerit Treasury rulings permit offsetting by U.S. banks abroad , but not at home . The Treasury claims this assures fairdess to other creditors because , as Carswell expressed it , th'e Iranian assets held in the overseas branches of American banks are " significantly in excess " of claims against Iran ( i.e. , there will be plenty of money left for the others , after the banks take theirs ) . And at least for now , Treasury has prohibited the switching of domestic accounts to foreign branches ; which it also claims protects the other creditors . Whether it does remains to be seen . While Citibank , Chase and a handful of other lucky creditors offset one way or another , an immense legal snarl impends , involving claims between U.S. banks , the Iranian authorities and a host of third parties . Unraveling this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offsetting practice itself , but is further complicated by a classically unresolved question of U.S. court jurisdiction over the activities of U.S.-controlled foreign corporations , especially where U.S. law conflicts with law or policy , in the foreign state . While foreign states and nationals were once content simply to protest such conflict ' when it occurred , through diplomatic or other political action , since the landmark French case of Fruehauf v. Massardy they have also been prepared to go into their own courts . In the Fruehauf case , the American-controlled French corporation was successfully sued in a French court after it canceled a contract to supply equipment to a French firm that was making tractors for the Peoples Republic of China . The cancellation had been ordered by the U.S. Treasury under the Trading with the Enemy Act . Disputed U.S. jurisdictional claims , already under widespread attack in antitrust and other crucial policy areas , are particularly important at the present time , given the uncertain leadership of a number of regional credit markets and monetary systems , themselves generated by a destabilized international monetary order . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and public policy that the Carter Administration has largely failed to endorse : a reversal of the long-standing policy that banks have a unilateral right in such frozen asset situations to declare loans in default , and thus take funds that would ordinarily be available to all creditors in this country and apply them first , to their own outstanding debts . In the past , ' the effective removal of banks from Government Control in this area has resulted in the banks ' full recovery of their claims , while other creditors have been forced to accept only partial recovery , or none at all . This situation results from a 1972 Supreme Court decision in the case of First National City Bank v. Banco Nacional de Cuba . The Court upheld Citibank 's action in declaring a loan to Cuba in default after Castro took power , even though the Castro Government continued to pay interest . Citibank had sold the collateral to the loan , which yielded it more than the principal and unpaid interest , and then applied the excess against the value of its property that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holdings had been nationalized had to wait in line to collect from a fund controlled by the Attorney General , Citibank got dollar for dollar through its double offset . Whatever final legal settlements it may inspire , however , the impact of the Iranian asset freeze on the world monetary system is clear . No one is likely to be taken in by Administration rhetoric that the seizure of the assets represents a unique response to a special situation . Although massive currency switching will have to await the creation of new money-market instruments in other countries , and , perhaps , a decision to price oil in a basket of currencies rather than the dollar , diversification out of the dollar by Arabs and other investors will surely be accelerated . Unless managed very skillfully and very slowly , this process , and the bitter international legal battles triggered by Iranian defaults on the asset freeze , will in turn intensify international economic competition among advanced industrial states . Such a scenario would see multinational banking consortia squeezed into new alignments along more national lines and the domestic lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W hen the talk turns to protecting the Constitution , conservatives usually cite the opinions of judicial passivists like the late Justice Felix Frankfurter , and liberals tend to mention First Amendment absolutists like the late Justice Hugo Black or , in a more innovative vein , William 0 . Douglas , now retired . In fact , lawyers have as much to do with protecting the Constitution as judges , although that aspect of their job is rarely commented upon by the bar , or the press . Leonard Boudin , honored this past week by the Emergency Civil Liberties Committee at its annual dinner , is perhaps the pre-eminent example in our time of the **32;516;TOOLONG . Rockwell Kent , Otto Nathan , Corliss Lamont , Eqbal Ahmad , Daniel Ellsberg , Judith Coplon , Paul Robeson , Benjamin Spock , Philip Berrigan and the Socialist Workers Party , to name only a few , have all been the beneficiaries of Boudin 's professionalism , legal learning and courtroom ability ; but more important , with his unique representation , they all helped to make better constitutional law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ing flashy reputations to flashy clients . Leonard Boudin is a lawyer 's lawyer who was taking the tough cases when it took courage to do so and the probable reward was to put one 's practice at risk . As a result , his chief visibility was in those Federal Bureau of Investigation dossiers which he has done so much to place in the public domain . It is worth noting that the so-called Old Left , the convenient whipping boy of the New Left and the neoconservatives alike ( not to mention the good old reactionaries ) , gave us a man who , might well be the ablest constitutional lawyer in the land . The Hill Tracts he Bangladesh armed forces are waging a brutal secret war against the ethnic minorities , primarily the Buddhist Chakma tribe , who inhabit the rug- ged Chittagong Hill Tracts . The tribal resistance movement , known as the Shanti Bahini ( Peace Force ) , first took its case to the world in a statement published last year in the Bombay Economic and Political Weekly . The statement charged that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beatings , rapes and summary execu- ' tions at the hands of the army were common , and that in some places the population had been herded into " model villages " reminiscent of Vietnam 's strategic hamlets . The Shanti Bahini said that its goal was not to break away from Bangladesh but rather to restore the self-determination and regional autonomy preViously enjoyed under the British , but so far the Bangladesh Government has been unwilling to negotiate . More and more Bengali settlers have moved into the area from the densely populated plains , usurping the tribal land and dominating government and commerce . There is talk of setting up export-crop plantations in the area . The area is " off-limits " to most foreigners , but in August 1978 a correspondent from the London Observer , who managed to visit the Hill Tracts , corroborated the allegations of the Shanti Bahini . He reported-that the Bangladesh security forces were waging a " terror campaign " which " threatens the very existence of the Buddhist minority . " Citing accounts of arbitrary violenCe , he noted : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region were two who were being dragged , roped together , through the town bazaar at Kaptai . " Silence in the press has been matched by silence on the part of authorities in the United States . The . State Department 's 1979 human rights report on Bangladesh makes no mention of the war in the Hill Tracts . On the contrary , the report asserts , " there have been no indications of Government infringement of the rights of religious minorities . " Whether this striking omission results from ignorance or deliberate choice is a matter for speculation : The war in the Chittagong Hill Tracts comes at a time when Maj. Gen. Ziaur ( Zia ) Rahman , the current strong-man of Bangladesh , is trying to polish his tarnished human rights image in the West . He ran for President in an elec-tion held in June 1978 under martial law , and this Febru-ary allowed parliamentary elections . A senior Bangladesh Army officer quoted in the Far Eastern Economic Review candidly reyealed Zia 's motives : " The West , and especially the U.S. Congress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It This year Bangladesh was slated to receive an estimated $1.6 billion in new aid com-mitments . The aid underwrites about half the Govern-ment 's budget and is equivalent to almost 10 percent of the G.N.P. ; it also helps to finance , train and equip Bangla- ( Continued-on Page 616 ) 616 The Nation . December 15 , 1979 ( Continued From Page 614 ) desh 's growing armed forces . Several foreign governments are now financing the construction of roads in the Chittagong Hill Tracts , which will facilitate troop movements . In addition , the British Government is providing $1,3 million worth of telecommunications equipment to the Bangladesh police , and eight senior British military officers are helping to set up a military staff college north of Dacca . The United States , for its part , is providing aid under the International Military Education and Training Program , which brings Bengali officers to the United States to study " management tech , niques " and other pertinent topics . Officially , in the words of the U.S. Agency for International Development 's 1978 budget request , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itarian . " However , national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski revealed America 's strategic interest in the area when he told The New York Times that his famous " arc of instability " begins at Chittagong in Bangladesh . It is difficult to reconcile humanitarian statements with assistance to security forces whose main task is suppressing the ethnic minorities of the Chittagong Hill Tracts . But then in the global chess game of our national security strategists , the people of the Hill Tracts do not even count as pawns . BETSY HARTMANN and JAMES K. BOYCE                     