@@475346

happen if our government is , by popular demand , compelled to make good on such a guarantee . The alarming part about this contradiction is that Mr. L 's ideas are in the ascendancy . Messrs . S and K can expect no tariff reductions as long as Mr. L 's ideas prevail , because they represent much more than a general economic plan . They reflect a deeply inculcated moral standard whose roots reach down into the masses in every community . As a working editor in a typical small American city ? whose people represent every state in the union-1 am out on the firing line . Some years ago when I fought the copper tariff and the cattle tariff , I collided with two powerful , organized interests . They won , because they had labor , farmers , and business men behind them . Their demands for " social security " seemed to most people too reasonable to deny . That widely prevailing belief still stands , not only behind our high tariffs but also behind other demands that the government furnish economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since 1920 business men of every description have secured state laws , usually in the form of licensing , to curb competition and give various interests economic protection . Laws requiring licenses for real estate salesmen , insurance salesmen , contractors , architects , . messenger services , trucking , are only a part of a lung list which in one form or another compel the government to give economic protection to organized minorities . Municipal ordinances do the same thing . Two years ago our Tucson Chamber of Commerce sponsored a peddler 's license ordinance . Anyone who " entered upon private property to offer something for sale " had to take out a peddler 's license . He could not get the license until he went to the chief of police and filled out a long questionnaire about his past and even the past of his parents . He was to be mugged and fingerprinted . The chief of police at his discretion could grant the applicant the right to work . When I opposed the ordinance many local business men could not understand the basis of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various government agencies to give economic protection originated and were sponsored by Republicans , as well as Democrats and New Dealers , shows that this prevailing attitude is not a matter of political partisanship . It is a deeply entrenched moral standard . This continuous demand , arising from practically every segment of life , originated in the fact that the American people have been taught to believe in the propriety , need , and efficacy of government-guaranteed security . The example set by tariff legislation has worked all too well . It set the precedent . The people have been taught by the example of industrialists , and by the thinkers and teachers , to price security above freedom . Worst of all , they have been taught that they can demand the 60,000,000 jobs that Mr. L recommends , and at the same time ignore the consequences of tariffs and other restrictive policies such a program would impose . From such a level of moral belief grows this universal confidence in the economic powers and duties of government . Add to it the alluring but questionable advice of trained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. S and Mr. K become fairly certain . Glib talk about preventing future depressions becomes reminiscent of those years when we were sure that by outlawing wars we could end them . Messrs . S and K stopped short in their discussion . They merely called for legal changes in tariffs . They ignored any suggestion of a more vigorous moral code which will teach the voluntary acceptance of the apparent sacrifices that lower tariffs will require . Until there is a strengthened and widely prevailing moral standard that accepts voluntarily the need of such sacrifices , it is hopeless to expect our government agencies to make such reforms by legal means . . . . How can a better society come from a weakened morality that glorifies surrender to government and scorns self-reliance , self-discipline , and the individual responsibility that must be present in a flee society ? The two articles in Harper 's thus bring these basic contradictions face to face . The predictions of Messrs . S and K will almost certainly come true , unless there is the regeneration of a more vigorous moral standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation to compel wise political action . That strikes us as a thoughtful and thought-provoking letter , and the grass-roots problem Mr. Mathews raises is one which is dealt with in an article called " Horseradish and World Peace , " by Roscoe Fleming , which appears on page 528 of this issue . Richard Lloyd Jones , president and publisher of the Tulsa Tribune in Oklahoma . It was written not to us but to a Republican party official who had sent Mr. Jones a copy of Mi ' . DeVoto 's " Easy Chair " for January , about the party 's suicidal tendencies ; Mr. Jones sent us a carbon some weeks ago . .. . lie DeVoto is quite right . The Republican party has grown anemic . I do n't know what is the matter with them , but I am disgusted with them . The fundamental principles of the constitutional government of the United States is something they no longer sense . Dewey was grand once , at Oklahoma City , and he could have been elected the next morning . The rest of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then he talked of a " tired old man . " Nobody gave a damn whether he was tired or not . What the people wanted to know was : Can we again be free men ? Can we regain the liberties we have lost through the bureaucrats ? But do n't think that this is all due to the failure of Republican leaders , particularly in the United States Senate , to stand for the principles for which the Republican party was made . Let me put the responsibility where it first belongs and that is on the cowardly and ignorant editing of our periodicals which are presumed , under their own affectation , to evidence intellectual leadership . Harper 's Magazine , which prints Mr. DeVotn 's analysis of the Republican party , never had the intelligence , the scholarship indeed , the character and the courage to analyze the repudiation of American principles by Franklin Delano Roosevelt and his outfit . Right in the office of Harper 's Magazine are the contemptible , shallow , intellectual Quislings who have contributed to the repudiation of basic American principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constitutional integrities of this Republic , and to broadcast a ' cynicism . But oh boy ! how those fellows like the things that are destroying America . Harper 's Magazine makes no contribution to the stability of this Republic . Harper 's Magazine is a menace to the American Republic . And Mr. DeVoto will be impressive when he has the courage to write for Harper 's and put the responsibility for America 's defeat on the home front upon the shallow editors who have misled us . We like this letter quite a lot . We 'd never realized before what a power we wield in Oklahoma , or among the Old Guard Republicans . Besides , it 's nice to know that Harper 's with all the paper cuts the New Deal has imposed on us ? is still large enough to cause discomfort if it gets under one 's skin ,                     