@@492613

They Major in Tennis at Rollins By COLLIE SMALL N the lawn-tennis set , it used to be considered very poor form to discuss publicly the care and feeding of the young tennis amateurs who trav-eled the tournament circuits , playing their little hearts out for what was represented as nothing more negotiable than a burning love for the game . Eventually , however , certain indelicate outlanders began suggesting that perhaps the amateurs were subsisting on something more filling than the polite patter of applause from appreciative galleries . This presumption led ultimately to an expose , but the thing fizzled after a spicy beginning , and in due time the skeleton was retired to the closet . Shaken but still unbowed , amateur tennis quietly set out to retrieve its reputation as one of the great and presumably unremunerative neuromuscular arts . Then , suddenly , about five years ago , precocious little Rollins College , which had managed for fifty-five years to remain singularly unspectacular , began turning out national tennis champions at a rate that filled the chastened tennis fathers with alarm . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Winter Park , Florida , was bringing down on its own head the pike of professionalism , a move which , if true , was calculated to do amateur tennis no good whatever . Wary patrons of the game , not exactly sure of the status of tennis at this upstart little college , wagged their heads in deep concern and began ducking to get out of the way of another expose . Actually , and for the very good reason that it is in no way against the law for colleges to produce tennis champions , the expose never came . The skeptics , however , continued to view the Rollins phenomenon with suspicion . And when , in 1944 , Rollins College students won twelve major women 's championships with consummate ease , the sports writers , notorious agnostics , began asking questions . Rollins , handicapped by an unfortunate naivete in meeting such low-level challenges , tried with a conspicuous lack of success to defend the system by which it happened to enroll as college students such established champions as Pauline Betz , Dorothy Bundy and Jack Kramer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for three years , with Miss Bundy never ( Continuer ) free . Page 72 ) twenty of the applicant 's former students , asking for a frank appraisal of the professor from a student point of view . If most of the students imply that it was not exactly a beautiful experience to study under the gentleman in question , he is not hired . Holt notes with pleasure that the system is not at all popular with moat college professors . Another Holt trick that pays dividends is keeping his eye peeled for reputable professors who show signs of weakening from the rigors of Northern winters . Holt nails them while they arc in flight . Holt  --  and he is the first to admit it  --  is fascinated by champions , tennis and otherwise . He habitually refers to skilled pianists as " champion piano players . " When a young high-school girl named Dorothy Emerson won a poetry contest , Doctor Holt lured this " champion poet " to Rollins . Ile also enrolled a girl skeet champion and once gave her the surprise of her life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 . She was so grateful for his interest in her skill with firearms that she taught him her sorority 's secret grip . Doctor Holt is still pleased about this , and he has guarded the secret well . Before his doctor warned him against over-exertion , Holt occasionally caddied for Rollins girl golfers . Once he lugged the big hag of Georgia Tainter , outstanding North Dakota golfer , around nine holes to check up on her game . " By golly , " he says , " do you know that that girl hit nine perfect drives ? Yes , sir , nine perfect drives ! " A few years ago , the Rollins crew was short a coxswain when the inquiring Holt unearthed a diminutive coed with a curious desire to be on the crew . Udolpho Bradley , the coach , was horrified at the proposal . " Doctor Holt , " he pleaded , " I just ca n't bring myself to do it . " . " Pshaw , " said Doctor Holt . " What 's wrong with a girl who likes boats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he succumbed to the persuasive president and with misgivings installed the young lady as coxswain . When the crew went to New York to row against Manhattan , the girl dressed in a midtown hotel to avoid possible complications . After the race , the Rollins crew , with commendable chivalry , refrained from tossing her into the river . Before football was dropped at the end of the 1942 season because of the manpower shortage , Rollins boasted one of the outstanding small-college teams in the country , winning eighteen , losing five and tying one in its three last seasons . There are two bitterly-opposed factions regarding football at Rollins , but it is a good het that football will be resumed when the male population is substantial enough . At the moment , Rollins athletes are mostly girls . In addition to tennis , intramural basketball is producing an alarming number of charley-horses in shapely coed limbs , and there are times when Rollins sorority houses bear a curious resemblance to a Madison Square Garden dressing room , liniment , rubdowns and all . Holt , himself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because he played a great deal before the doctors ordered him to slow down . He has had unusual success with tennis players in the classroom and says , Their record has been so fine that I should like to have all the young tennis players , who are qualified and who seriously want a college education , to come to us . " Pauline Betz , for example , had enough time left over from being national women 's champion to earn thirty-three A 's , eleven B 's and one C in three years . The lone C was the result of an unfortunate encounter with a course in music . The implication is tha Miss Betz , for all her skill on the tennis court , is not exactly at home with Mozart , Holt 's own game left something to be desired in the way of refinement , but he did employ a tricky drop shot that was frequently successful against nimble young opponents threatening to run the bakloonlike Doctor Holt into the ground . He recalls with particular pride a match that he and his son @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who was teamed with his son . " Do you know , " Ilolt says now , " that Stagg did n't get his racket on the ball for three serves ! Unfortunately , however , " he adds , " we were rained out . I hesitate to mention that Stagg and his son were leading 5-3 . " Holt , however , won the most important set of his tennis career . When the doctor told him his tennis-playing days were over , Bolt , who was then hovering around seventy , called Pauline Betz . " This is a horrible moment , " he said . " For the first time in my life , I 'm having the last thing in my life . " MissBetz hurried right over and Holt slipped away from the president 's office for his last fling . Playing doubles , he and Miss Betz dropped the first set to Nancy Corbett and Peggy Welsh . But they won the second one , beating Mary Jane Metcalf and Connie Clifton . With that , Doctor Holt retired from active competition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skulking around the tennis courts , watching with a critical eye while Eddie Copeland and Herman Peterson , the two Rollins professionals , instruct their proteges . Outside of the fact that it is willing to make certain financial concessions , Rollins attracts tennis players for a number of logical reasons . The weather is of the sun-all-year variety . Rollins College girls making the tournament swings make excellent tub-thumpers and persuade any number of girls that their futures lie in four years at Rollins . Moreover , there is probably no school in the country where the competition for already-established champions is consistently stiff enough to force an improvement in their games . Champions go to Rollins to improve their tennis , not to learn it . By the time Pauline Betz arrived , she had been playing from the age of ten and had studied under at least four professionals Originally , an interested group of outsiders promoted Rollins as the high seat of tennis learning . Such stars as Helen Wills , Mice Marble , Mary Hardwick and Suzanne Lenglen had given the distaff side of the game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an aesthetic game with certain cultural facets , and that girls who wanted to play tennis well should be encouraged . Just how aesthetic two young ladies can he while earnestly trying to knock each other 's brains out is open to question , but at least the sponsors meant well . Pauline Betz and Dorothy Bundy were openly solicited . When they came , others followed . Inevitably , and for better or for worse , Rollins started to get its name in the papers . During their first year , Miss Betz and Miss Bundy were not particularly happy . One reason was that they were not wealthy girls and the comparatively high tuition , even though most of it was taken care of , still represented a strain financially . Fortunately , several " angels , " who , Rollins insists , received no outside prompting , deposited a small fund with the dean of women for Betz and Bundy to draw on when the need or the urge came over them . These crises apparently came rather frequently because Miss Betz felt obliged to cushion herself further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miss Bundy , who was also active in student affairs , took the same precaution by working at odd jobs in the college offices . Betty Rosenquest , a statuesque blonde , is another sterling example of woman undaunted . Miss Rosenquest , besides tackling an assortment of secretarial jobs , has developed reluctantly into one of the most proficient baby-sitters in Winter Park , where baby-sitting is just as forbidding a way to spend an evening as it is anywhere else . Rollins is particularly proud of the conversion job it has done on little Connie Clifton , a pudgy girl from deep in the heart of Crackerland . When she arrived at Rollins , Miss Clifton had little more than the train fare from New Smyrna Beach , Florida . Her assets were limited almost exclusively to her tennis racket and a somewhat useless flair for hog-calling and hunting alligators . What she lacked in tennis skill , and she lacked a good deal , she made up in boundless energy and determination , two characteristics that had been parlayed into a number of lesser championships . By the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the women 's nationals at Forest Hills . To stay in college , she took every job she could get her hands on . Week ends were reserved for either tennis or emergency trips home to chop firewood for her mother . Occasionally , she wandered afield into the orange groves to pick oranges . Miss Clifton made her first summer-tournament swing on some $200 she had saved . When the dean of women at Rollins discovered Miss Clifton had been eating only one meal a day except during the actual tournaments , when she recklessly ate the prescribed three squares , the dean said sternly , " This has got to stop , Constance . " The dean herself helped raise the extra money Miss Clifton needed for the next sum ( Continued from Page 75 ) Trier . Interested students swelled the fund a little more and , in addition , various coeds produced the necessary clothes out of their own wardrobes . Miss Clifton did n't win everything she entered , but she tried . She even played two tournaments at once in Philadelphia  --  the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to match like a woman possessed . Effete spectators admired her bulldog determination on the tennis courts , but unfortunately they admired her hog-calling even more . Noting that she was in danger of becoming known as the first combination hog-caller-tennis-player in recent memory , Miss Clifton wisely chose to be known exclusively by her tennis artistry . She completed her strange cycle of rich and wondrous experiences by making her first snowball in New York in the winter of 1943 and by going to the Stork Club . Rollins , in Miss Clifton 's book , gets all the credit and she currently is plotting ways to stay at Rollins beyond the allotted four years . " I want to pay them back , " she says . At Forest Hills , Rollins students have disported themselves with admirable poise for the most part , considering that Forest Hills is sacred soil for tennis players . For Rollins players , Forest Hills represents a sort of graduate school , and down in Florida they know all about the prevailing winds that come down through the bowl , the queer echoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than they really are because of the unusually deep space behind them . In 1941 , Rollins was pretty much disappointed when Miss Betz succumbed for some reason to the center-court jitters in the national women 's singles finals with Mrs. Sarah Palfrey Cooke . If she did n't actually become unstrung , Miss Betz certainly gave a good imitation of a girl in deep distress . Mrs. Cooke , of course , did her share in contributing to the downfall of Miss Betz by giving her a rather unpalatable dose of low forehand squirts , which Miss Betz dislikes intensely , preferring instead high bouncing shots that she can tee off on . The current custodian of the No. 1 spot at Rollins is eighteen-year-old Shirley Fry , of Akron , Ohio , who has an impressive collection of girls ' and women 's championships . Miss Fry enrolled at Rollins only after three years of persistent persuasion by Rollins girls she encountered at the tournaments . When she arrived at Rollins last fall , Miss Fry was happily prepared for the tedious classroom sessions that come with the regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Miss Fry says , contemplating a bleak future with the textbooks . Miss Fry someday may be national champion , although at present she is afflicted with a service that is usually described as terrible . Copeland and Peterson , the two professionals who , looking past the day when their legs surrender to the strain of tennis , are working their way through college like ordinary folk , shake their heads sadly at Miss Fry 's desperate attempts to correct this one flaw in her game . " Fry is an exceptionally fine player , " Copeland says . " She could be the best . But that serve 1 That terrible serve ! " Bad as it is , there is probably nothing wrong with Miss Fry 's serve that four years at Rollins wo n't cure . 