@@470924

TvAN IVANOVICH , sovereign member of 1 the Russian ruling class , fretted at the snail-slow pace of the trolley car that carried him , sardine-fashion , along with eighty-eight co-rulers of the Russian land , to their respective places of work . It was Thursday morning , June 27 , 1940 . Ivan had got up early , because twenty minutes ' lateness meant obligatory dismissal and the entry of his dereliction into his work book , which he must show wherever he applied for a new job . Ivan stopped trying to peer out of the grimy window round the too broad back of the woman worker just in front of him , and struggled to insert his folded Pravda between his nose and her hair . He did n't mind being squeezed against her softness , but one 's eyes ached trying to read at such close range . " oxAz , " he read in big , comfortable type , " OF THE PRESIDIUM OF THE SUPREME SOVIET OF THE U.S.S.R. " Then his eyes came into sudden incredulous focus on the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EIGHT-HOUR DAY AND THE SEVEN-DAY WEEK , AND THE PROHIBITION OF SELF-WILLED DEPARTURE BY WORKERS AND EMPLOYEES FROM ENTERPRISES AND INSTITUTIONS . " But could this be to-day 's paper ? The seven-hour day had been the law of the land since 1927 ! Likewise the five-day week ! They had even incorporated it into the Stalinist Constitution of 1936 , as a permanent conquest , under the head of " the right to leisure and rest . " The Constitution , he knew , could be amended ? that was in article 146 ? only " bydecision of the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. approved by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the votes cast in each of its chambers . " Yet the Supreme Soviet was not even in session . Then it could not be a ukaz but some sort of project for discussion . . . . No , there was no mistake . This was Pravda all right ; and Thursday , June 27th ; and it was a decree with the usual signatures . At midnight , while he was snoring on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion or referendum , without negotiation or collective bargaining , thirteen more hours had been added to his working week . Would there be more pay for the additional hours ? Just below the ukaz was a brief supplementary " decision " of the Council of People 's Commissars : to keep the old daily wage without change , and to reduce piece work and hourly rates so that the longer day would yield no more than the shorter . And there was an explanation by Comrade Shvernik , head of the Trade Unions . " If increase of wages were admitted , " it said , " then there would not be any question of sacrifice . . . . " The reader must not imagine that Ivan ceased to care whether he arrived on time . Nor did his mind dwell long on the lengthened day and wage cut . The second part of the lengthy title of the ukaz drew his interest more than the first . He ran through the legal and technical terms of the Decree until he reached article 5 : . . workers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , co-operative and/or public enterprises , shall be handed over to the Courts and , by sentence of the People 's Judges , condemned to imprisonment . . . . " Imprisonment ? " The prisons were bursting already . Where would they find jails or concentration camps for all who tried to change their jobs in quest of a better dining hall , a friendlier foreman , a factory barracks or apartment house closer to the place of work , a more agreeable task ? And what would they do now about lateness and absence , if these were no longer punishable by dismissal , no longer a recourse for discontent with one 's job ? The very next sentence suggested the answer to his questions : . . ; for idleness ( staying away from work ) without acceptable cause , workers and employees of state , co-operative and public enterprises and/or institutions shall be handed over to the Courts and , by sentence of the People 's Judges , condemned to forced penal labor at their place of employment , up to a term of six months , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their wages . At their place of employment ! So that was it . His own factory would be his " prison " ; labor under penal discipline at the very job he had tried to leave would be his punishment ; the deduction of twenty-five per cent from his wages would provide for him ? and for his family ? their prison fare . II The ukaz which took Ivan lvanovich by surprise that fine June morning of last year was but the culmination of a whole series of changes that have been taking place during the past two years . Taken all together , they amount to a silent social revolution ? or counter-revolution , as you prefer ? in the Soviet way of life . To a degree unknown in history ( even in the history of old Russia ) , these far-reaching social changes introduce fixity and absence of individual will or individual right . On the land they attach the peasant permanently , from birth to death , to his kolkhoz or collective farm , and they introduce collective responsibility to the State for its yield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from late childhood to death , to his particular factory and particular task . No one is to change his position or status except on the order of his superiors and as the interests of the State , interpreted by those superiors , may dictate . Concomitant decrees prescribe fixity for the children of the working class by abolishing free secondary and higher education , thereby laying down the foundations of a new caste system in which only the children of well-paid bureaucrats and intellectuals can possibly prepare themselves to become officials or members of the mtelligerztsia . They establish a system of labor conscription and apprenticeship for boys and girls from fourteen years onward , attaching them to particular occupations and branches of industry which they may never leave , unless it should please their superiors , for the rest of their lives . And the decree we have quoted above makes the attempt to change one 's job literally a criminal offense and converts factory labor into prison labor . The decrees of which we are speaking have been given but little publicity abroad . The Daily Worker and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world what life is like in the land of the Soviets , have been silent on the letter and the spirit of this transformation . These decrees make the good Dean of Canterbury 's book , dealing with the Soviet set-up of 1937 , seem to describe another world . The non- Communist press also has let most of these changes , and their cumulative import , pass unnoticed . Since the great trials of 1936-37 and the quieter , more ruthless and more continuous purge which followed , silence has settled down on the Soviet sixth of the earth . Pilgrimages , labor delegations , tourist travel were reduced to a thin trickle , then choked off altogether . Even loyal Communist Party members , even Party officials designated for official missions , have been denied visas if the , were of Russian birth , could speak the Russian tongue , had relatives living i. the Soviet Union . Since the invasion of Poland and Finland the Kre , nlin has clamped down a censorship on foreign press correspondents more absolute than any that has ever prevailed before in Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no first-line correspondents there capable of interpreting these vast and unobtrusively promulgated transformations . Our attention has been almost exclusively absorbed by the subtle shifts in Soviet foreign policy since the Nazi-Soviet pact let loose the Second World War . The " New Order " that is thus shaping up in the Soviet Union has little in common with the socialism that was envisaged by the thinkers who founded the socialist movement . ( Lenin came to power fully believing that the State , the apparatus of prisons , police , compulsions , dictation , and coercion , was shortly to " wither away " as useless in a free , socialist society . ) But there is much ? each day more and more ? of that old Russia which , despite three revolutions , has never altogether vanished . Kryepost and nevolya ? fixity and absence of individual will or individual freedom ? were the outstanding characteristics of the old Russian life . To-day they are becoming once more , indeed more than ever , the outstanding characteristics of the " New Order " in the Soviet Union . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of two parts : a body and a soul . But the Russian consisted of three : a body , a soul , and a passport . Now the internal passport has been revived , and a Russian can go nowhere within his vast land ? not to speak of crossing the frontier ? without the special order ( komandirovka ) of some superior , and without showing innumerable officials his work book , his passport , his propusk or pass to the particular office , factory , public building , or institution he is visiting , and various other documents . The fixity of the peasant in old Russia was not created , as was the case of the MAGAZINE serf under Western Feudalism , by a shortage of land ; for always in Russia there was the boundless steppe . Immobility had to be created by law , or rather by ukaz . So too Peter the Great , Russia 's most important industrializer before Stalin , filled his newly decreed factories by the simple expedient of assigning serfs from the State farms to the State factories . Long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian State was the largest landowner , the largest employer of peasant bondmen , the largest owner of factories and capital , and the largest employer of industrial labor in Russia , and in the world . Theoretically too , all of old Russia was one vast patriarchal family with a single , all-powerful , divinely inspired , all-knowing , all-wise , and infallible head . The totalitarian state of the new Russia has not learned its essentials , as some have charged , from Hitler , but has its roots deep in the ancient ways of the Russian land . Despite its truly III impressive industrialization , the Soviet Union is still predominantly an agrarian land . As in the past , the changes in industry we are discussing were preceded by changes in agriculture . When , in the early thirties , Stalin swept the individual peasants into the giant state collective farms ? not by convincing them of the advantages of collectivism , but by police measures ? freedom of movement became increasingly impossible on the Russian land . Those advanced Russian workers who acquiesced in this wholesale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it , unwittingly helped to prepare the conditions which would extend coercion to every phase of Soviet life . The powers needed to make the officials into police overseers of farming and harvest inevitably made them into police overseers over factory , trade union , and soviet . Rural coercion started earlier , but because of the slowness and vastness of the countryside , ripened more slowly ; so that in 1940 , at almost the same instant in which the Russian worker was reading of his permanent attachment to his factory , his country cousin was State for the yield of the collective farms . According to these new decrees , the quantities of meat , milk , wool , eggs which the farm must deliver to the government are no longer based on the actual number of livestock possessed by the given kolkho , but on the acreage of the estate . And the obligatory quantities of grain , potatoes , rice , etc. , are based not on the area sown or the size of the actual crop , but on the acreage of land , good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the given farm . ( Ukazes of April 1 , 6 , 11 , and 16 , 1940 . ) With fatal inevitability , the fixing of the population on the land dried up the labor reserves from which new industrial workers might be recruited . As new factories opened , as aging workers wore out , as the armies of soldiers , and the armies of officials , technicians , and office workers and police took on ever-increasing dimensions , a labor shortage began to develop . In despite of edicts , factories began to bid silently against one another . Thus the tendency of Soviet workers to move about from job to job was augmented . With the trade unions gutted , it was the one freedom left to them , the one outlet for discontent . They changed jobs in hope of advancement , to get away from an ingrown antagonism , an intolerable overseer , or because , in Russia as elsewhere , the grass is likely to appear greener farther off . There was a silent , prohibited , but none the less inevitable tendency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deplete the labor reserves was the state-caused famine attendant upon the wholesale , forced collectivization of agriculture . Still more unexpected to the authorities was the fall in the birth rate in the cities where the five-day week , with a different day off for each member of the family , and intolerably crowded living quarters made for a silent strike in parenthood , increasing numbers of Soviet workingmen and women deciding to forego having children . That decision was strengthened by the decreasing purchasing power of the ruble , the shortage of consumers ' goods , the impossibility of getting a bottle of milk , a rubber nipple , a yard of diaper cloth unless you were a member of the privileged bureaucracy entitled by a card to shop in special " closed " stores . But the labor shortage really became acute when the huge labor armies recruited by the G.P.U . began to wear out , and there was no great , " unliquidated " social layer from which to renew the supply . All during the early thirties , the G.P.U . had recruited such labor armies from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old upper and middle classes , and recalcitrant peasants and kulaks . The G.P.U . thus became the largest employer of labor in Russia by the simple expedient of herding whole families into concentration camps for the harvesting of timber , draining of swamps , construction of canals , railroads , highways , and other public works . These great labor armies died off rapidly , and some portion of the remnant was released as " socially rehabilitated . " But when they had completed the " liquidation of the kulaks as a class " there was suddenly no new social layer from which the catastrophic losses could be made good . The main answer of the Kremlin to the problems of labor shortage , labor turnover , and pressure for rising wages was a series of decrees tying the worker by force to his job , which culminated in the ukaz of last June . But such measures were not enough . The next answer was to seek new labor reserves among the youth of the rising generation . In addition , they sought to stimulate the birth rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the production of sufficient housing , and an ample supply of diapers , baby clothes , milk bottles , milk , and rubber nipples , which the plans keep postponing for some indefinite and millennial future ) . 1.7 On March 8th of last year the Government reported that the number of women workers had more than trebled in the past decade ? from 3,000,000 to almost 11,000,000 in 1939 . Obviously , this represents a broadening of the horizon of Soviet women and increasing relief from economic dependence on men . It further reflects the inadequacy of the wages of the head of a household from the standpoint of a " family wage . " But when the report boasts , as it does , that in the Soviet Union women work as coal miners in underground shafts , and as furnace workers in steel mills , once more we come to a state of affairs so bitterly denounced in Marx 's Kapital . In the England of which he wrote the employment of women in steel mills and underground pits has long since disappeared ; the same is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last refuge in China and India . But there comes a time when the use of women to augment the labor supply conflicts with another aim of the Kremlin : a rapid rise in the birth rate . In the middle thirties Stalin boasted an annual population increase of 3,000,000 ; for the census of 1937 he made a series of glowing pred.:Aions which added up to an estimate of 180,000.000 people . When the long-heralded census revealed the catastrophic effects of the famine of 1932-33 and the forced collectivization of agriculture , and the even more alarming and unexpected fact of a decline of the birth rate in the cities , Stalin 's answer was characteristic of his rough and ready methods of " genial " solution of all problems . He denounced the census figures as a product of foreign sabotage , purged the entire census staff , and ordered a new and more favorable count . About the same time he began to " hold that grin " which I had so rarely MAGAZINE seen on his face in public , let himself be photographed kissing babies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ premiums and decorations for fecundity . Divorce was made difficult , the marriage tie glorified , responsibility of the father for the support of the children made more stringent , and abortion was decreed a penal offense for both mother and doctor . All this overnight in a land which had been boasting for a decade and a half of Lenin 's achievement in making divorce simple and easy , giving woman the freedom to dispose of her own body , and countenancing abor-tion ! There are certain contradictions that can not be resolved by ukaz , one of them being the conflict between the desire to have women as producers in the factories and simultaneously as producers of endless streams of babies . The eight weeks ' leave of absence before and after childbirth which , so far as it was actually carried out , represented one of the great achievements of Soviet law , was another victim of the new dispensation . New ukazes reduced the maternity leave from sixteen weeks to nine , and decreed that women who changed their jobs after they were two months pregnant ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately by another ! ) should receive no leave of absence with pay at all . Needless to state , the birth rate continues unsatisfactory . The authorities next turned to the Soviet youth as a potential source of fresh labor supply . Here too early Soviet legislation had been the model for the rest of the world . The laws prohibiting child labor could be matched elsewhere , but not the provisions for free , universal education from top to bottom nor the payment of wages to students of the higher schools while their studies continued . If these laws remained mostly so much paper , they nevertheless proclaimed noble intentions as soon as the poverty and universal breakdown could be overcome ; and they were , in some measure , actually carried out . Where there was a shortage of facilities , moreover , it was the children of the poor , of the erstwhile underprivileged , who received preference over the children of the former rich . Though this worked gross injustice in countless individual cases , yet there seemed a certain poetic justice in its reversing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet system of free , universal education , and stipends for higher education , was summarily abolished by ukaz ! Once more the Supreme Soviet was not even in session to amend the Constitution , which in article 121 of the " Fundamental Rights of Citizens " de-clares : Citizens of the U.S.S.R. have the right to education . This right is ensured by universal , compulsory elementary education ; by education , including higher education , being free of charge ; by the system of state stipends for the overwhelming majority of students in the universities and colleges . Once more the new decrees came as a shock to Ivan Ivanovich and his young son Ivanchik . They were actually made retroactive to the beginning of the school term that had started on the first of September , and no one knows how many thousands of Ivanchiks were abruptly thrown out of school because they could not pay their tuition fee . By the new ukaz students in the eighth , ninth , and tenth grades were obliged to pay a tuition of 200 rubles yearly in towns and 150 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's wages of their workingmen fathers ? while students in high schools and colleges were required to pay 400 rubles in the cities and 300 in the towns , and those in art , music , and drama schools 500 rubles annually . When it is borne in mind that the average wage of a Soviet worker ( excluding foremen , technicians , and government officials ) is under 200 rubles a month , most of which vanishes in the mere hunt for food , with even serviceable clothing and shoes outside their grasp , it is clear that this decree does not " go back to the bourgeois world " but to the last monarchof nineteenth-century Russia , Alexander III , and his Minister of Education Delyanov , who issued the celebrated ukaz which read : " The children of coachmen , servants , cooks , laundresses , small shopkeepers , and suchlike persons , should not be encouraged to rise above the sphere in which they were born . " The significance of this amazing decree is twofold : on the one hand it is the pinnacle of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class or privileged caste in the Soviet Union , that of the well-paid , well-housed , wellprovided-for Soviet officialdom , technicians , foremen , and overseers , work-gang bosses ( Staldtanovists ) , artists and writers ; on the other , it is a means of getting millions of the sons of working men and peasants to the farms and factories at an earlier age than heretofore ( at the age of fourteen instead of seventeen ) . All Soviet observers have noted the tendency toward the creation of a new ruling and privileged layer of the population , and the Trotskyists , leftist critics of the Stalin regime , have waged fearful polemical battle in their own ranks as to whether this privileged layer should be designated as " stratum , " " caste , " or " class , " or whether some new term should be invented . In these discussions much has been made of the fact that the privileged had no way of bequeathing their privileges to their children . To be sure , there was always the silent force of influence or pull : a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courtierlike anticipation thereof could secure for the better-clothed , better-fed , better-schooled , better-served son or daughter of the high-placed official a better position when he began to earn his own living . But these new decrees , which abolish free education and payment to the students for their upkeep , result automatically in a sort of wholesale or collective system of inheritance whereby only the children of well-paid officials , artists , and writers ( these last are among the best paid in the Soviet Union ! ) can possibly aspire to the training which will create the next generation of officials , technicians , artists , and writers . Thus is equality of opportunity abolished at a single stroke of the pen , and the Communist Party decision is completely realized which condemned Soviet education for its " chase after quantity " and warned that party education also had until now " concentrated too much on the workers and neglected the cadres of command . " ( Central Committee Resolution of November 14 , 1938 . ) But the primary motive for this " cultural expropriation of the youth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Trotskyist paper , The Militant ) is to be found in another decree on child or youth labor published in Pravda on the same day as the decree abolishing free education . " The old sources , " commented Pravda , " which assured a spontaneous influx of labor ( from the villages ) have been cut off , disappeared . . . . We have n't got people who would be compelled to knock at factory gates and beg admission into the factories , thus spontaneously forming a constant reserve of labor power for industry . " But if higher schooling is closed to the children of the poor , then automatically a new class of millions is created who are obliged to beg admission to the factories . But Soviet planners leave nothing to chance , which brings me to the second decree , to which I referred above . The ukaz of October 3 , 1940 , provides for the conscription of approximately a million young people between the ages of fourteen to seventeen for " industrial training . " The first batch was " called up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million or more scheduled each year thereafter . They were assigned to specific industries ( including lumbering I ) for a period of four years of " training " combined with practical work , after which they are to be permanently attached as full-fledged workers to the industries in which they have been conscripted . The young industrial draftees are to be exempt from military conscription , and are to receive during the four-year period as wages roughly one-third of the estimated value of the product of their labor . V The military terminology and procedure employed in the youth " mobilization " ukaz brings us to the heart of what is happening in Russia , the total militarization of the daily life and labor of an entire people . " Every army , " to quote a commentator on Soviet military history , " reflects the political constitution and the whole order of society prevailing in the land to which it belongs . " Inevitably , the militarization of industry and civil life was bound to react in turn upon the structure of the Red Army . In the crucial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the old general staff inherited from civil war days ) , the authorities have been busy restoring Tzarist military titles and traditions and eliminating from the Soviet army and navy their last vestiges of democracy , initiative from below , egalitarianism , comradely relations between officers and men ? all the things which gave the Red Army its specifically " proletarian " or " socialist " coloring . Taken together , the decrees in this field add up to an extreme remilitarization of military life , and make the Red Army from the standpoint of hierarchical structure , absolute command , and internal discipline , the most rigidly organized large-scale army in the entire world . The first thing to go was the celebrated Red Army oath . The old oath , which I have heard impressively intoned phrase by phrase by tens of thousands of deep masculine voices on the great Red Square , began : " I , a son of the toiling people , " and ended with a pledge of " direct every act and thought to the grand aim of the emancipation of the toilers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a new oath was introduced . It substituted " citizen " for " son of the toiling people , " and for the emancipation of the toilers of the world , the pledge " to defend the fatherland . . . without sparing blood or life itself in order to win complete victory over the enemy . " On May 8 , 1940 , was announced the restoration of Tzarist military titles in place of the simple " commander . " " The reform , " wrote Pravda next day , " aims to raise the authority of our commanders and strengthen military discipline . The entire mighty organization of the modern army must unqualifiedly be subordinated to the will of the plenipotentiary commander and execute all his orders . " Between that date and the date of the ukaz with which we began this article , Pravda , lzvestia , and other Soviet papers were filled with entire pages of photographs of newly created generals and admirals of various categories , all in all , 953 new generals and 100 new admirals ! On June 23rd an order of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer mandatory off duty . Officers were warned that they must insist on strict fulfillment or themselves be punished ; " unscrupulous playing up to the Red Army masses and efforts of the commander to show his democratic feelings " were branded as " an offense against the service regulations . " On June 28th a new order provided greater severity for arrested soldiers , stipulating that in " strict arrest " no work was to be permitted , no sleeping during the daytime , sleeping only on a wooden cot at night without mattress and for no more than six hours , and hot food no more frequently than every other day . Again officers were warned that they themselves would be punished for insufficient severity . The same order introduced the eight-hour day and Sunday rest for all industries under the defense commissariat , the first public acknowledgment I could find of a rapidly accelerating process of putting industry after industry directly under military orders as " essential war industries . " The climax came on October 12 , 1940 . The old army regulations were scrappedand new ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives officers the right in cases of insubordination " to apply all measures of coercion up to and including the application of force and firearms , " without consulting others or resorting to court martial . He is to " bear no responsibility " for injury or death thus inflicted , but is held responsible if he does not in all cases of insubordination " evince firmness and apply all necessary measures . " ( Red Star , October 15 , 1940 . ) Under Article 7 of the old army regulations , which were replaced by this order , officers were forbidden to apply such armed compulsion , " except in a military situation and only in the execution of actual battle orders . " So far as I know , this makes the Red Army the only modern military force in which the officers have the right to apply the death penalty without trial , for insubordination in peacetime or when not in actual battle . Thus , from one of the least militarized and most democratic armies in the world , the Red Army has become the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red Army necessarily loses what is left of its value as a " propaganda " army intended to set by its example the men of opposing armies against their officers . Its power of dissolving the armies sent against it , rather than its discipline , equipment , or military might , was the secret of its success against White armies and detachments of foreign troops in the days of the civil war . It remains to be seen how much it has gained by way of compensation . In comparison even the German army seems to be based upon the conception that in modern mechanized and parachute warfare considerable initiative must be fostered in the individual soldier . The experience in Finland , though indecisive , does not seem to indicate that the gains overbalance the losses . But then the invasion of Finland was incompatible with the spirit of the early Red Army . The remilitarization of the army has in turn reacted upon industry . As " war industries " are increasingly placed directly under the army , the Soviet Union is increasingly turned into one vast military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with ever-increasing acceleration , the Soviet " experiment " becomes the vastest experiment in total militarization of a people , its life , labor , and thought known to the history of man . One looks in vain through the reaches of history for a basis of comparison . This " new order , " which surely can have little attraction for other peoples , has yet to prove its efficiency in regimenting its own . The Soviet regime has become a vast testing ground where mankind can determine whether in the long run it is really possible to operate modern large-scale industry , to foster modern science and technic , even to conduct efficiently modern warfare , by something approaching a combination of the old-fashioned army discipline with a prison regime and universal labor conscription , whether the unsettling problems arising from modern invention and technical change ? not to mention the traditions and aspirations of political and economic democracy ? can really be frozen permanently into this mold .                     