@@487491

THE ' Greek government crisis of late November , provisionally overcome by the reappointment of the Liberal-Populist Cabinet , proved that the government had fallen very low not only in the opinion of the public but in that of Parliament itself . The great majority of the Liberal Party , led by Sophocles Venizelos , felt compelled to vote against the government and even went so far as to disown Prime Minister Themistocles Sophoulis and relieve him as party leader . After an all-night debate the desperate efforts of the new government could obtain a " majority " of only one vote . And this barest of majorities was due to the tolerance of the nineteen deputies of the " New Party " of the extreme right . This was the natural and inglorious end of the collaboration of the two " traditional parties " which had been so loudly heralded and upon which conservative elements of Greek opinion and the American State Department had built such high hopes . Some fourteen months ago Loy Henderson , then director of Middle Eastern Affairs in the State Department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gap which for so many years had separated the Liberals from the Populists ( Monarchists ) was a thing of the past . The antagonists of yesterday , united with the blessing and aid of the American government , would now carry on together a victorious struggle against all who refused to recognize the authority of the Athens regime . Those who allowed themselves to be lulled by such beliefs failed to realize that the Parliament  --  in which the two center parties and all the left-wing parties were unrepresented because they had refused to take part in the electoral comedy of March , 1946 ? was not a true expression of the will of the Greek people . Another fact left out of consideration was the state of mind of a people in whom dictatorship , war , and Nazi occupation had created an irresistible desire for a liberal regime and for freedom from the oppression of a sterile and unproductive capitalism . The Sophoulis-Tsaldaris government could not but fail . It had been naive enough to believe it could induce the rebels to lay down their arms by offering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , having already been duped by the application of the Varkiza agreement , would not let themselves be trapped a second time . The few who were rash enough to accept the amnesty and surrender their arms were either persecuted or handed over to firing squads . The government had boasted that it would restore order and protect the people not only against insurgent elements but also against the right-wing bands which had usurped the authority of the state and were terror- 716 izing the country . But it spent its whole energy on repressive measures against citizens suspected of helping or even sympathizing with the rebels , measures that ranged from imprisonment and deportation to mass executions . The rightist bands helped the government in this sinister work ; at Gytheion in the Peloponnesus they attacked the prison on their own initiative and massacred all the persons awaiting trial . By its incapacity either to deal with the rebellion or to check the violence of the right the government has so shaken the people 's confidence in it that the watchword today in many areas of Greece  --  and trustworthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man for himself . " Last spring the men of Athens boasted that they would definitely crush the rebellion if America gave them sufficient aid , in money and arms . Once this was done , they said , they would be able to devote themselves exclusively to the country 's economic reconstruction . After obtaining this aid , the government launched the " big summer offensive " admit in the United Nations Assembly at Paris that in spite of the " brilliant victory " in the Grammos Mountains the rebellion was not broken and more energetic measures on the part of the United Nations would be required . E VEN the most uninformed must eventually have be- gun to ask themselves how it was that the Greek state , armed and financed by the Americans and with forces seven times as numerous as those of its adversaries , could have failed to bring the resistance to an end . And the puzzle was the more baffling as it became evident that the help received from outside by the rebels could not be compared with that given by the Americans to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served any purpose , it was to expose the inferiority of the government forces , for the rebels , after holding their positions for a long time and inflicting heavy losses , succeeded in escaping and kindling rebellion all over Greece . Athens soon found itself obliged to proclaim martial law in the whole country . It is clear that a revolutionary movement spreading even through the Peloponnesus , which is practically cut off from the rest of Greece by the sea , can not be due only to the Communists and still less to help coming from other states . Such a movement must represent the will and express the state of mind of large numbers of people disgusted by the corruption in the government and the white terror of governmental and quasi-governmental organizations . These are the masses which have reinforced the ranks of the rebels , so thin to begin with . The Athens government had promised to tax the rich and the profiteers and to relieve the poor . In reality it left the rich free , under divers pretexts , to drain the The NATION gold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later the Americans were called upon to replenish in order to support the tottering drachma . This was quite natural , since the regime is based on the caste of big capitalists and exploiters . As for the poor , they were left to suffer the consequences of the inflation which inevitably resulted . The government also had the audacity to announce that it had purged the trade unions of all partisan interference and would reestablish them on a healthy basis ; but we witnessed only last spring the revolting performance of a " general labor congress " staged by the authorities . The government had guaranteed the working classes a bearable standard of living ; but when the workers , goaded only by their poverty , declared a general strike , the government called it a crime against the security of the state and invoked the death penalty for its leaders under the pretext that it was a political strike launched in collusion with the rebels . Only in response to indignant protests from Europe and America did Athens finally repeal this villainous law . The government had promised to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peasants who had been displaced by the war ; but the latest news from Greece reveals that nothing has been done to relieve these unfortunate people . This is the record of the Sophoulis-Tsaldaris government for the fourteen months of its term of office ; yet this same government , thanks to a Parliament with no sense of dignity , has lately obtained a " majority " of one vote . Any government with an elementary sense of responsibility , seeing that its policy had led the country into a deadlock and was pushing it toward final catastrophe , would understand that it should pull itself together and adopt a program of conciliation with a view to bringing the civil war to an end . Any responsible government would have seized the opportunity presented by General Markos 's conciliatory suggestion in the U. N. for a peaceful solution . No government with any dignity would have allowed its partisans to molest , in Parliament , Deputy and ex-Minister George Borazanis for speaking in favor of conciliation and signing , with nine other national leaders , a telegram to the president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the mediation of Dr. Evatt could help bring about an end of the Greek tragedy . Now , if the best possible political combination the present Parliament could produce has failed so completely , could a moderate , more or less disguised dictatorship get the country out of the deadlock ? Such a solution has , in fact , been considered , not only by certain Greek publicists who would like to use drastic remedies for their country 's diseased organism , but also , according to reliable information , in some Anglo-American circles . If pseudo-parliamentary methods wo n't work , December 25 , 1948 they argue , perhaps the time has come for a " strong man " to take hold . But who could accomplish the miracle of instilling life into the dead body of the Greek ruling class ? And who would be able to revitalize an army which has entirely lost its morale precisely because it is convinced of the uselessness of the further sacrifices it will be required to make ? And how could a dictatorship be maintained in the face of a bitterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the debate in the THE N. Assembly and the Political Committee was this : What really divides Greece from its Balkan neighbors is not frontier friction , territorial claims , or even ideological differences , for the Balkan countries would undoubtedly be satisfied if Greece acquired a plain democratic government which would not be systematically hostile toward them . The fundamental issue is the fact that , in their view , Greece has become a bridgehead of the West against the East . Such was the real meaning of M. Vishinsky 's speech before the Assembly in which he said that if the foreign forces were withdrawn from Greece and foreign intervention brought to an end , an agreement between the great powers and the pacification of Greece would be achieved within twenty-four hours . The Athens government was naive enough to believe that the U. N. would impose effective sanctions against Greece 's Balkan neighbors for the help they had given to the rebels . Its representatives discreetly suggested , moreover , that Article 31 of the Charter , which provides for collective measures to defend a victim of aggression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western powers might send troops in order to maintain their strategic positions in Greece . But action under Article 51 would be , in the last analysis , a matter for the Security Council to decide , and in such a case the Soviet veto would block any punitive measures . As for the second solution , no Western power could consider sending troops to Greece . Such action would inevitably involve conflict with the rebels or with Greece 's northern neighbors and might easily lead to a general conflict . So the Athens government had to be satisfied with the piously ineffective resolution voted by a majority of the U. N. Assembly , condemning Greece 's Balkan neighbors for their help to the rebels and calling upon them to refrain in the future . This is why the unanimous vote in favor of Australia 's proposal for negotiations between Greece and its Balkan neighbors to settle the frontier question was welcomed with enthusiasm both in Greece and abroad . The Australian resolution , similar to the first part of the ? Soviet resolution , which was also unanimously adopted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the initiative and under the chairmanship of Dr. Evatt might bring into the open the real reasons for the cleavage between the Balkan countries and Greece . But Athens 's insistence on the necessity for border changes ended that possibility . My personal conviction is that the root of the trouble lies in the transformation of Greece into a Western bridgehead , and that negotiations will not lead to a real settlement so long as the main issue is avoided . When I 718 suggested that Dr. Evatt should intervene as mediator in Greece 's internal crisis as well as between Greece and its neighbors , I was convinced that the leader of the Australian delegation , by his personal prestige and his authority as president of the General Assembly , could lead both the Greeks and the great powers which are quarreling over Greece along the road to reconciliation . The general approval my suggestion received strengthens my conviction that the policy I have recommended for years is the only one which accords both with the interest of Greece and with world peace . I find it particularly gratifying that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's and two members of the House of Lords , sent a petition to the British government requesting it to ask the U. N. to mediate in the Greek crisis with the object of bringing about an armistice and setting up a government capable of restoring both civil peace and friendly relations with the Balkan states . The significance of this step was not lessened by the astonishing reply of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Foreign Office , Mr. Mayhew , who said that His Majesty 's Government could not interfere in the home affairs of Greece  --  although actually that government has done The NATION nothing else . After this move I believe Dr. Evatt will realize that his efforts can not be confined to seeking an agreement to end frontier incidents and enable the refugees and displaced children to return to their homes . An agreement of such a limited nature would not touch the root of the evil . Dr. Evatt 's intervention would only be beneficial if he were to undertake , in the name of the United Nations , to bring about a reconciliation in Greece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution of the Greek problem  --  a solution which would permanently settle the international status of Greece . I therefore take the liberty of repeating here another proposal I have already made  --  namely , that the great powers should proclaim and enter into a solemn agreement to guarantee the territorial integrity and the independence of Greece . Such a declaration would enable Greece to dispense with the presence of foreign troops on Greek soil and protect it from further foreign interference in its domestic affairs . I believe it would also automatically lead the Greeks to a reconciliation , for their division , with all its attendant disastrous effects for the country , is above all due to foreign intervention .                     