@@492498

Should We Open Our Doors to Immigrants ? AMOR to revise our immigration laws , which have remained almost . static since 1924 , has been rising discordantly . Some groups want them loosened . Others Millet that the American way of life will be threatened unless they are tightened . Many more hold that the present system of limiting European immigrants by national quotas has proved itself good enough to be kept on as a steady policy , Should this republic once more fling wide its doors to everyone eager to move out of a distressful , disjointed Europe ? Or would it better serve our national purposes to hang out a " No Vacancies " sign for the next five or ten years ? Or should we go on limiting European immigrants to a maximum of about 150,000 a year , while welcoming any and all of the peoples of the three Americas , the latter having supplied about one fourth of the immigrants who have come here since 1929 ? These three questions seem certain to be rolled out for review by the 80th Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , racial and religious organizations and a host of committees and societies avowing enough good intentions to pave heaven and earth , the congressman 's ears hear softer voices asking other questions about the immigration problem and the ever-changing complexion of the American population . Has n't this country , the rumor spreaders ask , already taken in a million refugees who fled from Europe to save their hides and sometimes their bank balances from Hitler 's hatchet men ? The answer is no . The true figure is probably a little under one quarter of a million spread over a dozen years , and not all of them had bank balances . Are there not more foreign-born in America right now than ever before ? Again the answer is no , to which may be added the little-known fact that during the unproaperous 1930 's fewer aliens came to this country to settle  --  and more of them packed up and went away  --  than in any other decade for a full century . Through six years of the war-wrenched 1940 's less than 10 per cent of Europe 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made up 13.2 per cent of our total population in 1920 , only 8.8 per cent in 1940 , and considerably less yesterday afternoon . Their average age is high  --  just above fifty  --  compared to the national average of twenty-nine , and they are therefore dying off faster than the home-grown American . Is it a fact that more than half the Europeans admitted to the United States just before the war , during the war and since V-E Day have been Jews ? According to all the evidence available , that is probably true . And the anti-Semitic elements in this country have exaggerated and made capital of the situation . Why not , on this touchy subject , getaway from the whispers and dig into a few facts ? Prior to the almost simultaneous coming into power of Hitler in Germany and Roosevelt in America in the early weeks of 1933 , Jewish immigration into this country through the decades seldom , except for brief peeieds , had exceeded 10 per cent of the total . Through most of the years it had been much less .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offering haven , the proportion of incoming Jews steadily increased until , in both 1939 and 1940 , they constituted more than 52 per cent of the admitted permanent immigrants . The Jewish proportion among the immigrants of 1941 and 1942 was slightly less than in 1940 . Using figures instead of percentages , the total influx of Jews between 1939 and 1943 was something more than 100,000 . This was slightly more than one half of the quota immigrants admitted during that period . After that the digger into statistics gropes in the dark , due to the elimination of the racial classification " Hebrew " from the immigration forms in 1943 . This was ordered done by Earl G. Harrison , who , at the time , was Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization . Since then , under his ruling , immigrant Jews have been listed , racially , under the countries of their birth . Whatever its intent , the effect of the Harrison ruling has been to conceal for the past four years just what proportion of America 's new immigration has been Jewish . With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have had a high time of it . Actually , if every European who entered on a permanent visa quota between the first of 1943 and the middle of 1943 had been a Jew  --  which was not the case  --  the total increment would be less than 40,000 . Wartime and postwar immigrants , whatever their race , have been comparatively few in number . Apart from the temporary phenomenon of the 50,000 nonquota G. I. brides , who were exempted from the Quota Act , immigration since the end of the recent war has been even lighter than in the 1930 's . During the second half of 1945 most of the 25,795 A weary newcomer , just off the S. S. Gripsholm , looks uncertainly into the future . Of the many organizations interested in immigration , some want our present laws relaxed , some want them tightened . CuS PASQUA-YELL. , Immigration since the war 's end has been lighter than in the ' 30 's , save for 50,000 nonquota brides . , immigrant aliens who were admitted came from Canada and Latin America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of these had not come directly from Europe , but were exvisitors who had readjusted their status in quick trips across the northern border . In the first six months of 1946 only 21,130 quota immigrants were admitted . The number will not be far greater for the second half of the year . Since the war 's ending , the addition to the foreign-born element in our population has been even less than the above figures would indicate , for , in recent months , quota immigrants who rode out Europe 's storm in the safe harbors of America have been departing homeward at the rate of more than 500 a week . In addition to all the tabulated , accepted immigrants , are uncounted numbers of aliens who are here illegally . Nobody knows how many of these there are . Even if they could all be caught and brought to book , many of them could not be deported , partly because of loopholes in our legislation , often because the countries they were born in would not countenance their return , even with all expenses paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average of $300 for each deportee . The Soviet Union , for example , has n't accepted a deportee from the United States since Lenin 's time . A similar attitude is being taken by countries which have moved or been dragged into Moscow 's expanded sphere of influence . The unlawful immigrant of Hitler 's time who could persuade our administration he would face persecution and possibly extermination if bundledoft home was almost invariably allowed to stay on " temporarily . " Time favored his cause , as did the statutes of limitations and , often enough , various organizations , lawyers or even a sympathetic member of Congress . Under a process instil uted in 1941 , tens of thousands of these illegal immigrants " readjusted their status " on quick trips to Canada and became accepted members of the American community . Baltic and Balkan peoples and Poles who are illegally here and have trepidntions about the kind of existence that would be theirs under the Stalinist yoke are conceded , in non-pinko circles , to have , these days , as good a talking point against deportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the Nazis were on the rampage . Not a few aliens who unlawfully wangled their way into the United States have married American citizens and provided themselves with progeny . The existence of an American wife and child has oftentimes stayed the hand of the immigration law long enough for a representative or senator to push through a private bill to legalize an alien husband 's status . It is n't only the congressmen with large foreign votes in their constituencies who introduce legislation to get some individual alien out of such trouble . Even the Billiken of the boll-weevil belt , Sen. Theodore G. Bilbo , who need cultivate no suffrage other than that of the supreme native white , has , at least once in his time , by a private bill saved an immigrant from deportation . The new Congress will not only be faced with proposals to alter the long-range immigration policybut also will be asked to decide how far this country should go in providing a haven for Europe 's displaced persons , of whom some 830,000 still remain huddled in 299 camps in occupied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UNRRA guardianship , but scheduled to be shepherded by the United Nations ' International Refugee Organization after next July first , simply do not want to go back to their homelands , now that these are on the darker side of the curtain . For all the screening , questioning and assorting to which they have been submitted , no two experts agree on what proportion of these uprooted 830,000 want to be transplanted to American soil . According to Fiorello La Guardia 's figures , the largest group of displaced persons at the end of October was the Poles , numbering almost 320,000 . The new Warsaw government has been at them hammer and tongs , and Moscow has been at the Allied and , more recently , the United Nations authorities trying to bring about their return to Poland , but they do n't want to go . Neither does the second largest group , the 177,000 Batts  --  that is , the Lithuanians , Estonians and Latvians . Their three little republics , which enjoyed a precarious independence between the Lwo world wars , have again been absorbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likelihood , for keeps . Displaced Yugoslays , not partial to Tito , number about 30,000 . Unless our laws are amended , most of these people would die of old age before they became eligible to obtain American immigrant visas ; our Quota Act , for all the natives of their five lands combined , admits only 8107 persons Corn in i , d on Page 123 ) el I .. *AI t11MIMAI JO/ EN 191 .. PN SHOULD WE OPEN OUR DOORS TO IMMIGRANTS ? ( c.yoy 88 i 8 ettr , I year , and the quotas are not cumulative . Plums unfilled last year or t his year ca n't he taken next year . Intimates of the number o Jews among t he displaced persons in occupied Germany and Austria range from 110,000 to 225,000 . Agencies devoted to their particular welfiure state that most of them want to go to Palestine . Neither the United Stales nor any other non-European country endowed with a surplus of living space has yet done much about any of these people except to contribute to their daily rations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the D.P. 's , President Truman , on December 22 , 1945 , directed that the United States " set an example to the other countries of the world " by receiving these people , up to the legal limit of the quotas . Under his orders , priority was to be accorded orphans and close kin of immigrants already here , and proportions as to creeds were to be taken into consideration . The State Department deployed officials into the occupied zone to issue visas . The immigration chieftain led to Europe a delegation from his bureau to help the occupation armies , the vice-consuls and the UNRRA in speeding the eligible out of their camps and onto westbound steamships . Word came back that all these agencies , after duly pondering the situat had agreed the D.P. 's could be moved across the Atlantic and admitted , strictly under the quota system , at the rate of about 39,000 persons a year . What happened ? Instead of the estimated 3000 or more a month , the D.P. 's who reached these shores under the Truman plan in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for setting an example to the world , even Switzerland and Sweden had done better than that . Do millions of Europeans really desire to emigrate to the New World ? There are no signs of it . This may surprise most of those Americans who have seen the mess that total war made of Europe or have heard wit I heir own earn the ' lord-luck dory illinoat , every Europism can tell from Glasgow 's battered itieni to Stalingrad 's ruined river front . Since the war 's ending neither the British , Irish , French , Dutch nor Belgians have even applied for as many visas as our laws would allow I heir naI 10M Is . EL scents unlikely that . any Germans , of her than permecuted minorities , will be listened to t is visa applicants for years to come . That leaves us , then , to consider the lands of Eastern and Soul heast ern Europe , which , with 11111y , tillye supplied the majority of immigrants to America since 1890 . Italy and Greece excepted , these countries are now in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to be granted exit visas than are disgruntled citizens of the Soviet Union itself . The Soviet rulers have manifested a desire that . their carefully contained populations increase and multiply . . . and stay put . The new government of Poland , once a source of heavy emigration to America , has no intention of allowing Poles to go westward , though it is willing enough to be rid of racial minorities . Dr. Albert Fiderkiewicz , Polish representative to the permanent migration committee of the International Labor Office , which met in Montreal last August .. unequivocally announced that the policy of his government was to prevent emigration and even to call back such Poles as were abroad as a result of the war , since they would be needed in the rebuilding of their country . The Polish government 's attitude toward minorities was made candidly clear to me in a two-hour interview with the new Moscow-sponsored premier , Edward Osdbka-Morawski , when 1 saw him in Lublin in the summer of 1944 . He told me the future Poland would not permit herself to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had plagued the country through the gory centuries . Already he had struck off with the Soviet government agreements for the exchange of minority populations between Poland and Byelo-Russia and between Poland and Latvia . As soon as all Poland had been liberated and the new western frontier fixed , such Germans as still resided within the area , he said , would be shipped into what remained of I he Reich . The Czechs and Hungarians would also be sent home . As for I he lowish minority , that problem , he coldly observed , had been " almomt eliminated by Hitler . " Greece , the only Balkan country remeining outside the Russian orbit , has announced that many of its people wish to emigrate , but the Greek quota for the United States is only 307 persons a year , and t he visa queue is already strung out seven years away from the gangplank . France , bled white by the first World War , enfeebled in both body and spirit by the second , is not likely to encourage the departure of what is left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of France to encourage the foreigner to come and settle there . " Unless we import three million immigrants in the next ten years , " said Robert Prigent , recently French Minister of Population , " France can not survive . " For the nearer future , the only continental people who seem likely to be encouraged to emigrate in large numbers are the Italians . Their government has announced that it will put no obstacle in the way of emigration , either temporary or permanent . Recently the Italian government concluded agreements with a number of European countries for the temporary supply of Italian labor in order to obtain foreign exchange and raw materials for Italian industry . The only country , other than Italy and Greece , which has publicly announced the availability of emigrants who would be allowed to go abroad to settle is India . The Indian quota to the United States is a nominal 105 annually . The Chinese , like the Indians , were excluded from immigrating to the United States until the wartime alliance softened congressional hearts , but after the repeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also fixed at a mere 105 persons a year . Even if every European who would like to get away from the Continent could do so , where would he go ? The United Nations Economic and Social Council set out to get the answer to that question as it concerns merely the refugees and the displaced persons . and it has n't found the answer , nor has the new International Refugee Organization . Of the twenty-three countries which replied to the U. N. Council , none indicated an unconditional willingness to take in refugees and D. P. 's . Australia announced it would be at least two years before non-British immigration into that country could start . Brazil 's delegate first said his country might be able to take in between 100,000 and 200,000 , later modified this to " a number not so great . " Under Brazil 's quota law 80 per cent of the immigrants must go into agriculture . Argentina also looks into the " occupational background " of aliens before permitting them to take up residence . Canada , like Australia , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular about the types it takes . Since 1931 and its depression , restrictions have cut immigration to Canada to a few thousand persons a year , farmers and domestic servants preferred . Canada 's postwar immigration policy is still in the formative stage , with an interdepartmental committee busy at Ottawa whipping together suggestions for Parliament . Though less frank than either Cantata or Australia , the United States has its fiat of preferred and nonpreferred countries as sources for immigrants . The quota law of 1924 was purposely 1 26 SATIIIIDAI ' ? i1/1111 11 ' 1I 1 / draw the majority of fun urn immigrants from the United Kingdom , Ireland , Germany and Western Europe , and to lower the influx from Italy and noutheastern Europe . Thus it . is I hill existing ( rotas permit . ten times its 1111111y immigranlm n year from the United Kingdom tit. from Poland . five I irises /IN ninny from f/ermany as from Italy , and more films Eire than I he combined total for Itussia , Austria , flungary , the Bantu ns , the Bill tic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But over I.he past quarter cent ury the favored lands have rarely filled their quotas  --  some have never filled them  --  while peoples of the enuhhod southeast have often queued up for visas year after year . Some of the arguments the 80th Congress will hear for and against altering the immigration policy were aired last spring over a bill that would have cut the quotas in half for the next five years . This bill , sponsored by Rep. Ed Gossett , of Wichita Falls , Texas , was defeated , ten votes to eight , in the House Committee on Immigration and Naturalization . It was opposed by labor unions , racial groups and church organizations , Protestant , Catholic and . Jewish . Supporting it were the American Legion , the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the Daughters of the American Revolution , More recently , quite a number of the American Legion 's members have advocated snuffing out all immigration until every young veteran of the second World War has a job and a satisfactory roof over his head . The VFW 's national legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries for ten years and to ban Nazis forever . How the cluster of new organizations set up exclusively for those who saw service after Pearl Harbor feel on the subject will doubtless be heard as soon as they have been indoctrinated in the strategy , logistics and tactics of lobbying in legislative halls . Neither the American Federation of Labor nor the Congress of Industrial Organizations appears worried that immigration under existing laws might aggravate unemployment or threaten the job security of any American holding a union card . Lewis G. Hines , the AFL 's national legislative representative , in appearing before a bearing on the Gossett bill , asked for a continuance of present quotas " as an indication to the world that we intend to re main an active participant in world affairs . " Len Goodman told the committee he CIO realized from experience that " immigration is automatically checked in periods of unemployment while it rises in periods of prosperity . " ' On that , the statistics for the twinkling ' 20 's and the sour ' 30 's bear him out . of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departed these shores exceeded those who arrived . On the record of those years the advocates of letting well enough alone argue that wise administration can make the present statutes flexible enough to inlet the economic tests of prosperity at 'd depression , war and peace , without asking Congress to change the law itself . One suggested compromise that would adhere to the intent of the Quota Act and still relieve some of the pressure of emigrants whom the war held back has been to amend the law so as to permit the filling up of quotas left unfilled in recent years . Mr. La Guardia began advocating the use of a cumulative quota system in 1938 . More recently the postwar sixty-fifth convention of the American Federation of Labor took a similar stand , so as to permit the immediate entry of Europe 's displaced persons . In comparison to the hospitable reception accorded the G. I. brides , that given the refugees who came here during the war and in the years just before its outbreak has been decidedly mixed . Prejudice against them , not all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closing the door to immigration even on the scale the law now permits . Where do these refugees live , what are they doing , what inspires the particular prejudices against them where prejudices exist ' ? The majority are concentrated in the larger cities of four Eastern and four Midwestern states and in California , with a thin sprinkling over the other sections , generally in places where they are fortunate enough to have relatives . Aided by kin and friends and some 300 organizations , nearly all of those refugees who sought work found it . They are making livings in the professions , especially medicine , and in such commerce as jewelry , diamonds , furs , leather goods , glassware and groceries . A few are manufacturers , many are clerks and some are mechanics . In reply to questionnaires , nearly ( Continued on Page 128 ) THE SATUIIIMY i con Ills ..... 1frrrrri Peke , 1251 on per cent of I hem heel . ter id I hey have nn inhan ion of returning to their fernier homelands . The IH ? 111 Igic except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dill eh , The Amerirein ! mummify looking for a sere:int ' ' r the ( manic ' or hiring day laborers among I he refugees will rarely find ( .111 ' . On I Itt- avernge , they are far older , het ler rdtreated and more solvent thee the prewar run-of-I verrige iminigrarne . More than Milt ! ewe at ( outlet ! college . Nearly one fount h of all inimigrentH admit led during 1940-.15 were forty-five years old or older . About 57 per rent listed " no occupation " ; this category included married women , children , the aged rind Chow with accumulated means of support . In seeking American citizenship , the refugee bus been far speedier than the pre-11 it ler immigrant , partly , no doubt , because he has found state laws excluding noncitizens from many professions and trades . As far as the Federal Government cares , the immigrant , once here , can go where be chooses and work at what he will , but the states impose limitations . In ten states physicians must be citizens to practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Foreign-born dentists , pharmacists , undertakers and liquor dealers face similar discriminatory hurdles , and so do schoolteachers . If an alien can pass the state examination , New Jersey permits him free rein with pharmacists ' mortar and pestle , but not even Europe 's greatest . nrboriculturist could induce Trenton to certify him as a tree expert until he had applied for citizenship . Virginia will not countenance foreigners as junk dealers or pawnbrokers . Only American citizens may be plumbers in Illinois or Kentucky , or cosmet icians in Wisconsin . In Michigan a foreigner is not free to promote a boxing or wrestling match . Every chauffeur in New York State must be an American citizen , as must every auctioneer in Minnesota , veterinarian in Massachusetts , fish guide in Arizona or corporation officer in Pennsylvania . The one calling which the states are almost unanimous in denying to noncitizens is accountancy . Only Maine and South Dakota appear to look upon arithmetic as free of subversive or unAmerican potentialities . In the fortysix other slates certified accountants must either be citizens or applicants for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven Nobel Prize winners , the refugees who came here hoping to cont inue careers as professors have found the going rough . For every academician welcomed to an American college chair , dozens of his immigrant colleagues found almost all our public schools'closed to them . The majority of these grade and high-school instructors turned to other work , as did many of the European dentists and lawyers . The wartime registration of aliens turned up tens of thousands who were here unlawfully . Some , to evade the quota , bad come in as visitors and had remained . Chicanery , even bribery , has been employed both to get visas for certain foreigners and to prevent the deportation of others . Often with an encouraging nod from Washington , thousands of immigrants whose presence here was illegal have been permitted to readjust their status and are now secure as permanent residents . In the past five years , in the Detroit district alone , 27,000 aliens made round EVENING pos ? tripe to Canada for readjustment of elatiet . During the latter 1930 's refugees who 11114I entered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end coming back on a permanent : status . From their viewpoint , why not ? Their countries ' quotas were not , being filled at the source , and places left unfilled one year could n't be taken the next . Occasionally , someone who had entered the country as a visitor woe deemed unfit for re-entry as an immigrant , This meant that once he had crossed into Canada , the Dominion was stuck with him . The Canadian authorities protested . It was then up to the United Stales to guarantee Canada that such refugees would not remain in the Dominion . So , after the war had come and nobody would order a refugee deported through a sea studded with U-boats , Washington agreed with Ottawa to readmit the border-crossing refugees even if they were refused permanent visas . To facilitate the legalizing of unlawful immigrations , the Government in 1941 established what is called the preexamination procedure . Under this , the foreigner applied for a permanent visa and sent the papers to an American consulate in Canada , He was told to stay on here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department that his visa was ready . Then all he had to do was cross from Detroit to Windsor , or ride up to Montreal or Vancouver , get his visa and come hack , the Immigration Service providing him beforehand with a border-crossing permit . Organizations devoted to aiding refugees , politicians with an eye on the foreign vote , and lawyers specializing in immigration cases all brought influence to bear in obtaining this unusual treatment for individuals they favored . The longer an alien stays unlawfully in the United States , the better are his chances of never being banished . If he gets away with it for seven years , the law authorizes him to ask the Attorney General or the Board of Immigration Appeals to waive all grounds of exclusion in his case  --  mental , moral , physical , even political . Europeans illegally in the United States are far outnumbered by those from the south who have slipped across the Mexican border traveling light ? without passport , visa or even a burro . Flow many of these " wet " immigrants , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not even the immigration officials care to guess . From February Or On Brownsville , ' ferns , to the California comet , the screen on the nation 's wide hack door is full of holes . ' this borderjumping nituntion , according lo Ugo Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization , is steadily getting worse . He does n't think it can he improved until Congress grants him a bigger patrol force . In 1945 his patrolmen nabbed 70,000 border jumpers , mostly Mexicans . During most of 1946 his captures ran an average of 10,000 a month . But Mr. Cnruni woefully contemplates the supposition that the bigger the bag of prisoners , the more he can be sure eluded his men , of whom there are but 600-odd patrolling the long southern frontier , about 300 the northern . On the northern frontier both Canadian and American immigration services believe they have border jumping well under control . During the wartime manpowershortage Mexicans were more than welcomed on a contract-labor basis that kept them working on farms , ranches or railway tracks . Under a special act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Barbadians were imported as farm hands , and 135,000 Mexicans were brought north for railway work . Most of these laborers have since been repatriated , but some 11,000 of them are listed as " missing , " and Carus agent ? do n't know where to find them . The shift of control in Congress from the Democrats to the Republicans seems unlikely , of itself , to have any bearing on our future immigration policy . The division in Congress on how far ajar to leave the gales has never been along party lines . Among Republicans and Democrats alike , it is more often the big-city representative or the congressman from a highly industrialized district who is either willing or eager for the gate to swing wider , while the small-town or rural representative is more likely to argue it is already open either too much or at least far enough . This was reflected in the balloting that struck down the Gossett bill in committee . As to what Congress ought to do about future immigration , a wandering American equipped with willing ears can readily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 99 suggestions . On only one aspect of the problem does nearly everyone seem in agreement , and that is that America should not return to the unrestricted wide-open-door policy which prevailed from colonial times until 1991. 