@@471177

TIMES it all looks this way in Britain : The works manager of an aircraft-parts firm in south London led me through a corridor to the machine-tool rooms . The corridors were decorated with posters " Produce to Save Russia . " At the door he stopped and pointed , " There he is . One of the worst communists in the shop . Used to be nothing but ca'canny and arguments with the foreman . Now look at him ? the best lathe man in the place . Look at that pile of shavings underneath his tool . And that pile of finished capstans . It was Russia that changed him . After Germany attacked Russia he began to stop his communist tactics and go to work . As a matter of fact he 's not the only one . Production in this shop has gone up fifty per cent , partly as a result of Russia coming in . " Down in a Fleet Street pub a reporter was saying , " Lyttelton went down to  --  , to address the workers of a tank factory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he said , ' these tanks will bolster our forces in Libya . ' But some of the workers yelled , ' No ! No ! Give ' em to good old Joel ' Ted 's brother Sid , it seems , runs a music hall in a Midlands city . Recently he took down the plaster-of-Paris statueof Orpheus over the proscenium : He put in its place a bust of Stalin . Sid knew what the crowd liked , and they did . The young pilot officer of the R.A.F. did n't see anything very odd about what his mechanic did . When the bombs came out in their dollies the mechanic always chalked the hammer and sickle on them . " For luck , " he explained . My friends , I thought , were talking about the Dean of Canterbury . The Dean is a clerical crackpot and a very vocal fellow-traveler . He 's been regarded with amused tolerance for many years . " Remember when he used to attend our Socialist League meetings twenty years ago ? He 's a real socialist still . Look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to me that they were n't talking of the " Red Dean " ; they were talking of the Archbishop of Canterbury . The book of the year in London is Professor Carr 's Conditions of Peace . Carr 's book is inter alia a plea to accept what he calls inevitable ? economic collectivism , the end of free enterprise , and a sort of national socialism for Britain . Interesting of course but just the view of one professor . So I thought , until I discovered to my surprise that Professor Carr occupies a key position , even more formidable than that of the Archbishop of Canterbury . He is the chief editorial writer of the London Times . Now a recital of these facts will doubtless make an American fellow-traveler happy and Congressman Martin Dies pleasurably alarmed . But is Britain really going " red " ? As a matter of fact , a good many of the Russophile sentiments noted above are simply Russophile ? " cupboard love , " as one labor leader shrewdly remarked . There 's been a communist network in the engineering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is much stronger now . Great economic changes , attendant on total war , have forced on public personages and intellectuals the necessity of giving them dialectical foundation . But no proof exists that the Russo-German war has materially forced Britain leftward . Nevertheless profound changes in social attitudes are taking place . ( The role which the Russian influence plays in this is a rather complicated and psychological one , as will be later explained . ) They began in the blitz ; they have become more apparent in the lull . Now , long before the end of the war , the foundations of postwar Britain are being poured . Whether Britain 's old liberal capitalistic democracy will become social democracy or fascism will depend on what the British people want or think they want , and what means exist to get it . II NV FIAT men want is n't , naturally , the best indication of what they 'll get . But the Jamesian thesis has enough validity to make worth while a picture of how Britain looks at the future . During the lull , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the blitzes , the inspiring spectacle of Russia 's resistance to Germany , and the equally inspiring entrance of the United States into the war filled a hitherto painful void of insecurity , Britain took stock of the future . One of the subjects that will fascinate future historians undoubtedly willbe this phase of postwar planning , at a time when objectively it was by no means certain that the war would be won . In a measure , it was a sort of " escapism " from recent horrors to the serenity of an ideal future . In the quiet blackouts Britain had time to read and think . But it was more than that . It was a means by which the Briton could justify the arduous sacrifices ? the long hours , the hard work , the deprivation of long-accustomed luxuries , the renunciation or postponement of personal hopes and plans . This resulted in an extraordinary efflorescence of utopia-making . Crackpots and individual dreamers , of course , had carte blanche . But the actual material result was the proramciamentos of various representative groups and bodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the aspirations of such bodies is not without significance . After all , men often get the minimum of what they want . Whoever has been acquainted with the stodgy extremes of conservatism in which British business seemed firmly rooted before the war will be somewhat startled to read some of its present pronouncements . The reports of the London Chamber of Commerce , the Association of British Chambers of Commerce , the Federation of British Industries , etc. , provide a number of shocks . The London Chamber 's report says : It is widely admitted that there was something radically wrong with our economic system . It was palpably absurd that nations should be desperately anxious to export more of their real wealth to other nations than they received in return . It was equally absurd that men in want of the necessaries of life should be denied the money with which to buy them because there was a superabundance of those necessaries and therefore their services were not required to make more . . . . This report , half of which might have been quoted from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finance , the international struggle for markets , the folly of poverty amidst plenty and the international economic anarchy which produced the war itself . But the Chamber goes farther than such generalities , however novel . It endorses a system of blocked credits so that goods can be sold or purchased abroad without exchange of gold or currency , the producer State paying the producing firm in its own currency and establishing a credit in the State of the consumer . And vice versa . In short , international barter of the same kind made famous by Nazi Germany under Dr. Schacht and the cause of many of the diatribes against the Third Reich under the rubric of " You Ca n't Do Business with Hitler . " Nor is the London Chamber alone in this respect . The Federation of British Industries looks forward to the necessity of what amounts to the same thing ? " directive imports . " This marks a revolutionary change of attitude toward the international trade system by which Britain grew powerful . But it is no more revolutionary than the new attitude toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Federation of British Industries report says , " Finance should be the servant of industry , not its master . " The London Chamber finds the results of the financial system " devastating . " Mr. Samuel Courtauld , the rayon king , published his views on the economic set-up in the Economic Journal for April , 1942 . He said that the " interests of finance arc not identical with those of productive industry ? manufacturers feel that the financial institutions resemble bandits levying toll in a narrow defile through which all traders are bound to pass . " Courtauld is equally harsh with stock-exchange trading , competitive salesmanship , and advertising ? all of which he regards as economic waste . Courtauld belongs to a discussion club of industrialists and public figures called the Walpole Group . These men hail the advent of works councils , damn the bureaucracy , speak well of union labor , attack the banks , praise planning , and tend to place the interests of management over ownership . They undoubtedly represent the " left wing " of industry , although they seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Industries Association , a recent rival to the Federation of British Industries . The EIA draws many of its members from the smaller , uncartelized firms . One of the bonds which unite them is their angry opposition to the present provisions of the Excess Profits Tax , which favor old , established , big business as against new and more independent firms . But they have other ideas than their pocketbooks . They want " economic planning , " an " Economic General Staff , " and measurement of production , not in financial terms , but in terms of horsepower , output per man-hour and per square foot of factory space . I attended a meeting of the Engineering Industries Association when members applauded Sir William Beveridge , who said : Private enterprise at private risk was a good ship and a ship that had brought us far . But it was a ship for fair weather and open seas . For the ice-bound straits of war and in finding a way out of them , a vessel of a different , sturdier build was needed . In any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to employ others at a wage in using those means , whatever might be said for it or against it on other grounds , could not be described as an essential liberty of the British people . Not more than a tiny fraction of British people had ever enjoyed that right . Quite obviously , business , or an important part of business , is changing its skin . The middle classes too have joined the parade . Since the war two figures , J. B. Priestley ( novelist and popular radio commentator ) and Sir Richard Acland ( former Liberal M.P . and a Christian Socialist ) , have drawn to them large middle-class followings . The middle classes have undergone quite a shaking . High income taxes , liquidation of many small businesses , loss of peacetime jobs have sent many individuals who had a small , insecure stake in the old system into the desert reviling the ancien regime . The vituperations of Priestley on the " wireless " and the excited oratory of Sir Richard ( " He 's suffering from the delusion that he 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform have fcd their frustrations . These two protagonists recently joined forces and called their combined organizations Common Wealth . Their candidates have won two recent by-elections . I met Acland and attended a meeting of Common Wealth . Acland has an impressive religious fervor and a desire to rehabilitate his country , which seem , however , somewhat out of proportion to his political maturity . The meeting at which he and other leaders spoke was attended by several hundred delegates , mostly of the middle class . Many were of the type of intellectual who reads Penguin Books and who could have been found in all sorts of meetings from Labor to Communist in the past decade . Others looked like provincial units of the " nonconformist conscience " ? the kind who have discussion groups in dull little cities in Lancashire . Priestley told them , " We do not want classes , we want one class . We 've got to get rid of the motheaten remains of a fancy-dress ball . " Wintringham ( a former Communist ) spoke of the " frustration of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to end it . Vernon Bartlett ( famous journalist M.P. ) said the only way to win the war against fascism was " by making fundamental changes . " There was not a little denunciation of Churchill for backing " vested interests . " But the bark was worse than the bite . The program that emerged from the meeting would probably disappoint a thoroughgoing leftist . It contains no advocacy of " socialism " as such , nor denunciation of " capitalism . " Common Wealth wants : " common ownership of inefficiently run industries " ; establishment of works councils ; elimination of " civil service red tape " ; freedom of expression ; repudiation of " revenge against enemy countries " ; postwar planning for full employment ; a " civilized living standard for everyone " ; and a " greater equality of work , pay , and opportunities . " Perhaps as good an expression ofwhat the disillusioned middle class wants as any . Common Wealth is a lively , healthy influence in the British scene . Its middle-class following may get lost in the desert or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a force . The Labor Party ca n't afford to indulge in any such platform saturnalia as that of Common Wealth . After all , they form part of the Government and their official leaders respect a party truce with the Conservatives . Hence the Labor Party report is hardly a colorful document . Its main plans are as follows : " planned production , " " employment for all , " social services , workers to " share in the rules under which they work " ( works councils ) , " higher standard of living , " public ownership of coal mines and railways ; aggressor powers must be " disarmed and kept disarmed . " But there is no mention of the " class struggle , " no international working-class ideology , nor revival of the Second International . Perhaps this understates the unofficial attitude of labor , as distinct from the party . Labor has a new consciousness of strength , a new determination to better its lot now and after the war . But for the present it is unwilling to formulate its plans in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ striking aspect of these plans , from Right to Left , is their comparative identity . Business men , middle classes , workers ? all agree on works councils , the inefficiency of the civil service , the subordination of finance , postwar planning , etc . When they differ the differences are not insurmountable . The Labor Party wants public ownership of coal mines and railways , two measures which command support in some capitalist circles . Both could be carried out by a conservative administration on lines similar to those of the London Transport Board ( a profit-making corporation under public control ) . The Right , in short , is saying different things to-day , while on the Left the same old things are being said under different alignments . This , then , is the Bright New World as projected by the composite wish-imagination of the British people . As is evident , it is not formulated in the terms of Moscow . Yet it departs widely from the old prewar order . Whether with enthusiasm or resignation , the general expectancy is for the establishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines after the war . But what are the real , practical chances of attaining these objectives economically and politically ? III rpo AN American liberal the above picture shines with the rosiest colors . Business , or an important part of it , is seeing the light and will co-operate toward a commonwealth of abundance ; the middle classes , often more resistant to change than business , enjoy a similarly forward-looking attitude ; and labor has renounced class hatred and demands little more than does business . After the war , therefore , Britain should be able to establish something near to utopia . Unfortunately , this is n't so certain . Americans forget that Britain operates on different economic laws than the United States does . To paraphrase what Hitler said about Germany , Britain must export , import , and lend money abroad ? or die . An economy based on foreign trade and loans suffers from limitations which do not hold for America , with her superb home market and natural resources . Britain before the war had to import about three-fourths of her food . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came from beyond her borders . Britain is an industrial nation of forty-six million on an island precariously dependent on maritime and financial lifelines . The British economic picture must be fully grasped before conclusions about her future can he drawn . The crux lies in that inexorable international balance of payments ? a problem which the average Briton understands as well asthe average American understands mass production and the mass market . The basis of this balance is that Britain for over a century has imported more goods than she exported . But she was enabled to offset these imports and balance the books by " invisible exports . " For instance , in 1913 British imports exceeded exports by ? 158 million . ( These imports were food and raw materials , part of which she consumed in processed goods and the other part of which she exported for sale . ) But overseas investments yielded a reve- nue of ? 210 million . In addition , there were other revenues ? from shipping , insurance , commissions , and short-term loans . When all was totted up , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 181 million . The " invisible " exports ? shipping , insurance , loans ? turned the tide . It has been axiomatic that this general balance must be maintained if Britain is to survive . But 1913 was a good year . Thereafter followed cloudy weather . After the war Britain found that she had lost many of her markets for goods to Japan , to the United States , and later to Germany . Also the United States cut into her preserve of money fending . By 1931 Britain 's income from foreign Ioans ? E250 million in 1928 ? had dropped to ? 170 million . Because the depression had hit Britain 's foreign trade , the excess of imports over exports rose from ? 352 million in 1928 to ? 468 million in 1931 . As a result Britain for the first time showed a staggering deficit of ? 104 million . Heroic measures abandonment of the gold standard , retrenchment , conversion of the national debt , protective tariffs , etc. ? brought surcease from this acute attack . The deficit of ? 104 million in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became a plus ? 33 million in 1935 . Deficits appeared again in the years before this war , because of abnormal imports for rearmament . But nothing has fundamentally changed this hard-and-fast economic law by which Britain so far has survived . In view of this picture there are Cassandras in Britain to-day who lift a warning finger when enthusiasts paint a picture of lush postwar abundance . Sir Ernest Berm points out that in reality three-fourths of British food is obtained by ( 1 ) investments , ( 2 ) financial , shipping , and business services , and ( 3 ) exports . He continues : Our three life-lines , for that is what they are , have been badly strained . Our investments have been depleted to satisfy " cash and carry . " Our income from financial services has shrunk to the shadow of its former self from Government control , here and elsewhere , of currencies and exchanges . We have encouraged other countries to develop the manufacture of armaments and thus prepared new difficulties for ourselves when we desire to resume the export of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been put in grave jeopardy . The facts are not in dispute . We shall undoubtedly be able with hard work , hard living , and good will , to recover some part of our income from financial and shipping services and also from exports , but it will be some generations before our investment income can be restored to pre-war proportions . . . By what process of magic can a better standard of living be extracted from the disappearance of a great part of our capital invested abroad ? Is this warning justified ? Sir Ernest , as a matter of fact , may even understate the case . Will the immense industrial plant built during the war in countries which have been Britain 's customers be scrapped after the war to make way for British goods again ? Will Britain ever retrieve her financial income in a " lend-lease " world obviously turning from finance to barter ? In truth , many British planners have reservations . At the EIA meeting described above , I heard a number of the members arrive at the conclusion that unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a very tough time after the war . " Cooperation " obviously means sharing markets and lowering American protective tariffs . The Federation of British Industries in its report insists on the necessity for Anglo-American co-operation but admits that " the opinions of our two great countries are so divergent that they will not be easy to reconcile . " Even sobuoyant a reformer as Acland admits that it will be difficult to maintain the prewar standard of living , much less raise it , after the war . Priestley 's view is more dramatic : " But who has been saying that we were all going to be rich ? The first point is not whether we are going to be rich or poor , but whether we are going to be a mass of selfish , grabbing , grumbling , dreary individuals or a people with a purpose , co-operating for the common good . I like my creature comforts , but I am prepared to live on rations for the rest of my life so long as I am one of a community that is creating a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the postwar picture is rarely formulated realistically or in detail . But the following is a summary , pieced together from various published statements and private conversations , of what planners are forecasting : At first , when the war ends , troops will remain mobilized , industry will continue to produce arms , controls such as rationing , labor draft , etc. , will be maintained . Gradually these will be relaxed as civilian needs open up . The standard of living , true , will be lower than before the war . But the people have become accustomed to this standard during the war . Besides , they will have an extension of social services ( workers ' canteens , public health service , etc . ) . But most important of all , there will be an effort to guarantee workers full employment throughout the year , to protect them from the dreaded layoffs which had been a feature of an industry dependent on the capricious tides of foreign trade . As one business man put it to me , " If a worker is sure of about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophic about inroads on his personal freedom and standard of living . " For all this , the taxpayer will foot the bill . Interest and dividends will taper off and the rentier may disappear . Controls may last ten years after the war . " They may even , " remarked one economist , " become permanent . " This is an untinted picture , then , of how Britain will enter the postwar era : It is evident that planners from right to left anticipate a lower standard of living and continuation , perhaps indefinitely , of wartime economic controls . But will the human factor be so easily adjusted to this process ? Ivor Brown observes , " In wartime a Socialist economy without a Socialist state of mind is possible because the stimulus to effort is made of the foeman 's steel . But later on the individualist psychology which has for centuries been natural to Britons will begin to reassert itself . " Expectancy of release from controls after the war ends may bring sharp disillusionment . " By raising hopes that can never he realized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World-mongers are simply preparing trouble for the future . " Such a disillusionment of course may have strong political repercussions . But since the tempo of British change has usually been gradual and Britain has historic political adeptness in cushioning social shocks , the situation may not prove as bad as Sir Ernest prcdicts . Let us see what are the resources of British politics for meeting this challenge . Iv B RITAIN has for centuries been an essentially political country . In war and crisis Britain has always found her most effective expression in orthodox political channels . How , therefore , will this new order be consummated within the framework of Parliament ? And what party is likely to perform the task ? Logically , it should be the historic role of the Labor Party to bring it about . Yet in the present situation the Labor Party has appeared timid and compromising . The one man thrown up in the political scene by the war was Sir Stafford Cripps . But Cripps ' star has waned rapidly owing , it seems , more to his compromises with Conservatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So flaccid is the party that two figures like the eloquent Aneuran Bevan and the " braintruster " Harold Laski are regarded , not as the forces they deserveto be , but as Hotspur and pundit respectively . It would look as if ? to quote a Fleet Street wit ? the Labor Party lived in dread of two things , socialism and power . One basic reason for this lies in the fact that the Labor Party lacks new blood and , unlike the Conservative Party , discourages its introduction . An analysis of the age composition of the two parties in Parliament brings this out clearly : In short , while the largest proportion of Laborites are in their fifties , the largest proportion of Conservatives are in their forties . The Conservatives have a more virile membership in political life . But while more youthful and vigorous , there is no evidence that the Conservative Party will be responsive to the shouts of the followers of Common Wealth , or to the feelings of the lathe workers who talk affectionately of " Uncle Joe . " The composition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in effect a sort of caucus of the back-bench-erg or the body of the Tory Party in the House of Commons ? the men who do not hold office in the generously sized Cabinet . The leaders of the Committee include a member of Lloyd 's bank , a director of the LINER railway , and another man who figures on directors ' lists of many companies . Consequently its rock-ribbed conservatism has come into play at various times . In the 1931-32 crisis it helped bring about the reactionary means test and drastic economies . Within the past six months it is credited with killing the fuel rationing plan , which was opposed by big business interests . The best expression of its temper comes from the Sccrctary of the Committee , who said , " We made a stand on the case of fuel rationing , and I 'm sure we were right . A good many left-wingers have seized the opportunity to prepare for a revolution after the war . They seize every opportunity to force nationalization on industry with the excuse that it will help the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are tired of all left-wing propaganda . " In short , the body of the Tory Party in Parliament seems to be representative rather of the old financial and vested business interests than of the younger , virile , and more forward-looking elements of the ruling class . Realizing the inadequacy of the two old parties , many have hoped for the emergence of a real third party . They have therefore watched with keen interest a new development in British political life , the Independent movement . This movement has arisen from dissatisfaction with the political truce between Labor and Conservative parties in by-elections . ( If the incumbent is Labor , then Conservatives do not contest , and vice versa . ) Within the past year Independents have entered these by-elections and won four seats . This is impressive , in as much as they bad to face the continued hostility of the two party machines . Unfortunately , the Independents are not united , nor have they a single coherent political program . Their force is spent when they enter Westminster . The Independent movement represents less a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to force the old parties to take hold , than a reflection of a rebellious public mood . The nature of this mood does not bode well for either new or old parties . For it is charged with skepticism about the effectiveness of parliamentary government . A liberal independent , Vernon Bartlett , at the Common Wealth meeting , referred to Parliament as " out ofdate . " The Walpole Group and the Association of Chambers of Commerce want a " Council of Industry " ( composed of labor , industry , and commerce ) . This is not a conscious borrowing from the Italian Corporate State . It is the result of a natural and indigenous doubt about parliamentary government . A business man said to me , " The economic system has become so complicated that I do n't know how the old system of government can deal with it . " The masses feel that way too . A worker remarked to me , " I do n't know who my M.P . is and do n't care . But I know my shop steward . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two old parties as one , as the " Old Gang . " Observers now note with concern that almost a whole generation has become " de-politicized . " The last general election took place seven years ago . A few weeks ago Parliament prolonged its life for another year . There are now millions of English men and women who have never voted in a general election . Before another comes along , most voters under thirty will have had no relation to any political party . There is of course no such melodramatic alternative as a " man on horseback " to attract these drifting voters . But those who hold precious the parliamentary system have reason to feel apprehensive about its future in Britain . This is a disturbing situation . For Parliament was last elected in 1935 , on issues now irrelevant and obsolete . It is quite unrepresentative of the people today . Even a general election to-day might fail to bring Parliament into line with the people . For it would be fought on an out-of-date electoral register , when some five million men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have migrated to newer industrial areas . Thus the machinery of democracy is at its most imperfect to cope with a situation which would tax democracy at its best . Democracy elsewhere has succumbed to fascism under the stress of a political breakdown and the revolt of a liquidated middle class . If this be the situation , if her political as well as her economic resources are ebbing , where then lies Britain 's hope ? V rTIHERE are two schools of thought in Britain about the reaction of public opinion to change . One school , a bit on the cynical side , believes that everything can be " fixed " by the ruling classes , that public opinion in England is malleable without serious repercussions , when artfully worked on by a chorus of press , Parliament , and public figures . The other school thinks that public opinion is a really independent force and that it is dangerous to try to " fix " things . Whatever the truth , the fact that there is a debate about the matter points to a very uncertain factor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians in England are scrutinizing anxiously . The stage is now set for political changes . Churchill 's hold on the people has been slipping . The ruling classes dread the repercussions if workers believe that the Government has let down " Uncle Joe . " Even if the tide of war has turned against Germany , as many think , the war will have entered a new phase and will need new leaders . Already politicians in Whitehall are saying that what is needed to beat Hitler is not a " strong man " ( aide Churchill ) but a strong Cabinet . ( They cite the example of the Napoleonic wars ; Napoleon was n't beaten by Pitt but by a colorless premier , Lord Liverpool , with a strong Cabinet . ) But all hesitate before such changes . They are wondering what effect it would have on people 's morale . Now the morale of the British people in the fight against Hitler remains unimpaired . Except for inconsiderable minorities , there is at present no sentiment for a negotiated peace , or appeasement , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the " apathy " of the British people . When analyzed , this " apathy " does n't appear asany surrender in the military fight against Hitler ; if Hitler started another blitz period he would find the hearts of Britons triple-brass as they were in 1940-41 . The " apathy " springs rather from the fact that the urge to fight is n't well integrated with the social process of change and is n't well expressed by the leaders . It is one of the great drawbacks of Churchill that he is still living in the eighteenth century so far as the great wave of revolution sweeping the world is concerned . No public leader has come forward able to inspire all classes with a common ideological goal in consonance with the movement of the world . In this lies the explanation of the " Russian " trend in Britain . Stephen Spender describes this very well : The idea in the minds of the people who are not communists , but who are most enthusiastic about the struggle of the Soviet Union to-day , is a more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be . The essential point is that we should have faith in ourselves . Few people would say that we want to imitate the Soviet system ; though many would say we want " something along Russian lines . " This is because they feel the necessity of faith ; and they regard as the indispensable condition of faith ? unity . Unity , I think , and not freedom . He quotes further a remark heard in a pub , " The Russians may be being kidded , but at least they believe that they 've got something worth fighting for . We may have something worth fighting for in reality , but we have n't any faith . " Here lies the real hope in the British situation ? transcending parties and programs . The British people must forge a new faith . It must be a faith grounded in economic realities and infused with a new spirit . This spirit should be one of sacrifice , of preparation for harder work , for more arduous efforts to replace the losses and transform the injuries which the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a brave one . But no one can doubt that the British people , with their great store of moral and cultural riches , will fully meet this challenge . 