@@475216

IN WHATEVER terms the proposition is put , everybody seems to agree that the greatest hope for the postwar world is a higher standard of living for all . An acquaintance who visited the New York World 's Fair has described to me the great General Motors exhibit called " Highways and Horizons " and the immensely long queues of spectators waiting impatiently for admission . If those spectators had been asked whether they wanted a higher standard of living , some of them , perhaps , might have wondered what you meant ; but there seems to have been no doubt about their enthusiasm once they were inside the General Motors Building and found themselves borne along through the darkness in upholstered chairs while spread below them was the landscape of the future with marvelous speed highways , orchards under glass , dream cities of modern architecture , and streamlined cars and busses and trucks and planes . This , by implication , was what the United States was going to be , this was the happy land which the children of the spectator could look forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all . It is not inconceivable that the landscape of the United States may come to resemble the dream of the General Motors Company , but this will never be if the passion for security that one senses onevery hand is permitted to paralyze the country . Sometimes in the open , sometimes far below the surface , there is a violent war going on between the forces of progress and the forces of security . The purpose of this article is to examine the character of the clash . OT long ago Paul G. Hoffman , chairman of the Committee for Economic Development , urged us to " strive with all our might for an increase of productivity of not less than 30 per cent " as compared with the prewar level . This echo of an almost unanimous enthusiasm for productivity does not , by itself , get us very far . An increase of 30 per cent in the production of corn , radio sets , terra-cotta tile , and cocktail shakers would be meaningless unless people wanted to increase their purchases of these articles at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be presented if average individual income rose by 30 per cent after the war . The new purchases which people would make would be distributed over a wide range of goods and services . Some persons might want twice as many clothes as they used to buy ; some others might want larger houses with more bathrooms ; still others might want to go to twice as many concerts as before . But there would be few , even among the poorest , who would care to eat twice as much as they had been accustomed to eat . If Mr. Hoffman 's 30 per cent is to have any useful meaning it must therefore be interpreted as an average covering the widest diversity in rates of expansion for some businesses and contraction for others . In some businesses there would be relatively little increase ; in others , where low-quality goods are dropped by persons who can now afford better ones , there would be a decrease ; in others there would be varying degrees of expansion . Talk about increased production and a rising standard of living is actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the various enterprises which constitute the national economic system . This is nothing new . The whole of economic history is marked by such changes . Sometimes the change is violent , as in war , when so much labor and capital is rapidly shifted to military production . Sometimes the change is gradual , as , for example , the steady decrease throughout American history in the proportion of the population engaged in agriculture and the corresponding increase in the proportion of those employed in industry or who earn their living by providing various services . If , in the postwar period , an attempt is made to shift back from military to civilian production and to increase the nation 's average productivity by 30 per cent ? more or less ? the problems encountered are going to be very considerable . It would help if a picture could be drawn of what our economy will look like . What proportion of the working population will be engaged in producing food , in manufacturing automobiles and refrigerators , or in providing the numerous services which in recent years have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions can not be answered precisely , but a useful impression can be formed of the trends that will inevitably develop in the important fields of economic activity . It will become clear that there can be no progress if , at the same time , an attempt is made to freeze the economy in any structural pattern ; it will be clear that some businesses will have to retrench or fold up entirely while others expand ; that manypersons will have to shift from familiar occupations to new and strange ones . It will be possible to get a rough idea of those who stand to lose ? in the short run , at least ? as a result of these changes and will therefore resist them . Finally , it will be clear how important it is that both private action and public policy assist these changes rather than obstruct them , as has so often happened in the past . Is there , at bottom , any justification in expecting an overall increase in production ? Numerous persons doubt it , regarding such an increase as a promoter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the belief ? despite all the losses of the war ? that the long-term trend of increasing production and rising income levels can be resumed . But it can not be resumed unless the character of the changes necessary in the structure of our economy is understood . And the current controversies between the " planners " and the champions of " free enterprise " obscure and hinder any such understanding . The real point at issue is , or ought to be , which form of organization is most likely to encourage the varying rates of expansion and contraction of production and keep them moving toward an overall increase of productive activity . Many people think that the growing burden of debt is a sufficient reason to discount any optimism . War debts are certainly troublesome things , and their indirect effects , through the transfer of income by means of taxation and through their repercussions upon monetary policy , may so clog the machinery for increasing production as to make realities fall far short of possibilities . But the burden of debt does not involve any net subtraction from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The process of redistribution may stimulate some people to increase their contribution to national income ; others may find their energies sapped and their eagerness diminished . However , the so-called burden of debt need not prevent us from achieving increased production and higher standards of living , so long as the essential elements are present upon which increased production depends . The most important of these is the knowledge which enables us to control and make use of our material environment . In the early stages of economic history most human effort was devoted to agricultural occupations . Science was primitive , people were poor , and capital for trying out new ideas was scarce . Most of the money was spent on food and simple necessities , and the production of these things provided most of the jobs . The Malthusian population pressure was a real thing , and technical improvements were urgently needed as a safeguard against the constant threat of famine . The era of manufacture and industry ? which began in England toward the end of the eighteenth century ? changed the character of production and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ textile and iron and steel products ; revolutionary improvements in the technique of agriculture at the same time made it possible for a smaller fraction of the population to feed the whole people . In due course , and in the same way , the refinement of manufacturing methods made it possible for the current requirements of the people for many goods to be satisfied by the labors of a smaller fraction of the working population . Later ? with the growth of great cities like London , New York , Sydney , Buenos Aires , and Yokohama ? an increasing share of the community 's resources came to be devoted to services of various kinds and to what had previously been regarded as luxuries . Such luxuries include everything from public education and municipal garbage removal to scientific research , permanent waves , the arts , and amusement parks . Recognition of the economic importance of these and other services has been strangely delayed , but during the interwar period the census returns from all countries with high standards of living showed clearly that a large part of the population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these fields is extremely varied , as is the return on capital investment . The demand for some of them is uncertain and ephemeral , and many people deplore the standards of taste which some of these " services " satisfy . But the important fact is that they represent the growing-points of modern economic systems , and healthy and steady development for the economy as a whole inevitably depends on healthy conditions at the growing-points . These trends in economic organization as outlined briefly here are what anyone would expect in a community whose income level was steadily rising . ( The poorest countries throughout the world still have the highest proportion of working population employed in producing bare necessities . ) As income increases an ever larger portion of it is naturally devoted to industrial products , and as income rises further the economic importance of things previously regarded as luxuries becomes very great . Countries which have the highest standards of living ought to pay increasing attention to the production of the amenities of life . These are the changes which in the past have been the essence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if material progress is to continue in the future . THAT are the obstacles in the way of further development along these lines ? The main obstacle is the fact that while most people want to enjoy the advantages of a higher income , many are afraid of the insecurity which often seems to be associated with the process of raising the general income level . Throughout the whole of economic history there has been a succession of transfers of the resources of production from one type of work to another . Carriages and wagons are doomed when the automobile appears , and those who have jobs or investments in carriages bitterly resist the change . Some , of course , recognize the inevitable and jump while the jumping is good . However unanimous the feeling may be that increased production and a higher standard of living after the war are highly desirable , it is an ironical fact that the chief fear of the future is that there will be unemployment on a grand scale . Where are the jobs to come from ? Obviously the biggest part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural , industrial , and manufacturing enterprises ? where the productivity of machinery has been so enormously expanded and where the changes effected by applied science have been most profound ? to the service industries , professions , and trades . Against any such transfer are : 1 . The inertia of many of those thousands who are past their youth and no longer have the adaptability which they had when young . 2 . The vested interests of those whose fortunes depend upon the maintenance of what , in many instances , are outmoded forms of production . 3 . The vested interests of those who have jobs in trade unions , trade associations , political organizations , and other groups whose reasons for being are these same outmoded forms . This opposition can and will exert very great pressure against change . Anyone who presses upon our attention any general economic policy should be urged to explain how he proposes to handle this opposition . In the past such changes brought bankruptcies in their train and doubtless they will again . It is easy to tell an individual farmer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Wales that he ought to abandon his farm and prepare to earn his living as a member of an orchestra or as an employee of a rapidly expanding aviation company . For many individuals such a change is quite impossible . But the problem in real life is seldom so impossibly difficult as this illustration might suggest ? as has been shown during the present war , in which men from the farms have piled into the aircraft plants and men from a dozen trades and professions have gone to work in precision instrument factories . If it is impossible for a middle-aged coal miner to adapt himself to the requirements of an aviation company , it may be quite easy for his son . It would be misleading to suppose that any unwillingness of wage-earners to change their jobs is the main obstacle to material progress . Some men hate to move , of course , but in the United States , anyway , the alacrity with which people will migrate to better themselves is proverbial . On August 16 , 1943 , Life published a photograph of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment . All told , the family was earning $50,000 a year ! No ; the responsibility for resistance to structural change may be much morefairly placed upon the shoulders of the controllers of capital investment ? a group in which government has a strong representation and influence now ? than upon the wage-earners whom they employ . It is not only the man who tries to protect an obsolete investment who blocks the path to progress ; much more dangerous are those who ( whether they be manufacturers , labor leaders , or whatever ) , having got an early start in performing some scarce and highly paid service , presently attempt to bar the field to later comers . People hate to give up privileges and , unless they are checked , they will take steps to hinder or completely prevent the adjustments necessary if the potentialities of economic progress are to be realized . Monopolistic resistance to changes in economic structure is a commonplace . All of us have heard of the purchase and suppression of inventions by corporations whose product is threatened ; all of us know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resistances go a great deal deeper . For the higher income groups , material progress of a general character often demands significant changes in some of the elements of real income to which traditionally they have come to attach great importance . These changes are annoying to them , and if they feel that the loss of certain customary personal conveniences is inadequately compensated by the increased opportunities for the enjoyment of new things , they will probably add the weight of their influence to the other resistances to structural adaptation . Personal services , for example , traditionally have been paid at low rates . Cheap personal services are always most abundantly available in countries with a low general level of income . Unskilled labor , male or female , is relatively plentiful in such communities , whereas in wealthier countries there are numerous alternative outlets for low-paid labor , whose price thus tends to rise . In normal times the proportion of working women employed in domestic service in the United States is only half the corresponding proportion in Great Britain . This is not a matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material progress of this country . If the general income level rises , wealthy people accustomed to a great deal of personal service soon begin to complain that they can not get what they want , or indeed , as they are apt to put it , what they ought to have . During the war we have heard of people regretting the " good old days " of the Great Depression , when personal services were abundant and cheap ! Such complaints are really identical with complaints that production is becoming more efficient , for that is the most significant explanation of rising incomes . The amount of time spent by members of the middle classes in all highly developed countries in discussions of " the servant problem " is merely a reflection of a widespread social outlook which finds it difficult to stomach the inevitable consequences of material progress . From many people with great economic and political influence , material progress demands significant changes in their mode of life . Some would find the changes , once made , quite agreeable . But timid people often dislike the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successfully resist the structural changes which the economic system needs , they are at the same time checking the general improvement in standards of living which ought to be the normal consequence of scientific and technical progress . III A PROGRESSIVE and healthy economic system requires a steady flow of resources into types of economic activity which less wealthy economies can not afford . The growing-points of the economy must be invigorated by new investment and expanding employment . But this means insecurity for some people , and seems to mean insecurity for many more . Security can not be attained by frantically clutching at it and sitting tight . If we sacrifice progress we usually find , and without having to wait very long , that security itself has also eluded us . These are not new problems , but they seem to have become more acute in our own time . " For the past ten or twenty years , " as Thurman Arnold said in a speech to the Economic Club somemonths ago , " and I do n't blame this on the Democrats because I have heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other source , we have been obsessed with the economics of security . We have been thinking of stabilizing profits , keeping a fool from losing his money , social security , ironing out depressions , creating a situation where anybody who remained sober and did n't run off with somebody else 's wife was assured of a comfortable old age . " This obsession with security has been carried so far that some people have elaborated a theory of a " mature economy " to explain the slowing-down of the normal processes of economic development which had been characteristic of the last century and a half . It is , of course , both true and important that an " advanced " economy necessarily differs in many important respects from a more " primitive " one , but analogies based on the life history of individuals are in this connection quite misleading . The character and quality of our economic growth must be different in the future from what it has been in the past , but when we observe the low standards of living which still prevail among many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is difficult to take seriously the suggestion that normal growth must from now on inevitably slow down . The exponents of the mature economy theory frequently seek a way out through programs of public works . In certain circumstances there is much to be said for public works , as . a subordinate instrument of policy , but it betrays a woeful ignorance of the real economic possibilities of the modern world to put them in the forefront of our policy . For this means that , despairing of the possibility of organizing the production of things which consumers would be eager to buy , we fall back on the production of things which , though they are sometimes quite useful in themselves , no one is very anxious to have . The decline in the rate of population growth has something to do with our reluctance to encourage structural change ? for when population is comparatively stable there is less likelihood that the necessary structural changes can be made merely by slowing down the rate of entry into certain occupations . But this factor is not so important as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the obsession with corporate and personal security , which is the natural consequence of the depression years and their violent fluctuations in employment . Mr. Ernest Bevin , the British Minister of Labor and National Service , has gone so far as to say that his war aim is summed up in the phrase , " The motive of our life must be social security . " The longing for security has always been with us , of course ; but it has now become a much more significant factor in economic and political life than formerly because those who emphasize security now know , or think they know , how to attain it . The fundamental question remains , however , whether these devices can be effective for anything more than the short run . Is it possible to allay the natural apprehensions of those who fear that economic change may harm or even ruin them without at the same time checking the structural changes which our economic system must undergo if the people as a whole are not to be condemned to unnecessarily low standards of living ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of privileged groups ? It is from this point of view that the claims of both the planners and the supporters of private enterprise should be assessed . Before we approve of any planner 's program , we ought to examine with a highly critical eye the possibility that planning may be used merely to bolster up traditional positions and therefore to impede necessary processes of adjustment . Such a policy can not succeed , for the power of technical progress is too great to be kept permanently in check . The effort to impose a stability which runs counter to the adjustments demanded by progress may , however , build up a rigid economy whose ultimate disruption ? when the effort finally fails , as fail it must ? will also destroy the security which has been the immediate objective . But our suspicion of " plans " should not lead us to accept protestations of devotion to " private enterprise " as a guarantee that essential structural changes will not be resisted . Some of the most vociferousclamorers for free enterprise are interested only in free enterprise for themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the labor ( on a tidy basis convenient to themselves ) ? which would be no less damaging to progress than some forms of the planning which they so vigorously oppose . The emphasis should be placed less on " privacy , " with the opportunities which privacy has already too often given for restriction of production and obstruction of necessary adaptations , and much more on " enterprise " ? that is , on the prompt acceptance of new techniques and the readiness to assist those transfers of resources which expansion entails . From this point of view there is often little to choose between the planners and the supporters of private enterprise . Both are aiming to protect everyone from the changes which the advance of science will make inevitable . Such tactics will serve only to arrest progress and dam up vital economic forces until at last they break through the obstructions and the whole concern bursts . It is not only hard , it is also arrant folly to kick against the pricks . Struggle as we may against the adjustments which a changing world imposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If we refuse to accept them and attempt to freeze an existing situation , we shall presently find the whole machinery slowing down or falling to pieces . IV TN THE nature of things , no simple clear- cut remedy can be offered which we could pretend would clear up all these difficulties . Action must be taken simultaneously on many fronts . To many ardent supporters of particular remedies , the scriptural injunction may appropriately be applied , " These ye ought to have done , and not left the other undone . " The forces of resistance to structural adaptations in our economy arc so powerful that no useful device for countering them can safely be neglected . Here we shall mention only two or three outstanding points . In the first place , the problem of " social security " can not be seen in proper perspective unless we have firmly fixed in our minds the argument here outlined . The adjustments demanded by the public interest carry with them obvious risks for certain individuals and groups . The days are past when intelligent people could regard unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is often the innocent victim of trends and changes quite outside his control . But while the case is strong for measures against the risk of being sacrificed in the public interest , the form and purpose of such measures will be quite different according as we think in narrow terms of provisional aid until " recovery " ? i.e. until things improve and everyone is right back where he used to be ? or in the wider terms of maintaining a flexible and healthy economy by continuously encouraging the development of new kinds of work . We will get nowhere ? and incidentally fail to get " social security " ? if we aim first at stabilizing progress . The proper approach is to put progress in the forefront of our thinking and action , and then to provide supplementary measures for those who are unfairly penalized in the process . The second point is the importance of educational policy as a constructive element in economic development . Extensions of education have frequently been more or less forced by the pressure of economic changes . Widespread illiteracy is obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tasks demands that he be able to read and write . This , of course , is a very low ground on which to put a case for universal primary education , but even on this low plane , the increases in production which scientific advances and increased demand for services will make possible simply can not occur without a more widespread dissemination of higher educational facilities than even the most advanced countries today provide for their citizens . If a rapidly progressing economy needs considerable additions to the ranks of its musicians , medical men , and other purveyors of skilled personal services , our educational policy must be molded to make possible a larger supply of these people . Unless a larger proportion of the population is trained to understand and use new industrial and agricultural techniques , we can not hope to make the most of our opportunities in industry and agriculture . The social resistances discussed earlier are often a clogging influence at this point . Some ten years ago a minister of the Crown in New Zealand expressed his doubts about the wisdom of furthcr extensions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secondary education , " who , then , " he asked , " would do the dirty work ? " This obstructive attitude is widespread elsewhere , though seldom so clearly and crudely expressed . We can not seriously claim to favor higher standards of living unless we are prepared to face and overcome such resistances . Finally ? and this above all ? there can be no progress if special interests ? government or private ? are allowed to check the expansion of investment in enterprises which produce goods and services that people with rising incomes would be likely to want in increasing quantities . It is impossible here to deal adequately with the many intricate technical questions involved in determining the best methods of preventing monopolistic restrictions . It is unlikely that any single method will be suitable in all economies or even in all parts of a single economy . In Great Britain it has been urged that monopolistic organizations and cartels would become less dangerous if they were granted statutory authority to exclude or control potential competitors in return for submission to some kind of public supervision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt in the confident expectation that they themselves could , in the last resort , control the supervisors . No doubt there arc interested parties in the United States who feel exactly the same way and , in some quarters , the " inevitability " of the extension of international cartels after the war is often discussed . The demand for authorized monopolies does n't at present attract open support in the United States , but it was not so long ago that many business men welcomed the opportunity afforded by the NRA to control the entry of new competitors into their spheres of operations . It may not be entirely cynical to suppose that in some cases American business men forego the advantages of legislative checks on competitors because                     