@@475971

sponsibility for promoting " maximum employment , production , and purchasing power " ? in short , for preventing or at least battling with economic storms . And never before had there been anything like the Council of Economic Advisers which was created by that Act : a group of three economists whose duty it was to report to the President from time to time upon the economic weather in the United States and suggest what , if anything , ought to be done about it . The Council 's reports to Mr. Truman , made public every January and July , arouse lively interest . At present their circulation is crowding 50,000 copies and mounting . And no wonder ; for more and more they are being recognized as important economic documents , about which swirls and will swirl the perennial American debate over inflation , deflation , taxes , profits , wages , and prices . The mere fact that there is now a focus for the fierce discussion is all to the good ? a far healthier situation than existed before January 1947 , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Council on the spot . For not only is national economic diagnosis difficult , and economic forecasting perilous , but in a time of hotly conflicting economic views anybody who officially proposes a national policy is bound to be a target for assorted brickbats . The three men who occupy this exposed position , Messrs . Nourse , Keyserling , and Clark , are not very well known to the general public . But none of them is unknown to his professional brethren . And all are men of substance . In background and outlook they are distinctively different ; no one should suppose that the facade of identical views presented in the reports necessarily reflects an identity of conviction behind the scenes . The strength of the Council , indeed , is due in considerable measure to the fact that the three men are not interchangeable parts of a thinking machine . It is due also to the vast amount of information upon which they can draw . For back of them is a small corps of economists , and back of these men , in turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially in statistical form ? the Departments of Agriculture , Commerce , and Labor , the Treasury , the Bureau of the Budget , the Securities and Exchange Commission , the Federal Reserve System , and so on ? all this supplemented by the findings of private economic research enterprises of great variety . From this ocean of information the members of the Council try to distill a manageable draught of wisdom . II B tFoitt we look at the men themselves we must understand clearly what they are supposed to do and what happens when they do it ; and this brings us to the Employment Act of 1946 which established them . The Act was the response of the American Congress to a fear which gripped not only the United States but most of the rest of the world ? the fear that after the war , which had brought full employment to most of the warring nations , there would be a business collapse and a return to the dreadful chronic unemployment of the nineteen-thirties . That fear produced , within a few months of one another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United Kingdom , Australia , Canada , and other democratic countries , as well as the United States , and it resulted in the insertion of the idea of promoting full employment into the Charter of the United Nations . ( It also was responsible for a pile of books , articles , and documents , official and unofficial , so huge that no man has ingested the lot and emerged into daylight again without concluding that a little unemployment is all he himself wants for a spell . ) Our American Congress 's declaration of intent in the Employment Act of 1946 was written in a kind of economic jabberwocky and was manifestly drafted to mention everything that any Congressman might want to see included , but its drift was unmistakable : it endorsed full employment as something necessary to our national health , even if rebaptized ( with high wisdom ) " maximum employment . " To maintain it the Act provided , first of all , for a Council of Economic Advisers , set up in the Executive Office of the President ( or , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Office ) . This Council was expected " to analyze and interpret economic developments , to appraise programs and activities of the Government in the light of the policy declared . . . and to formulate and recommend national economic policy . . . . " In other words , just as many corporations now employ economists to advise their executives , so the Council was designed to advise the President and thus bring economic experts into the leadership of the nation . So far , so good . Few people will object to the theory of the Council , though many may object to the substance of its advice . Next , the Act provided that the President , having been thus advised by his Council , must prepare an Economic Report to Congress setting out a program to deal with the economic necessities of the nation , fortified by the expert advice he has received . The first of these reports was transmitted to Congress by Mr. Truman on January 8 , 1947 , in such a form that any distinction that existed between the report received by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President to Congress was rather blurred ; but as time passed that distinction has been established , so that it is now technically possible to discriminate between what the President says and what the Council says , if only by the way the document which includes both reports is made up . This is a very useful distinction even if not too firmly maintained except on paper . For much of the criticism of this whole operation revolves around the question of how far the Council operates as a body of politically aloof and intellectually independent advisers and how far it is simply a body which fortifies the President 's political leadership with a show of economic knowledge . BUT the law passed in 1946 went further than to call for reports by the Council and the President . It also provided that once these reports reach Congress , they arc to be analyzed by a Joint Committee of seven senators and seven representatives , assisted by a small staff , again including economists . This Committee is supposed to study the issues raised in the reports and to transmit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Joint Committee 's work is that , through public hearings , it provides a forum where the great issues of economic policy are threshed out by business men , labor leaders , farm leaders , economists , and others willing to speak their minds . For the hearings focus the spotlight of publicity both on what the President has proposed and also what the Council has said in its report . It is here that national economic questions can be discussed in the full glare of public attention ; and if you doubt that the glare is really intense , I suggest that you get a report of a hearing that interests you and read the verbatim record of the statements made , the questions asked by the Committee , and the answers given by economists , business men , and labor leaders . Such reports hardly make exhilarating reading ? they do not compete with good novels ? but they teach you a lot about how men differ on questions of economic policy , even men of apparently identical qualifications for judgment . Once the Joint Committee issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , which deals with them as it sees fit . There is no compulsion anywhere along the line . As things have gone during the past two years , the findings reflect the political outlook of the dominant party in the Joint Committee . Senator Taft , the first chairman , reflecting his fear of a controlled economy and what he calls socialism , gave the findings a twist quite unlike that of his successor , Senator O'Mahoney , who apparently agrees with President Truman that there really is a distinction between planning and authoritarian control . Nevertheless , the Joint Committee members do not necessarily come out exactly the same door through which they went in . If they are reasonably receptive , the chances are excellent that the experience will be educative and will stiffen their resolution to legislate at the highest possible . level of intelligence . That is a net gain for the Republic . But however that may be , it is the Joint Committee and Congress that guarantee that the reports are really taken as advice and not as orders . If Congress can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ window . In short , there is nothing authoritarian about the Council of Economic Advisers . Their advice , whatever it may be , is not only filtered through the President 's Office but further modified ? or even rejected ? by the Congressional Joint Committee , and then again by Congress . If we are to reach our objective of steady jobs for all willing and able to work in factories , farms , - stores , and offices , it will be along this road . NETRICTHELESS , the three men who make up the Council of Economic Advisers are the key men in the whole undertaking . It is they who propose , whatever may ultimately be disposed . Their ideas and the Presidential and congressional reaction to them will largely determine the government 's role in managing the economy for boom or bust . For the moment , the Council is what it has been made by Messrs . Nourse , Keyser-ling , and Clark , who have been its members continuously since their appointment in 1946 . What manner of men are they ? Edwin G. Nourse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State town sixty-five years ago and educated at Cornell and Chicago ( Ph.D. , 1915 ) . Today he is a tall , thin man whose appearance and manner are those which non-academic Americans instinctively believe to be professorial , an impression perhaps heightened by his rather ascetic cast of face and finally enforced by his use of pince-nez glasses . ( His two associates wear conventional bowed glasses and the effect is quite different . ) Dr. Nourse 's career was made in university teaching and research until his appointment to the Council . For most of his academic career he was concerned with farm economics ? chiefly at Iowa ? but latterly he spent some years with the Brookings Institution in Washington . He is a past president of both the American Economic Association and the American Farm Economic Association . Perhaps the closest he ever came to winning a popular reputation ? using the expression very relatively ? was when in 1934 he appeared as principal author of America 's Capacity to Produce , the first of three highly important Brookings studies of the American economy . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has published a number of pamphlets and a fat book on it . As chairman , Dr. Nourse appears to have functioned simply as first among equals , not as boss of the works . Yet it is definitely the feeling around the Council that his was , in the early stages at least , the dominating and perhaps the most creative influence . He chose to make haste slowly and apparently was beset by the idea that , as the whole yen ture was an experiment , it should therefore be approached experimentally . How odd such an approach would be in Washington only habitues can really appreciate , for during the New Deal days the word " experiment " was usually applied to enterprises hastily conceived , hastily executed , and revised belatedly and haphazardly if at all . And not only did Dr. Nourse put the Council together carefully as a piece of machinery , but he also was cautiously tentative about the reports , especially in defining what he felt was a proper relation between the Council members and those responsible for political policy . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In early 1947 , he wrote that the Council members should live " in the scientific atmosphere of ends-and-means analysis , not in the rarefied atmosphere of authority . " Again , a year later , in collaboration with his assistant , he wrote that the Council " is strictly an advisory body , not an administrative agency . Its advice is in terms of economics , not politics . " As we shall see , he did not succeed in fully establishing this point , which is a pity . Leon H. Keyserling , Vice Chairman , was born in South Carolina forty-one years ago . He was educated at Columbia in economics and at Harvard in law . He is not a Ph.D. , a point worth mentioning only because his two associates and his economist-assistants are . His career has been made in the government service and his record is a long one of legal work in public housing agencies , though he also served in the AAA and was for four years secretary to Senator Robert F. Wagner , as well as consultant to a wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of his known attitudes , Mr. Keyserling is regarded as the New Dealish member of the Council . In 1944 he received considerable publicity when he won the Second Award of $10,000 for a postwar employment scheme in a contest sponsored by the Pabst brewing company . While he envisaged an American Economic Committee of fifteen members in his essay , he did not specifically forecast , except in the roughest way , the setup in which he eventually came to play a part . The Committee he advocated was far more political in character than the Council was intended to be . The Pabst essay shows that he does not share Dr. Nourse 's scruples about keeping the Council on the strictly advisory level . Mr. Keyserling is an economist who is so acutely aware of politics that he is willing to participate in political battle to gain his economic aims . Nevertheless he moves in Dr. Nourse 's direction when he makes it clear that he wants to act as an economist , not as a politician per se . No pertinent conclusion is to be drawn from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council , for I have known older men who were more youthful both in appearance and manner . He is intense , radiating controlled energy . He is much concerned to establish the point that he is , in fact , a solid citizen . He obviously thinks and acts in harmony with a carefully rationalized theory of how a man in his position should think and act ; he is knowingly playing a role in a drama . He has a large olive-skinned face with rough but pleasant features , and a solid physique which lends authority to what he says . When he undertakes to justify the fact that he and Mr. Clark went to the Hill and testified before the Joint Committee , whereas Dr. Nourse , who had his own theory of the proper thing for a Council member to do , stayed away , you realize that he has at his command an exhaustive rationale of his action . Summing it all up , you are driven to conclude that Mr. Keyserling somehow typifies the thinned ranks of the reserve formation of New Deal brain-trusters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dubious fun of being conspicuous to the public . Unlike his fellows , he did not leave the government to earn a competence in private enterprise when the New Deal was sent to the archives , but stayed on , still to advise and perhaps later to administer what he feels will be the American world of the future . In his way , Mr. Keyser-ling is the most dynamic member of the Council , running on a full head of steam of conviction , and therefore also the one most likely to bring down conservative lightning on his head -- and indeed he already has done so . T HE third member of the Council is as different from the other two as they are different from each other . John D. Clark was born in Colorado sixty-four years ago and has made his career chiefly in Wyoming , Colorado , and Nebraska . He has had a more varied career than the other members . For after college training at Nebraska , Mr. Clark studied law at Columbia and for about a dozen years practiced his profession in Cheyenne , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , for years participated in politics as a Democrat . He was a delegate to the 1912 National Convention and saw William Jennings Bryan put over the nomination of Woodrow Wilson . But Mr. Clark says depreciatingly that he has never found it satisfactory to stick to one line for long , and this is borne out by the fact that after his turn at the law he used it to gain entry into the oil business during the 1920 's , rising to be vice president of Standard Oil of Indiana . This phase also lasted about a dozen years . He then shifted into academic work in the early 1930 's , taking his Ph.D . in economics at Johns Hopkins in 1931 at the age of forty-seven and serving as professor at both the University of Denver and the University of Nebraska . From the academic field he migrated to the Council . Talking to Mr. Clark ? the Dr. does not come readily to the tongue when one confronts this lawyer turned politician turned oil executive turned professor turned economic adviser ? one feels that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and yet the fact that he bothered to get a Ph.D . in middle life shows that his interest was very keen . Slight of build , moderate of stature , he has a mobile face which you feel you have seen in many interviews in many English-speaking lands . Mr. Clark strikes you as a good , average , American citizen with a Ph.D . At his desk he still handles himself more like a business man , or lawyer , than an academician ; he is definitely relaxed , not tense ; and his talk has an informality about it that reflects a good-natured and distinctly ingratiating tolerance for the foibles of mankind . Certainly he is neither a crusader nor a cautious analyst . Perhaps he should be described as a highly sophisticated politician , using the word in its broadest sense . At any rate , like Mr. Kcyscrling , he is keenly aware of the political implications of the operation in which he is engaged . But whereas Mr. Keyserling is a deeply serious man , with a strong dash of purpose in his make-up , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one as fascinated by " the game , " whether of politics or life in general , rather than troubled by visions of ultimate purpose . Yet Mr. Clark is definitely not frivolous . He simply is n't solemn . ALTHOUGH the Council has a monumental task ? nothing less than to keep you and me prosperous ? it has a remarkably short roster of employees . Excluding the three Council members , the staff numbers but thirty-four , of whom seventeen are economists , eight senior and nine junior . ( The others are clerical and administrative workers . ) The seventeen economists are grouped around four main areas of continuing study : ( 1 ) " capital needs , investment policy , and sources of funds " ; ( 2 ) " wage-price-profit relationships and policies " ; ( 3 ) the preparation of the nation 's economic budget ; and ( 4 ) " economic stabilization devices and their application . " The established method of bringing the work into focus is through informal staff committees which insure that nobody strays too far from the task he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are periodically brought into relation to practical issues . All these areas of study are selected to illuminatethe way to the ultimate objective the Council was really established to reach : a stable economy which will provide maximum employment continuously . How to reach that ultimate objective is , of course , the great economic problem of our time . Conceivably full employment could be provided in a weak and unstable economy by concentrating on feather-bedding and other make-work schemes , supplemented by the creation of pseudo-employment along early New Deal lines in periods of slump , all this supported by draining off the fat of the economy with no thought of the morrow . But properly viewed the problem is quite different : it is to discover the policies which will insure that the economy will operate at a high level of activity in such a fashion that it offers a maximum of employment of a wealth-creating character ; and , indeed , to discover policies that will not only insure stability at a high level but will also encourage the steady growth of the wealth-creating factors of the economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . First , it means encouraging adequate new investment , taking up new inventions , increasing managerial skill , increasing productivity ? in short , it means stimulating progress . Second , it also means tempering the impact of the unavoidable accidents of life , by such social security schemes as unemployment insurance , accident compensation , provisions for old age and medical care ? as well as cutting off the tops of nervous peaks of activity and the bottoms of slumps , as by price supports in agriculture ( which is something on which we have n't the answer yet ) . Progress demands flexibility in the economy . Security schemes bring rigidity to it . Thus there is a truly perpetual struggle between progress and security ; and it is sometimes a neat problem to decide where the emphasis should really fall . Meanwhile , we certainly know that our economy has a rather disconcerting record of instability , though in perspective it also shows a constant upward trend in the production of wealth and , hence , in human welfare . The task is to lessen the instability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare factors . The Council 's economists are trying , in collaboration with all who have something pertinent to say , to find the answer to this problem . This means , for one thing , that they must examine the facts and figures about the relationship widely believed to exist between capital investment and the total output of the economy , in search for an exact formula that will tell us the most fruitful relationship possible . It means , too , that they must try to find the proper balance of wages , prices , and profits which will insure both stability and progress to all hands ; that they must try to work out a kind of national balance sheet , to be called the Nation 's Economic Budget , which will show total income and total outgo , with particular concern for the kind of balance among all the entries which will insure continuous , high-level operation of the economy ; and finally , that they must try to find out which among all the many and various suggestions for inducing stability in economic affairs make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective . The seventeen economists have plenty to do . Much that they are doing has influenced and will continue to influence what goes into the semi-annual reports of the Council , though some of it ? how much proportionately is unimportant ? will be quietly dropped into convenient wastebaskets , and some more of it will come to light only when the occasion warrants . It is altogether probable , for example , that should the United States suffer the misfortune of another depression , many of the economists ' suggestions for dealing with it ? or heading it off , if it is foreseen ? will be offered by the Council on the basis of its continuing studies . If this is true , we shall not again in the United States have the spectacle which we witnessed in the nineteen-thirties of a depression being dealt with hit or miss , as wise guys of unknown qualifications got the Presidential ear . Whether that will guarantee the nation easier or quicker success remains to be seen . pE1UODICALLY the economists must shorten their perspective and help get out those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informal staff committee system . A report-drafting committee gathers memoranda from the economists and co-ordinates the stuff into a kind of omnibus draft embodying the sug-gestions . This omnibus draft is always far too long for any practical use , so the docu-ment is sent to Mr. Keyserling for editing . He it is who cuts it , usually very drastically , and perhaps rephrases some passages in a tentative way , even inserts some pet ideas of his own . It then goes back to the drafting committee , who once more weld the fragments into a readable story , and the new draft makes the circuit of the three Council members , Since the document is designedly a composite product , every effort is made to tap the wisdom of everybody attached to the Council as economist : each man has a chance to argue his points before the Council members if he likes . Nevertheless the three Council members must finally sign the report , so the released version necessarily includes compromises , omissions , and even fudgings of difficult issues . For the Council must necessarily take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined factors such as farm price supports . They can not be ivory-tower economists analyzing and prescribing in a self-created vacuum . This annoys purists of all schools . The Council 's problem is to find a defensible ground between the ivory tower and the political marketplace . It is n't easy . Critics with sharp noses have been quite successful in ferreting out their lapses from strict virtue , but on the whole there has been less of this sort of thing in the analytical , reportorial parts of the report than in the suggestions for policy for the future . Yet even with its analysis of what happened to the economy , and what is happening and may happen , the Council has run into difficulties . It is supposed to carry on consultations with interested parties in business , labor , and agriculture ; and it has found that many of the older economists , including many from business and journalism , simply will nor , or can not , accept its up-to-date terms of discourse even as a basis for the interchange of ideas . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council is one of the houris beckoning us down the road to serfdom ( a suspicion definitely not proven ) , so anything it says meets with resistance . Oddly enough , the members of the Council have found that it is easier to talk to the men actually managing businesses than to their economists , or to those who are popularly assumed to be their spokesmen in journalism , though why this should be so nobody seems quite sure . However , a little rough treatment in the press can do the Council no real harm , though it would perhaps be useful if the reports were regularly reviewed in more detail than they are today in newspapers and magazines which have financial sections . THERE are nevertheless two phases of the Council 's work which seem to me to carry us directly to issues of prime importance . Both are related more to their policy recommendations than to their reporting . The first in the matter of forecasts of the future course of the economy . Economists have a dubious record as forecasters . Testifying before the Joint Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brings me to the question of how much do we know about forecasting ? .. . I believe that as forecasters the economists have made a rather sorry record up to now . I think you can draw illustrations from any business cycle , but the two that have most interested me are , first , the general character of the predictions at the end of 1929 ; and second , the general tenor of the predictions as we approached the end of the recent war . I recall attending a joint meeting of the American Economic Association and the American Statistical Association in December of 1929 . It was the custom at these meetings ? done every year ? to have the more prominent economic forecasters give their views as to the outlook . At this meeting the most optimistic forecaster said that the depression was already over , but it would not be recognizable to the layman until February of I930 ? it was merely a stock-market crash . The most pessimistic forecaster said the depression would he over about Labor Day , 1930 . Nobody present ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I can recall ? could foresee that we were embarking upon our most serious depression , and that it would last several years . That was the state of our forecasting ability at that time . records , sounder analyses of past experience . ... But two serious difficulties are likely to remain in the forecaster 's path : first , the imperfect tendency of history to repeat itself ; second , the forecaster 's own hopes and fears about the future , which tend to insinuate themselves into his predictions , no matter how elaborate their statistical and mathematical scaffolding . Any predictions emanating from the Council should , therefore , be as well salted before inspection as predictions coming from less exalted quarters . Maybe they 'll be right , maybe they wo n't . THE second issue touches a central point about the whole enterprise from another angle . For many years it has been said that unless we manage to bring the best knowledge available to the management of public affairs , we are certain to head into disaster . And when we speak of knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social sciences . Yet the American public as a whole remains of two minds about the social sciences : they have a mild respect for the learned professors of them , but small respect for those who dare to use their alleged expertness in practical affairs . An institution like the Council is an experiment in bringing one social science ? economics ? quite near the place where basic national policies are made . It is a step in a direction that conscientious citizens have long insisted that the government should make . For if we do n't get expert advice on our problems , we are not apt to be able to keep everyone at creative work in the future ; and the appalling alternative is misery for millions of useful citizens . Better a few risks and a running , bitter debate than to do nothing . Now that the social scientists are there , how should they conduct themselves ? As has been pointed out , Dr. Nourse has one answer , Messrs . Keyserling and Clark another . Should the Council aim to deliver the President the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and let the matter rest there , leaving it up to the President ( and later the Joint Committee and Congress ) to find the political line that seems best to fit the facts as determined by the Council ? That , surely , is a highly defensible position . But Messrs . Keyserling and Clark want to do more . They want to follow through , go before the Joint Committee as witnesses at hearings on the reports , offering information about the state of the economy to the Committee and perhaps putting in a plug for the President 's program . Mr. Keyserling would say that there is no reason why the legislative arm should not be advised , but the fact remains that the Council was set up to advise the President , not Congress . Read the Act ! And as a practical matter it is , under present circumstances in this country of ours , impossible to establish the point that Messrs . Keyserling and Clark really do give disinterested information when they testify on the Hill . Willy-nilly they will be accused of performing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they contribute to supporting the criticism , often leveled at the Council , that it is , at bottom , nothing but a body to rationalize the President 's political policies in economic terms . That is desperately had for the Council and also desperately obstructive to the development of techniques for bringing expert advice to the President and other responsible administrators . Of course Messrs . Keyserling and Clark have selected a course which is open to those who choose to follow it . But a friend of mine who has had wide experience as an economist offering advice to politicians ( not American politicians ) , once summed up the problem this way : " Since he knows that it is a political problem to give effect to his economic advice , the economist is apt to become a bad politician ; and since the politician increasingly wants the cachet of economics for his political policies , he is apt to become a bad economist . Result : all hands are done in . " When that happens , the economist is ruined and the politician is made slightly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all . What we are still seeking is a way to bring expert advice on technical questions to political leaders in order that the general welfare may be successfully promoted . The Council is one way to do that , but it is n't foolproof by any manner of means .                     