@@491938

SELF-DISCIPLINE OR SLAVERY No Great Nation Has Ever Been Overcome Until it Has Destroyed Itself " I. When Liberty Was King THE basic current of our age is a re- turn from liberty to discipline . Order , authority , discipline , are fundamental and usual in states and in history . Liberty is a luxury , and comes only when economic power outweighs political and military power , when those who are engaged in agriculture , industry , trade or finance have greater influence in determining custom , law and policy than those who drill the army or think they govern the state . This ascendancy of the productive classes , and this consequent flourishing of freedom , come most often in times and scenes of military security , as in the Athens of Pericles before 432 B.C. , Rome between Sulla and Caesar , England under Victoria , and America in our sheltered youth . The commercial and industrial revolutions in England , France and the United States generated modern liberty , because mercantile and manufacturing development required freedom in enterprise , investment , management , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seized control of Parliament in 1689 , when French merchants cried out against feudal tolls in 1750 , when American businessmen rebelled against Tory landowners and tax collectors in 1776 , liberty entered upon its Golden Age . Now that that age is ending we may with some perspective summarize its glories and its faults . First and above all , freedom was fertile in the economic field . It lured adventurous initiative to explore the resources of the earth , and promised unchecked gains to those who would risk their savings or their lives to develop them . It summoned a million inventors to the task of easing and transforming the physical toil of mankind . It multiplied , year by year , the productivity of human muscle and brain . Under its encouragement the soil became more a narrow class and range . Only when and where industry dominated war and government were the rights of free speech , free press , adult suffrage , trial by jury , unimpeded movement , assemblage and worship definitely won for all . This economic and political enfranchisement generated wider liberty in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dynamic stimulus upon literature and art , trying novel forms , opening new fields , breaking fresh ground everywhere . Industry 's need of literate men prodded government into building schools , until America spent itself on palaces of education as Greece had spent itself on temples , or medieval Europe on cathedrals . The demands of an expanding economy gave rich assignments and opportunities to science ; thewealthof great corporationsfinanced research ; the proceeds of industry liberated men for historical inquiry , literary devotion , and a philosophy in free revolt against obscurantism and superstition . The reign of liberty spread over morals , and brought an exhilarating emancipation to commoners , to woman , and to youth . In America , at ! east , there were no classes ; any man might pass from rank to rank according to ability . Whoever he was , and wherever he went , he was accepted with an unpretentious camaraderie , a genial friendliness , that eased the crude manners of an industrial epoch with a thousand forms of kindliness and mutual aid . The authority of the old over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long hazing of one generation by the next ; the pedagogue laid aside his lash , and tried to make education a lifelong holiday . The sexes frolicked in a new ease and naturalness of association , at home , in school and college , and on the streets . Marriage was no longer a fatality but an experiment ; motherhood became an incident , and not a servitude ; every profession opened its doors to a charming and ageless womanhood . Life became freer and gayer than it had ever been since Clodia and Catullus , Servilia and Caesar , Julia and Ovid , Ilessalina and Claudius . H. The Suicide of Freedom F VERY truth is tempted to expand until it becomes a falsehood . Every virtue is made a vice through excess , and nothing fails like excess . In all the realms of our democratic life liberty has run its course from stimulus to disorder , from beneficence to disintegration . Freedom of thought , speech and press melted down old basic stabilizing customs , traditions and beliefs . Science , subsidized and hypnotized by its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could see nothing else in the world except machines . Philosophy , divorced from the growth and miracle of the soil , capitulated to an enervating skepticism , a hopeless cynicism that found in completed rebellion the same absurdities and tyrannies , and in science the same incredibilities , as in the rules and faiths of older days . Education , above all in America , surrendered to the student . For the most part he chose his teachers and his courses , discountenanced discipline , avoided tasks that required concentration , and helped a superannuated curriculum to transform school and college days into an enfeebling isolation from the realities and responsibilities of life . Pedagogy gave up the training of character , and devoted itself to equipping the unmoral intellect with all the armory of science . Now the intellect is an individualist ; when it discovers the tricks of thought and reason it uses them for the aggrandizement of the individual self ; only late in life does it discover the necessity and needs of the group , without whose co-operation and survival the civilized individual could not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England 's most aristocratic university , voted by a great majority that " this House will in no circumstances fight for King and Country " ? while the fortunes that financed their privileges rested on the Empire and the fleet , and Germany was preparing to destroy all the economic assumptions of their gilded lives . Whatever the ? newly emancipated intellect could not understand was rejected as false , and ideas were venerated in inverse proportion to their age . Ancient faiths began to lose their hold on the mind , and their moral influence on urban life . Every lad of eighteen sat in judgment upon institutions of society , and codes of conduct , that represented the experience of a thousand generations of men ; if he could not understand in one adolescence what had been learned in a millennium , he was free to trust his powerful eighteenyear-old reason , and to reject the family as tyranny , marriage as bondage , religion as opium , government as exploitation , and property as theft . Every restraint aroused resentment ; standards faded from conduct , even , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morals , especially among those who denounced it in industry . ' A thousand brave experiments were made in the relations of the sexes , a million lives were ruined , a million marriages and families were broken up . The stoicism that had cleared the wilderness and made a civilization , passed , in many men and some women , into the epicureanism that reveled through night after night , exhausting the body and emptying the soul . Women ceased to be women , longing to be men ; the masculinization of women was the correlate and result of the demasculation of men ; intellect without character unsexes either sex . The ancient authority of the husband over the wife was replaced by a soul-searing tug-of-war called equality , in which each partner struggled for years to win dominance over the other , and peace came only with the surrender of one or the exhaustion of both . Women ceased to be mothers , and became fragile , expensive toys ; men played with them , spent fortunes on them , but did not respect them ; education lavished itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more superficial they became . Powerful instincts , formed for the care of offspring , fretted in frustration . Man did more and more for woman ; but since he could not bear children , and she would not , fertility fell , the race lost the will to live ; and as the best bred least and the worst most , Western society began to die at the top , like a withered tree . Literature became the voice of the liberated intellect , of minds irked and challenged by every inhibition , reputation and authority . Sexual irregularities became the favorite topic of fiction and drama , rivaled only by crime . Even restrained utterance fell into disfavor : to shout and curse , to speak in staccato paragraphs that trampled upon all structural form , became the mark and ideal of a vigorous literary school . The moderation and finish of the " classic style " were rejected as aristocratic shams ; a formless and violent expressionism , scorning beauty and loving novelty , seemed better suited to independent minds in a democratic age . The Bolshevist revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in American literature and art . Young men whom nature had designed for honest toil dedicated their unfettered lives to art and debt . They began a hundred works , and finished none ; and those works which were least finished won the highest acclaim . When life was educating these Raphaels with starvation the government stepped in and paid hundreds of them to amuse themselves at the expense of public funds and walls . Music became a contest in noise , a savage accentuation of the beat to accord with the St. Vitification of the dance ; a thousand raucous orchestras filled night clubs , dance halls and hotels , and poisoned the helpless kilocycles of the air . The count of noses not only settled elections but determined the form and content of the arts . From the sub-mental depths of society there welled up a miasma of aesthetic barbarism forgivable in the lowliest , but disgraceful as the general art expression of a civilized race .. Meanwhile liberty was passing from creation to confusion in the economic world . Freedom of competition brought on not only improved methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hectic rivalry in cutting labor costs , even in eliminating labor itself . " Depressed classes " festered in the back yards of industry , and national vitality was dangerously debased . Liberty and equality , once allies , became enemies ; when one rose , the other fell ; the strong called for liberty , the weak for equality , and the strong v .. on . The regime of liberty left to every native superiority of endowment an unhindered scope to multiply its initial advantage ; modest natural inequalities , in a century of invention , organization , and laissez faire , generated such disparities of income that class war disordered every industry , and divided urban society into hostile camps , each suspicious of democracy , and each dreaming of dictatorship over all . The right to eat was interpreted as a constitutional guaranty ; millions of citizens became public pensioners , the unemployed were graduated into unemployables , and a subtle degeneration , accelerated by improvident fertility , entered into American character and life . As production outran consumption , surpluses cried out for foreign markets ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of production and transport to lose foreign markets to alien cartels ; and exporters could think of no better remedy than war . The financing of politics , relief and defense threatened national solvency , and laid the specter of inflation upon every salary , every savings account , every insurance policy , every action or impulse of thrift . Last and worst , in the government of the nation , of its cities and its states , freedom was growing some bitter fruits . Constitutional liberties cooperated with relaxed morals and mechanical inventions to make crime easier , detection difficult , conviction rare . The extension of the suffrage gave new power to mediocrity , invited the establishment of " organizations " for the harnessing of votes , closed elective office to the finest men , and undermined the competence and integrity of public administration . The national intelligence was divided into parties , and only half of it could serve the country at any one time . Ability , averse to demagoguery and the mutual abuse of campaigns , devoted itself to industry , science and the professions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with destructive amateurishness the trained chicanery of Europe and the East . Tedious and expensive litigation choked the processes of justice . endless talk blocked vital legislation , and organized minorities bled the national treasury by using political pressure for class ends . Ambitious intellectuals ( including the present writer ) made poverty conscious of itself , and used mass envy of the rich as a weapon for the capture of office or power ; immature rebels proposed a revolution that would destroy order in the name of liberty , liberty in the name of equality , and equality in the name of production . Internal divisions and factional disputes in industry , labor and government weakened every democratic state , while external conflict weakened and threatened all Western civilization in the face of the reawakening East . The Golden Age of liberty was ending in chaos , dictatorship and war . III . The New Freedom TT IS pleasant to denounce . The bil1 pulses of superiority and exhibitionism , which are involved in all public writing or oratory , relish the role of a Jeremiah squatting at the crossroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has loved . Seeing about us the disorder of manners and morals , of industry and government , we perceive that any one of many possible events might , in a few months , deprive us of our liberties and our luxuries ; and in precipitate despair we wonder is it not already too late to strengthen ourselves and salvage our civilization from the ravages of peace and war . As England grew rich and dominant because she first , of the moderns , discovered industry and freedom , so Germany and Italy have won some advantage by being , in our time , the first to devote themselves to discipline and armament . Must we , to be saved from fascism , adopt it ? Or is it possible to re-create discipline , order and national vitality within the framework of democracy ? This is the major problem of America today . Democracy is not a failure . It is corrupt and incompetent , stimulating and magnificent . It will be a failure only when events have proved that a free people can not discipline itself into virile health and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are no more necessarily opposites than their social and biological analogues  --  invention and convention , variation and heredity ; possibly they are complements , two sides of one complete process or reality . For more than a century the British have proved that liberty can live with order , even in the same soul . In their cities and courts democracy has seen less corruption , and no more incompetence , than in the best ages of aristocracy or monarchy . A good Hegelian , knowing that opposites can be lovers , will not expect either liberty or discipline to destroy the other , but will look for some merger and synthesis of both in tomorrow 's life . In states that have had too much freedom , order and discipline will increase ; in states that succeed , after revolution and dictatorship , in restoring security and order , the cry for freedom will rise again , and the scope of freedom will grow . What is our first need ? An idea , a principle that can guide us back to national health , that can strengthen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We must " ? to quote Nietzsche to our purpose ? " have an aim for whose sake we are all dear to one another . " The idea of liberty can not serve this purpose ; it has been too much distorted by excess , and worn out by political manipulation . In an armed and marching world of falling and conquering empires our goal must be self-preservation Through self-discipline . We are threatened not so much from without as from within ; no great nation has ever been overcome until it has destroyed itself . Our enemies are not abroad , nor are they the aliens among us ; they are our own pettiness of purpose and laxity of means , our soft indulgence , immature emotionalism , and wishful thinking ; they are the hyphens that nearly all of us harbor in our souls , making us think in terms of our European background and heritage rather than of our American obligations and destiny . It is ourselves whom we must overcome . If we can discipline ourselves we shall be free . Let us begin at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a repentant prodigal , the return of discipline to our homes . Libertarian education was a mistake , a pleasant indulgence of parental love , a weak inability on our own part to command because we had never learned to obey . The result is an adolescence without responsibility , a maturity without character ; and the maturity of our children will not thank us for the liberty of their youth . To exact nothing of a child that its intellect can not understand and approve is the depth of the nonsense to which some of us dedicated ourselves in the days of our dreams . Parents must learn again to command , to assign duties and see to it that they are performed ; they must not be ashamed to require  --  and must fit themselves to deserve  --  filial respect , quiet obedience , and such courtesy as may comport with the vigor and exhilaration of growth . A wise statesmanship will work to restore some economic foundation for parental authority by continued governmental financing of home ownership , by tax exemptions for profit-sharing industries , and by low-cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ till ; it will aim not at the socialization but at the familiation of property ; it will seek to give nearly every American family a stabilizing sense of ownership . A return to the ancient custom of helping the marriage of the daughter with a dowry , and of the son with a portion of the family property , would provide excellent Marxian reasons for filial reverence . Our children will be less ready to blow up the world if they have a bit of it under their feet . A sterner education must come . First , of the body in health and strength . The health of nations is more important than the wealth of nations , for no amount of money can long make a sickly man happy , and no amount of misfortune can long make a healthy man miserable . Second , of the hands . We should learn , in school and college , to do things as well as to read and memorize and talk : the girl should learn how to cook without killing , how to care for a home , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquire some mechanic trade that will give an economic footing to his personality . Third , of the intellect ? but of this kind of education we have more than our society and our morals have been able to digest . Fourth  --  second in importance only to health  --  education of the soul . An ounce of character is worth a ton of intellect . As much time should be given to moral education and discipline in school and college as to any subject in the curriculum . The experience of English schools proves that discipline is not the enemy but the soundest basis and defense of individual and national freedom . Teachers should not hesitate to instill in their pupils the old virtues or duty and modesty ; the age of Ibsen is over , and Freud is dead . Both sexes should be educated in the same schools , but in separate classes by separate studies for distinct ends ; girls should be taught by women ; boys , from their eighth year , should be taught by men . With a greater proportion of men in pedagogy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman sense as manliness , corresponding to , and generating , womanliness in woman . A society in which the virtues natural and necessary in one sex are the goal or model of the other is an unwholesome abortion , bound for decay . A nation must keep some of the Spartan virtues even while rejecting the Spartan ideal of life . A reinvigorated morality calls for more marriage and less crime . Earlier marriage should be encouraged , and celibacy lured from its loneliness , by dowries to bridegroom as well as bride , by raising the income-tax exemption for children and continuing it as long as they are in an educational institution , and by a governmental bonus for each child born to couples who have passed a state test of physical , mental and moral fitness for marriage . Couples that can not pass such a test should be forbidden to breed . Our systems of municipal police should be replaced by a state police responsible to the governor and less subject to local influence . The nomination of a state or municipal judge should be restricted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or women recommended from each party by the highest court of the state . Public relief should be taken out of the hands of government , national or local , should be entrusted to an enlarged Red Cross directed by a nonpartisan board , should be financed by Equal Federal and state appropriations , and should be restricted to the provision of food , clothing and shelter where demonstrably needed . The sums Raved by this procedure would probably meet the expenses of the foregoing proposals , and might retard our recapitulation of the bread-and-circus history of Rome . IV . Disciplined Democracy OO UR most difficult obligation will be to reconcile liberty and order in industry . Since , in all human experience and normal conditions , freedom is the secret of economic and mental development , every governmental restraint in the business or intellectual world must bear the burden of proof that it is indispensable . Nevertheless some central regulation of the economic life is part of our manifest destiny . If Fascism triumphs in Europe we shall have to acquire a store of basic industrial materials  --  which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not too late to exchange some of the dental supplies that we are hoarding in Kentucky for such real goods as rubber , manganese , nickel , tungsten and tin . If the barter system is to dominate Europe 's foreign trade after the war , some national control over exports will be unavoidable ; our exporters and importers can not successfully compete as individuals with the vast cartels that may serve as Europe 's commercial battalions in the coming struggle for the markets of South America and the East . Perhaps some constructive features of the NRA will have to be restored . In general the reforms of the last three administrations should be amended rather than rejected ; essentially  --  if an inexpert opinion may be allowed  --  they are sound , and may peaceably mitigate that natural concentration of wealth which periodically disturbs every vital society . They will help our economic system to meet the challenge of thirty million Americans living on the edge of destitution , and forming for our production a potential market as precious as any for which we may wage a costly war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stake in the stability of the firm and industry for which he works . We must put a bit of America under every American . Lastly , and as rapidly as our immediate problems will permit , we must cleanse and strengthen our democracy . To love it and praise it and thank God for it in our songs will not be enough ; we shall have to make and keep it as healthy and fit as an athlete . For now it enters into mortal competition with rival forms of government that scorn it as irremediably incompetent , hypocritical and corrupt . We think of democracy as liberty , as the exhilarating rights and opportunities of free human personality ; our critics think of it as the sovereignty of financiers and politicians , as artificial public opinion , fixed nominations , useless primaries , avoided issues , parliamentary palaver , administrative delays , judicial venality , vacillating policy , and unchained class war . How shall we answer them ? Let us require of our public servants at least as much technical preparation as we require of our dentists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be safely led by second-rate men . Let us establish at Washington a United States Civil Academy , corresponding to the United States Military Academy at West Point and the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis ; let us fill it with young men and women as democratically chosen from all our states as our corruption will permit ; and let us train these civil cadets in the art and science of public administration . Let every major university in America establish a school of government as rigorous in its requirements and curriculum as the finest schools of medicine in the land . Certainly public administration can not be completely taught in college ; neither can medicine or law . Given a decade of such schools , propaganda , the American idea of education  --  based on having the freedom to know and think for yourself  --  is a wonderful thing . " You and I may not agree on what public education has accomplished in this country , but I think we can , and will , unite in defense of the fundamental principle back of it  --  a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In our American schoolroom , the pupil writes with a free hand ; he is more important than the subject matter he tries to master . Our great teachers have looked upon school children as future citizens who must have the ability to think for themselves , if democracy is to survive . " This distinctly American system of education  --  backed up by the constant criticisms of a free people  --  is one of the many reasons why I 'm sure our democracy will prevail against any challenge . " ( CantInutd hers Poo 49 ) public opinion might be persuaded to prefer their graduates in elections for minor or local office , and later to prefer for higher office trained men and women who had distinguished themselves in such modest place . Let us root our democracy in our universities . And let state scholarships finance the higher education of the competent poor , so that a democracy of franchise and opportunity may check and nourish administration and leadership . Let us beg our national and state . legislatures to authorize the highest Federal and state courts to appoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audit , empowered to examine at any time , without warning , the conduct and accounts of any governmental official , from the lowliest clerk to the President ; and let any discovered malfeasance be publicly reprimanded and severely punished as not only theft but treason . The tragedy of American democracy is that it has liberated and generated ability beyond any precedent , and has used it less in government than ever in history before . This nation is rich in brainy men , but they are lost in industry , in the professions , in scientific research ; our political machinery is not designed to find them , much less to let them serve . We must gather this scattered intelligence to our national use and salvation . Perhaps Congress , for its own service and guidance , might be persuaded to legalize a national advisory council , to be composed of men and women chosen by us not in our geographical divisions  --  voting for candidates whose qualifications we can not judge ? but in our professional and occupational groups : the doctors choosing a great physician like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herbert Hoover , the educators an Ernest Hopkins , the steel industry an Edward Stettinius and a Philip Murray , the farmers a farmer , the lawyers a lawyer , the clergy a Harry Emerson Fosdick , a Cardinal Mundelein and a Stephen Wise , the newspapers a great editor like William Allen White , the writers a Charles Beard , the artists a Thomas Benton or a Grant Wood , the musicians a Damrosch or a Stokowaki , the biologists a Thomas Hunt Morgan , the psychologists an Edward Lee Thorndike , together with representatives of the AFL , the CIO , the National Association of Manufacturers , the U. S. Chamber of Commerce and the General Federation of Women 's Clubs , until every profession , industry , occupation and science has sent its ablest mind to be a cell in this national brain , this corporative adjunct to our democratic state . We would not give such a national advisory council any legislative power , for that would require a constitutional amendment , and life is so short . But we would ask it to study the long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . submit to Congress  --  and to the people through press and air  --  its conclusions and the specific facts upon which it has based them . Democracy must find some way of luring into its employment men and women who can compete , in knowledge , background , judgment and character , with the trained and subtle aristocracies of foreign states . Only our best can win . V. The Liberal Returns O UR cultural life would feel these changes indirectly . No frontal attack upon its blemishes would be advisable ; we are not going in for censorship . A more masculine education and morality , and the challenge of a turbulent and narrowing world , will strengthen our literature and art into responsibility and sanity , even perhaps into finish and form . Already a more civilized rhythm enters into our music and dance . Abundant opportunities should be provided for choral singing and amateur instrumental ensembles ; every one of us should be encouraged to join such a group , to submit to study and training , to sink his mediocrity into some organized excellence . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast numbers of citizens in the choral song and communal dance that were Sparta 's healthy substitute for symphony and opera . A wellgaverned city , like today 's Cincinnati or New York , will create facilities for hearing , studying and playing fine music ; and a municipal broadcasting station , like WNYC , can become a powerful influence in forming the taste of the people . Perhaps our zoning commissions will be empowered to forbid the erection of ugly structures on our highways and in our cities and towns ; and one dreams of a peacetime army transforming cities by bringing millions of trees from the woods to plant along the urban pavements that now receive and reflect unhindered the heat of the summer sun . So many things could be done if democracy harnessed its brains and gave them power . And yet we must put up with a little chaos . We do not want the order of dictatorship , nor a state whose power and spread form the chief purpose of our lives . The pruning of liberty here recommended could develop into a stagnant despotism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any move to limit the Bill of Rights , or to reduce our guaranties of adult suffrage , or to remove legislative authority from Congress should be re-slated with the same energy that Americans are now showing in the organization and implementation of defense . There would be a certain zest in this disciplined freedom ; only the weakling wishes to live without obligations and penalties . Helped and manned by the selected and trained intelligence of a vigorous and inventive people , such a democracy could build an ordered liberty and a just prosperity toward which all the world would long to move . We can not destroy fascism with war ; it would win even in its defeat . We can destroy it only by showing that liberty is more creative than tyranny , that free men can discipline their freedom , and that we  --  not those others ? have found the way .                     