@@431294

THROUGHOUT the long , hard , bitter war that Gen. Mark Clark 's Fifth Army fought against the Germans on the Italian peninsula through most of 1943 and 1944 , there was one group of American infantrymen who made themselves particularly hated and feared by the enemy . These were the " BAR boys , " who handled the Browning Automatic Rifle . Conversely , the " BAR boys " became the doughboys ' darlings ? not because they were any braver than their fellows , but because they brought into action a gun that proved itself . the most effective infantry weapon extant for close-up fighting in the rugged Italian hills . In some ways this was a strange phenomenon , since the Browning Automatic Rifle was no new weapon , and it was holding its own in a war where the ordnance experts of every nation were continually pushing newer and newer weapons into the fray . It was a war in which the 105-millimeter howitzer had replaced the famous old French 75 as the artilleryman 's sweetheart . Men were carrying ' M-1 carbines in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Garand rifle had virtually retired the old reliable Springfield ' 03 . New weapons such as the tommy gun and the bazooka were killing the enemy from Salerno to Leghorn . Yet here was this Browning Automatic Rifle , rather a heavy , cumbersome , slowfiring weapon of the vintage of 1918 , building itself an almost legendary reputation among our foxhole dwellers . Why ? Because it was a deadly , accurate killer at both long and short range , as numerous citations of our heroes will show . Take this one , for example : Pfc . Alton W. Knappenberger , of Spring Mount , Pa. , received the Congressional Medal of Honor for his work with a Browning Automatic . The citation read as follows : " When a heavy German counterattack was launched against his battalion , Private Knappenberger crawled to an exposed knoll and went into action . An enemy machine gun 85 yards away opened fire and bullets struck within six inches of him . Rising to a kneeling position , Private Knappenberger opened fire on the hostile crew , knocking out the gun , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third . While he fired , two Germans crawled to a point within 20 yards of the knoll and threw potatomasher grenades at him . Private Knappenberger killed them both with one burst . " Later a second machine gun opened fire upon his exposed position from a distance of 100 yards and this weapon also was silenced by his well-aimed shots . Shortly thereafter an enemy 20-mm. antiaircraft gun was directed against him and again Knappenberger returned fire to kill one member of the hostile crew . When his ammunition became exhausted , he crawled  | 15 yards forward through steady machinegun fire , removed rifle clips from the belt of a casualty , returned to his position and resumed firing to repel an assaulting German platoon armed with automatic weapons . Private Knappenberger 's intrepid action disrupted the enemy attack for over two hours . " The citation did not tell it , but Knappenberger and his automatic killed more than 40 Germans during a few days of that action . Take a look at the BAR . It 's a bit oldfashioned in its square-cut lines , quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in uphill work , of which there was plenty in Italy . Moving into action with this gun and 18 magazines of ammunition , each BAR boy is carrying some 46 pounds of death-dealing equipment , besides his personal gear , such as pack , rations , and canteen . It is a considerable load . Each BAR boy , as the fighting went in Italy , usually went forward with an assistant who had another 18 magazines of ammunition , as well as a Garand for his own personal fighting . This assistant acted as liaison man with squad or platoon leaders , and was a BAR boy in his own right , ready to replace his partner should BAR boy No. 1 become a casualty . Some organizations used a third man in the team , an ammunition carrier . Up near Cisterna , in the final days of the battle for Rome , there was a slow-spoken , quiet Texas ordnance sergeant , whose hands flicked over a battle-worn BAR as he disassembled it , opining , " It sure is a rugged gun . " The one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and from its low serial number , 85005 Winchester Repeating Arms Co. , was far from new . This gun had come to the sergeant for a new sear-release and stop spring , and would be back in action in an hour or two . This would be the type of mission that gun would be used on : Company X of  | the 142nd Infantry was dug in on Mt . Artemisio , just beyond Velletri . It had moved up there , along with the rest of the regiment , by a forced march at night , and occupied the heights virtually without opposition . Its mission was to drive south and east and cut Highway 7 , the road to Rome , between Velletri and Genzano . Dawn was just breaking as a reconnaissance patrol moved out to make contact with the enemy and probe his line for a weak spot for a break-through . There were 12 men on that patrol , led by a second lieutenant . There were eight riflemen armed with Garands , two BAR boys and their assistants . These men all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation , the two wings branching out right and left with the BAR boys in the rear , commanding a clear field of fire forward . Naturally , everybody walked softly . Communication was by arm and hand signals , relayed up and down the line . Ahead lay a small hillock , densely wooded , with undergrowth filling in the ground between slim , tall trees . At a signal from the lieutenant , the patrol started to deploy , with one file by-passing that mound on the left and the other on the right . Suddenly the silence was ripped wide open by the " b-r-r-r-up " of a Kraut machine gun ? maybe a Spandau , a gun that shoots at the rate of possibly 1,500 rounds a minute . Our doughfeet dropped to cover and opened up . The BAR boys covered the crawling advance of the riflemen by continual quick bursts of twos and threes and fours until their GI pals could get right in there to the enemy and use their hand grenades . Then on to another objective . That is about the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jerry was launching a counterattack , the BAR boys would be dispersed among groups of infantrymen controlling overlapping sectors of fire . Like other automatic weapons , the BAR is most effective when fired in short bursts . Even an expert can not hold steady on a target when more than four or five shots are released at one pull of the trigger . Long bursts are used only for surprise or where a long target ? a column of men , for example ? is taken in enfilade . Every BAR team is specially trained , so that each man can disassemble the weapon blindfolded and make minor adjustments and repairs . A special pouch , carried by the assistant rifleman , contains tools and spare parts likely to be needed in action .  |                     