@@470864

DURING the cataclysm of war it is in human lives lost or wrecked , wasted or uprooted , that we first sec tragedy . Yet there is something more , something that will force itself upon our awareness more gradually : not until peace has again become a reality perhaps shall we realize how dangerously the human disaster can be duplicated in an endless procession of lost and broken works , works which contain the very core , the material heart , of our civilization . This civilization is charted and attested largely by numerous collections , great and small , possessed by the Western world . The stuff of art and the testament of thought , relics of political and social history , the materials of science ? these are the physical symbols , the direct and tangible evidence of our common heritage , our Western culture , all that remains of our ancestors , all that can one day remain of us . Even though many of the ideals and practices evolved through long centuries of that culture are to-day being seriously mutilated , our past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future so long as the symbols can again be conjured up , so long as the passwords continue to exist . Yet inevitably , in all times and all places , war obliterates much of the assembled fruit of human accomplishment , grinds away portions of the cultural record . It is true that many of the materials which go to make up that record ? as , for example , books and paintings ? aresubject to disease even in peacetime ; but the only plague to threaten them sweepingly , over an entire country or continent , lies in the ruthless use of arms . More certain of death by the sword than man himself is the collected evidence of man 's achievement . This was especially so in very early times , when total war was commonplace , when invader and usurper-dictator often tried wholeheartedly to wipe out not only the entire enemy but all his works as well . Perhaps in the immediate future we of the West may be forced to face just such bleak determination once more . But whether or not the crime is deliberate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to-daydanger of accidental destruction through bombing ; of plunder , which has accompanied conquests throughout history ; and of ruin through the ignorance or fanaticism of conquering soldiers . II Custodians of public collections are well aware of these dangers which are , moreover , greatly heightened by modern methods of warfare ; and on a wider scale than ever before lively efforts are now made to forestall them . In September , 1940 , bombs smashed at the worldrenowned British Museum and gained access to London 's Wallace Collection , the Tate Gallery , and several other repositories of historic and scientific treasure ; but officials were able to report that many , though not all , of the more important items had been previously removed . Even some provincial institutions , including the famous Hancock Museum of Natural History located dangerously near military objectives , had been evacuated early in the war . But England , less accustomed to the thought of disaster at home than a France experienced in invasion , was apparently less thorough in this matter than her former ally . As early as September , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heeding the ominous drumming that seemed to roll ever closer , had begun to provide for future contingencies . Everything in that great gallery and other French national museums was classified according to relative importance and tagged with inconspicuous colored discs indicating which things should be removed first in an emergency , which would have to wait . Plans were made for proper storage facilities , and a system of action was worked out to the last detail . In August , 1.939 , this system had to be translated into fact . " Those who were present at the beginning of the evacuation of the Louvre will never forget it , " wrote one who was there . Workmen took down the Rernbrandts and the Leonardos , unframed them , and packed them as carefully as though they had been headed for an international exhibition . Department stores lent their expert packers to supplement the museum staff . A specially constructed apparatus was employed to lower the great Winged Victory from her perch at the head of the grand stairway . Scene-shifting equipment from the Com &lie; Frangaise was pressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paintings , among them G6ricault 's " Le Radeau de la Meduse . " And , in contrast to 1914 , even the cellars were emptied . " No one , " wrote our eyewitness , " knows how many tons of dust were shifted during the torment ! " Thus began the greatest single movement of armored art in the history of Europe . A caravan of moving vans , drawn up on the Quai de Conti , made ready to shift the enormous cargo to the safety of the provinces . Some of the vehicles were so tall they had to be preceded by scouts in search of a passable route ; and on the journey itself postoffice engineers had to cut low wires along the way , repairing them immediately after the procession had passed . In this fashion three thousand five hundred canvases , thousands of tons of sculpture and objets d'art , moving over the roads in convoy at ten miles an hour , came at last to some ten or more ch ? teaux " south of Paris . " Here ? for there had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with precautions taken against fire , theft , and deterioration . In these chateaux , and in the vaults of certain banks , were all the collections of all the national museums of France , as well as many of the prize pieces from such private collections as had not already been shipped to English and American museums for safekeeping . The Louvre itself became a skeleton , its immovable beauties protected as well as possible by bastions of sand bags . Nor were England and France alone in their attempts to save the great collections . Holland , in this instance wisely mistrusting the efficacy of neutrality , had also prepared plans . This flat country was little suited for hiding even an Easter egg , as one letter writer put it . So there the surface was deserted for the underground ; paintings were taken out of the Rijksmuseum and the Mauritshuis in Amsterdam and the Hague and stored in bombproof cellars , in bank vaults , and secret hiding places ; and here daily inspections were made of the subterranean chambers to guard against dampness , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ archives were similarly protected , as were the many collections of fine porcelain . Notable among the latter was the important group in the Friesland Museum at Leeuwarden , its fragile pieces stacked in a deep cellar , carefully encased in a thousand American crates that had once contained canned peaches . But when the five-day blitzkrieg struck , with its horror of devastation , were these cellars then sufficient ? Arc the great Hals paintings still alive in Haarlem ? Does Rembrandt 's " Night Watch " now exist , and if so , where is it ? Berlin has made no reports . And what of Belgium ? When Hitler 's armies crushed through that country every city in their way was smashed . Perhaps the Belgians had prepared too , remembering another war ; but if so the preparation was inadequate in the face of the enemy thrust . As the lightning kept striking someone thought to lift out of the holocaust the greatest heirlooms , so that they , at least , might be delivered . Thirty trucks started out , bearing more than seven hundred paintings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a few days before that city 's fall . In the cargo were worldfamous masterpieces by such titans as Rembrandt , Rubens , Van Dyck , Breughel . In one of the camions was the Dutch-owned " View of Delft " by Vermeer , priceless among the too few paintings from that master brush . Heading for France , the trucks lurched through and around shell-holes , dodged destruction from the sky in a long caravan of nightmare days and nights . Somewhere near the border they disappeared , and no word has been heard of them since . The " View of Delft " and its rare company , where are they now ? Were they bombed and burned , were they seized and placed under " protective custody , " or did some of them , by chance , reach a safe and secret haven ? The story is not yet ended , for even escape may prove to be more apparent than real in the days to come . England 's treasures , some of them no doubt stored in places never intended for such a purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the great Spanish paintings that were movedfrom pillar to post under such heartbreaking conditions during that country 's recent civil war . France emptied her frontier museums and moved their contents to t ' c interior ? but now she has neither frontiers nor interior . All that is potentially safe to her and to the other conquered lands is that which is still hidden ( and cared for ) plus whatever may have been shipped abroad by private collectors . III As for these private collectors , the prudent ones in Europe have for several years , very quietly , been shipping their valuable possessions to the United States ; and to-day , in addition to those buried in the New York storerooms of international dealers , our museums are holding intact a surprising number of privately owned foreign collections . This is in marked contrast to the action usually taken by governments , which are prevented by red tape and " face " from using such extreme measures . Thus although Britain expected total air warfare from the outbreak of hostilities , her great treasures were not sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now that the island is sorely beleaguered , time , money , and ships are lacking for such a purpose , and even were these available , the authorities would argue , the risk at sea would be too great . That private citizens are freer to do as they please in this regard is a fact that leads , curiously enough , to consequences reaching far beyond the fortunes of those individuals immediately involved , or the fate of a few collections . When , long before war had become a certainty , uneasy collectors began to seek sanctuary for their treasures there was nothing in this to suggest that they were taking a step which often in the past has led to new and violent post-war enmities . Certainly it was natural enough that owners of fine paintings , sculpture , books , art objects , and other highly prized items should make an effort to thwart plunder and destruction of their property . And so ? from the Scandinavian countries , from Switzerland , Holland , Belgium , France ? collections were crated and shipped . These escaped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trapped ) , and many were received here by temporary guardians in much the same spirit of humanitarianism as are refugee children . In the emergency some collectors on the Continent thought England safe enough , but more turned to America . Of these many had resort to the dealers ; for to provide storage for a fee falls naturally within the professional 's function . The canniest owners , however , hit upon the idea of placing their possessions " on loan " in American institutions , where special advantages accrue . Of course museums , like good collectors , can not consent to clutter up their rooms with inferior exhibits in response to any and every private distress signal , but they are more than happy to house unusually fine items , if only temporarily ; and in time of crisis they will go a step further and if requested to do so will obligingly refrain from publicizing the ownership of fugitive treasure , or , if pressed , may in the interests of valuable art agree to store certain things without even exhibiting them . Many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealers are being kept thus in strictest secrecy , and in the case of some on exhibition , the owners ' names are withheld ; for if it were generally known that valuables had been exported , there would probably he unpleasant repercussions . The collector 's own government or the invader might become troublesome in various ways ; and even though the collector may have succeeded in saving himself and his immediate family , as well as his collection , there remain at home ties in blood and possessions wherein he is still vulnerable . Few of the refugee collections have so far been put up for sale . Tempting offers have been refused . Yet it is safe to say that most of the items " temporarily " stored in this fashion will finally remain in America ? under new ownership ? and it is in this important fact , among others , that seeds of discord repose . For when the current upheaval subsides many a European amateur will be forced to acknowledge , ruefully enough , that his collection is all that remains to him of once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have loved his paintings , his books , or his art objects , no matter how tenaciously he may have held nut , collector-fashion , against relinquishing them , the realization of their potential value in a time of ultimate emergency has long been in the back of his mind and partially explains his foresighted action in shipping these things to a place of safety . But when the day comes when he is forced to sell he will not be reconciled to the necessity ; and he will feel a deep , if unreasonable resentment toward his successor . During and immediately following all great wars some of the nations involved suffer temporary impoverishment , so that it becomes essential for oncewealthy individuals and even governments to raise cash quickly ; and famous collected items are among the most readily convertible of all assets . Yet the consequent shifts in ownership , occurring on an international scale , engender a curious aftermath : the peoples with ample money are first swamped with eager offerings from the war-scarred countries , then afterward blasted with curses and scathing accusations . Thus through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may grow up international animosities of extreme bitterness . When , as often happens , a devaluated monetary system gives a further advantage to outsiders , that bitterness is increased ; and of course it is doubled when the man with the money is the conqueror , who may step in to purchase at a discount what he has not plundered or destroyed ? as Nazis are now said to be buying objets d'art ( as well as corsets ) in France . But even an innocent bystander or a former ally when he comes to pick up the pieces is an object of such resentment , as were Americans after the last war . Long before 1914 American men of wealth had begun to invade Europe on a treasure hunt for Old-World relics . They were not long in learning that much was unpurchasable : to their amazement and chagrin , they found the doors of many great houses closed to them , no matter how impressive their golden knocking . But when war shattered so many European fortunes it also broke down the barriers that formerly had kept American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treasure began . Nothing now was sacrosanct , or too big to be taken away . Rooms full of heirlooms , historic houses , entire castles complete with the proud accumulations of many generations ? all were embarked , to be set up again on the other side of the Atlantic . Whole boatloads ? in the aggregate a full convoy of ships ? made the voyage in those booming times . American fortunes seemed illimitable , American appetites fantastic . Although European treasuries profited hugely , public resentment soon ran high . The number of foreign sales became a subject for dispute in chambers of government . Laws were proposed ? and in some instances put into effect ? forbidding the removal of objects considered a part of the national heritage . Here was a continent bled of millions of its sons . Hundreds of its monuments had been destroyed . Was it now to be ravaged of its remaining inheritance ? This crowd of crude , stomping outlanders who understood nothing but the " Almighty Dollar " ? were they to be allowed to make off with treasures whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hue and cry . Yet England , for one , found it impossible to pass the proposed bans because these very sales were needed desperately by her landpoor gentry , whose families had been among the greatest collectors . And from Italy , where there were such laws , a great deal was smuggled out none the less : Americans might be loud-mouthed , tasteless simpletons , but their despised dollars were useful enough . Iv So it has been throughout history . Twenty-three hundred years ago , when Alexander acquired a great slice of the known world for Greece , putting the untold riches of Persia into circulation in the West and initiating there a period of fabulous prosperity , the Greeks became impassioned collectors of art objects on a scale never before known among them . The crudest soldiers then learned to value the precious plate , the colorful pottery , the fine carpets and hangings that had long been the pride of the East . Yet suave Persian aristocrats regarded with pitying disdain Alexander 's rough followers ? who still " smelled of goat . " Later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Greeks themselves had similar words for those Latin collectors who made the Grand Tour of the Hellenistic provinces but were compelled to employ Greek experts to advise them on their purchases . " An ape is still an ape though adorned with jewels and gold , " said the Greeks . The first Roman conquerors well merited those words ? witness the Consul Mummius , whose classic order to his troops is still relished as an epic of ignorance . Should they damage any of the antique master statues ? so he decreed at the sack of Corinth ? the soldiers would have to make others themselves in replacement ; and he meant it . Yet this same boorish official was stopped short when during the sale of some of the spoil he heard the King of Pergamum offer a staggering sum for a single painting by Aristides of Thebes . Using a logic not unfamiliar to us to-day , Mummius refused to sell the picture after all ; he argued that an object worth so much money must have something more to it than he had realized . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and though it is questionable whether any message beyond money value ever was conveyed to him , it is nevertheless true that from such beginnings as this true connoisseurship was eventually born in Rome . Again , in the early Renaissance Roman noblemen detested the rich bankers and wool merchants of Florence ( the enterprising Mcdicis were among them ) who were buying up the choicest antiquities unearthed in their ancient city . And later still , in the wake of successive invasions and waves of internal turmoil , Romans and Florentines alike viewed with bitter distaste the departure of great numbers of Italian masterpieces to the " barbarian " French court although most of those masterpieces ( including the " Mona Lisa " ) were bought , not plundered . Italians then felt themselves despoiled by their inferiors , but the court of France , after first aping Italian ways in flattering fashion , became in time the most highly civilized in all Europe . As England in turn rose to challenge the collecting supremacy of France , the effort took on the aspect of a tug-of-war ? first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when fashionable young Britishers like Horace Walpole made the Grand Tour of Europe , Paris and Rome were their chief ports of call . From the Eternal City itself Walpole wrote home , pityingly , that the best families had grown so poor they were being forced to sell everything of value . He , for one , was quite willing to take advantage of this situation ; but , he added , in a few years the old town would hardly be worth visiting any more . How different his tone when later he came to Paris ? no longer patronizing ; he admitted wholehearted wonder for the riches of art that adorned the homes of a city which , in the eyes of a collector , seemed destined long to remain the capital of all the world . The French Revolution smashed that picture completely . When it first broke over the heads of a terrified aristocracy , art dealers and connoisseurs from all over Europe swarmed into Paris to pick up bargains from the unfortunates , who were so nervous they were ready to sell their treasures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mounting horror cash soon became the most crying need ? cash for bribes and quick escape . Jewels and handsomely bound books , Chinese porcelains , courtly furniture , tapestries , paintings , marbles , bronzes , and elegant knickknacks were all poured out , to the tune of endless intrigue . One young dealer disguised himself as a milliner and , at Du Barry 's request , was smuggled into the lady 's ch ? teau , where she disclosed fortunes in jewels and every sort of valuable object and implored the shocked youth to buy them all ? a single incident among hundreds of similar ones . The holocaust provided a heyday for those English collectors who had so long played second fiddle to the French . Through the good offices of his emigre chef , the English king himself is said to have assembled much of the bric-a-brac , china , furniture , and the rest of his imposing collection by purchases from French emigres . Endlessly repeated , this sort of thing occurred also among the king 's commoners , with whom proud but helpless French aristocrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the trend was temporarily reversed , and not alone by plunder . For one thing , he pur ? chased on behalf of France the great Borghese collection of antique marbles , and paid well over two and a half million dollars to the owner who , impoverished by political events , was eager to sell . But after the Napoleonic debacle France again held the short end of the purse-strings , and Englishmen ? many of them raw parvenus of the industrial revolution ? continued for years to buy cheap in the French market . In this way many of England 's finest art collections were founded or greatly enriched during the first half of the nineteenth century . Probably collectors are always more or less aware of the money reserve embedded in their valuable possessions . In peacetime they are prone to minimize , even to deny , this aspect of collecting ; but in wartime it is inevitably magnified . For popular cultural objects ? easily portable , mind l ? can , even if depreciated in value , almost always be turned into cash . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the balance for a little cash . Surely it never occurred to the complacent French aristocrats of the eighteenth century as they filled their palatial homes with costly articles of virtu that those ornaments might one day become starkly useful . But when the deluge , so laughingly predicted by Louis XV , finally engulfed them , those same elegant ladies and lords were glad enough to swim to shore when they could on the backs of their fine possessions . A century and a quarter later another revolution swept down upon the aristocracy of Tzardom , and again much the same thing happened : many of the White Russian refugees in our own time have lived for years on the art objects they once smuggled out of their country . In this matter individuals have a great advantage over governments which , seeing the writing on the wall , might also want to send invaluable national treasures to safety well in advance of probable invasion . Governments , however , have complex responsibilities . They must consider both the internal and external effects of such a course , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To secure it from the hand of the invader in 1914 , for example , the Belgian government wished to move that masterpiece of the Van Eyck brothers , the " Adoration of the Lamb , " from its place in the church of St. Bavon at Ghent . Yet to do this presented serious difficulties ; for in addition to the danger of spreading alarm among the Belgian people by this evidence of official fear ( a problem officially acknowledged later ) , a certain " friendly " power , rife with cutthroat plans , might well have protested the move bitterly , as a studied insult aimed at its lamblike innocence . Only when the peril was undeniable , therefore , did the unfortunate government dare action . Then at last the painting was snatched to safety , secretly , at a time when the church was sure to be empty ; and afterward a successful hoax was whipped up ? a false letter was written , entirely for German consumption , indicating that the prized " Adoration " had been shipped to England , although actually it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the private collector who can , moreover , arrive at vital decisions more quickly than a cabinet and parliament . If he chooses to lend his collection indefinitely to some foreign museum no one can prove that prudence or fear rather than sheer magnanimity is the reason ; and if his possessions simply disappear into the shadow of an alien warehouse few people but his intimate friends need be any the wiser . Successful collectors , generally men of considerable acumen , are well aware that a neat bundle of fine art can , in times of world stress , be the means to a new life if the old one should be ruined , and to take out this form of insurance is relatively easy . As any business man will agree , it is no simple matter to shift one 's affairs overseas within a few weeks , nor would most men care to do so while there was still a chance that the threatened storm might fail to materialize . Neither can industrial investments be abruptly torn out after the storm has broken ? a limitation which also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collector finds himself in a more favorable position than his fellows ? one 's house can not be shipped abroad , but collections of worth , easily transported , may be moved in ample time without disrupting one 's entire mode of living . However , the devotion of the amateur is proverbial , and there are individuals on record who have cherished above life itself their carefully assembled items . Among the disinherited Frenchmen of the revolutionary period there were some who , although given the opportunity , refused to sell their treasures , burying them instead ? in the wan hope of retrieving them some day . Meanwhile such men were willing to live in misery . Among them were many bibliophiles who resorted to the simple but effective trick of pasting together the fly leaves of valuably autographed books which had to be left behind . They fled , clinging to the hope that one day they or their children would return to unlock these fragile secrets once more , and occasionally such a volume still is discovered , the last relic of a tragic collector . Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature . There is the authentic case of a refugee who entered the port of New York in the wake of the Russian revolution . A man of gentle birth , he arrived with little else than a valuable collection of stamps . To get here he had gone through tortuous privations , and holding on to his precious albums must have called for great resolution . He was , however , not met by fortune . Failing in efforts to find work , slipping , he still clung tenaciously to a collection that could have been converted into several years of reasonable comfort . At Iast he committed suicide . He would not , he could not bear to sell . Even among amateurs , however , a more balanced realism usually prevails , and in times like these , in Europe especially , that realism extends beyond the mere salvage of existing collections . Collectors continue to buy now ? and more than ever are their purchases keyed to investment . Late into 1940 international art dealers were still doing a big business in France and England . Rare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to The Times . Rare stamps were still bringing high prices . Jewels , valuable ornaments , and other easily portable objectswere noticeably at a premium , while more ponderous objects fell in favor . The reason for this becomes apparent when it is remembered that the Rothschilds , emigrating from France after the defeat of that country , carried a million dollars ' worth of jewels in an over-sized portfolio : prime collateral , these can be used as security or disposed of if necessary . If that portfolio had been crammed with French currency , and if all the family 's hopes had been in it , the Rothschilds would now be practically penniless . In New York in August the highest priced stamp in the world was sold ? for forty thousand dollars ? to an Australian who kept his name secret and immediately locked up his purchase in an American bank vault ? for the duration . It will make a nice little nest egg if his more orthodox bank accounts are depleted or demolished by the war : unique and with an unimpeachable pedigree , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the gyrations of Wall Street . For there are always people in various parts of the world , citizens of still solvent countries , able and eager to pay fat prices for the rare and famous items of the collecting world . Of course if the owner is forced to sell hurriedly he may have to take a loss , but not nearly so severe a one as a plunging stock market might inflict . It is relevant to recall that the sale which first shot the Australian 's world-renowned morsel of paper into the rank of a recordbreaker was a hotly contested post-war auction in Paris nineteen years ago when , for possession of it , the British King bid in vain against an American millionaire . In periods of economic retrenchment , we are given to think , people do not buy luxury objects of the rarest and most valuable sort , and yet the opposite is most often true . The forty-thousanddollar stamp is one example . And today , although American fortunes are less directly involved in wartime risks than those abroad , even in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in looking about for ways of diversifying and protecting their assets considerable numbers have turned to those top-notch collectibles which , so often in the past , have proved to be more stable in value than gilt-edged securities . So it comes about that despite the economic worries of wartime and the certainty of increased taxes , brisk sales totaling over two million dollars for one firm alone were reported in New York for the first auction season of this war . Not that all collected items retain their highest value during and following the great wars . Obscure items , items not particularly distinguished for rarity , for intrinsic worth , for major qualities of historical association ? these , with things no longer fashionable to collect , are likely to drop in price at such times . In all post-war periods , because some people become poor and have to sell at any price , there are many bargains at first available . But because , by the same token , other people are suddenly richer and a little drunk with the transformation , competition for those bargains rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead a booming market in collectors ' items . And because there are always individuals canny enough to realize that this evolution is bound to occur , the spirit of commercial gambling is more rife among a larger percentage of collectors at the end of a war than it ever is in normal times : even those amateurs who never intend to sell what they buy are affected ; for they look forward to the day when they will be able to point in triumph to some prize , purchased at rockbottom , which shall attest their superior connoisseurship by its sky-rocket rise in quotable value . So the caldron of collecting is stirred by the spoon of war . Items of every sortwhen saved from actual destruction may , even though plundered or sold through necessity , still live for to-morrow 's world . Among the nations a new collecting leader often emerges , its culture enriched by foreign treasure . After the last war Americans shouldered ahead by sheer force of financial superiority , and since then we have led the world in many fields . As an example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here are discovering that some of the great American libraries and museums offer facilities in many respects equal to those so long sought abroad . And today this country has become a haven not only for the refugee collections of Europe but also for those of old China . Moreover , impoverished China , unlike the waiting Europeans , is selling now . To these shores come bronzes , jades , and other relics of great beauty and antiquity ; unique libraries that had been the sacred possessions of single families for centuries arc pouring by the thousands of volumes into our homes , our universities and our public institutions ; and it is said that henceforth a scholar of Chinese history and philosophy will go to Washington rather than to Peiping , just as a Shakespearean scholar seeking the richest deposit must go to our Folger Memorial instead of to the British Museum . Shall we continue to hold such a commanding position when this war is over ? Or shall we find ourselves deposed , perhaps by the Nazis , cut down even before reaching our cultural maturity ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether or not America can remain strong economically , and whether she can ensure herself against military defeat . It is one thing to have and another to hold , as many nations have discovered .                     