@@487791

" TaD BERLIN " IS AGAIN RED , BUT IT HAS chosen a Social Democratic shade rather than Moscow scarlpt . This is the outstanding result of the Berlin municipal elections , which provided the first real test of German political sentiment in relation to the occupying powers . In that city no one of the Allies could exert a predominating influence , and it was the one place in Germany where the populace could make direct coinparisons about the four administrations . If any of the major parties had a special advantage , it was the Soviet-sponsored Socialist Unity Party , formed by a merger between the Communists and a Social Democratic minority , since up to now it has controlled the city govern-went . However , the incomplete returns available as we go to press , accounting for about 70 per cent of the votes cast , indicate that the Socialist Unity Party has come in a bad third , with the Social Democrats far in the lead and the Christian Democrats second . In its platform and propaganda the Socialist Unity Party strongly emphasized " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when , in order to reassure the Poles , he de-dared that the Oder-Neisse line should be regarded as the permanent frontier between Germany and Poland . In any event , unity was not a genuine issue since it is the common policy of all the German parties . The real dividing line was between the " Westerners " and the " Easterners , " and the former have won hands down . This check to Soviet expansion will no doubt cause rejoicing in Washington and London , but it may prove a - short-lived triumph unless we take steps to rescue Geri ' many from the social and political rubble of the Third Reich in which it still lies buried . PROSPECTS FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF INDIA are brighter today as a result of the Moslem League 's decision to join the interim government . The League 's action indicates that a measure of understanding was reached at the recent conference between Ali Jinnah and Jawaharlal Nehru . We must not assume , however , that because the first reef has been cleared all will be clear sailing from now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Hindus still runs high and serious riots are continuing . A wide gulf remains between the plans of the Congress Party for a strong , united India and the Moslem ideal of Pakistan . But Jinnah 's decision implies that the Moslems are ready to modify their demands for two Indias in favor of some arrangement approximating that originally suggested by the British mission  --  a substantial amount of provincial autonomy within a federated India . In any case , the problem of constitution-making will be easier with Jinnah inside the government . AMERICAN OCCUPATION POLICIES IN JAPAN are encountering increasingly sharp criticism from the Russian , Chinese , and British members of the Allied Council for Japan . It is not so much a clash of opinion on basic directives , in the formulation of which all representatives have participated . It is rather that there is a growing conviction that General MacArthur is dis- 458 playing too much tenderness in enforcing the directives on the Japanese government . Last week , the Soviet delegate urged that in the coming local elections the Japanese government be instructed to eliminate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 . The American member , Ambassador George Atcheson , Jr. , rushed to the government 's defense with the assertion that its aims were virtually identical with American aims . This reply evoked an icy retort from the British representative , who said that Atcheson was showing a " cordiality " to the Yoshido government which was hardly justified by its performance . Atcheson 's attitude provides involuntary confirmation of Harold Strauss 's analysis ( page 474.0 the factors behind the sudden shift in Japanese economic policy . Until recently , our occupation policies have been aimed at freeing Japan from militarist and feudal control . But the objectives seem to have changed , and the American people have a right to an explanation . THE PITTSBURGH POWER STRIKE HAS ENDED . The independent union involved has voted to arbitrate the issues in dispute . This is a decision which might well have been taken earlier , but for the erratic leadership of the strikers , saving Pittsburgh from a great deal of unemployment and loss of production and averting unpleasant consequences for labor which seem likely to result from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both A. F. of L. and C. I. 0 . union leaders ( whose sympathies were at first aroused by the injunction granted against the independent union ) became increasingly sour . Privately , C. I. 0 . people have- hinted darkly at a plot , pointing out that the striking group was originally a company union and that George L. Mueller , its president , was put through school by the Duquesne Light Company . It is not necessary to accept this colorful but undocumented charge of collusion to believe that the whole irresponsible episode will harm labor and the Democratic Party . By keeping Mayor Lawrence pinned to his desk , the emergency created by the strike removed from the campaign the shrewdest Democratic leader in Pennsylvania . It has given union-baiting Republicans some exceedingly effective ammunition . And , above all it has set the stage for anti-labor legislation , both id ' Harrisburg and Washington . ONCE MORE DR . GALLUP HITS THE NEWS . His sensational analysis of political trends , published in the closing weeks of the campaign , stresses the waning fortunes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic to the Republican column , and a drop in popularity for poor Mr. Truman so catastrophic that it looks as if he would have a hard time getting elected dogcatcher in Independence , Missouri . We were particularly interested in the sampling October 26 , 1946 on how the vote would divide if this were a Presidential election year . From Dr. Gallup 's figures , it would appear that the Democratic majority had dropped from 54 per cent in the 1944 election to a present figure of 47 . Nov this 54 per cent awakened vague tinglings of memory , and we consulted our research department to see what Dr. Gallup had come up with three weeks before Election Day in 1944 . Dr. Gallup 's figure was Roosevelt 51 , Dewey 49 . On the day before election he upped.Roosevelt to 5112 and put Dewey down to 48% . The actual vote went 54-46 for Roosevelt . Now Dr. Gallup himself emphasizes the margin that must be allowed for error , sal on the basis of his **27;605;TOOLONG figure it was actually 6 per cent in favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ error was as wide this time , then Mr. Truman 's vote would today be 50 per cent against his Republican opponent 's 50 per cent . We are not suggesting that there is nothing in the trend which Mr. Gallup suggests . All we say is that if you are a betting man do n't hang your shirt on a Gallup poll . SO LONG AS SPECULATION WAS PUSHING prices higher and higher , spokesmen for cotton were remarkably complacent about it . But when the bubble suddenly burst and spot cotton fell from 38.90 cents a pound to 33.52 in three hectic days , they cried calamity azra ... mi. for the investigation and punishment of those responsible . Possibly there has been an organized bear raid , as Senator Elmer Thomas , chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee , has alleged . If so , we must observe that the bulls and the cotton bloc had been asking for it . Raw cotton has not been subject to ceilings and has had all the benefits of a free market , including the attention of speculators whose stock-market activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When the OPA , confronted with the difficulty of holding textile prices in Tine while the raw material soared toward the stratosphere , sought to increase cotton-trading margins , it was thwarted by the cotton bloc in Congress . Through the summer , indications of a short crop , combined with a huge demand , foreign and domestic , kept the bulls happy and excited ; so did the speeches of various Southern state officials who talked cotton up to fifty cents and urged planters to delay sales . But it is in the nature of market booms to grow progressively more vulnerable and the increasing differential between domestic and world prices should have been an obvious danger signal . Many farm products are in an equally vulnerable position and within the next year we shall probably see the cotton pattern duplicated in other markets . if so , it is safe to predict that the Farm Bloc will become as clamorous for government action to raise price floors as it has lately been against government action to hold down price ceilings . 459 , IN THE DEATH OF " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a colorful hero but an inspired leader and one of its most astute military statesmen . Although many of us will think of General Stilwell primarily as the ' man who came back to reconquer Burma after admitting that " we got a hell of a beating , " the men who served under him will remember him as Uncle Joe , one of the kindliest and most modest men that ever lived . History will undoubtedly emphasize chiefly his remarkable efforts to keep China in the war as an effective ally . General Stilwell 's long experience in China and his extensive knowledge of its language and customs enabled him to accomplish what no other Westerner has ever attempted successfully : the training and directing of an efficient Chinese military force . This task called not only for military genius but for statesmanship of the highest order . Fearful lest American material assistance would become a divisive rather than a unifying factor in China  --  a fear justified by subsequent history ? Stilwell controlled the distribution of American supplies with an iron hand . Ignoring both the blandishments and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be distributed on the basis of military rather than political expediency . His courageous stand ultimately cost him his post as commander-in-chief of the China-Burma-India theater , MIA ? Sal .. 0,16.1 L. , ? ? ? ? ? ? ? /1.44 X , .11. saved from Japan 's last desperate offensive . Until his death , General Stilwell retained his passionate interest in China . He predicted that Hurley 's policy would inevitably lead to civil war and always insisted that the social revolution now under way could not permanently be suppressed , regardless of the scale of American aid . It is deeply unfortunate that America should be deprived of the benefit of his experience and counsel at this critical moment in our relations with China . Meat and Politics W HEN a politician who eats , drinks , and breathes politics wants to be particularly mean to another politician he invariably accuses him of " playing politics . " So we were not surprised to note that Mr. Truman 's radio announcement of meat decontrol was damned by the Republicans , in advance of its delivery , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elections . That was a safe line to take , even without knowing what the President would say , since it was obvious that whatever he said would have some effect on the voters . Nobody in this country has yet discovered how to hold office without being a politician , and as long as we remain a democracy , nobody is likely to . What is really troubling the G. 0 . P. leaders is their uncertainty about the actual effects of Mr. Truman 's decision to abandon the effort to hold meat prices in line . It was not an easy decision for him to take . It meant that he would be accused both of making a belated " flip-flop " in policy and of surrendering to big-business pressures . It involved , as he recognized , not merely lifting ceilings on meat but liquidating as rapidly as possible nearly all the economic controls by means of which the Administration had sought to keep the economy on an even keel until production and consumption had reached s. rough balance . However , there was no other practical way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests holding out for a rise in prices were strongly 4ntrenched and could only be beaten by a long campaign of attrition . But the time factor could not be ignored  --  either politically , since the meatless millions were apt to hold Democratic candidates responsible- for their empty ovens , or economically , since the ramifications of the packers ' sitdown had led to difficulties in a dozen other industries . Mr. Truman , therefore , climbed down with what dignity he could and took the opportunity to remind the people that responsibility for the situation rested squarely on " the reckless group of selfish men who , in the hope of gaining political advantage , have encouraged sellers to gamble on the destruction of price control . " The - Republicans responded with heat to that charge , perhaps because they realized it contained a damaging amount of truth . Carroll Reece , chairman of the Republican National Committee , retorted that if price-control legislation was bad , the fault lay wit the Democratic majority in Congress . That was hardly a good debating point , for as the Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long since taken control of Congress by virtue of their opportunistic alliance with the Southern Democrats . Nor can the Republicans deny that they have exploited the meat famine for all it is worth . That is quite understandable ; according to the New York Times , they feel , perhaps rightly , that it is the best issue they have had in fourteen years . But they can be blamed for talking about meat to the exclusion of all other questions . They claim that the tide is flowing their way and will sweep them into control of Congress . But they have told us practically nothing about what they are going to do with their majority when they get it . They talk vaguely about sweeping away the " bureaucrats " and releasing business from its chains . But their notion of a " free market " remains , as always , a strictly one-way affair ; it does not include giving consumers the benefit of a little more competition . Mexican cattle or Argentine beef will only enter the country over Senator Taft 's dead body . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Presidency in 1948 , while not quite as rosy as they and Dr. Gallup suggest , are far from baseless , their lack of a positive program is doubly alarming . - The NATION The problems this nation faces in the years iturnediately ahead are numerous and intricate . They are not going to be solved by a reversion to policies that proved futile in 1930 . " The fate of the last great free economy in the world , " wrote Walter Lippman in the New York Herald Tribune of October 17 , " will almost certainly depend on whether business and the Republican Party manage affairs so as to prevent or to bring on another 1929 . Some day , therefore , Mr. Taft ought to tell us what he has learned from the twenties , and what he would now do differently when the Republicans come into power . " Will Senator Taft , and some of the other numerous aspirants to Republican leadership , forget meat fetat , a moment and devote one speech before November 5 to meeting this serious challenge from a friendly quarter ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop being politicians . We would only remind them that the flavor of politics can always be improved by an infusion of statesmanship . Second Chance October 26 , 1946 everything proposed by the Russians . It is not quite enough to say that they tried only to prevent the Soviet Union from driving beyond the boundaries agreed upon at Yalta and Teheran . The fact is , Messrs . Byrnes and Vandenberg , like Mr. Atcheson in Tokyo , seem to have followed a fixed practice of opposing all Russian demands , reasonable and unreasonable , on the dangerous ground that any success for Moscow would be regarded as a defeat for the West . That this is a fact and not the dark imagining of one of those " appeasers " referred to by Mr. Vandenberg is indicated by a recent leader in the London Economist vammenting upon the Madison Square Garden speech of nenry Wallace . The Economist disagreed with many of Mr. Wallace 's remarks , above all with his attempt to make " British imperialism " responsible for the American attitudes he disliked ; in countering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in London over the persistence and precipitancy with which Mr. Byrnes is seeking occasions to challenge Russia . " " To be determined to stand firm against any further advance by the Soviets is one thing , " says , the Economist ; " but openly to provoke and challenge Russian policy is another . " It recalled Mr. Byrnes 's earlier tendency to " agree with the Russians at Britain 's expense , " and remarked that while the change since then was undoubtedly an improvement , ' - Inany people in this country are asking whether this is not a bit too much of a good thing . " That is what some people in America are asking , too , and will continue to ask in spite of the persuasions of Mr. Byrnes and his colleagues . We have heard a lot , since the Paris conference ended , about the value of facing frankly the " real issues " raised there , the " real conflicts " dividing Russia and the West . Mr. Vandenberg described the difficulty of finding common ground between " Eastern communism and Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the threat to Russian democracy embodied in Western capitalism . But all the " frankness " displayed on both sides manages to evade the issues that really need to be met with some kind of working compromise if peace is to be maintained . For it is not , as the Byrnes-Vandenberg duet would have us believe , a mere matter of stopping Russia 's advance toward the West or the Mediterranean , or of insisting upon democratic procedures in the Balkans . It is also , and more fundamentally , a problem of adapting American policy to the unalterable fact of economic-political revolution in Europe . Put more concretely , it is all right to argue against restrictive trade agreements and the control of international highways like the Danube , but it would be better to make at least an attempt to fit these excellent free-enterprise principles into the context of Europe 's shattered economy and the glaring need of a planned , closely integrated system of production and461 exchange , particularly in the Danube valley . Until we do this , our objections to Russia 's exclusive policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the economic advantages of " freedom " for-the United States are as evident as the advantages of " restriction " for the Soviet Union . Conversely , it is not enough for Russia to accuse us of seeking selfish , capitalist-imperialist advantages throughout its area of influence ; for this , too , will sound phony as long as large contingents of the Russian army graze on the poor lands of Eastern Europe and reparations draw a big proportion of the industrial plant of the area into Russian hands . Soviet influence has undoubtedly hastened the overthrow of the fascist-feudal oligarchy in the border states and supported essential policies of collective control and regional cooperation which the Western powers have done their best to discourage . But at the same time Russia 's preoccupation with its own security has largely obscured the issue of revolutionary change  --  which , in its varied forms , is the one great overriding issue in all of Europe . At Paris that issue skulked half hidden behind the conflicts of interest between the big powers which ' were fought out in the discussions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a better chance to emerge in its own right . For the Assembly is not a legislative or an administrative body . It is a world forum  --  the most impressive that could be organized . Since it can discuss and advise but not determine action , its members are free , or should be free , from the necessity which haunted the Peace Conference of thinking only in terms of national advantage . They can attempt to deal with matters under consideration on their intrinsic merits rather than as tests of national or bloc strength . Without truculence and suspicion , without sanctimonious , self-conceit , the nations , great and little , can analyze the nature of the conflicting ideas they hold about the world they are trying to reassemble , each in its own imperfect image . Perhaps when the camouflage is off we shall see that the conflict of social and national interests is too great to be met by compromise or conciliation . But perhaps the nations will find measures of accommodation sufficient at least to tide over the period of reorganization and reconstruction that lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached under conditions of relative stability . It is to this last hope that the delegates at Flushing should address themselves , and I commend to their dose attention the remarkable statement on relations with Russia issued last Saturday in New York by the Federal Council of Churches , a body which represents , not the prejudices or interests of a. few but the desires of some 28,000,000 Protestants and unaccounted millions of other Americans .                     