@@494224

The Bombing of Berlin The military importance of bombing Berlin is probably being overplayed in the American press . Certainly it is a serious matter to have a quarter of the German capital destroyed in a single week : Berlin has played large role in Germany 's war effort , it is her biggest city and the Nazis had boasted they could protect it . Nevertheless , Berlin could be utterly destroyed and the Germans could still fight on fiercely for a long time to come . Air power can probably knock out a country only when it is able to attack practically all military targets within its boundaries . There are still large areas in eastern Germany that have not yet been reached . They could be reached , however , from British-American airfields in Russia . We earnestly hope that the Moscow Conference arranged for the use of such fields , or if not , that the subject is being discussed at the **26;1128;TOOLONG meeting . That the Allies are morally justified in their attacks on Berlin there can be no question . One does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Warsaw , Rotterdam , London and Coventry for such justification . Berlin is a military target in every sense of the word . The Nazis glorify war and can not logically object to its consequences . It is unfortunate that anti-Nazi Germans must also suffer , but there is no help for it . There is one sobering reflection that must come to every American as he reads of the destruction wrought in Berlin . Military experts all say that if there is another war and the United States is drawn into it , as we probably would be , it is overwhelmingly likely that our cities would be bombed as Berlin has been . Recent andprospective advances in aviation would destroy the immunity which we have ? thus far ? experienced in the present conflict . If we want to make sure that what happened to Berlin does n't happen here , we must this time make a real attempt to do away with war . The Patton Affair In regard to General Patton a few points seem clear . First , the General is , or was at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a highly emotional state . He needs a long rest far from the battlefront . Second , it is hard to believe that a man so ignorant that he never heard of what used to be called " shell shock " can be a competent army leader . We are not overlooking the tribute paid him by General Eisenhower ; but we are also taking cognizance of the fact that General Eisenhower was bound to praise Patton if he decided to keep him in his command . Third , the army censorship was revealed as incredibly stupid . A tacit prohibition was put upon printing the story immediately after the most serious of the incidents occurred , although anybody with any sense must have known that it would leak out . Then , after Drew Pearson broke the story in a radio speech , the army in North Africa committed the folly of denying that Patton had been reprimanded , hiding behind the bare technicality that the reprimand does not appear on his military record . A censorship so stupid and inefficient in this case raises disturbing questions whether it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not come to light . Fourth , the whole handling of this affair is renewed evidence that the military mind constantly needs to be checked up , and in many cases overridden , by civilians . On Striking a Soldier One important aspect of the Patton affair has been largely overlooked by the civilian commentators , who seem to regard the rule that an officer shall not strike a soldier as wholly for humanitarian purposes , and as peculiar to the armies of democracies . As a matter of fact it is deeply rooted in military tradition , and was observed even before the last war by the strictest of Prussian officers . The point is that an officer who strikes a soldier loses caste , since he is supposed to be able to enforce his orders by word of mouth , and to retain the respect of his men by maintaining the self-possessed dignity of an " officer and a gentleman . " If corporal punishment was to be administered as a disciplinary measure ? as was once the custom ? it had to be done by non-commissioned officers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view , an affair like this is not an instance of too severe discipline , but of poor discipline , and its effect is to be judged by the resulting attitude of the soldiers toward their commander . On this point , General Eisenhower seems to be reassured . At this distance it is difficult to say whether he is wrong . But we can say at least that an officer who , in spite of this strong military tradition , can so lose control of himself is the type of man who never should have been advanced to high rank , and so be put in a position to embarrass his superior . It is too bad that a general good in other respects should have to be disqualified for a failing of this nature , but either the fault should have been eliminated long ago , or he should not have been put in command of an army . To Stop Inflation Two hundred and seventy-eight members of the House of Representatives have just voted to increase your grocery bills greatly in the next year , perhaps by roc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably Jo percent , almost immediately . Only ' 17 Representatives voted against this policy , voted instead for food subsidies to enable the administration to carry out its hold.the-line program on the cost of living . If you do n't know which group your Representative was in , look up a Congressional Record for November 24 , or if you do not have access to a copy , write us and we will let you know where he stood . It is important that you know and that you act on that knowledge , for this first defeat for the anti-inflation team marks the end of only the first phase of the fight . We are far behind as we line up for the next phase , to be fought in the Senate . It is no small-time combination of stupid , greedy plunderers we are up against . They are the sleekest and the smartest of Washington ( ( operators . " The on-the-spot lobbyists for the anti-inflationists , on the other hand , are the tiny group of overworked trade-union and progressive " legislative representatives " whose duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours of a day . These people who are fighting our fight must have stronger support if their work is to carry real weight . The quantities of letters and telegrams which have poured into Congress since the relation of subsidies to inflation and higher prices began to be widely understood has already made a big difference in the climate of opinion on Capitol Hill . The Senate still has to vote on the subsidy question . The President has made it i clear that he will veto the bill if the Senate passes it . In that case , the measure will go back to Congress and your Senators and Representatives will have another chance to vote the way you want them to vote . If you want to keep prices down , do something about it before it is too late . Murdering the OPA As soon as it had beaten the administration 's food-subsidy program , at least temporarily , the inflation bloc in the House plunged immediately into the next round of its fight to wipe out price control . As we have pointed out several times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to hack up the OPA into little pieces and parcel them out among ambitious administrators of other agencies . Under that scheme , control of both oil and coal prices would go to Harold Ickes in his &int; role of Petroleum Administrator for War and Solid Fuels Administrator . Food-price adjustments would become the business of War Food Administrator Jones . The hacked-up OPA would be left to die . When Prentiss Brown refused to 0 . K. 3 35-cent-a-barrel price increase for oil , recommended by Mr. Ickes last spring , Representative Disney of Oklahoma introduced a bill , supported by the oil industry , to transfer oil controls to Mr. Ickes . The Oil lobbyists and their friends had not been able to budge that bill out of committee until last week when Representatives from some coal-producing states suddenly threw their support to the Disney bill . These two groups , together with some members of the farm bloc , have now produced the 2 r 8 signatures necessary to discharge the Disney bill from committee and force it tiP for the consideration of the House . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the floor , an amendment will be offered also transferring coal-price jurisdiction to Mr. Ickes , as a reward for the coal group , and further that the Fulmer bill transferring food-price control to Jones will be made into a rider , as a prize for the farm bloc . Representatives of these plunder groups have been swarming into Washington by the hundreds . Representatives of the people whom these plunderers seek to rob are still few . The support given their effort to hold off inflation is still puny by comparison With the organized steal that they are challenging . If the OPA does n't get a real people 's bodyguard Will there 's going to be a murder . DECEMBER 6 , i 9 4 3 Boss Crump Once More Boss Crump of Memphis , Tennessee , is at it again . A few days ago , a meeting of Negroes was scheduled to be held in Memphis , to hear A. Philip Randolph , president of the International Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters . Shortly before the meeting was to take place , about twenty prominent Memphis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ henchmen and ordered to call off the meeting , being threatened , if they refused , with an attack by a white mob that would start a race riot . Boss Crump , defending his action , took a familiar line . " Memphis can run its own affairs , " he said , " and no blatherskite or demagogue of the North or South should be permitted to interfere with the friendly relations between the races that now exist in Memphis . " Translation : Mr. Crump is keeping the Negroes thoroughly suppressed , and intends to continue in that course . Peace Prayers It is only natural that the Pope should speak of the desirability of peace just before Christmas , and that he should appoint December 8 a day of prayer for peace . No reasonable person should expect the head of a Christian Church to cease longing for a cessation of hostilities as soon as may be . It is perhaps unfortunate , however , that this gesture should come precisely at the time when Germany is apparently seeking to negotiate an armistice without the unconditional surrender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Churchill , Roosevelt and Stalin ? and possibly Chiang Kai-shek ? are likely to insist on that surrender . Those responsible statesmen are no less eager for peace than the Supreme Pontiff . Indeed , one might infer they place a higher value on it , since they will not stop fighting as long as they believe there is the slightest chance of the war being renewed at some future time . If they were to appoint a day of prayer , they would undoubtedly decline to cry peace when there is no peace , but would urge the enemies of the Axis to ask for strength to persist in the bloody sacrifice until the conditions of permanent peace can be secured . Canada Helps the Refugees At a time in the world 's history when the fate of the victims of racial and political persecution is so often dismissed with a shrug or speech in diplomatic double-talk , it is a pleasure to record that one nation , at least , is not contenting itself with expressions of pious horror but is taking effective action . That nation is Canada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asylum to refugees from Hitler terror who are now in Spain and Portugal , and has sent an immigration officer to Lisbon to grant visas . Canada 's action , of course , is in accord with the recommendations of the Bermuda conference , though the govern-797 ment emphasizes that it has taken the decision " on its own behalf . " It is a sad commentary on the sincerity of other participants in the conference that today , nearly seven months after it adjourned , Canada is still the only nation to have put its recommendations into effect . It is impossible to say how many refugees will benefit by Canada 's decision , and the number will necessarily depend to some extent on the availability of shipping . Between April , 1933 , and April , 1942 , Canada admitted 39,00o immigrants from Europe , the great majority of them refugees , and gave temporary asylum to several thousands more . There is therefore every reason to hope that , thanks to the government 's decision , four or five thousand can be brought across the Atlantic in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come as ordinary immigrants . If Canada can open her doors to this many refugees , surely the United States , which is so much richer , can do at least as much . Yet the few neutral passenger vessels which still make the run between Lisbon and the ports of our Eastern seaboard today arrive less than half full . Will the Senate Tax ? After the most casual sort of consideration , the House has finally passed a tax bill which will yield less than one-fifth of the $10,500,000,000 in taxes requested by the Treasury . The terms of the rule under which the bill was considered in the House permitted no changes to be made from the floor and therefore scarcely a majority of the members turned up to vote on the measure . The " debate " on this vital matter conStan McGovern in The New York Post 79 8 sisted mainly of a series of orations by Chairman Doughton of the Ways and Means Committee and his gang from the committee , who had butchered the Treasury program so brutally before it was brought to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people are bearing the heaviest tax load in the world ! Doughton again stated their disbelief in inflation , calling the Treasury estimate of the inflationary gap " a statistical abstraction . " Republican after Republican rose to curse the corpse of the administration 's tax plan ; scarcely a Democrat rose to defend it . Now the latest inflationary proposal is before the Senate . Indications are that we may expect little more , in the way of adequate tax legislation to drain off surplus purchasing power , from the Senate Finance Committee under Walter George than came out of the House committee . George has stated that he sees no prospect of significant changes in or additions to the House bill except for an extra billion dollars he thinks might be raised from a new tax on reserve liquor stocks . Will the Senate take the chance it is about to be given and show that it wishes to represent all the people by daring to tax enough and equitably ? 