@@475716

FOR nearly two years , American forces have occupied Japan . The Army of the United States is comfortably quartered in the only steam-heated buildings in Japan , and one of this nation 's foremost war heroes , General Douglas MacArthur , has gallantly declined the parades and welcomes that indubitably awaited the return of the conqueror of the Pacific to these shores and remained to keep a firm grip on the occupation . There has been no resistance . There has been no fighting in the streets . There are few ominous rumbles from the underground . It has become the American habit to compare the occupation of Germany unfavorably with that of Japan . And as boss of the job , MacArthur naturally gets the credit . He gets the credit and most of the attendant publicity . There are photographs in the papers and the magazines of the curious crowd , equal parts GI and Japanese , which gathers at the front door of GHQ every noontide to watch him stride out in belted coat and gold-visored cap , enter his black limousine , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other photos from Japan are concerned with the lush living provided for troops on occupation duty ? pictures that do the double trick of making army life attractive to prospective enlistees and convincing the home folks that everything is rosy in Japan . The gaps love us . They 're always smiling . They 're always aping our ways . Democracy 's come to stay . But lately that roseate picture has been wilting . The thoughtful Americans who bother to read the more serious dispatches from Tokyo find that , for the first time , a volume of news dwells on a full-fledged crisis for which even The Boss 's highsounding prose has no solution . Lone reports printed from time to time during the past year and a half have hinted or frankly predicted that the present administration of our policies was leading us ? and Japan ? to the edge of trouble . But these were solo voices , lost in the chorus of admiration for a great soldier and his unconquerable Army . MacArthur and his men beat the laps , did n't they ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children of a feudal dictatorship five or six millenniums old should be easy . AND it looked easy in the beginning . True , there had been some anxious moments in Manila during the latter days of August 1945 . The " A " bombs had taken their frightful toll and the Japanese Imperial government , ears glued to loudspeakers bringing in the latest American suggestions for ways to end the struggle quickly , happily seized on these new weapons as a pretext for surrendering without losing too much face . The Emperor followed instructions and told his people to welcome the incoming Americans without hostility and without resistance . The people , whose ancestors had been accustomed through three hundred generations to following instructions without question , obeyed . But in Manila we had not known how strict the Japanese habit of obedience was . There were some jitters at GHQ . " Maybe the whole thing is a trap , " it was suggested . After all , the Japanese had a quarter of a million soldiers on the Kanto Plain Tokyo area and mary more within overnight travel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let us get even a division of soldiers ashore , then decided to resume the war ? Uncertainty ran high at GHQ , so high that even noncombatants ( correspondents , cameramen , Red Cross men , etc. ) were given carbines , .45 caliber automatics , and instructions how to use them . The miracle was that , under the general hysteria of the time , none of them was ever used except on Christmas Eve 1945 , when a correspondent from a New York paper fired his .45 into the elevator door in the Tokyo Correspondents Club ; and the report was that this was caused not so much by enemy action ( the elevator boy was a Japanese ) as by a hallucination which made it appear that one of his Times Square cronies was a passenger . Once landed in Japan it looked like an easy job . The expected snipers and underground resistance forces ( such as the Japs would obviously have found in the United States if the situations had been reversed ) failed to materialize . When an order was given it was obeyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a conqueror had a more attractive setup . The Japanese people were supinely obedient to official commands . The Mikado , who held the power of life and death over the least and mightiest of his subjects , was made Emperor , junior grade ? second in command , Where previously he held all authority and no responsibility ( it was worth a Jap 's life in wartime or prewar Japan to criticize or suggest the Emperor was at fault for the failure of any plan or project ) now he was given a sort of responsibility and whatever authority the Supreme Command chose to allot him . There was no likelihood that any sentimental objections would ever be raised at home to anything the Supreme Command ordered done to or by the Japanese . Japanese cruelty to prisoners , their treachery at Pearl Harbor , their booby-trapping of the dead , their frenetic ban , : ai suicide tactics had been reported too faithfully to allow them to achieve anything more than the status of savages in the American mind . The boss had a free hand . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mission to keep it . Those closest to the occupation are inclined to rack this up as a , if not the , primary reason for today 's looming crisis . T HE Boss 's free hand was curtailed only by announced objectives decided on at Potsdam ? in a word : the replacement of the old feudal system with a working democracy that would be a help instead of a liability in the bright new world . There were some others , too : reparations , trial of war criminals , restoration of property seized by the Nips when the war began ( and before ) , disarming the Army and Navy , elimination of the military 's influence on government , and elimination of the vast spiderweb control of the nation by a handful of rich families . Education was to he revamped , eliminating the fictions and fantasies with which Japanese school books were riddled ; great estates of absentee landlords were to be broken up and parceled out to the impoverished tenants on long-term loans at negligible interest ; Japan 's economy was to be stabilized on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There were some detailed instructions issued at the White House on September 22 , 1945 . MacArthur was to use the Japanese government but not support it . The Japanese people were to be told the truth , and then should be allowed to do anything about it they liked ; if " such changes involve the use of force by the Japanese people . . . " it was to be their own affair . The Supreme Command was told that American troops were to be used only if American lives and property were endangered . President Truman was Mis-souri farmer enough to know that only a rainstormndergroun cand rivers break a rarely drought turn decisively . deserts into fertile farmland , and the end of any political tyranny may well generate a certain amount of heat . But of these things more anon . First order of business was to corral all the firearms and explosives . Rifles and cannon were melted down for scrap , the explosives either burned , detonated , or dumped carefully at sea . Nearly everybody in the occupation forces got a samurai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ San Francisco with seven tons of them , done up in individual mailing packages by the Second Marine Division , in her hold . By Christmas 1945 Japanese weapons were so scarce that discovery of one or more usually generated an instant and extensive investigation . The Boss had , meanwhile , been busy giving top-level orders . Political prisoners were freed . The old Thought Police , who could clap a man ( or woman ) into jail permanently upon simple suspicion of " thinking wrong thoughts " were disbanded , though to be sure some were allowed to rejoin the civil police . They tossed out the old history books , a compound of fact and fantasy teaching mainly that there 's no God but one God and he 's the Emperor , plus the theory the Japanese were descended from residents of some ancient Oriental Valhalla and as such were destined to rule the world . The Boss ordered those fabulously rich families whom the Japs know as the Zaibatsu divested of their wealth and power . Finally , he ordered the government purged of ultranationalists and said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also taboo as officeholders . These orders , plus stacks of lesser ones , pretty well implemented the announced Allied objectives , in so far as paper work was concerned . Translating the orders into action , in many cases , turned out to be a discouraging business . However , The Boss had persuaded nervous little Hirohito to renounce his personal divinity in his New Year 's ( 1946 ) Rescript . This was a great score for The Boss , which made quite a stir in the Tokyo press but has had small diminishing effect on the numbers of faithful who pause daily before Nijubashi Gate of the Imperial Palace to bow in deepest reverence . BY mid-January 1946 the occupation was at its zenith of acclaim and effectiveness . At this point , murmurs began to be heard that the military mission was completed and it was time for civilians to take over the job . The question of just how close Japan could come to feeding her own teeming millions was arising , and the first free food from America was not yet en route . Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxation , of legal systems began to arise and to give some career army officers queer , uncertain feelings , as if they were fighting an enemy whose perimeters somehow remained beyond our farthest patrols . Nip government bureaus quickly learned to confer with some of The Boss 's boys before doing anything ? about anything . It became a rule to obtain advance sanction for any new regulations before they were made public , otherwise some Minister might be compelled to withdraw his regulations and lose face thereby . There were , at that time , thirteen staff sections in The Boss 's headquarters peopled to some extent with civilian experts , all , however , subject to the ironclad authority of military superiors , a fact that has led to many delays and fumbles and mislaid chances . For example , I know of a food section 's plan for corralling a major portion of the December-January ( 194545 ) rice harvest that lay on a career colonel 's desk from November until too late . Jap railroads were losing money . While their deficits mounted ( they 're @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , approved by an American civilian railroad expert , lay untouched for thirty-four days on the desk of a G-4 colonel who had protested , " For heaven 's sake , I do n't know anything about railway economics . " Finally , in desperation he scrawled his okay on the new rates and they limped along from desk to desk through the slowly grinding processes of Supreme Command administration . Naturally , it 's heresy to say so in Tokyo , but there is a very real naivete about the practical workings of democracy in circles close to The Boss . But the ineptitudes of our administration in Japan are too frequent to be casual . There is a basic fallacy in the reasoning behind a national policy which would give an Army the job of democratizing an essentially militarist civilization . A career officer insulates himself deliberately from politics , from public affairs , from finance , from government , and from as many aspects of democracy as possible . There 's nothing democratic about an army ; often it 's actively antithetical . I once went to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about a Japanese politician of a particularly venal stripe who was running for election . The information was refused on the ground that there was no interest in the man in the States . " Colonel , " I remonstrated , " suppose you were back in San Francisco and this was the week before election . Would n't you want to know something about the people running ? " " Young man , " came his frosty reply , " I have not voted in twenty-five years . " He was clearly proud of it . The Boss himself has been known to comment to visitors on the fact that he 's spent precious little time in America since 1933 ? which hardly qualifies him as an expert in American democracy . Those of us on the scene could almost plot a day-to-day chart of The Boss 's politics as they veered ponderously to the right . Not that they had far to go . He has found politics an intriguing game . Politics plus power such as no other American ever wielded was and is a heady draught , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with power in his fingertips to make nearly eighty million little figures dance or bow or stand or fall . Where divisions and fleets once did his will , now an entire race , a notable segment of all humankind , obeyed his dicta or at least gave that appearance . Not in modern times , if ever , has a white man stood at the crest of history in just such a commanding post . I R THERE was any self-doubt , any uneasy feeling that perhaps the Army ? or The Boss either ? was a little out of safe depth , no early manifestations thereof appeared publicly except in some worried dispatches by three or four American newspaper correspondents who found that their stories earned only apathy at home and resentment at GHQ . So let 's skip , for the moment , some of the intervening months and find out what sort of a score The Boss has made at his game of occupation . Remember those objectives the Allies decided on at Potsdam ? First from the standpoint of security was to disarm the Army and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thoroughly , like a wellplanned military campaign , well-executed . Reparations : they did n't leave that one to The Boss and , when last heard of in midJuly this year , it had become the basis for a new " post-surrender policy for Japan " evolved by the eleven nation Far Eastern Commission . Just how soon this will bring actual delivery of reparations goods to war-damaged nations is highly conjectural . Elimination of the military influence on government : that one was n't hard . The Boss put a line in his directive purging " undesirables " from the government to say that no army or navy officers of any commissioned rank could hold public office . This looked good on the statistics sheet , too , for he could immediately write down the names of 186,000 men " excluded from public office . " If , later , careless reports told the folks back home The Boss had actually bounced this many people from bureaucratic jobs ? " ousted " was the favorite word ? why , then , that was n't The Boss 's fault , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removals from office in the first nine months the " purge " operated totaled 899 , and The Boss found he had to extend the purge in various directions : into business and professional ( particularly informational professions ) circles and to small town and village officials . Trial of war criminals : here we begin to tread on sore toes . In June of 1946 " Class A " war criminals , such as General Tojo and Hirohito 's shepherd and confidant , Marquis Kido , went on trial in Tokyo , a trial remarkable perhaps because one defendant went crazy , two more died , and because the trial is still going on with tempers shortening as the records lengthen . The prosecution at first wanted to put Hirohito on trial , but The Boss said no . Then they wanted to use him as a witness . Again The Boss said no . Prosecutors went back to their offices and stared at walls decorated with graphic charts showing relative authority and responsibility enjoyed by wartime and prewar Japanese governments . Inevitably , the track of authority from every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sixteenpetal chrysanthemum , the personal sigil of the Emperor . As the trial droned on , the diary of Marquis Kido disclosed that the Emperor had known of the plans for attacking Pearl Harbor and beginning war on the United States as early as July 1941 . On December 2 , 1941 , there had been a final discussion of plans in Hirohito 's presence to which the Godhead of the Era of Enlightened Peace contributed only , " These are very hard times , are n't they ? " At any time , Hirohito could have stopped these plans . His sacred word could have diverted the plans for conquering China . The responsibility for American entry into World War Il was placed squarely at Hirohito 's door . The Boss still said no and sent the little ruler out to see what the B-29 's had done to his country and to work up some new traditions among his subjects as a man of the people . The principle of ultimate responsibility has been used to hang many other war criminals . General Yamashita , whose brilliant conquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rushed to the gallows because he was responsible for deaths of captured British and Australian personnel . General Homma was shot because he had ultimate responsibility for the infamous Bataan Death March . But where does the application of a principle stop ? Certainty short of the throne of Japan , it appears , and even short of other deserving members of the Imperial brood . There was considerable bitterness that bandy-legged , pleasure-loving ( the story is that his family practically had to kidnap him out of France years ago ) Prince Higashi-Kuni , Hirohito 's uncle , is still free to enjoy his estates . He was premier when American troops entered Tokyo , and kept that shaky seat another six weeks . But he is better known as the man who condemned the captured Doolittle flyers to death by beheading . The Boss has been curiously disinterested in his case . The plain fact regarding war crimes trials is that while they are designed to show the Japs ? and history ? how fair Western justice is , they 've already failed in the first objective and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole thing . The military leaders who lost the war are as good as dead , in their minds . They think these trials a waste of time and money . More than one Tokyo resident has earnestly asked me : " That Tajo . Why do n't you shoot him ... now ? " History will be asked to determine the fairness of trials based on a new concept of international taw : that it is a crime to plan and wage a war of aggression , the winner of such a war to decide just what constitutes aggression . Opinions about this are far from unanimous . III T HE Boss 's most spectacular failure , and the one which may compel him as a wily tactician to cut and run for cover before long , is the appalling economic debacle which builds higher as unhappy Japan comes closer to the end of her meager resources of food , fuel , clothing , and construction materials . This is tied inextricably to bumbling by The Boss and his soldier-statesmen , their dilettantist dabbling in politics , their efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( how the Mitsui and Yasuda bankers used to smile among themselves after these sessions ' ) , their outright protection of feckless cabinets which , one after another , were simple reshuffles of old hacks who 've been in and out of government for a generation or more . Japan 's snowballing inflation ? something The Boss is said not to realize ? is a countermeasure , deliberately fostered and openly contrived , designed in cunning Japanese minds to combat attempts to destroy the rich families of Japan and their empires of means and money . More than a year ago , when aging Baron Kijuro Shidehara found the reins of government slipping from his grasp in the wake of the first postwar election , a new cabinet was formed after a few flurries under Shidehara 's erstwhile foreign minister , Shigeru Yoshida . Yoshida had a fairly clean record , though actually his only recommendation lay in the fact that he had been arrested by the Thought Police once during the war and spent forty-five days in jail . But , on the other hand , he had also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondents for British interests , to dinner on December 19 , 1945 , greeted them with , You men , being Irish , know what it is to be occupied , " and after a sumptuous meal tried to persuade them to write articles which would make MacArthur 's future dicta less drastic . Yoshida 's cabinet had several jokers in it , but the oddest fish by far and villain of this piece was one Tanzen Ishibashi , quondam editor of the Oriental Economist . He went into office an avowed inflationist , but The Boss 's outriders did n't think that mattered much . The reins were really in their hands . They 'd just made everybody turn in all currency for a new yen issue four weeks previously . They 'd chopped the 60 billion yen in circulation to 15.3 billion . Now things would level off . In line with the Potsdam decision concerning the ultrarich families of Japan , The Boss had hired and imported brilliant , ebullient Leo M. Cherne , communistfighting director of the Research Institute of America , to study the subject of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and war-profits levies that would remove the war-rich from further consideration , remove surplus yen from circulation , help redistribute the wealth , deal a solarplexus blow to the Zaibatsu families , help the government meet costs of reconstruction and the occupation , and nurture the virtually nonexistent middle class . Cherne 's institute discovered there have been fifteen such tax schedules in the past thirty years . One succeeded , but fourteen fell over such stumbling blocks as inflation and bad collections . Cherne evolved a plan with enough safeguards to satisfy the Bank of England , and sailed for New York , expecting The Boss to issue it as an ultimatum or directive . Months later the Cherne plan , emasculated by compromise , its safeguards gone , emerged as the Japanese government 's own proposal . Ishibashisan had proved a stubborn negotiator . In the weeks of tussling , the currency in circulation zoomed swiftly . In September1946 it leveled olf for a few weeks but then again began its climb . By the time Ishibashi-san reluctantly agreed to float the nearly unrecognizable capital tax plan as his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's currency-exchange total of 15.3 billion yen , achieved March 2 , 1945 , has now grown to more than 120 billion . The black market became the dominant factor in both the daily lives of the nation 's people and in any plan to re-establish the nation 's economy . But Ishibashi had saved the day for the Zaibatsu . As property owners , as controllers of sources of supply and channels of trade , the Zaibatsu swiftly accumulated fantastic fortunes in black market yen . There is still a wrangle over the final tax rates but , whatever they are , they can be paid easily from these great slush funds . And there will be plenty left over to take care of less serious annoyances , such as the freezing of certain income from legal sources and the forced sale to employees and public of certain stocks in interlocked corporations . With all this fluid cash on hand , repurchase of these shares through agents and dummies can be arranged . It may be difficult , but the Jap Government is actually handling the mechanics of this reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrange things to suit the Zaibatsu . A few weeks ago , after Ishibashi-san had had a full year to do what he wished to the Japanese economy , he was ordered purged from office by The Boss 's so-called " government section . " Now a new cabinet , the first one in Japanese history composed of elected representatives , is faced with the gigantic task of repairing the wreckage . , T T WAR 'S end , 4 per cent of the tax-payers owned more than 90 per cent of Japanese wealth . It was hoped these percentages would change drastically at occupation 's end , but econo-mists now realize with an awful certainty that the smaller figure in the preceding sentence will not grow , but the big one will . It is difficult for well-fed Americans to realize the depth of the poverty in which Japanese city-dwellers find themselves . Most of them have long since sold or bartered what extra clothing or other valuables they had for food . The rice ( or such rice-equivalents as sweet potatoes ) rations are far behind delivery even though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideal as to seem providential , was a record-breaker . Only the 900,000 metric tons of food contributed by the United States in 1946 staved off widespread urban starvation , and this year at least twice as much will be needed . There is always some vague talk in official quarters that this food will be paid for by Japan out of exports ; but Japan 's biggest money crop ? raw silk ? has been outdistanced in Western markets by synthetic fibers . Bales of once-precious raw silk lie unwanted in warehouses in Japan and the United States , with no prospect of payment now or in the foreseeable future . The United States must face the fact that it has an ailing ward on its hands , one that demands much in the way of food and care and materials . It is not likely that this prot ? g ? will soon be able either to fend for itself or even to contribute to the cost of its own upkeep . As is inevitable in an economy faced with long-standing food shortages , diseases directly or indirectly attributable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new wrinkle to the administrators ' brows . u. this hardly makes Japan an auspicious cradle for democracy . And yet last October The Boss 's diplomatic spokesman , George Atcheson . Jr. , told the Allied Council for Japan that things had reached a point where the objectives of the Japanese government and those of the occupation had even then become practically synonymous . More recently , one day in mid-March the Premier , Shigeru Yoshida , announced a plan to change election laws in a way universally accepted as giving his own old-line political machine a heavy advantage over newer parties in Japan ? and the next day The Boss , submitting to his first press conference since the war began , told newsmen the framework of democracy had been laid in Japan , and " there is little more to do except to watch . control , and guide , I believe sincerely and absolutely that it democracy is here to stay . " His opinion found many dissenters . These dissenters had watched three Japanese governments come and go , each protected and shielded in its turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been familiar behind government desks since the days when Premier Baron Tanaka tried to laugh off the first disclosure of the Island Empire 's real plans for world conquest . They had seen American troops detailed to " protect " cabinet members from their constituencies . They had seen plans for economic rehabilitation wrecked on shoals of inflation . They had seen and recognized The Boss 's campaign to keep the Allied Council for Japan ( a four-power , purely advispry body ) impotent and inactive until fright over inflation sent him scurrying to ask his first important advice : what to do about price and wage stabilization ? They knew that the occupation 's pet instrument , the so-called Purge Directive , had been handed over to the Japanese to activate and that unscrupulous Yoshida was openly using the purge as a political weapon for his own side ? unabashed and unreproved . The dissenters knew that each step taken by the Japanese government is plotted in the big gray-stone insurance building that is now Supreme Headquarters , but they read also The Boss 's letter to Premier Yoshida ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action to end inflation and black markets and knew he was disclaiming responsibility . The lines of retreat were to be kept open . They had heard his earnest suggestion that the UN take over his burdensome task as a sort of test : " If the United Nations are ever to succeed , " he had said , " this is the most favorable opportunity it has ever had . Japan would be willing and would desire it . If the UN can not provide these mild controls , it can not meet anything " ? another preparation by a great tactician for sudden withdrawal . No , The Boss 's conclusion that his job is done was not a unanimous opinion . It was , instead , a tacit if not open admission that the military was now out of safe depth . The Army wanted to go back to its drills and its parades , its guns , planes and " planning for eventualities . "                     