@@470725

DURING the campaign of 1844 it was good politics for the Whigs to inquire derisively , concerning the Democratic nominee , " Who is James K. Polk ? " Two years later it was good politics to describe him as the man who had led us into war . Since for many years American history was written mainly in the Whig tradition , the war of 1846-1848 came to figure in the texts as Mr. Polk 's war , which does an injustice to the only effective President between Jackson and Lincoln . Polk was no more responsible for the Mexican War than Lincoln was for the Civil War . He looks in retrospect something like an odd effort of nature 's to anticipate Calvin Coolidge and Herbert Hoover in one personality . He had Coolidge 's training and faith in machine politics , his rural shrewdness , and his suspicion of intelligence superior to his own . He had Mr. Hoover 's unshakable integrity , his gift for antagonizing his supporters , his instinct for putting his worst foot forward , and something of his prose style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had campaigned on , which was not usual even in those more innocent days . He understood better than his opponents , better especially than the most famous of them , the strongest energy which was operating on the nation . He saw quite clearly , as few did , just how important the unoccupied West was to the United States . And he knew what he wanted . What he wantedwas , as it concerns us here , California . The war was a legacy from his predecessor , a corollary of the annexation of Texas . That annexation would have occurred years before except that the implied war could not be financed in the depression years following the panic of 1837 . The Americans had taken Texas with the same patriotic ruthlessness that had given them the Indian lands . After colonies had been founded in a friendly neighboring country it was discovered that they were being intolerably oppressed , denied civil and religious rights , and exploited by a cruel and despotic government . Satisfactory incidents were precipitated ( a model for them had been set by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and established their independence , assured of speedy union with the United States . Depression and free-soil opposition delaying it , they had to carry on a guerrilla war with Mexico which the United States could assist only indirectly with munitions , money , and volunteers . In order to overcome the opposition in the mother-country they had at last to use the most powerful threat at their disposal : they got , action by seeming to invite alliance with even a protectorate under ? Great Britain or France . The threat of European influence sufficed . Annexation followed , the Mexican War became inevitable , and a way was opened straight to Fort Sumter and on to Appomattox . That , however , is by no means the whole framework of the war . If the threat of European influence in Texas was a mere feint , it was a reality elsewhere . Mr. Polk rightly regarded the Oregon question as little more than a formal exercise in diplomatics , but there were two detached portions of the late Spanish Empire which were only theoretically included in the feverish paradox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of them , New Mexico , had been so closely bound to the American economy by the Santa Fe trade that it need only be reached for . California , however , was another matter . It had never really been Spain , it was not really Mexico , it had hardly been affected by American penetration ; it was a languorous anarchy floating in space . It was the one remaining place where Europe could set a limit to the continental development of the United States . Time was working hard for the Americans , but the Californians occasionally invited the French , the English , or the Prussians to interfere , and as time shortened there was a real danger that they might act . Mr. Polk thought of that danger as both pressing and unnecessary , and he accepted the war with Mexico enthusiastically because it made the acquisition of California certain . What he did not see was that it would add leverage to Texas and force the United States to face at last its most important issue , the restriction or expansion of slavery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American frontier , a military phase of western expansion ? of , if you Iike , American imperialism . Like all wartime Presidents , Polk believed that he could fight it without bloodshed . He was wrong , but the bloodshed was inconsiderable in comparison with the heightening and implementation of typical frontier developments that accompanied it . To the military historian the war is about equal parts paradox , farce , scandal , and demonstration that Providence does take care of the Americans . Scott'scampaign for Mexico City was a planned and brilliant operation , but the rest of the war was improvised , usually very badly . Zachary Taylor won his battles and became President only because the Mexicans disliked fighting on the second morning of an engagement : they usually defeated Old Rough and Ready on the open field but became discouraged and ran away when they found that his stolidity had kept him in position overnight . Both the organization and the employment of the American troops were the awful flowering of the volunteer militia system . The high command ? Polk and his advisers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the war was fought mostly out of touch with it . The service of supply was always bad and frequently in collapse . Any troops except those which the Americans faced must infallibly have defeated them , and those might well have defeated them if there had been any true government in Mexico , if large parts of the invaded country had not been in revolt against what government there was . But the American armies made one decisive campaign and several demonstrations that were just as effective . They served as excellent training cadres for the men who were to be general officers in the Civil War , especially the Southerners . ( Robert E. Lee , for instance , learned from Scott 's management of converging columns the tactics that were to win his most brilliant victories , and to lose him Gettysburg . ) And if there had been such a thing as a general stall ; to learn from the mistakes made in such quantities , at least two , and conceivably three , years could have been lopped off the Civil War . The war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The most memorable of them was the achievement of a thousand young Missourians , mostly farm boys , who made a year-long march through hostile territory that is unsurpassed in the history of warfare . Though the American migration had now reached the edge of the desert , and though the phase of exploration was beginning to yield to that of settlement , there was little general knowledge of the West which Polk proposed to seize . The idea of sending military expeditions into that big wilderness confounds the imagination now , but the ignorance in which it was conceived protected it then . Failure would have made it an international joke . Military operations began of course on the Rio Grande , but Polk 's eye was on the western wilderness . He organized the Army of the West to take it over , under Colonel , promoted Brigadier-General , Stephen Watts Kearny , anexcellent regular officer trained to frontier campaigning by years in the Indian country . Kearny was to occupy New Mexico , organize it under the American government , and then go on and take California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the probabilities , it proved to be almost as simple as it sounds . Kearny , already commanding the United States First Dragoons , a regiment of regulars , was directed to take command of volunteer forces raised for his expedition by the State of Missouri , the principal unit of which was the First Regiment of Missouri Mounted Volunteers . There were about eight hundred and fifty of them when they were mustered in , and they , with certain smaller , related organizations which brought their strength to between nine hundred and a thousand men , made the great march . Their commander was a Missouri lawyer named Alexander William Doniphan . An extraordinary man , he was , nevertheless , a typical product of the frontier . He had been born in Kentucky , had had the Latin and rhetoric of a frontier seminary , and had become the principal criminal lawyer in Missouri . That implied a practice largely devoted to defending the survivors of knife fights and shooting scrapes , and a mastery of the period 's symphonic oratory . He was the most eloquent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but he had many other qualifications for one and could serve as a type-specimen of the community builder and leading citizen . His military experience consisted of a generalship in the Missouri militia , purely honorary except for a brief period when his organization ? itself little better than the mob it had to deal with ? was despatched to cope with the riots that ended in the expulsion of the Mormon Church from its Garden of Eden . At that time he had had the character and the courage to refuse to carry out an order to execute Joseph Smith , the Mormon prophet , for treason . Because of that and because he successfully defended one of the Danites against a charge of attempted murder , he has always been a figure of light in Mormon tradition . Coming back from Mexico , he resumed his career where the great adventure had interrupted it , and lived to labor vainly as a compromiser when his State had to make its choice in 1861 . He was a large man : in the White House Lincoln stood back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half an inch . Doniphan enlisted in the First Missouri as a private but was at once elected Colonel of the regiment . The men who elected him were his neighbors , a fairly homogeneous breed . The venture attracted a sprinkling from other sections of the country , and the rendition of " jornada " as " hornarther " in one of the journals shows that even an occasional Yankee could reject the current admonitions of Hosea Biglow . But mainly they were Missourians , some from the towns and cities , the majority from the farms , and very few more than a single generation away from the pioneering way of life . That fact defines them and explains their achievement . Military discipline was not even a theory to them . Seeing a company in their shirtsleeves one steamy prairie noon shortly after the beginning of the march , Kearny ordered the captain to have his men put on their coats . The captain answered that his men had come to fight , not to dress , and would have lost his job if he had answered otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bill resented and was apt to disregard commands , possibly reasonable but curtly phrased and , therefore , offensive , from Joe whom he could lick in a fair fight and who must not be allowed to put on airs just because he was called sergeant or lieutenant . Francis Parkman , who saw some of them , appreciated their qualities but said that if discipline and subordination were the criterion of merit they were worthless , and added that they went through New Mexico more like a band of free companions than like the paid soldiers of a modern government . An officer of the British army traveling in Mexico who met them near El Paso was aghast : the volunteer system was palpably bad , they would never be soldiers , they had no idea of drill or maneuver , they were quite unlike Her Majesty 's troops ; but , he admitted in bewilderment , they did the job assigned them . All marching troops straggle , but few that were good for fighting have ever straggled as badly as these . The thousand of them , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or four-fifths of them might be jammed with the advance guard to look at the country . They loved looking at the country and wandered off to climb hills or peaks , investigate Indian relics , carve their names on pueblos or churches or sandstone cliffs , or gape at the strange behavior of the New Mexicans . Seasoned in frontier crafts , they nevertheless frequently ignored their learning and , especially in the early months , made camp badly , ate and drank injudiciously , and committed flagrant imprudences on the march , suffering intensely as a result . So , though only a few were killed by gunfire , many died of disease and exposure who need not have died . They knew better than anyone could tell them ? and their obstreperous individualism killed them almost automatically in the deserts and mountains , the country to which the American pioneer culture had not yet been adapted . On the other side were their ingenuity , their boundless high spirits , their endurance , and their courage . At El Brazito the first enemy cannon opened on them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them ran out to take a look at it and brought it back with them . At Sacramento a drunken officer ordered them to halt in the midst of a charge : they guessed he did n't know what he was talking about and they went ahead . Kearny drove them hard and Doniphan drove them harder , and that was all right with them . They stood it , in fact , better than their horses ; an artillery battalion entered Santa Fe with only ten of the one hundred mounts it had had at Fort Leavenworth . The small battalion of infantry was ahead of the cavalry most of the time . And they were all ahead of the commissary and of the trains that were supposed to keep them supplied . They had full rations for only one month of twelve , they were on half rations or less most of the time , and ended by practically living off the country . Little ammunition and no uniforms ever caught up with them , and though one paymaster did reach some of them , six months out from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they got no pay at all till they landed at New Orleans , exactly a year after they started . The officers were wise enough to treat them in kind and too ignorant to treat them in any other way . A few West Pointers supplied an occasional orthodox touch : the right word for a report , the textbook dispositions for a camp or an order of march , a thin continuity of military practice . The volunteer officers argued , cajoled , electioneered , quarreled with one another or fought with the men indiscriminately ? and reassuringly . When a couple of them set up a guard round their tent to keep enlisted men away there was a riot , and some of the rioting democrats were bent on murder . Doniphan , usually without uniform or arms , lounged among them , calling everybody by his first name , giving few orders and those in the vernacular , occasionally haranguing his command with a thundering Fourth of July oration . The appearance of the Mexicans at El Brazito interrupted him in a card game whose stake was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ran away during the battle . At Sacramento he did the sensible things quietly and sat on his horse whittling and watching his individualists destroy an army extempore , remarked " they 're giving us hell , boys " at the height of the bombardment , and gave the order for the decisive charge at the moment which he recognized to be the right one . At a council of war he spoke of his preference for " going home to Sarah and the children " and so doubled the affection of his troops . He was not called upon to be much of a strategist or tactician , but it required magnificent leadership to preserve an army deep in hostile territory , hundreds of miles from any base , thousands of miles from the War Department . Doniphan did that and made them victorious as well . The right man was in command of the right kind of troops . The frontier had produced on demand the best instruments for enormously enlarging the territory of the United States , and when William Cullen Bryant compared Doniphan and his troops to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history as there was rhetoric in the allusion . III Kearny got his command moving westward from Fort Leavenworth in several divisions , the last week in June , 1846 . Its route was the historic , or prehistoric , pathway of trade and war called the Sante Fe Trail . Ahead of it a wagon train was straining to get ammunition to the Mexicans ? and there were more enemy supplies behind it and to come . Ahead of it also went an emissary whom Polk had sent to assist his hope that New Mexico might be taken without the firing of a shot . This was James Magoffin , a wealthy merchant of the Santa Fe trade , and exactly what he did and how he did it remain mysterious . But the commandant of New Mexico abandoned impregnable positions when the troops approached them , and Mr. Magoffin later made claim against the United States for fifty thousand dollars . Something like that was the expense in bribes or benevolences of Mr. Polk 's bloodless occupation . The whole length of the Trail was crowded with legend and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with stories of massacre and death from thirst and unimaginable suffering and courage . It was one of the great roads of the Western world . The first stage of the expedition , the less important and less difficult one , was the one that hardened the Missourians . The strangeness of the new country settled round them at once . At first it was a beautiful country , the high grass sown with slimmer flowers and bending in the mile-long troughs of the wind . For a while soldiering was like picnicking , and the " Doniphesias " skylarked along the trail , at nuoning , round the campfire . But the ferocious prairie weather began to buffet them with cloudbursts , hail storms , northers , and then settled down to a prolonged drought . A frayed , minute ribbon in vastness , theycame out into the short-grass country and on toward the barrens . They learned to use buffalo chips for fuel , they learned what thirst was , alkali tortured their cheeks and eyes , they got lousy , their boots wore out and they left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herds they had dreamed of since childhood , and left ranks to break down their tired horses chasing them . They had put the vast swarms of mosquitoes behind but they encountered almost as many rattlesnakes , which were almost as deadly . And now the country was collecting its stern tax on ignorance and carelessness . Typhoid , measles , j aund ice , " bilious fever , " and the archenemy of men in crowds , dysentery , assailed them ; bad food and worse water sapped their strength . So many a boy who had joined up for a summer 's outing on the plains was left in a shallow grave scratched beside the trail and filled with stones to keep the wolves out . Kearny drove them on . Fifteen miles would have been an excellent day 's march for any army in this country , but the logs frequently show nineteen , twenty-three , thirty , even more , and sometimes the diaries read " 8 A.M. to 2 A.M. " They halted at Bent 's Fort for such reconditioning as was possible , then moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeing for the first time , and crossing the boundary , they became an army of invasion . At once the campfires heard the immemorial war rumors of enormous forces gathering to destroy them , and the precarious situation of this small band unsupported in enemy country was highlighted with a vividness it had not had before . They realized that there might be more drawbacks to soldiering than dysentery and West Pointers . But the enemy was always beyond the second turn in the trail , never the first , and they kept on , though jittery sentinels roused the camps at night firing at wolves , soapweeds , or just the wind . Ahead of them the purchased commandant withdrew his army and then took flight ; they came down safely to the foothills and the settlements , bringing the measles with them to kill many children . Now began a fascinating , inexhaustible study of the outlandish manners , costumes , and diversions of the New Mexicans , a humble folk broken by two centuries of oppression , who did n't care much whom they were ruled by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Americans scorched their palates with chili ( they believed that wolves would not touch the highly seasoned corpses of the greasers ) , soothed them with the emollience of native wines , and began appeasement among the senoritas , who capitulated by the hundred . Their uniforms were in tatters now and would be henceforth ; later Doniphan remarked that they had a superiority over Taylor of one r , they were rough , ready , and ragged . But there were barter and various kinds of pressure and , other currency failing , their brass buttons had a face value of twelve and a half cents . On August 18th they occupied Santa Fe without firing a shot , as they had been told to . Kearny organized the province as a Territory of the United States , with a civil code drawn up by legal specialists from the ranks , and prepared to go on to his second objective . It was a wretched , poverty-stricken , adobe town but seemed heavenly after the trail , and the army had a glorious time . The senoritas , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food than they had been having ; there was good wine and aguardiente ; there were cockfights and fandangos ; they organized a dramatic company and played " Pizarro " and " Bombastes Furioso " within these ancient walls . It was all fairly innocent and peaceful . Sterling Price 's troops , who were following them down the trail to become the army of occupation , grew bored and turned Santa Fe into the first roaring boom town of the American West , a wild pageant of gambling , murder , pillage , arson , rape , and general hell . ( Something similar happened along the Rio Grande , where Taylor had moretroops and a much more hostile native population but did n't care to endanger his political future by enforcing martial law . ) But the Doniphesias were neighborly ? and besides had work to do . Kearny , learning that California had come under the flag , took only a hundred dragoons with him when he went on to assume command of it . ( An insurrection and sharp fighting awaited him there , and a series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ego . ) Price was to command New Mexico and Doniphan was to march south and join General Wool , who was supposed by this time to have captured Chihuahua . But the Indian tribes , who had always regarded the New Mexicans as their sheepherders and horse breeders , had begun to raid even more arrogantly with the coming of the Americans , and it would be a useful work of appeasement to subdue them . So , leaving for California , Kearny ordered Doniphan to find the Utes and the Navajo and to make treaties with them . The exact routes of all the little detachments that promptly marched into the mountains can not be determined now , and the entire episode is almost unbelievable . They were farm boys who had plenty of courage and had learned how to march , but they knew nothing of either Indian-fighting or mountain craft . Ignorance did not dismay them and they took the incredible in their stride . It was October when they started and November was over when they got back . They were on half-rations of shorts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no rice , coffee , sugar , or molasses . The wilderness they invaded was among the most difficult in North America ; it was the home of the most savage tribes , and winter was coming on . Mountain gales blew their few tents down , rainstorms soaked them , ice formed in the water barrels , they woke under the unaccustomed warmth of ten or twelve inches of snow . A lot of them died ; the rest kept going , leaving their horses behind when the country got vertical . They covered the Navajo country , the Zuni country , part of the Ute country ? northwestern New Mexico , northeastern Arizona , the southwestern corner of Colorado . Even to-day an invasion of the Cation de Chelly would be a tremendous feat of arms : two companies under Major Gilpin got there . Some thirty Americans rounded up eight hundred Navajo ; a hundred and fifty others brought in five hundred more ; other detachments did likewise till the total reached several thousand . The Indians could have sneezed them out of existence but forbore ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The treaties they made with the Navajo and Zuni had exactly the same value as had all Indian treaties , but they had been told to make them and , that done , they traded for buckskin suits and fresh horses and came out , tentless , icicles forming in their beards , to go on with the conquest . There was no doubt that they were soldiers now . IV Just how much of Mexico might advisably be acquired had never been clear in Mr. Polk 's mind , but the northeastern States were in chronic revolt and showed some signs of wanting to be annexed . Chihuahua and Durango and Coahuila should certainly be occupied and might very likely be kept . So the original plan of operations had started a force under General Wool to take the capital city of Chihuahua , where Doniphan was to join him from Santa Fe. ( games Magoffin was hopeful of buying this victory too but found these Mexicans more obdurate , was captured and sentenced to death , and had to negotiate his freedom with convivial officers at an expense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indecision and stupidity , which were not modified by Polk 's aversion to letting a Whig general build up a reputation , jeopardized his more important campaign , and Wool had to bekept within supporting distance . Wool did not get to Chihuahua at all , though the paralysis of communications kept Doniphan from learning what had happened . Doniphan had eight hundred and fifty effectives at Valverde on December 12th , when he began his invasion of Mexico . Ahead of them was not only a more severe march than they had made so far but also , at Iast , an organized enemy who might number a good many thousand . ' The parallel with Xenophon suddenly sharpens : they were taking the long way home , a microscopic band of fighting men deep in hostile country who were prepared to cut their way through whatever armies might oppose their crossing . They did the marching handily , though long stretches were terrible going and though Doniphan , on his own now , pressed them more relentlessly than Kearny had . They were now guarding the massed caravans of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' worth of business with the enemy was done under their protection . They made the waterless jornadas , marching all night sometimes ; some of them tried to do it on whiskey and failed ; they encountered blizzards , salt springs , innumerable rumors and false alarms . And now they had to do some fighting . Early in the afternoon of Christmas Day they made camp at EI Brazito , thirty miles north of El Paso . Three-quarters of the command were gathering wood and looking for water , the ammunition wagons were miles back on the road , and Doniphan was playing cards for the captured stallion , when a Mexican army of about fifteen hundred appeared out of the blue and formed a battle line . It was a beautiful army in " bright scarlet coats with bell buttons and snow-white belts , carrying polished sabers and carbines and long lances with red and green pennons , while their heads were protected by brass helmets with large black plumes . " And it conveniently gave two-thirds of the wood-gatherers time to come in , bringing their fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black flag with skull and crossbones to demand their surrender . He received the conventional answer and Doniphan , lamenting a hand that would have won the horse , got up , buckled on his sword , and gave his first battle order . It was , " Prepare to squat ! " They squatted , the Mexicans fired their cannon and charged , the Americans let them have two volleys , and the battle was over ? twenty-two minutes after it had begun . Seven Doniphesias had received scratches ; their two volleys had killed 63 Mexicans , wounded 172 more , scared 300 out of rejoining their command , and sent the whole caparisoned army flying back to El Paso to report that the war was lost . The Americans followed them there at their leisure . El Paso , with fresh fruit and flowing fountains , with an agreeable gentry and comfortable quarters , was a small paradise . But the troops had not been paid and their negotiable buttons had been used up ; they got too little of the celebrated vie du pays ; the senoritas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ episodes , unrest grew on them . It was now known that Wool was not in Chihuahua , rumors kept coming in that Taylor 's army had been destroyed , behind them Taos flared into revolt and a general insurrection of New Mexico threatened , large armies were reported gathering to the south . Doniphan had been ordered to join Wool at Chihuahua , not to capture it himself ? what should he do ? He resorted to an election and all but a few votes were for doing Wool 's job . He waited till Price , after suppressing the Taos revolt , could send him Major Meriwether Lewis Clark 's battalion of artillery ; and then , on Fcbruary 8 , 1847 , he moved on Chihuahua . He had 924 effectives and he swore the 300 traders whose wagons he was guarding into the service of the United States . The government later refused to pay or pension them , on the ground that he had no authority to increase his command , but they gave him a reinforcement which the government had neglected to supply . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-sister Mary had been courted ? and thrown over ? by Abraham Lincoln . Some of the hardest marching of the expedition followed , including another sixty-five mile jornada without water and a number of violent storms . This was art old story now , however , and less serious than the fact that the latest government in Chihuahua was resolute and aggressive . Well informed of Doniphan 's movements , the Mexicans organized a force between three and four times as large as his , equipped it magnificently , and fortified the crossing of the Sacramento River , some fifteen miles from the city , by which he would have to approach . They were enthusiastic and confident ; this time they would destroy the gringos and pillage the traders ' caravan ; they were so sure of themselves that they provided over a thousand sets of ropes in which to lead the captured to Mexico City . About a thousand spectators went out from the city to watch the battle of February 28th . All battles are difficult to follow in the accounts of participants , but this small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war not directed by Scott , it was pure rule of thumb and emergency improvisation . The enemy field works had been skillfully prepared ? all through the war the Mexican engineers were superb ? but they were planned on the unsafe assumption that the Americans would fight by the rule book . Doniphan largely neutralized them by abandoning the route he clearly should have taken , marched his men toward the flank under cover of the wagon train , formed them on favorable ground , and then loosed them to individual inspiration . Once this surprise had unsettled the Mexicans , it became the kind of fighting at which the Americans were invincible . The Mexican fire was hot and loud but ineffective , the Americans learned how to dodge ricocheting cannon balls , the field boiled with uncompleted maneuvers . Clark 's and Weightman 's artillery was decisive ; the rest was a series of unto-ordinated but magnificent assaults on the field works and rallying points , and the destruction of the Mexican army piecemeal . It was plainscraft overcoming military science , the frontier individualist outthinking and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours it was all over , and one body of Mexican lancers fled so fast and so far that they got into the foothills , where the alert Navajo wiped them out . In early moonrise the Doniphesias sorted out their formations on the deserted field . One of them had been killed : Samuel Owens , the trader , who had joined a little group that rode the full length of the fortifications to draw the Mexican fire , and had then charged alone into the guns . Legend says that he had dressed in white and ridden a white horse ? that he had reasons for wanting to die . Eight other Americans had been wounded , and seven of these recovered . Two fatalities , seven minor wounds ? and the Mexicans paid for them with three hundred killed , something like five hundred wounded , a hundred-odd prisoners , and the complete dispersion of the army . The Americans gathered in thousands of sheep and hundreds of cattle that had accompanied the commissary , ten cannons , two score wagons and carts , thousands of rounds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the ropes and handcuffs in which they were to have walked to the capital , and the black flag they had seen at El Brazil ? . And the failure of their government to pay them was partially repaired , for they found a sum variously reported at between five and fifty thousand dollars in a paymaster 's wagon . It should of course have been turned in to responsible officers , but it would help a lot in Chihuahua . Chihuahua , though not the halls of Montezuma , was a city large and rich enough for pride , and they swaggeredinto it the next day , their frowzy band tootling " Washington 's March " and " Yankee Doodle . " The natives hurried to propitiate them with wine , mescal , and fruit , praising them as heroes . But resident Americans , coming out of their barricaded houses at last to take a look at their deliverers , saw loose files of dirty savages in ragged buckskins and hurried back indoors , wondering what tribe had been sent as an advance party . V That was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and barracks duty , the routine of military occupation ; marching and counter-marching as the communications services still failed to counteract the endless rumors . Doniphan was afraid that the metropolitan facilities for vice would destroy his men . Their enlisted time was running out , they objected to the routine which they considered fit only for regulars , and they objected more violently to acting as guards for the traders . They had always made friends with the natives easily ; there was too much friendliness now and sometimes it boiled up in rioting . They drank and gambled as much as they could , wasted their small substance on bullfights and cock fights , harried religious ceremonies , made life hard for the hairless dogs they hated . The War Department could not decide what to do with them , but at last Doniphan 's passionate messages brought orders for them to join Taylor and prepare to go home . The battle of Sacramento was small but had been decisive . Doniphan 's approach had prevented reinforcement of the Mexican army that lost Buena Vista by the narrowest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revolt at Taos would have no successor . The Missourians had saved Taylor from defeat . They had taken New Mexico , as Mr. Polk had designed , and they had given him a claim to a lot more territory if he wanted to exercise it . As curious a fighting force as was ever brought together , they had done the most important work in the seizure of the West . And they had learned their worth : when a force estimated at four thousand Mexican soldiers was reported descending on the now despised wagon train , Doniphan detached two hundred and fifty of them to take care of it . More marching , to Saltillo , to Buena Vista , to Monterey , to the Rio Grand ; some of their women coming along with them in uniform Doniphan tried to curry their fetlocks and straighten their ranks a little when he reported them to Wool , but it was no use and they scandalized the general who , next to Scott , was the best dressed officer in the American army . Wool tried to re-enlist them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them , however , pointed out to him the mistakes he had made at Buena Vista . They had a few brushes with guerrillas , inflicted a few reprisals ( though shocked by sight of the towns Taylor had burned ) , chased some Indians on behalf of the Mexicans , made some friction with the despised regulars , and once were so appalled by the cruelty of some Texas Rangers that their officers had hard work preventing civil war . They reached navigable water at last . They had marched almost exactly thirty-five hundred miles , conquering an empire on the way . After dozens of jornadas , they now found that the drinking water on the transports had to be rationed . Some of them were wearing only drawers when they got to New Orleans and were paid at last , a year late . They found that their commutation for forage had been cut down , and for some reason their pay was a dollar a month less than they had been promised . Next time it would be sensible to go as a trader . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to endless newsprint and interminable oratory . Theywere heroes , and then they were just farmers again . Their great year would be a splash of carmine in the memory hereafter ? of prairie grass in the wind , night guard at the wagons , the high breasts of the Spanish Peaks , fandangos in Santa Fe , the hot ecstasy of the battle line , the grizzly who wandered through camp that night , the ammonia stench of the buffalo wallows , the line of campfires all the way up the pass , the senorita who looked in the wagon that day when I was sick and " oh , the beauty of the exquisite Spanish word pobrecito when heard from such lips , the sweetest of all sounds . " The campfires most of all , more than three hundred nights of them , across more than three thousand miles of prairie , mountain , and desert , the faces of one 's squad ruddy in the light , and some of them not to be seen again , and such stories never to be heard in peace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or just some charred cakes of maggoty cornmeal , and the pad of hooves , the heat mirage on the horizon , and the blue day ahead . A great year , one who survived it had been a soldier and was clearly a man ? and the campfires not to be forgotten . The campfires explain something . They had gone soldiering to take the West , frontiersmen easily changing phase , and they had taken it . But they had " seen the elephant " and seen more than that . So we turn them up by the hundred in the rolls of emigrant trains in the next few years trains going to the New Mexico they had captured , to California where Americans found the gold the Spanish had missed , and to the land between and beyond , to Oregon . Doniphan 's thousand had taken the West , and the West had taken them . It was a good land , as they had seen , and the way to it was long and rapturous ; they could sit by a campfire again , under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              