@@475726

IN A few years there will be only five Kings in the world ? the King of England and the four Kings in a pack of cards . " That , at least , is what Farouk I of Egypt is fond of saying . And coming from a King it makes interesting hearing . So far , the Arab world has been kinder to royalty in the twentieth century than have other parts of the globe . In the rapidly dwindling stock of ruling Kings , four are from countries of the Arab League . The old Lord of the Desert , Abdul Aziz ibn Saud ; the boy King Faisal of Iraq ; his great uncle , Abdulla , recently promoted from Amir to King of Transjordan ; and Farouk himself . ( The Imam of Yemen might almost count as a fifth . ) If Farouk is right in his prediction , there are stormy days ahead for the Middle East ? a point on which many other prophets are agreed ? and storm in the Middle East may well send people scurrying for shelter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . Of course Farouk may be joking . He has a pronounced and occasionally farfetched sense of humor . Other prophets in agreement may be dismissed as professional Cassandras ( by equally professional Pollyannas ) . But the speculation makes Egypt an interesting place , worthy of study . It is a land of violent contrast , in an area from which violence may spread . Study of Farouk himself makes a good point of departure for study of his country . He is a man young in years but not appearance , trying to rule an ancient country , which in many ways has hardly changed since the days of the Pharaohs . T HE King of Egypt is a heavy-set , balding man who looks far older than his twenty-seven years . He has been King for eleven of those years , but until recently his political life has been one of almost complete frustration . Perhaps to compensate , his social life has been active , notably unmarred by frustration of any kind . This political frustration is reflected in his appearance but rarely in his photographs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Farouk is the only son among six children . His father , King Fuad I , believed that " F " was a favorable letter for him , so Farouk 's older half-sister is named Fawkiya , and his four remarkably beautiful sisters are called Fawzia ( now Empress of Iran but separated from her husband ) , Faiza , Faika , and Fathia . His wife , the Queen , changed her name to Farida upon marriage . To complete the pattern their three daughters are named Ferian , Fawzia , and Fadia . Like most wealthy Egyptians , Farouk has travelled much in Europe ; he was at school in England when the death of his father brought an end to his education . Also like many wealthy Egyptians , Farouk is not of Egyptian origin ; the royal family descends from Mohammed Ali , an Albanian in the service of the Turks , who successfully revolted against the decaying Ottoman ( Turkish ) Empire . Particularly indicative of his country 's problems have been Farouk 's relations with the British . These have played an important part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character of present-day Egypt . King Farouk as a boy was a proud youngster , intelligent , very much aware of his kingly status and of his country 's recently won independence . This " independence " was recognized by the Anglo-Egyptian Treaty of 1936 , already in negotiation when Farouk came to the throne and signed foi mally a few months after his accession . As one result of this treaty the British High Commissioner in Egypt , who had played a very active role in the ruling of the country , was to be replaced by an Ambassador who would presumably serve as other Ambassadors do . Unfortunately ? so far as Egypt and England were concerned ? the British kept on the former High Commissioner ( Sir Miles Lampson , later Lord Killearn ) as their new Ambassador . Killearn never grasped , or at least never accepted , the implications of his change of status . He went on treating Egypt , and particularly Egypt 's King , as though nothing had happened . Farouk might have been a young schoolboy in the hands of a bluff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T HE climax came on the 4th of February , 1942 , when Rommel was threatening to sweep through the British armies to the Suez Canal and beyond . Killearn rightly or wrongly attached great importance to the appointment of Nahas Pasha , leader of the Wafdist party , as Prime Minister . Farouk refused to appoint him . Killearn did n't hesitate . The schoolboy flouting his tutor ? Rap his knuckles ! British tanks rolled into Abdin Palace courtyard , trained their guns on the doors . In walked Killearn with a paper in his hand , a royal decreeappointing Nahas , all prepared for signature . It was signed . But Killearn in particular , and the British in general , have not been forgiven by the Egyptians . And even though Farouk , now that Killearn has gone , is personally friendly with the new Ambassador , his hatred of Nahas is unflagging . The King was not allowed by Killearn to be a King on big affairs , so he took it out by being extra arbitrary in small things . Not that his behavior was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he was on occasions very " democratic " and hail-fellow-well-met in his relations with foreigners , particularly Americans . But apparently he had to show that Iaws were for ordinary people , not for him . If he could n't appoint his own prime minister , at least he could drive as fast as he liked . He had a collection of great shiny new cars in which he tore around the country at fantastic speed ? thus demonstrating his kingship . Or if he saw something he liked , he muse have it . Cairo , one of the most extravagant , imaginative and uninhibited gossip centers of the world , was full of stories about what happened when somebody else 's cigaret case or electric razor happened to strike the royal fancy . Since the departure of Lord Killearn and his replacement by Sir Ronald Campbell , King Farouk has somewhat relaxed . The British Ambassador 's behavior is scrupulously correct ; British forces have evacuated Alexandria and Cairo ( the English Bridge in Cairo is now popularly known as Evacuation Bridge ) . If these developments had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be even more relaxed . THE King 's personal reaction to British pressure and its sudden relaxation is shared , though in different , nonregal form , by many of his subjects . Old-time foreign residents of Egypt , particularly Britishers , speak of antiforeign feeling , and newspaper correspondents write about Egyptian xenophobia ( which is the same thing ) . Probably , however , that is not a fair description . The fact is that foreigners are used to being treated like masters in Egypt . The readjustment which results from being treated more or less as equals is hard for many of them to make . It is also true that some Egyptians , exuberant in their newly found " equality , " express it by rudeness and adolescent arrogance . Nevertheless this writer at least noticed little difference in the way he was treated this year and when he was last in Egypt , during the war , four years ago . Street urchins occasionally make rude remarks or gestures , but that is neither new nor peculiar to Egypt . The horde of dragomen and beggars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always been . Individually , the Egyptian seems unchanged . He is still a friendly fellow , especially if the foreigner makes some effort to speak his language and observe his customs . And certainly many of the measures of which foreigners complain are , in the light of modern Egyptian history , quite understandable . For example , the requirement that firms operating in Egypt employ at least ninety per cent native personnel may work hardship on individual foreigners , and will almost certainly be an economic handicap to Egypt for some period , until local people can receive more training for technical tasks . But business has for so long been almost exclusively in the hands of foreigners that drastic action was necessary if Egyptians were to take over . A government regulation that accounts be kept in Arabic has also caused complaint from foreigners . But imagine the reaction of American tax inspectors to a firm operating in the United States which kept its books in Arabic only . However , the friendliness of the average Egyptian and new regulations such as those discussed above do not telt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East generally , and new nationalism , lacking self-confidence , is often touchy and extreme . Moreover , political parties in Egypt vie for popular favor chiefly by expressions of anti-British , and in some cases generally antiforeign , sentiments . Recently a Belgian woman , whose father had bought up and developed what became one of Cairo 's best residential suburbs , was sitting with an Englishman in a cabaret she had inherited from her father . The sort of a prominent Egyptian politician joined them , and a political discussion ensued . In the course of the argument the Belgian woman said that Egyptians were foolish to force the British out of their country . The Egyptian took offense , asked by what right she made such a statement . " You arc a foreigner yourself and have no more right here than the British , " he told her . She replied that , on the contrary , she had more right than he did , she owned the land , and the building in which they were sitting ; she could have him ejected if she wished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if she might have the Egyptian thrown out . He rushed to a telephone , called Abdin Palace ( the King 's official residence in Cairo ) , and the Belgian woman was expelled from Egypt within twenty-four hours . This incident illustrates the extreme sensitivity of the Egyptians as well as the arbitrary action which may follow any offense to that sensitivity . Certainly in a country whose independence and national pride was assured , such remarks might have aroused contempt , or even rage ; but except in a nervous police state , say in Soviet Russia , they would be regarded as too trivial for official notice . The incident also illustrates the ill-advised , unnecessary provocation which some foreigners , resentful of the Egyptians ' change in demeanor , continue to offer . Even so , the question remains : why is it that Egypt , particularly its " ruling classes , " are so lacking in confidence in themselves ? Surely it is not only because they recall that they have been under British domination since 1862 . Another answer can be found by consulting some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of Farouk 's forbear , Mo-hammed Ali , little more than a century ago , Egypt had a popula-tion estimated at 2,000,000 . Now its popu-lation is about 19,500,000 , and is increas-ing at a rate of over 20 per cent every ten years . Yet the arable land in Egypt has increased but little , and most of the population lives and depends upon the land . For Egypt , though it is big on the map , is mostly uninhabitable desert . Only 1/125 of it is covered by water ; only 3.5 per cent of Egypt 's land , 8,600,000 acres , is fertile ; and only 5,350,000 of these acres are under cultivation . Thus Egypt , for practical purposes , consists of the Nile valley ; it is the most densely populated country in the world , far exceeding Belgium and Bengal . Egypt 's density of population is now estimated at one person to each third of an acre of arable land . The fact that a country is densely populated does not necessarily mean that its people are destitute . Belgium , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , unfortunately , more like India than like Belgium . The Egyptian fellaheen , or peasant farmer , is lucky if he earns as much as ten piasters ( forty cents ) a day , and usually the land he works on , the crops he tends , are not his own . Ninety-five per cent of the population live in extreme poverty . Eighty per cent are illiterate . It is when one gets into the field of public health , however , that the statistics become really shocking . Diseases which are endemic in Egypt include warms and other parasites , amoebic dysentery , malaria , and , in some localities , filaria , a worm transmitted by mosquitoes , which causes elephantiasis . Eye infections are almost universal ? their omnipresence is one of the facts of Egypt which impresses itself first and most strongly upon the visitor . A doctor on the medical faculty of Fuad I University in Cairo told me that he estimated over ninety per cent of the population suffered from trachoma ? and that other eye infections were also prevalent . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a worm whose life cycle carries it from human to water to snail and back . While in the human body it settles in the portal veins which carry blood from the intestines to the liver . There the worms mate . Their young secrete a poison which dissolves the human tissue so that the bilharzia can pass from the veins to the intestines themselves , and thence to water to continue the cycle . The destruction of tissues creates wounds and internal bleeding , and though it is not likely to be fatal itself it is extremely debilitating and lowers resistance to other infections . The incidente of bilharzia in rural districts is 75 per cent . For the country as a whole it is 60 per cent . Ankylostoma , a hookworm , is another widely prevalent parasite . One out of every two rural Egyptians suffers from it . Fifteen per cent of the country 's inhabitants suffer from pellagra as well . N ow return to the King and the ruling classes , which constitute less than 5 per cent of the population and hold probably 95 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives with his family , his gamoos ( water buffalo ) , his donkey or camel and goats , and whatever other livestock he 's lucky enough to have , all in one little mud hut . ( The animals , being more valuable than humans , usually get the best quarters . ) The King , on the other hand , with an income of about E. E. 1,000,000 a year , has two palaces in Cairo , two in Alexandria , one in Inchass , and one in Helwan , as well as other properties which , as one member of the Palace staff put it , " are too numerous to mention . " A pasha may leave untouched on his table after one evening 's entertainment enough to feed a peasant and his family for several weeks . Surely contrasts of that sort are part of the explanation of the lack of confidence shown by so many educated , well-to-do Egyptians . Moreover the wealthy Egyptian without social conscience is now losing , with the departure of the British , his standard infallible excuse for the miserable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign occupation . As long as issues remain unsettled with the British ? such as the presence of troops in the Canal Zone , the future of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan , and so forth ? unscrupulous demagogues will continue to seek popularity by berating the British instead of trying to grapple with the real problems of Egypt . Undoubtedly , too , the efforts of workers to improve their lot will be dismissed as Communist agitation . But these excuses are going to wear thin very soon . T T THE moment , Egyptian political parties are a pretty meaningless lot . The present government of Mahmoud Fahmy el Nokrashi Pasha is a coalition of Saadists and Liberals . Nokrashi is an honest and able man , but his government is weak . The chief issue of interparty debate is the manner in which Egypt 's differences with the British should be pressed . It is a senseless debate in which the shades of opinion are often hard to detect and the inadequate basis of Egyptian " democracy " is clearly shown . In a free election , without coercion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would vote that it is difficult to talk of the popular backing enjoyed by any one party . The masses are indifferent ; the interested fraction is so volatile that the real following of any party may vary from zero to one hundred per cent in a few days . In such a situation , strong party organization is at a premium . The Saadists and Liberals , who have combined to back Nokrashi , have no such organization . Together they would probably be unable to corral as many votes as either of the two well-organized parties in Egypt ? the Wafd and the Ikhwan al Muslimum or Moslem Brotherhood . The Wafd was once , under the leadership of Egypt 's " liberator " Saad Zaghloul , a great party . But Zaghloul is dead , his colleagues have died or fallen away , and only Nahas Pasha remains . Nahas has been hated by the King ever since Killearn forced his appointment as Prime Minister on the famous 4th of February incident . After several years in power the Wafd government became so notoriously corrupt that the censors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showing thieves or highwaymen because they knew the public would immediately regard them as antigovernment satire . Eventually , after protracted difficulties with the British , Farouk was able to dismiss Nahas . Subsequent governments , if more honest , have been no more effective . People have forgotten their grievances against the Wafd and Nahas has kept the party machine together . Some observers claim that in a fairly free election the Wafd would get as much as 60 per cent of the vote ( presupposing , in a " free " election , a very light vote ) . This seems far too high a figure ; it is probably safe to assume that the Wafd would get a plurality ? if not a majority ? say at Least 35 per cent , of the votes cast . However it would require pretty desperate circumstance to persuade Farouk to appoint Nahas premier again , and there is no one else in the Wafd he could appoint . Moreover the Wafd is growing old . There is a young extremely leftist wing which keeps the name Wafd , but otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and who are n't feeling aggressive . They will not , in an old Paris expression current in Cairo , " descendre dans les rues , " go into the streets and demonstrate ? or fight . The Wafd is unlikely to get in power while Nahas lives , and will probably break to pieces when he dies . The Moslem Brotherhood , on the other hand , is only too eager to " descendre dans les rues . " It is a young aggressive party led by a fiery orator-demagogue , Sheikh Hassan el Banna . Its members are mostly students and laborers . Fanatically religious , antiforeign and reactionary , it is well organized and growing in strength . Nahas always opposed it , but its development was assisted , only a few years ago , by the Saadists as a counter-balance to the Wafd . Even now the government is said to be paying it to keep quiet and attack only the Wafd . Nokrashi and his successors may some day look on the Brotherhood as Frankenstein looked on his own handiwork . There is no open Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been suspected of Communist affiliations , as has the Labor Party of Prince Abbas Halim . Prince Abbas , a sporting gentleman who flies airplanes and shoots big game , was a pilot in the German airforce during the first World War , but no one takes his party very seriously . There is also a young leftist party known as " Young Egypt " led by Ahmed Hussein , who has been spreading the gospel in America by way of full-page newspaper advertisements . " Young Egypt " was , until the defeat of the Axis , a strongly Fascist party . Its conversion to the Left is a little hard to take seriously . However , that is what , too often , Egyptian political parties are like . It is obvious that Egypt is not , and can not immediately become , a democracy in any real sense of the word . Aside from anything else it is too much to expect that a people 80 per cent illiterate , infested by parasites which sap the very blood from their veins , and often so close to starvation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to expect that such a people can spare the energy or develop the skills necessary to effective democratic rule . It is obvious also , that although Communism has made very little progress in Egypt to date , conditions are such as to be an open invitation to Soviet propaganda . THAT is the black side of the picture . It is not by any means the only side . There is plenty of white to be seen too . ( Cairo is a city where everyone talks pitch black or dazzling white ; one who listens and looks hard is likely , after some time , to see everything in pale muddy brown , the color of the Nile . ) The Egyptians argue that their present low estate can not be blamed on them . For centuries they have been under foreign rule . When , in the early nineteenth century under Mohammed Ali they gained practical independence from Turkey some progress was made ? particularly in irrigation projects . Foreign interests soon intervened ; in 1882 the British took over effective direction of the country , which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least until 1936 . It was not until 1923 that Egypt gained a constitution which gave it a pretence of democratic self-rule . By this constitution ( which is still in effect today ) the King , who appoints or dismisses the Prime Minister , governs in conjunction with a Senate and a Chamber of Deputies . Two-fifths of the former are chosen by the King , the remainder , together with all the Deputies , are directly elected by the people . The British , even after the adoption of the constitution , still retained the effective power . And , in discussing the social progress Egypt has made in the last few years ( since the elimination of British influence ) , Egyptians point to the budgets of today in contrast with those of the past . In 1924 , for example , one half million pounds ( an Egyptian pound equals about four U. S. dollars ) was allocated for public education . Now the Ministry of Public Education has an annual budget of almost ten million pounds . The Health Department in 1924 has an allocation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased to nearly three million pounds . After the 1936 treaty the Department was elevated to a Ministry and will spend in 1947/8 over eight million pounds . Two million of these are , however , not in the regular budget but part of a five-year campaign against poverty , disease , and ignorance . In this and other campaigns , such as that for village improvement , Egypt has in the last few years made considerable progress . Water works are being built to bring the fellaheen pure drinking water for the first time in history . New primary and secondary schools are being built and staffed throughout the country . Hospitals , dental and maternal clinics , social welfare institutes , agricultural education centers , and health propaganda units are making their appearance in villages that had never before seen a sign of outside interest in their welfare . The most important progress has been made in public health . A vigorous campaign is being waged against bilhar6a , including drives to exterminate the snail which plays an essential part in the life cycle of the parasite , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sanitary toilet facilities , public health instruction , and the treatment of those already diseased , who are themselves a source of further infection . This later phase has been running into difficulties on two scores . The treatment requires one month of intravenous injections of antimony ( tartar emetic ) which produce painful symptoms . The fellaheen , disliking those symptoms and anxious to devote all their energy to their work , are likely to stop the treatment as soon as the active signs of bilharzia disappear , even though the disease is by no means conquered . Another problem is that the full strength treatment proves fatal in about one case out of a thousand . Since the death of a patient undergoing treatment is damaging to the doctor in charge , many doctors do not risk the full treatment nor achieve the full cure . This is the first year in which Egypt has had no epidemics . Doctors attribute this chiefly to the systematic widespread use of DDT . Once every two months the villages ? people , clothing , houses ? have been thoroughly dusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May this year there have been 54 cases of typhus as against 1201 for the equivalent period last year . ( In 1943 there were over 40,000 cases . ) For relapsing fever , the figures are 166 this year as against 77,319 for last ; of plague , there have been 2 cases instead of 76 . In 1944 there were 644 cases . THE moment , Egyptians not only have an inferiority complex , but at the same time a grossly exaggerated notion of their own importance . Here again , King Farouk reflects his country 's tendencies . His aspiration to become champion of Islam has been shown on many occasions , most notably in the reception he has given to the Grand Mufti and the old anti-French Riff leader , Abd el Krim . His intentions are doubtless praiseworthy , but sober counsel might suggest that Egypt has enough problems inside her own borders without taking on those of Palestine and North Africa as well . An American comes to Egypt with the idea that the country is important ? as a communications center , close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where democracy and communism meet face to face . But after a few weeks in which Egyptians go all out to make a pusillanimous piker of the Persian who coined the phrase " Isfahan is half the world , " reaction sets in . One would think that foreign troops had never evacuated a country before . You get tired of being told that the United States must prove thus and so by doing thus and so ? or that a favorable decision on Egypt 's case before UN is the last chance UN has to gain world respect . They can not see Egypt 's problems as part of a larger picture . This is natural enough ? but tiresome . Americans throughout the Middle East are upbraided because of United States assistance to Zionism , which Arabs everywhere regard as unwarranted aggression . ( The Egyptians made great caPitaI of the recent visit of members of a Senate committee to Palestine , pointing out ? unfortunately with truth -- -that the senators spent their whole time with the Jewish Agency and did not even call upon the representative of their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " they ask pointedly , " an example of American open-mindedness ? " ) But in Egypt , in addition to the issue of Palestine , we are criticized for backing the British everywhere and for not supporting Egypt on the issue of evacuation and die Anglo-Egyptian Sudan . On these two points the Egyptians are in a curious frame of mind . They insist that justice is unquestionably on their side and that no fairminded person could oppose them . On the other hand , despite expressions of confidence they are inwardly expecting little from their appeal to UN . Justice means nothing in politics , they say , pointing to Palestine . Why , then , have they appealed to UN ? Partly because the maneuvers of internal politics forced the present government to make an appeal . Partly because it was hoped that an appeal might force concessions from the British . And partly because , if the appeal fails , Egyptian politicians will again be able to point outside Egypt ? away from themselves ? to explain why things go wrong . A foreign scapegoat is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you miss it very quickly when it 's gone . On the issue of evacuation , the question is purely one of timing . The Anglo-Egyptian Treaty of 1936 provided that British troops could remain in the Canal Zone until 1956 . Egyptians argue that this treaty was negotiated under pressure and is contrary to the terms of the UN charter . Recent negotiations for a new treaty , during which the British offered to remove their troops by 1949 , were broken off without conclusion . Foreign Minister Sevin now states that Britain will adhere to the old treaty . The Egyptians want evacuation immediately , and insist that its date must not be used as a bargaining point in further negotiations . If they accomplish nothing else at UN , they do expect to separate entirely the question of evacuation from that of a new treaty . The future of the Sudan is likely to produce far more headaches . According to Egyptians , the Nile is indivisible ; the Sudan and Egypt , living literally upon and out of the Nile , must be united . The British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sudan , which is indeed a model of colonial administration . They say that the Sudanese do not wish domination by Egypt and that they , the British , are morally obligated not to " sell the Sudanese into bondage . " As a matter of fact it is hard to prove just what the Sudanese do want . Any rejection by them of union with Egypt would be attributed by the Egyptians to British pressure and propaganda . w ittiv I talked to Nokrashi Pasha , the Prime Minister , the question of Russia inevitably came up . Communism , he told me , had extremely little public support in Egypt . He emphasized also that in presenting her case to UN Egypt was not acting at the instigation of any big power . " But , " he went on , " if the United States supports Britain against us , and Soviet Russia supports us against Britain , then the Egyptian people will surely say to themselves , ' Who is it that is our friend ? ' " It is certainly true that the Arabs are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia . But this they know : Russian policy is directed atthe removal of British forces from the Middle East . That is what the Arabs want , too . The United States , which is happier when interests of security and international morality go hand in hand , is thus presented with a delicate diplomatic problem ? in an area where Palestine alone provides more difficulties than we can solve . How do we feel about troops of one country occupying the territory of another , or do we put the Middle Eastern countries in the same category with certain Pacific islands ? Is United States security harmed more by weakening of the British position in the Middle East , or by losing the friendship of the Arab people ? And how much do we depend upon Middle East oil ? Like the evacuation of British troops , these questions come down to a matter of timing . Clearly we want to see an independent and a democratic Egypt . Independence has been achieved , but there is still a long hard road to travel before Egypt attains democracy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other Middle Eastern countries ? are what American interests dictate . And this much is certain . To build up Greece and Turkey , as a first line of defense or anything else , is an empty gesture if the Arab countries fall away . It is like relying on a Maginot Line ? which stops trustingly at the Belgian frontier .                     