@@487831

THE present government crisis is perhaps a landmark in French post-war history . Since the liberation , the political and economic power of the left parties and working-class forces has steadily declined and that of groups representing the former ruling class has increased . At the time of the liberation a united front of the workers and a large part of the middle class under the leadership of De Gaulle created the social basis for progressive democracy . Former leaders of finance and industry were lying low , especially since many of them had been implicated in collaboration with the Germans . But the left-wing majority soon cracked for a number of reasons . One was the link of the Communists with Russia and the brutal tactics used by that party against its rivals . Then the natural leader of this majority , General de Gaulle  --  by nature a traditionalist ? refused to play the part of a revolutionary leader . Instead , De Gaulle appeared as the protector of the old social status , breaking the spirit of the Resistance and throwing the masses back into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that the Christian Democratic M. R. P. was hampered by church and reactionary followers . Finally , the Socialist Party , which had already lost close contact with the working class , had not enough enterprise to reassume the leadership . C.ommunists and non-Communists within the majority threw the Communists out of the government but did not loosen their hold on the working class . Socialists and Christian Democrats , forced to count on the support of reactionary elements for a parliamentary majority , had to tolerate a half-and half policy which enabled the conservatives month after month to sabotage all progressive policies and make , price control ineffective , while violently countering all demands by the workers for a badly needed increase in wages . Meanwhile the reactionary former leaders were reinstated in industry , finance , politics , administration , and the press . The . policy of the Cominform in France and Europe accentuated the opposition to Russia in the progressive forces and kept the working class from going entirely ' 4 Communist . But the Socialists ' enforced alliance ? with right-wing parties made it impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right wing grew steadily stronger , its objective became the elimination of all Socialist or progressive ? influence . The Socialists were permitted to keep some power because their help was needed against the semi-fascist , Gaullist R. P. F. , which the traditional right ? disliked for fear it would impose a Schacht kind of planned economy if it were victorious . Moreover , the presence of the Socialists in the Cabinet served to camouflage the government 's policy toward the working class . , . , But both the R. P. F. and the Communists have been gradually declining , and in consequence the Socialists - have become less and less useful , so that with each new Cabinet crisis the successor government has moved to the right . The attempt by Jules Moch to form a government was sheer folly on the part of the Socialists . If it had succeeded , they would have been obliged to take full responsibility for reactionary policies , which " ... would have meant the severe cutting back if not the - .4* destruction of social security , a retreat on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? hope of raising the workers ' standard of living , which once again is incredibly low . Many Socialists realize . ? this and are happy over Moch 's failure . -4 . Rene Mayer was the natural leader of a right-wing 4. - policy . He belongs to the Radical Socialist Party and has Gaullist leanings . More important was the fact that he had the confidence of big business , banks , and private - 4. industry . Many believed that he could also count on support by powerful American groups . It is amusing to  - -  -  , note that for a time both he and Robert Schuman are s. " ! said to have based their claim to the premiership on their ' ' ' ' support in the United States . A witty banker who knows A.-Rene Mayer 's simple Americanism and naive nineteenth-century faith in free enterprise said to fne when he heard of his attempt to form a government , " C'est le Reader 's Digest au pouvoir . " Mayer 's efforts were unsuccessful because he insisted on Socialist participation . The Socialists were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis but were not anxious to join his Cabinet , where they would have had to take responsibility for policies to which the workers were opposed . They knew they could more effectively balk reactionary measures by threatening to withdraw support at any moment , and it was to counter the permanent threat of withdrawal that Mayer insisted on their participation . The Socialists finally agreed to enter the Mayer Cabinet on condition that Daniel Mayer , Labor Minister under Queuille , be given the same post in the new Cabinet . Since Daniel Mayer 's energetic support of the workers ' demands for slightly more decent wages was the formal cause of the collapse of the Queuille government , the right  --  particularly the so-called Radical Socialist Party , to which both Queuille and Rene Mayer belong  --  drew the line on including him . The Socialists stood firm . Rene Mayer gave up . GEORGES BIDAULT , former Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs , is now trying to form a Cabinet . He represents the center group of the M. R. P. He is well thought of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as president of the National Council of Resistance , but that sort of thing makes no appeal to the industrial and financial groups , now restored to their former influence . Moreover , memories of Bidault 's governmental record are linked either with the time when he was obliged to carry out De Gaulle 's unsound foreign policy or to the later , extremely tense period of collaboration with the Communists in a three-party government . His position in his own party is not exceptionally good . He is too liberal for the right wing 's taste , yet too far from the working class to arouse the enthusiasm of the Christian Democratic unions . Thus Bidault does not seem to be the man who can resolve the present difficult situation . Nevertheless , he has a slight chance of success beCause the people are getting tired of the continued crisis . Whoever becomes Prime Minister will have as his principal problem the deepening chasm between the right , which is growing more greedy , and the Socialists , who have suddenly decided to refuse to serve much longer as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may Et formed is probably only temporary . If the Socialists persist in their determination to remain outside the government there will be some hope of . their rejuvenation . Sooner or later the right wing will cease to need any Socialist support . This development may be brought about , if necessary , through the dissolution of Parliament and new elections using a new ballot system , or through replacing proportional representation with the pre-war single-member constituency . the Communist delegation would become much smaller than the party 's proportional strength in the country , and an overwhelming bourgeois majority would be established . The course French politics have taken is the inevitable consequence of the Stalinist leadership of the Communist Party and the weakness of chatietet " of the French Socialists , who have barred the way to ? both a national communism and a powerful socialism , and even to a combination of the two , thereby ripping the working class in two in the face of powerful enemies . What the Russians Should Do Next BY J. ALVAREZ DEL VAYO Flushing Meadow , October 20 USSIA 'S @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning when Yugo- slavia was elected to the Security Council over Czechoslovakia . My comment is very simple and entirely uninfluenced by the differences between Moscow and Belgrade : it is that what was done this morning was irresponsible , an intended slap in the face for Stalin . It added nothing to the prestige of the United States as a great power , and it injured the United Nations , which seeks to keep up at least the appearance of being an agency of conciliation . As long as the United States is a high-ranking member of the United Nations , its first duty is to try to smooth out difficulties , not to add new ones . It should not make a Madison Square Garden of the Assembly and stage a boxing match just for the pleasure of knocking out another member with whom it must continue to work if the United Nations is to go on . That sort of game is beneath the dignity of a great power with a long tradition of diplomacy . Great Britain is certainly as antagonistic to Russia as is the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Foreign Office that can keep its temper ; it refused to follow the lead of the United States and voted for Czechoslovakia . Some days ago Vishinsky , defending Czechoslovakia 's claim to the post , made a point which so far as I know was not reported in the American press . The Soviet Union , he said , had voted for Argentina for the Security Council because Argentina was the choice of the Latin American bloc , though the Soviet Union did not consider the choice a happy one . The same reasoning required Argentina and other states to vote for Czechoslovakia , the candidate of the Soviet bloc . I have often criticized the Russians , from Vishinsky down , for adopting a tone in the Assembly and the committees which destroyed the atmosphere of goodwill so necessary for the successful functioning of the United Nations . But all their offensive and insolent remarks put together have been less pernicious , in content and effect , than this maneuver on the part of the United States to defeat Russia , its lobbying for the votes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them only because they were resentfully aware of their dependence on the United States . If the idea was to help Yugoslavia it was a mistaken one . The new member of the Security Council will find itself from the start in a most uncomfortable position , and the Council , whose work is difficult enough already , will be constantly harassed by the Soviet-Yugoslav duel . Another event at the U. N. this week was less sensational than the election of Yugoslavia but similarly significant . One of the most absurd performances I have ever witnessed took place last Tuesday in the Security Council . The subject under discussion was disarmament . It was clear that the French delegate 's proposal of a world-wide census of armed forces and conventional weapons , verified by international machinery , could not pass . Mr. Malik , Russia 's Deputy Foreign Minister , had spent more than an hour arguing that the separation of atomic and non-atomic weapons was " arti- , - ficial " and part of the " false , illusory hope " that the United States could maintain an atomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter to a vote . Mr. Malik suggested , therefore , that the council send all the relevant documents to the General Assembly , - two of whose major committees have disarmament on their agenda . It was useless . The president of the Couri- ; dl , Mr. Austin , was resolved to force the Soviet Union , ... to use not one but two more vetoes . Malik and Manuil ski , the Ukrainian Foreign Minister , protested , the for- : mer arguing coldly as usual , the latter drawing on his " - great capacity for irony and indignation to denounce the -- proposal as calculated to make the whole situation deteriorate and prevent any reconciliation between opposed : , points of view . The president was adamant and boldly put the matter to a vote . The first Soviet veto of the : afternoon was registered . But that was not enough for Mr. Austin . Another French proposal , practically identical with the first , must now be voted on . Malik again objected , pointing out its similarity to the one that had-lust been rejected and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his country could be blamed , for the failure to agree . Again the vote was taken , and a second Soviet veto was registered . Immediately aftere ward , on the request of the French delegate himself , the Council adopted the original Soviet suggestion that all                     