@@492097

OUR AFRICAN BATTLEFIELD By CHARLES SWEENY ERICH VON LUDENDORFF , who knew a great deal about war , held that World War II would be decided in North Africa . Ludendorff , as quar-termaster general of the Imperial German Armies under Field Marshal von Hindenburg , was the real commander in chief of all the armies of the Central Powers from 1916 until shortly before the Armistice . The book in which Ludendorff ' exposed his theory was published some ten years ago . It exercised a very great influence on political and military thought , and is largely responsible for the landing of our troops in North Africa , and for the fact that American soldiers are suffering and dying in the marshes of Medjez-elBah , and on the hills of Tebourba and Teboursouk . A glance at the map of the globe will disclose highly pertinent facts which will shed much light on the reasons which inspired Ludendorff 's conclusions . First : Much the larger surface of the earth is in the Northern Hemisphere . This is also much the richer and more populous part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without interruption from pole to pole in the north-south direction . In the east-west direction , on the contrary , their extent is limited and communication between them is made difficult by the continents of the Eastern and Western hemispheres . Third : Nature has provided only one practical route around the world from west to east . This sea highway starts at the Atlantic entrance to the Mediterranean at the Strait of Gibraltar . It crosses this sea . passes through the Suez Canal and down the Red Sea to the Strait of Bab el Mandeb , where it enters the Arabian Sea and the Indian Ocean . Witincling India and Ceylon it enters the Strait of Malacca and comes to Singapore , and thence passes through the South China sea to the Pacific Ocean . Across the Pacific lies the Panama Canal , which opens the way to the Caribbean Sea , the Atlantic Ocean and the road home to Gibraltar and its strait . There is another route around the earth across the southern seas around the Cape of Good Hope and Cape Horn , but it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seas and continents , being formed as they are , certain conditions result . Since the majority of its inhabitants live in the Northern Hemisphere , the larger part of its commerce necessarily Bows east-west Or vice versa from the regions where man produces to the regions where man consumes . This traffic takes the beet road open to it  --  the Mediterranean one . North-south commerce up and down the open seas is free of all control . If the desire to control it should tempt any nation , it would quickly be demonstrated that the teak is impossible . The distances are too great , the seas too wide . Even a superficial study of the mat-west seaway reveals , on the contrary , that , from several highly important points , large sections of it can be adequately controlled and policed . These points are : the Gibraltar Strait . the Suez Canal , the Strait of Bab el Mandeb and the Panama Canal . Shipping must pass through these bottlenecks and submit to control or it must resign itself to the long passage around the Cape of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this great highway of commerce surveillance and control may be exercised , but less thoroughly and less easily . The Malacca Strait at Singapore is , perhaps , the most important of these . Ceylon , the passages between the Dutch East Indies to the south and the Philippines and Formosa to the north , and the narrow passages between the islands of the Antilles , which lead from the Caribbean Sea to the free Atlantic , are scarcely less important . But shipping can , if it so desire , sail around these control points without lengthening the voyage immeasurably . It is evident that if any nation or group of nations could obtain full and unquestioned control of all these strategic points , it would control a very large part of the commerce of the world and thus become the master of its people and its riches . This could be accomplished even without complete control of all these points . Al solutecontrol of any considerable part of this life line would be sufficient to make its possessor more or less complete master of the whole . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mandeb were under England 's thumb , though her possession was threatened by the Italians from Ethiopia . At Gibraltar she could , if the need arose , exercise her control over all those who would enter the Mediterranean . Singapore and Ceylon were English possessions , while from many far-flung islands she kept watch over the Caribbean Sea . This control of the principal waterways of the world was the base on which was built her world-covering empire . Only at Panama was her authority questioned . We built , and should control , the Panama Canal . Unfortunately . by the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty of 1901 , we stupidly signed away our rights over this key position . Ludendorff , like all professional soldiers , was a profound student of geography and history . There he found the facts on which to base a clear judgment of conditions and events . He had thoroughly studied the history of Rome , the conqueror of Europe , and of the two moderns , Charles V of Spain and Napoleon of France , who had attempted the same exploit . He had also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War I and to Germany 's mistakes and lost opportunities . This study convinced him that the future German war lord , whose coming he foresaw , would conquer Europe without too great difficulty . He was persuaded that the millenary struggle , between the German and the Frenchman , on one hand , and between the German and the SifIV , on the other . would surely end in favor of the German . But he perceived that this would be only the beginning . The German war lord would have to break through-the chains which the seas . the mountains and the deserts have thrown around Europe or he would , inevitably , shrivel up and die . How could these chains be broken ? How could Germany reach the free , open sea ? The weakest of these chains is the Mediterranean . In terms of military and naval power of our times , it is a narrow sea , which can be commanded and dominated by air and sea power-based on its shores . // Let Wish his rule in Italy , Sicily and Sardinia to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If , to supplement this , he could gain possession of Malta , Crete and Greece to the east , and of Spain , Algeria and Morocco to the west , he would break England 's hold on the entrance to the Mediterranean . Conquest of the rest of this sea would follow in due course . Then Germany would control the commerce of the world . Sooner or later , all the peoples of the globe would be forced to bow before her will . Installed in North Africa , we prevent the realization of this dream of conquest . We hold what , in the language of World War I , would be termed a fortified line on the southern shores of the sea . The Germans hold a similar fortified position on the northern shores . The sea is no man 's land . For the present , the advantage of the position is with the Germans . They have driven a wedge into our lines and have had the time to strengthen it . Before our position can be of any offensive value to us , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into his own lines . If , on the other hand , Hitler should destroy the British army attacking Tunis and Bizerte , our position would become critical , if not desperate . There would be real reason for grave doubt of our ability to hold Algeria and Morocco . Spain would become a great danger . How strange , how colorful , even how wonderful , must this African world seem to our American soldiers , fresh from their shops , their fields , their forests or their mines . And what a hard , terrible country they are going to and it to fight over . If a panorama of it could have been spread before their eyes as they came sailing in , they would have perceived it to be a rough , mountainous promontory , lying between the Mediterranean Sea on the north , the Sahara Desert on the south , the Atlantic Ocean on the west and the Eastern Mediterranean on the east . Its northwestern coast near Tangier is only twelve miles across the Strait of Gibraltar from Spain . Its northeastern cape juts out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost the size of Texas . It is a pleasant land , having a climate greatly resembling that of Southern California . Marshal Lyautey , the great Frenchman who finally conquered and pacified k , described it as " a cold country where the sun is hot . " As one approaches it from the Atlantic , as our soldiers did , one perceives a seemingly fiat , slowly rising plain , while on the horizon some 200 miles from the coast , a high , wooded range seems to pierce the skies . Some of the peaks , whose slopes are clothed in cedar and oak and whose summits retain their snowy caps until late summer , reach a height of 13,500 feet . To the south , this range turns sharply to the west and dips abruptly into the Atlantic . On the north , another minor range , whose summits attain 7000 feet , parallels the Mediterranean . Morocco thug offers the aspect of a medieval fortress , protected by high and strong walls to the north and south , but unprotected from the aide of the Ma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance . The entire country inside the mountain screen is extremely rich , especially in phosphates , copper , lead , zinc , tin , manganese and coal , though all but the phosphates are largely undeveloped . These , especially the phosphates , arc going to be of vital importance in the future supply of the war machines . For a period of sixty-three years , 1844-1907 , the French tried to pierce the Moroccan fortress from the east , while for a much longer time the Spanish sporadically attacked it from the north . Finally , the French changed their tactics and attacked from the Atlantic side . In 1907 their troops landed at Dar el Beidta , White Fortress , now called Casablanca . Our troops landed on the same rocky . coast in 1942 . When World War I broke out in 1914 , the French were masters of the plain and had pushed into the moun-tain ' as far as Fez and Kenifra , and had joined hands through the Tara Pass with their comrades in Algeria . The pacification was continued after the Armistice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this operation was carried out by Marshal Lyautey . Many of the French generals prominent in the present campaign were active in its later stages . During the Riff War of 1925-26 , Auguste Noguhs , at present resident general of Morocco . was a colonel commanding a flying column during the most difficult stages of that campaign . Alphonse Juin , at present commander in chief of the French North African forces , was a captain , serving as chief of staff to Nogues . Giraud was colonel during that campaign . The author had the good fortune to serve at various times with all these soldiers . In 1914 Giraud was a captain in one of the native regiments of the Moroccan Division  --  a renowned division of the French African Army serving in France . The Foreign Legion , in which the writer was then serving , formed a brigade of this division with Giraud 's regiment . Giraud was taken prisoner in 1914 , but escaped in 1915 and rejoined his regiment . The company he commanded at . this time alternated in the front line with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1916 the two men were members of a board which tried out the new battle tactics for the infantry which had just been promulgated by General Pe. - tain . The writer met Giraud again during the Riff campaign of 1925 . He was a colonel on the staff at this time while the writer was colonel of the Air Force . During this name campaign the writer met Auguste Nog-ues , colonel of artillery and brilliant commander of a flying column in the Riff Mountains . When it was decided to use low-flying airplanes in the role of accompanying artillery to this column the writer was detailed in command of these planes . While on this duty he shared the tent of the column commander . The Key to Africa This Moroccan fortress is the key to our entire North African position . As long as we hold it , we can shut Hitler up in the Mediterranean and be so strongly placed , tactically speaking , that he would not dare to risk an advance toward Central and Western Africa and Dakar . From here , also , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their bridgehead in Spanish Morocco if they should become menacing . The fact that Spain holds this bridgehead , joined to the fact that Germany and Italy hold a similar one on the Tunisian shore , so severely shackles our forces in North Africa that their position in , at present , definitely a defensive one . To make of it a real offensive base , we must drive the Asia forces out of Tunisia . Algeria , the central of the three regions which make up French North Africa , extends along the Mediterranean Sea for a distance of 650 miles from the eastern border of Morocco to the western border of Tunisia . A fertile coastal plain borders the sea , except for more or less long distances where the coastal range pushes forward to the water 's edge . This plain is bordered on the south by an abrupt and harsh coastal range which gives both to a high central plateau . South of this another rocky range bare the road to the Sahara . Algeria has an area of 847,500 square miles , about the combined area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Idaho , Nevada , Utah , Arizona and New Mexico . Its three northern districts , which constitute the region occupied by our troops , extend from the coast inland or southward approximately 350 miles . Their combined area is about that of the states of California and Oregon together . The military geography of this region is fairly simple . The Moroccan coastal range . after opening up to allow the passage of the waters of the Moulouya , descending from the Atlas , resumes its interrupted march across Algeria and Tunisia to disappear finally into the waters of the Eastern Mediterranean , where its last peaks form strategically important islands , the best known of which are Pantelleria , the Italian island fortress , and Malta , its English rival . For the greater part of this distance it hugs the seashore . but in the regions of Oran , of Algiers and of Bone , it swings back some distance , leaving fertile coastal plains from 60 to 100 miles wide . Equally fertile valleys push back for short distances into the mountains . The climate is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ March , extremely hot in summer . Nature 's Barriers Few and widely separated passes lead southward through the mountains from these coastal plains to the high plateaus of the interior . This renders very difficult nn invasion from the sea . When the French entered the country in 1880. they easily captured the city of Algiers , but found further progress blocked by the mountains . Other expeditions occupied Oran , Philippeville and Bone . From the last two bases , columns pushed through to Constantine , the key to the centrist plateaus . The eastern plateaus and the mountains along the Moroccan frontier were occupied from Oran. in time , the entire plateau region was occupied and advance posts were pushed forward into the mountainous region bordering the Sahara . This plateau region suffers from a lack of rainfall . It greatly resembles Central Montana and Wyoming . It is given over to grazing and , in favored districts , to the raising of barley and wheat . The mountain range which forms its southern boundary runs east and west , paralleling the coastal range . In all this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the rivers are few and of little length . They are usually of the torrential order , running brinks full in the rainy season and being mere trickles the rest of the year . Militarily speaking , the consequence of this geographical formation of Algeria has been to make it easy of invasion from the east or the west , but very difficult to occupy from the sea . The Romans conquered it coming from the east , as did t he Arabs . The Vandals occupied it from the west . Centuries before the French attacked from the sea , the Byzantines , the Normans of Sicily , the Genoese and the Spanish had all attempted its conquest and had all failed . As soon as the French were firmly established in Algeria , they realized that their occupation could become definitive only if they succeeded in conquering and holding Morocco and Tunisia . The jot ) took a hundred years . Tunisia , the third and smallest of the French possessions in North Africa , is almost exactly the size of New York State . The Moroccan-Algerian coastal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bizerte . At this point , the Gulf of Timis has bitten a large slice out of the coast . To the east of the bite , the mountains continue on to form the rugged peninsula of Cape Bon . Its eastern slopes are bathed by the Mediterranean , across which open the roads leading to Constantinople , Egypt and Suez . On the western tip of the bite of the Gulf of Tunis , on a lake surrounded by high wooded hills , the French built the fortress and naval base of Bizerte . About halfway down this same western edge , on the low hills between Sidi-bou-Said and the entrance to the Gulf of Tunis , Carthage raised her walls and built her shipyards and docks . Here she reigned for centuries and here she fell when she had lost the taste for power . The center of the country forms a series of mountain ranges , running northeast to southwest , with large , beautiful valleys between . The more important of these mountain ranges form the massifs of Le Kef , Maktar and Kairouan . Between these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Medjerda River and its affluents . At the point where the parent river gathers in its principal feeders , before breaking through the foothills to reach the Gulf of Tunis , lies the agricultural region of Medjez-el-Bab . The triangle of Le Kef , Maktar and Medjez-el-Bab has always been held to be the key of Tunisia . In Arabic . " El Bab " means " The Gate " and Medjez is the ga. ; .. e to the entire Tunisian hinterland . From it roads branch out to all corners of the principality . The valley , widening out here for a few miles , has been the depository of all the sediment which has sloughed down from the hills since the Arabs destroyed the forests in the eighth century . The region is a sea of mud during the wet season and a dust bowl during the dry . From Medjez , the Medjerda River , whose course has been steadily slightly north of east from the Algerian frontier , turns sharply northeast to force its way between harsh , abrupt hills to the plain of Utica @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many weeks has been for possession of these hills and of similar ones to the southeast of Medjez-el-I3ab . These command the roads to Le Kef , Mak tar and Kairouan , and permit a certain control over traffic coming from Algeria down the main highway to Medjez . At last accounts , the Germans had driven our troops out of their positions on the southern and western slopes of these hills and were solidly entrenched on the summits . We are down in the muck and the slime , under the menace of the German guns ; a position similar to those the Allies too frequently occupied during World War It is going to be a difficult job to take Bizerte , Tunis and the Bon promontory if the Germans and the Italians stand and fight . The lay of the land is all in favor of the defenders , Tunis is of great strategical importance , while Bizerte is a first-class fortified area , with easy access to the sea . It is surrounded by high hills , which the French , since 1890 , with all the resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made as nearly impregnable as possible . Before we enter as conquerors into its walls , we shall regret , more than once , that we did not seize it the very first day of our North African venture , The communications system of these three regions is of excellent quality , but not sufficiently developed for military purposes . One great east-west highway runs from Mogador and Marrakech in Morocco across Algeria and Tunisia to the Tripolitan frontier . It is , for long distances , a thoroughly developed and constructed military highway . The main railroad line parallels it from Marrakech in Morocco to Gabes in Tunisia . As they proceed across valleys , plateaus and mountains , both road and rail throw off branches to the north and the south . From Rabat and Port Lyautey in Morocco , a hard metaled road and a standard-gauge railroad run across the Spanish zone of Morocco to Tangier on the Strait of Gibraltar . This road and railroad may prove of great importance in a not-too-distant future . For it is from Tangier down this road that the Spaniards and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morocco and bottle up our troops in Algeria and Tunisia , the day that Hitler decides to force Franco to this venture . From Oujda , on the Algero-Moroccan frontier , a road and standard-gauge railroad run across a semi-desert plateau to Colomb-Brchar and the Sahara . This is the first section of the much-discussed Trans-Saharan railroad , which is to open up direct communications between the Mediterranean and the fabled regions of Timbuktu and the Niger . Actually , the line is open as far as the coal mines of Kenadsa , a few miles to the west of Colomb-Ilichar . It appears , however , that the survey of the future line has been completed across the Sahara .                     