@@475589

THE West is plains , mountains , and desert . Its landscape is dramatic , its climate violent . Its history is dramatic and paradoxical , and parts of it important to both East and West never happened . Its natural wealth is enormous and belongs mostly to the East and the national government . Its inhabitants , products of its landscape , climate , and history , are a volatile , expansive people , energetic extroverts at the base of whose consciousness are tensions and conflicts . They are the fall guys of the United States and have been victimized by everybody , most disastrously by themselves . They have repeatedly scared the nation at large and now dream of scccding from it but have never been able to work together or trust one another . They have worked out an adaptation to their incredible environment which is one of the pleasantest ways of life ever known and this culture holds a shining promise for the United States , a promise which is countersigned by world movements . They are the only Americans today who look toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in themselves which bring both in question . They are children of paradox and begetters of paradox . The first clue to them is their language . They speak standard American and speak it with fewer local tunes and shadings than any other section . The Western voice has none of the nasality and flatness of the Midwest . There is a Western drawl and it is on the increase but it is a phony . It is part Southern and part Hoosier . The Southern ingredient arrived with deserters from the armies during the Civil War ? their trail can be traced on the map in various Virginia Cities , Richmonds , Davisvilles and the like , and innumerable Secesh Creeks , Confederate Bars , and Rebel Gulches . It was supplemented after the war by a migration that amounted to a stampede and is still known in the West as the left wing of Price 's army . There was a third increment when the cattle began to move to the northern range . All three , however , were soon diluted to the vanishing point and there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succumb to the most damaging of its illusions , the notion that it is universally a race of cowpokes . That revival was self-conscious and originally it was for comic purposes only ? which brought in the Hoosier - tune by affinity , the Hoosiers having dedicated themselves to bucolic humor unto all eternity . But the illusion has proved so comforting and has received such support from the movies and the radio that the future looks ominous . Whereas twenty-five years ago switching on the drawl notified the listener that a joke was in process , now it is histrionic . Westerners , too many of them , have an urge to dramatize themselves to strangers as the Old Ranger or the Old Trail Boss . So far it is only drama but the role is taking hold . Increasingly the West sees itself as a congeries of big cow outfits before the freeze of 1886 . It has always been facile at self-deception ; that it has chosen this illusion to erect into a myth may be comic to outsiders but could end by being tragic to the West . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habitual use of " home " for " house " is not confined to the West and neither is a characteristic handling of eg sounds , but the universal substitution of " lady " for " woman " comes close to being diagnostic and the Westerner gives himself away by the mayhem he commits on the sounds represented by au and al . You can compose a shibboleth that will unmask him at the passages of Jordan ? any such sequence as " Aunt Augusta 's naughty daughter and her autumnal doll . " He may have been educated at Oxford and lived for fifty years in Brooklyn but when he speaks such words he reverts to his childhood on Nine Mile . Western speech is poetic , shot with fantasy , running over with metaphor . The figures of all the tongues in the melting pot and all the romantic occupations that are commonplace in the West have left a deposit on the common speech , superimposed on a similar deposit from the violent frontier . The common humor is also specific . Southern humor is oratorical and anecdotal ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and underemphasis ; Midwestern humor is nervous and MAGAZINE hyperbolic ? but Western humor is self-depreciating , disparagement suspended in a medium of irony . It is partly explained by the fundamental fact that the West is at the mercy of the physical environment but the rest of the explanation is more revealing still : much Western humor expresses an inner chagrin . W ESTERNERS are big men , according to the Army the biggest in the country . Also they are heavy men ; an extraordinary percentage of them are fat . Elsewhere metropolitan America has adopted a diet proper to the sedentary life , but the Western city dweller eats a cowhand 's meals . His breakfast egg is plural and is usually accompanied by meat , frequently a steak , and always by fried potatoes . Fried potatoes are the West 's seasoning , in fact ; they are served with practically everything except ice cream . The breakfast steak is likely to be served with pancakes as well and they are likely to be a side dish at lunch . The excellence of Western pastry increases the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached the true West when you are served salads embedded in gelatine or cottage cheese and when you begin to encounter good pies in restaurants . Public or private , Western pies and cakes are the best in the country ; so are Western breads and , in spite of the literary cliche about the South , Western rolls and biscuits too . They help to produce the Western waistline . Western cooking has vastly improved in the past quarter of a century . But the West only reluctantly gives up the idea that the thing to do with a steak is to fry it ? fry it hard ? with the result that hostesses and waitresses habitually set out several kinds of bottled sauces to make it edible and there is a big business in bicarbonate of soda . A sense of the salad has grown too . You seldom encounter the mixtures of cold veal , grapes , and boiled dressing that meant salad when I was a boy in the West , but you seldom encounter a plain green salad either . Only an occasional restaurant carries it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you may still have to explain that you do n't want boiled carrots and lima beans in it . Western vegetables and fruits , which the unexhausted mineral soil makes the best in the country , have come into their own during the past generation ; Westerners now cat them passionately . But they have added them to , rather than substituted them for , the proteins , fats , and starches which they have always eaten passionately . The word is revealing : Westerners are passionate eaters , and this passion may be a displacement of others . The diet is proper for ranch hands , farmers , and outdoor workers in general , who really have the lean , muscular look that is Western to illustrators and the movies . But it tends to bring the townsman 's chest down to his waist at thirty and to pad his neck with fat at forty . I should like to speak more agreeably of Western women , young women , and girls ? to call them buxom , deep-breasted , strong-thewed , fit to be the mates and mothers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them are just fat . Overeating gives them thick ankles , cylindrical calves , big behinds , wide waists , heavy breasts . They must be the bulwark of the corset industry but all in vain . Elizabeth Arden could make a killing by establishing a chain of her Maine Chance reducing farms from the Missouri to the Pacific . The cosmetic end of Miss Arden 's business is a more fundamental necessity in the West than elsewhere , for the environment levies a heavy tax on women . There is no escape from or alleviation of Western sun , wind , and dryness . Women 's hair fades and grows brittle . Their skin dries , coarsens , and wrinkles . They tend to look older than they are and this effect is progressive . A girl of eighteen may look matronly only because she eats too much , but by the time she is forty she may look fifty because the climate has had its way with her . II UN , wind , aridity ? they condition life in 0 the West , where men and society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States . That Western society has survived at all is proof of a successful adaptation to them , and it is an engaging adaptation . The Western way of life is a good one . Westerners , I think , have a better time than any other Americans : they enjoy themselves more . The paradox is that mastering their environment has not given them self-confidence . They brag , they are obsessive and coercive and gang-minded ; an awareness that something is wrong gnaws at them . Basic in the Western way of fife is the naturalness of living much in the open . You do not need the weather forecast in order to set the date for a picnic , a camping trip , a hunting or fishing or skiing expedition ; for a calendar will do . The climate is violent but it is also stable , and in the seasons when rain is not to be expected there will be no rain . Winters are short except in the high country , which lengthens the season for summer sports , and the high country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through June and in some places all year . The great fact is the mountains . Mountains are within the driving range of all Westerners , even those on the eastern edge of the high plains who can reach the Black Hills . They are a refuge from heat and dust , from the aridity that dehydrates you and the intensity of sun that shrinks the ego . The forests are in the mountains , with the fish and game , the trails , the creeks , the ski runs , and the cliffs that need rope work . More important still , they put solitude and silence at the disposal of everyone . Western life has come to incorporate mountain living . A national forest near large towns ? the Wasatch Forest for instance , which straddles the range it is named for just above Salt Lake City ? will have a million or more visitors in the course of a year , practically all of them from the immediate vicinity . As a result most Westerners are hunters and fishermen and campers . Most of them are in sonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature at first hand and intimately , are adept at outdoor skills , can maintain themselves comfortably in the wilderness . Furthermore , since they have grown up to these things naturally they have not romanticized or stylized them ? except , that is , for the myth of the cattle business . There are no rituals . A Westerner cooking a meal in the forest is simply cooking a meal in the best way with the means at hand ? there is none of the high-church nonsense that accompanies outdoor cooking in Westchester or Long Island . Westerners are habituated to firearms and the right to bear them has not been abridged , but not even the movies have succeeded in tricking out Western firearms with the twaddle that has developed about them in the South . Such folkways have produced the West 's happiest contribution to architecture . I do not mean the bungalow , which is an eyesore , but the mountain cabin . It is made of logs , usually lodgepole pine , which are peeled and varnished with clear shellac ; sometimes for the exterior surfaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The logs are chinked with concrete ; chimneys and fireplaces arc made of stones ( " rocks " in the West ) from the nearest creek . The result is a charming , comfortable , functional dwelling which blends with the landscape , warm in winter , cool in summer , almost vermin-proof . It is excellent everywhere except when the resort business parodies it by covering steel and , concrete hotels with a veneer of logs . An astonishingly large number of Westerners own such cabins or still more inexpensive camps in the mountains . They visit them at all seasons , not only for the annual vacation and at weekends but on momentary impulse . Similar cabins and camps can be rented everywhere . And almost no one is too poor to own an automobile and a camping outfit ; those who use them , in fact , get farther into the wilderness and come to know it better than those with fixed camps . So the frontier 's mastery of the outdoors has remained a part of Western life . It has contributed alike to the realism and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western consciousness . Familiarity with the skills of Western occupations is also widespread ; most Westerners know something about mining , prospecting , engineering , lumbering , sheep growing , and cattle raising . The Westerner is the best American outdoors-man and he is almost the only remaining American who rides a horse naturally , not as one practicing a cult . LL these sports and occupations have pleasantly vivified Western dress , especially the cattle business . The working cowpoke , of course , wears levis , a Big Yank shirt , and a pair of nine-dollar Acme boots . But the dress-up tradition of his trade , supported by the same tradition in lumbering and mining , has given Western clothes a moderate , satisfying flamboyance : half-gallon hats , saddle-shop belts with silver buckles , bright but not insistent colors in shirts and scarves , a species of riding trousers better than breeches or jodhpurs and for women much more attractive . ( Turquoises , ninety-dollar boots , boots anywhere away from the presence of horses , hats beyond a gallon , and purple , orange , magenta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) The cattle business has also supplied the West 's autochthonous festival , the rodeo . ( Accent the first syllable . ) It has been so commercialized and stylized that the pure form is to be seen only in small towns where cowhands from neighboring ranches do the riding . Nevertheless , the circuit shows , whose performers are as much professionals as baseball players , are an important contribution to entertainment . Their spectacles and skills are derived from a still living reality and their roots go down to an authentic past . Not so much can be said for another Western festival whose generic name might be Frontier Week . It is the property of the Chamber of Commerce , a bad custodian for the expansive spirit . It is aimed at the tourist trade and retail sales . It is a fake and it is objectionable . ( Montana , the most urbane and most skeptical of Western states , is least given to it . ) There is no harm in people 's dressing up in the costumes of their ancestors , though silk coats , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grotesque . There is no harm in growing beards , though the vehemence with which the modern West grows them suggests a fear that it has not inherited all the frontier masculinity they are supposed to signify . There is no harm in celebrating the past if the celebration involves some knowledge of what it was or some respect for it , but Frontier Week seldom involves either . ft is conducted without reference to history , it is empty of idea and emotion , its data are anachronistic and preposterous . Unlike a rodeo or a county fair , it has no cultural validity . Even its much-advertised release from restraints is pumped-up and cold . It is , however , extremely revealing . Western towns by the hundred submit to Frontier Week and make a big noise about it at the direction of the Chamber of Commerce , for business reasons . They grow beards as an assist to sales ? at the same command . They submit to being fined , ducked , or otherwise penalized if the beards wo n't grow . The kind of Westerner whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if need be taken a shot at anyone who ventured to tell him how to wear his hair . He was an individualist with all that individualism implied in the West for both goad and ill , but the contemporary beard-grower is just a coerced advertiser . He accommodates his behavior to sales talk and gang dictation and what is worse , he is advertising a myth . He symbolizes several of the unhealthiest forces in Western life . N TWENTY-FIVE years the celebration of I the Western past has grown enormously . It has grown , however , chiefly in business sagacity and in noise ; little increase in knowledge or understanding is visible . The West has found its history a valuable asset but remains widely uninterested in doing anything about it beyond hoking it up for tourists . Western antiquarians , local historians , collectors , and annalists are as enthusiastic and expert as those anywhere else , but they are few and forlorn ; the historical societies ( several of them very distinguished ) , societies for the preservation of antiquities , and similar groups , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derision . Apart from advertising or at most ancestor worship , public feeling for the past is lethargic . In three months of Western travel I saw only one private enterprise devoted to celebrating local history which was both sincerely intended as a public service and likely to succeed . That was the work of Charles A. Bovey , who began by making the amazing collection at Great Falls , Montana , that is called Old Town and has gone on to restore Virginia City . I can not praise it too highly , but what cess but the fact that he had been privi ; leged to use his own money exclusively . Practically all the other non-utilitarian efforts to recover the Western past or to preserve its vestiges are the work of the federal government , and they are usually conceived and carried out by Easterners . The effort to expand the tourist business is not , however , the only explanation for the uninformed noise which the West is making about its past . Much of it shows the influence of the horse operas , which are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which alternate supposedly Western songs and allegedly frontier dramas all day long , with a large part of the West listening . But the ultimate responsibility can not be charged to Hollywood and Tin Pan Alley , for the urge they satisfy originates in the West itself and reveals a tension in the Western consciousness . The past quarter century has transferred the myth of the old West from fiction and the screen square into that consciousness , where it is beginning to show resemblances to the myth of the Old South . The most significant aspect of this revelation is that the ' ' Vest has chosen to base its myth on the business that was of all Western businesses most unregardful of public rights and decencies , most exploitative , and most destructive . The Cattle Kingdom did more damage to the West than anything else in all its economy of liquidation . As a mythology it will do even worse damage hereafter . III m ucit other evidence suggests psychic conflicts . For instance , Jesus is advertised in the Northwest as insistently as in southern California and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oregon and Washington and fan out across the neighboring states . They range from simple but extreme evangelism far into mental disease . Their emotional content is squalid and their compulsiveness attests a widespread inner frustration . Or take public attitudes toward liquor , which in the Northwest , Idaho , and Utah are downright schizophrenic . These states desire drinking to be surreptitious , excessive , and uncivilized and have preserved all the evils of prohibition . In Utah this is understandable , since teetotalism is a tenet of the Mormon Church and all drinking has to be officially attributed to the Gentiles , though inquiry develops that the state liquor stores do their highest per capita business in purely Mormon communities . ( The hamlet of Wendover is trying to secede from Utah and attach itself to the franker if frowsier culture of Nevada . ) Idaho somewhat reduces the worst absurdities of the common system ? the prohibition of liquor with meals and the refusal to sell it in less than bottle lots ? by licensing cocktail bars at hotels so long as they pretend to be under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drink less than a bottle in a hotel room ; and it requires a temperate person to seek out the institution called a private club . That institution is the worst result of the liquor laws in Washington and Oregon , where the system is most vicious ? and most characteristic , since both states have always done some of the most brutal drinking in the United States and both had prohibition societies before they had local governments . The club is the customary answer to prohibitory laws : it is a speakeasy . It is unregulated , protected , frequently gang-owned , a place for getting drunk , and it serves prohibition liquor . Romantic Easterners nostalgic for the indecencies of the Incredible Era are advised to try Portland or Seattle . MHE attitude thus revealed is pointed up I by another one . Nothing is more shocking to a resident of the East than to come out of the speakeasy where he has had to go for his six o'clock cocktail and enter a restaurant , hotel , grocery , drugstore , railroad station , barber shop , beauty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up by the dozen playing slot machines . They are universal from the Dakotas on , though of course in Utah they are more or less under cover , and they are in all public places except churches . And in a town which shall be nameless I saw the Episcopal rector dropping a stack of half-dollars into one , no doubt in the hope of increasing his poor fund ? a vain hope since the slot machine is the most openly crooked and cynical of all gambling devices , in fact is not a gambling device at all . The machines are owned by syndicates , which implies widespread con-up tion ' of police officials and occasional gang wars , and they are played constantly and obsessively by everyone more than four feet tall , male or female . The obsessiveness is what strikes a visitor . The universal patronage of admittedly crooked machines can not be explained by the Westerner 's traditional eagerness to take a chance or by his liking for being treated as a sucker . It stems from unconscious anxiety and dissatisfaction . Genuine gambling is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veneer of hypocrisy ) but appears to be conducted with decency everywhere except in Nevada . I am not referring to such places as Reno and Las Vegas which are organized to trim Easterners who can afford to be trimmed and which , I suppose , maintain the institutional honesties of gambling as rigorously as Monte Carlo . As a Westerner I can not weep at the sight of Eastern dudes leaving their money in the West , nor refrain from reflecting that the take is only a small percentage of the sum lifted from well-heeled Westerners by New York alone . I am referring to the repulsive little dives in unknown Nevada hamlets which are patronized wholly by local residents . No town is too small to have a combination lunchroom , bar , and gambling joint where a fish-eyed house man sits at his frowsy table dealing for a handful of customers ? a couple of high school girls , a couple of phony cowpokes and a couple of real ones , some machinists from the railroad , a grade school teacher , and a bum who has cadged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the town 's earnings every day . And they have a discernible relation to the signs set up along the roads leading to Fernley , the only signs I have ever seen advertising the de- sirability of getting drunk . In those signs there may be expansive Western humor and in the squalid dives there may be some of the Western freedom which the State of Nevada itself advertises at all its borders , adding that it has no sales tax , no income tax , no inheritance tax , and no corporation tax , But also they testify to the West 's inner awareness that something is lacking in the way it lives . EASTERN eyes Western cities , most I of which are just big towns , seem clean , neat , glistening , even new . Part of this shininess is due to the fact that few have slums and very few have industrial slums , and part to the thin air . Most of it , however , comes from the drama of the Western landscape . You cross a long stretch of treeless country and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City which has been growing shade trees ever since the first settlers came . The overwhelming Western sun is diffused , the wind is splintered , there are coolness and dampness . The shade has a spiritual , even a mystical quality , and as it assuages you it gives you a vivid sense of the desperate and dogged aspiration that produced it . Or the drama may be the mountains where they seem to rise straight out of the town square ? at Missoula , Ogden , Colorado Springs , dozens of other places . But the greatest drama comes from the miracle on which the entire life of the West rests , irrigation . Climb , for instance , out of the valley of the Snake at Glenn 's Ferry and head into the desert . For those who love the desert there is great beauty here but it is a beauty of sterility , in the imminence of death , sagebrush flats leading the eye across nothingness till barren mountains put a bound to space . Eventually you will come to a river and will instantly understand why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worthy its valley is of the name now because its waters have been diverted across the land . You cross the great canals with a kindling awareness of the achievement they represent and the tremendous imagination they realize . So you come into the town of Boise . After such a prologue , against such a backdrop , a drab and obsolescent town would seem resplendent , but Boise is neither . Its trees and lawns , the contemporaneousness of its hotels , its shop windows , its inbound and outbound freight traffic , the multifarious materiel of ranching , farming , mining , lumbering , and engineering which it is busily distributing ? well , a complex culture is at work in circumstances that never permit you to forget that that culture has been created in a land originally lifeless . This touch of miracle might suggest to a newcomer that Boise is an extraordinary town , but it is a typical Western town , like Carson City , Billings , Walla Walla , Pendleton , like any town where irrigation has made a dead land live . Such settings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climate , have shaped the Western consciousness . Moreover , the towns are set not only in drama but in vastness . Enormous distances have been a master-condition of Western life from the beginning and they have altered conceptions of space and therefore of time , too . The reduction of space began with the railroads but its conquest awaited the automobile , which has reoriented Western society , business , and thinking . The Western orientation always startles even the most mobile Easterner . Your hostess is going to make a three-hundredmile round trip tomorrow to buy a blouse she has seen advertised in a big-town paper . Your host will be going to his ranch , fifty miles away , after breakfast but will be back for lunch and glad to take your son to a rodeo , fifty miles in the opposite direction , and have him back well before dinner . Your friend wo n't be in San Francisco over the weekend , having decided to go fishing on the Madison River at the edge of Yellowstone Park , or the Salmon River in Idaho , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the cabin the family will drive a distance equal to that between New York and Buffalo and while there will drive you the width of Massachusetts to take in a movie or a dance . And why not ? The family income probably derives from a business whose routine transport is done by truck at distances elsewhere thought proper only for railroad freight , in areas where a railroad could not possibly penetrate , at a steady reduction of the ratio of space to time . The conquest of space is not enough , however , and the West is now in a fair way to annihilate it by means of aviation . Where sowers , foresters , prospectors , surveyors , vermin-exterminators , and even cowpunchers adapt the airplane to their daily job it is natural for all kinds of businesses to turn to it . Even before the war municipalities down to village size were building excellent airports , and the war compressed the development of a quarter of a century into five years . There are airports everywhere in the desert now and landing fields in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-four hours from the Atlantic coast and much less than twelve hours from the Pacific coast . Perms alteration of time-space is one leg I of the tripod ? electric power and war industries are the other two ? on which the West rests the glorious vision that it may at last emancipate itself from absentee control and compete with other sections . Moreover , if markets are only fractions of a day away , littoral fashions , clip-joints , luxury shops , theaters , and smart gossip are at the same radius . Hayseed America has practically ceased to exist everywhere , of course , and the West was never hayseed in terms of " The Old Homestead . " It has always had a cosmopolitan overtone and has always been nearer the Atlantic than the Midwest . But the airplane is an additional reason why Boise and Missoula seem so spruce and why the girl at the slot machine seems to have stepped in off Fifth Avenue . Airplane and automobile underscore the historic role of technology in the development of the West . Technology made the West possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of railroading and conservation , of wells and dams , of windmills and barbed wire . It is another reason why Western towns are so clean . In the past quarter-century a network of natural-gas mains has crisscrossed the West and wiped the grime of bituminous coal from many towns . The girl in the Fifth Avenue dress cooks on an electric range , heats her bath water by electricity , and has filled her air-conditioned bungalow with more labor-saving gadgets than the bourgeois household has anywhere else . During the war she added to them a deep-freeze unit , which her hus-MAGAZINE band keeps filled with meat bought at wholesale and at the bottom of the market , and with the fish , elk , deer , and game birds he gets at the mountain camp . She is living in an approximation of the America of tomorrow as the fantasies of engineers describe it . These Western towns would be , thousands of tourists must decide , excellent places for the children to grow up in . So much space , so much sparkling air , so much lawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beauty , such easy access to wilderness and silence , such facilities for recreation . Moreover , their social system is uncomplicated . If the Westerners are not quite free they are at least free and easy , spontaneous equalitarians , openhearted if not precisely open-minded , friendly , buoyant . There is no anti-Semitism . Though Jim-Crowism appeared during the war , there is very little of it . ( The West has always had its own color lines : Chinese and Japanese on the coast , Indians in the upper interior and the southwest , Mexicans everywhere . ) It would be good , so the day-dream runs , for the children to have such things from their earliest years . And it would be good for them to acquire the West 's feeling for the mountains , deserts , and forests , and especially its ever-present , dualistic awareness of the struggle between man and nature , the tension between survival and disaster , the conduct of life under the threat of flood , drought , forest fires , and insect plagues . Western realism and Western mysticism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fate is objectified as the Western environment , make an equipoise that promises much for satisfaction in life . I have heard this reverie many times from Easterners whom the West has taken by storm . They are right . The West always was a good place for children to grow up in and has steadily become a better one . How good a place it is and will henceforth be for them to stay in when they are grown , however , is a different , not necessarily related question . How important the West is to the post- war United States is insufficiently realized in the West and hardly realized at all anywhere else except at the centers of industrial and financial power . New Deal measures , war installations , and war industries have given the West a far greater and more widely distributed prosperity than it has ever had before . Moreover , during the war a fundamental revolution took place : power and industrial developments in the West have made a structural change in the national economy . That change is certain to increase and have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurred are revolutionary those already planned and sure to be carried out are even more revolutionary , and some of those which so far are only dreams but may be achieved stagger the mind . Finally , the world movements which are working out a long-term reorientation of human societies whose. focus is the Pacific Ocean will be increasingly favorable to the West . The West sees all this in terms of its historical handicaps : colonial economic status and absentee control . The ancient Western dream of an advanced industrial economy . controlled at home and able to compete nationally , is brighter now than it has ever been before . For the first time there arc actual rather than phantasmal reasons for believing that the dream can be realized . I will discuss them in a later article . But the West can not escape history and especially its own history . Nor can it escape psychology , its own historic psychology . If the dream is to be realized at all it must be realized within the Western culture and the limits of Western consciousness . Psychology will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I have described here certain ambiguities in the culture and psychology of the West which at least tinge the dream with doubt . For some kinds of people the West is something of a paradise and those who have worked out an effective adaptation to it seem to be happier than the average run of Americans . Even they , however , show symptoms of psychic insecurity . That insecurity shows most plainly in the two kinds of Westerners who are most obviously unhappy and most obviously out of harmony with Western culture , the intellectuals and the rich . It must be significantthat both are obsessed by a feeling of inferiority and that the Western colonialism by which they explain it is not economic but cultural . " THE rich are easily explained . In the 1 overwhelming majority they are either local representatives and managers of , or else are necessarily allied with , the system of absentee exploitation that has drained the West 's resources eastward and channeled its wealth in the same direction . As parties to or dependents on that system they are really adversaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its enemies . They have no function in the indigenous culture but they must live in the midst of it as remittance men , 6migr6s , and expatriates . Forty years ago Harry Leon Wilson described them as Spenders , and a generation has only made their phantasy-life sillier and more vulgar ; In that phantasy-life they see themselves as exiles from reality , but their reality is only the advertising pages of Vogue . They are the silliest ( and one observer of them is here substituting that adjective for " most hoggish " ) members of that class for whom the clip-joints of the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts are run : the gaudy restaurants , the vulgar shops , the meretricious resorts , the whole falsely-veneered world which has been expertly designed to take them in and whose phoniness they understand to be Elegance and Fashion . Their ambition may be summed up as to be mistaken for the kind of millionaire who was born within this world either in Hollywood or better still New York , night-club New York . It is hard to manage in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's stupidest fall guys and the West 's only hicks . The rich derive no sustenance from Western culture and contribute nothing to it . There would be no particular significance in that , since it is by their own choice , if it were not for the fact that the West 's intellectuals come out much the same , if for reasons as different as possible , reasons which are seldom their fault . EFFECTIVE radicalism in the West has originated in the economic struggle , as a direct product of the exploitation . The West 's intellectual radicals , however , have been and remain something else . They are charming , as the millionaires assuredly are not , but theirs is a charm of irresponsibility . They arc at once fiery and sweet ? red in tooth and claw and buoyed up by the knowledge that they will never have to do anything at all about it . The barricades they fight on are imaginary and the deaths they undergo are mere formulas . Their radicalism is a species of aesthetics . But the point is that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West . Intellectuals have always been a Western export . In the United States at large the professions ? the learned professions ? journalism , literature , and the arts contain a disproportionate number of men and women who grew up on Nine Mile over against Dead Man but whose address is now Westport or Winnetka or Palo Alto . They found the going too hard and so they got out . They refused to waste their strength fighting an unfavorable environment . In the past generation that environment has become somewhat more favorable but not much . Let writers stand for them all . Only a small handful of first-rate writers have stuck it out in the West ? men who write as Americans without Western provinciality or who write about Western experience without neuroticism . I do not know what inner resources have been required of such men as , say , Edwin Corle , Thomas Hornsby Ferril , Vardis Fisher , and Joseph Kinsey Howard , but that such achievement as theirs requires unusual strength is obvious from what has happened to the generality of Western writing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has devitalized American writing wherever it has broken out , though for the South 's forty acres and a poet the spacious West has substituted six hundred and forty acres and a mystic . Or else it has fled into coterie literature , with the result that the little magazine is making its last stand in the sagebrush and the writer who stayed there is trying to be Eugene Jolas . He has his own Vogue and Spur and is trying to erect a Left Bank on Nine Mile . This escapism is pathetic rather than vulgar because it is forced on him , but if escapism is a means of survival it MAGAZINE nevertheless ranges him with the millionaire . He has found no roots in the common culture and so regards it as colonial . What has denied him roots , however , is not a colonial state of mind but the state of mind of the vigilantes , the vigilantes who were always as useful for suppressing nonconformity as for getting rid of stage-robbers . I have suggested that the coercive beard-growing of Frontier Week , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass-hypnotism of the slot machines are not casual surface-phenomena of Western life but symptoms of conflicts that come close to being organic . They go back in history as far as the West goes but they are more important now than ever before , because the fulfillment of the great dream will depend on whether the West resolves them as it undertakes to seize its hour . WESTERN ' freedom has always been ex- tended to certain kinds of behavior only ; freedom has always been denied to other kinds of behavior and has hardly existed at all in thought and opinion . Western individualism has different appearances in different lights but it has always been less a matter of letting my neighbor go his way as he chooses than of waiting for him to make some mistake that will allow me to jump his claim . That Chambers of Commerce have taken over the gang function of the Vigilance Committee has only made Western business more timorous , an easier setup for absentee exploitation . It has only increased the West 's historic willingness to hold itself cheap and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raped by the East but its ads and its posture have always invited rape . Thus the basic problems are internal . The West has always suppressed domestic criticism , while cringing before criticism from outside , and has treated non-conformity of idea and innovation of any kind , especially in business , as dire social evils . Forever in rebellion against exterior exploitation , it has nevertheless always co-operated with the exploiters against itself when the chips were down . Worst of all , its own interior exploitation has always worked to the same end . No destruction by absentee-owned corporations of the West 's natural resources ? all it has ? has ever been forestalled , because anything that could forestall it would also forestall the West 's own destruction of those same resources . At this moment there is intended an assault on the public resources of the West which is altogether Western and so open that it can not possibly be called a conspiracy . It is an assault which in a single generation could destroy the West and return it to the processes of geology . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the very moment when the West is undertaking , with some possibility of success , to emancipate itself and establish an advanced industrial economy ? is plain proof of schizophrenia . Will the effort to achieve the status of an equal in the national economy turn out in the end to have been just one more Western boom ? Is the West 's contemplated secession from the union premised on getting the federal government to subsidize the secession and Wall Street to pay the carrying charges ? Will the revolution now gathering momentum end with the same old masters at the throttle still ? The issue will be settled in terms of steel , aluminum , water , electric power , freight rates , and credit . But the determinant will be the Western consciousness . Westerners have always thought of the East as their worst enemy , but they have always acted as if their worst enemies were the Westerners who wanted their children to live in the West , who wanted to make something of the country and keep it . They have been chary of trusting one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-operation has been their willingness to sell one another out . Unless that changes in the course of the revolution , Wall Street can view the future of its Western satrapy with detached calm .                     