@@475978

THE most noticeable difference between the present Administration and the New Deal is about eighty pounds , com-fortably larded around the bureaucratic paunch . The skinny , hot-eyed , ulceroid characters who infested Washington ten years ago are now extinct . Their Potomac feeding grounds , from the Pentagon to Capitol Hill , have been taken over by a different and less alarming species . The most conspicuous specimens of the new homo trumanus ? Snyder , Steelman , Krug , Brannan , Johnson , Soucrs , Rayburn , and Lucas , for a sample ? all look curiously alike . They run as true-to-breed as a litter of Poland China pigs : ? plump , baldish , sedentary , bespectacled , ruminative , and cautious . You ca n't spot a single long-fanged , carnivorous type in the whole herd . This change in the political fauna is a clue of real significance to anyone who attempts to size up the Truman regime and to guess its probable course for the next three years . Now , for the first time , the Presidentis surrounded by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is these men , rather than the formal pledges of the last campaign , who will set the pace and tone of his Administration . Here , perhaps , lies an explanation of that melancholy which has lately infected a good many professional liberals ? those who were sure that the election meant a rebirth of the New Deal , with fresh agencies sprouting from every crevice and bankers barbecued on alternate Thursdays . It may also explain the calmer breathing of a lot of fluttery conservatives , who stampeded in wall-eyed panic to dump their stocks on November 3 . For it is now clear that Mr. Truman is not going to touch off another FDR revolution . Nobody can make a revolution without rebels ; and today there is hardly a dangerous man in Washington . The nearest thing to a lean and hungry look is the ascetic face of Senator Robert A. Taft . What , then , can we reasonably expect from this collection of Rotarians emeritus who fill ( snugly ) the seats of power recently vacated by Hopkins , Tugwell , Corcoran , Wallace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very entertaining . Like their boss , they are rather dull fellows ? conscientious , respectable as blue serge , a little distrustful of anything adventurous or dramatic . They are n't mad with anybody . They would never dream of trying to make America over or of scourging the money-changers out of the temple . ( Many of them are pretty agile money-changers themselves . ) Their evident purpose is to get along as amiably as possible with everybody and to win the next election . It would be a mistake , however , to conclude that the government has fallen entirely into the hands of good-natured mediocrities ? or that Mr. Truman 's ambitious program can be entirely written off as campaign oratory . For in spite of the strong family resemblance , the actial character of his political high command is strangely spotty , streaked with weakness and strength like a flitch of Missouri bacon . In order to make a fair guess at what it may accomplish , and where , it may be useful to take a separate look at a few selected cross sections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , consists of the three great agencies deal- ing with foreign affairs : the State and Defense Departments , plus ECA . This is where the excitement is . Here Mr. Truman has posted his ablest lieutenants ; and they in turn have found it possible to recruit a a good many first-rate sergeants and corporals , while the less glamorous domestic agencies have had to plod along with some pretty shopworn personnel Both of the department chiefs stack up handsomely beside their predecessors of the past decade . Mr. Roosevelt , of course , insisted on running his military and foreign business for himself , and did n't want any really strong cabinet officers around to get in his way ; while Mr. Truman ? a tidier administrator and less confident of his virtuosity in these fields ? has been more willing to delegate authority . It is hardly surprising , therefore , that Dean Acheson looks like a paragon of clarity and vigor in comparison with the agonizing in-decision of Cordell Hull , the imposing vacuity of Edward Stettinius , or the weary detachment of George Marshall . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is running the State Department . Because Hull and Byrnes had served their governmental apprenticeships in Congress , neither of them had a tight grasp of administrative techniques . Marshall was simply too worn out by the strain of war to take much interest in rebuilding the ramshackle organization he inherited . And every Secretary since 1941 was so busy trotting around to international conferences that he had to leave the day-to-day operation of the Department to subordinates of uncertain authority . Already Acheson has begun to change all that . Philip Jessup and Warren Austin take care of most of the long-distance conferring these days , while the Secretary sticks to his desk and grinds out policy . A squad of energetic young assistants ? such men as James Webb , Dean Rusk , Harry Labouisse , Park Armstrong , John Peurifoy , and Howland Sargeant ? has been deployed in the top administrative echelon ; and gradually they are beginning to convert the pottering old gentlemen 's club into a serviceable organization . There are still plenty of moldy patches ? but the chances are good that before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the kind of State Department our role in the world has long demanded . CROSS the river in the Pentagon , the picture is a little different . Louis John- son very probably lacks the machine-tooled brain of a Forrestal or the monumental stature of the aged Stimson . Occasionally he has shown a regrettable fondness for showy gestures and ill-considered talk . Already he is panting hard for the next Presidential nomination , and politics clearly is in the front of his mind at every moment . And yet he does have one advantage which is peculiarly appropriate for the job ahead of him : lie is an ornery , hard-bitten character who will by damn run his own show if it kills every admiral in the fleet . This is precisely the one trait he will need most if he is going to bring a semblance of discipline and unity out of the internecine warfare among the armed forces . And in his deputy , Steve Early , he has chosen a man just as cantankerously rugged as himself . From his long training at Roosevelt 's elbow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the art of bureaucratic combat . It 's a safe bet that if there are any more nervous breakdowns in the Defense Department , they wo n't happen in the Secretary 's office ; they are more likely to show up among the Big Brass . So far Johnson 's most spectacular action has been his order stopping construction of the super-carrier United States , despite the piteous keening of all his admirals . Like any layman , I have n't the faintest notion whether this decision makes good strategic sense . Administratively , however , it makes plenty . It served notice ? as nothing else could ? that the new boss was hull-set on reaching his own conclusions and carrying them through . Even when his military advisers could not agree . Even if his Navy Secretary walked out in a smoking huff . That kind of action ( which Johnson has supplemented by a couple of blunt private lectures to the inter-service Sanhedrin ) is a plain hint that any military prima donna who ca n't learn to work in harness is likely to end up in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hopeful sign that Johnson eventually may be able to curb the lavish wastefulness of all three services . This wo n't he easy . The military have been encouraged for so long to ask for anything they can dream up , and damn the expense , that they long ago lost all decent respect for the taxpayer 's dollar . These are the people ? so the Hoover Commission reported ? who mislaid 9,000 tanks after the war and never could tell what happened to them ; who padded a single budget item by $30 million as the result of a " clerical error " ; and who ordered tropical worsted uniforms " for all the enlisted men in the Army and then some " at $129 each , or about twice as much as the average taxpayer can afford for his own suits . The bookkeeping and inventory systems used by the Army , Navy , and Air Force would bankrupt a pop stand ; but they all find it necessary to support a horde of publicity men beyond the wildest dreams of Hollywood . If Johnson can pound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far he 's had little encouragement from Congress ? he will deserve a special medal for Heroic Housekeeping . EANWHILE , three noteworthy accomplishments can be chalked up for the Administration in the area of military and foreign affairs : ( 1 ) The European aid program has been explained to the country frankly and effectively ? an achievement without precedent in the tongue-tied and disingenuous tradition of the State Department . It has been carried out with a rare combination of business sense and tact . And ECA itself has been protected both from patronage raids and from the grosser pressures of special interests ? tobacco and flour , for example ? who yearned to channel some of that free-flowing cash into their own pockets . ( Indeed , ECA is so detached from the ordinary political framework that it really has no place in this discussion . It is manned largely by Republican business men , and operates so independently that it can hardly be described as an actual part of the Administration. ) ( 2 ) Unobstrusive but solid gains have been made in race relations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ease up their traditional segregation of Negro units , and to inch a little faster toward the proclaimed goal of " equality of treatment and opportunity . " Moreover , throughout the government , Negro workers are enjoying an intangible but real gain in status as a result of the brilliant performance in the Palestine negotiations of Dr. Ralph Bunchc ? described by one Arab as " the second Colossus of Rhodes . " If Bundle should accept an appointment as ambassador or assistant secretary of state ( as still seems possible ) he will be the first Negro ever to reach , on merit , such rarefied diplomatic heights . ( 3 ) Civilian control over foreign and military policy has been steadily strengthened ever since the election . While the stars of Acheson and Johnson have been rising , gradual eclipse has overtaken a good many military men who once wielded great influence ? Marshall , William H. Draper , Generals Lucius Clay and Bedell Smith , and , perhaps most important of all , Admiral William D. Leahy , until recently chief of staff to the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the custodian of many Roosevelt secrets , he served as a kind of Gray Eminence during Truman 's first term . For a time his influence ? unpublicized but pervasive ? apparently carried more weight than that of any cabinet officer . Byrnes and Forrestal , in particular , found this irksome ; for Leahy was profoundly suspicious of Byrnes 's " softness " toward the Russians , and ( like most navy men ) he had little enthusiasm for a tight unification of the services . One more step , now impending , should pretty well complete the restoration of civilian rule . That is a shift in the membership of the National Security Council , the top advisory group on foreign and military policy . It is now dominated by spokesmen for the armed services . Before the end of the session , Congress is likely to change its make-up by dropping the Secretaries of the Army , Navy , and Air Force and adding Vice President Alben Barkley , thus giving a majority to the civilian representatives . ( Incidentally , the executive secretary of the Council ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than any other official in Washington . He gives Mr. Truman his daily post-breakfast briefing on intelligence reports from all over the world , and on the current status of security problems . A highly successful business man with sensitive political antennae , he has become one of the President 's most useful aides for delicate and confidential chores . Just after the war , for example , he organized the original Central Intelligence Group . Now , with his staff of some thirty able assistants , he is our nearest parallel to the British War Cabinet Secretariat ? an extremely handy administrative device . ) III N THE domestic side of the Administra-tion , the scenery is a whole Iot drear-ier . There nothing much is happen-ing . Not one new domestic agency has been launched since Mr. Truman took office . Nearly all of the old ones have been pulling in their horns , trimming staff , and lapsing into a soggy bureaucratic routine . Nowhere is there any sense of the bright adventure , the tension and hustle , the companionship with great events which gave the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Naturally these offices have found it hard to attract men of enterprise . Nor is this the whole story ; for Mr. Truman himself has little of FDR 's flair for seducing first-rate brains into the public service . Moreover , so long as comfortable salaries are still fairly plentiful in private business , outstanding administrators are understandably reluctant to trade them for a federal stipend , plus the prying harassment of loyalty checks and the endless frustrations of government employment . ( Even the Hoover Commission apparently was astonished to discover how hard it is to accomplish anything within the moldering labyrinths of our patchwork bureaucracy . ) Under these circumstances , the career civil servants inevitably have taken over ? dutiful men , but lacking fire . Here and there a fugitive New Dealer lurks in some obscure cranny , resigned , circumspect , and a little sour . " While these still think of themselves as liberals , their zest for experimentation has dried up . Their liberalism , in many cases , has become a conditioned reflex . Say " labor " and they drool like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they will growl and bristle . But to the less familiar stimuli of postwar times they hardly react at all . They are sad people , the by-passed crusaders of another day . An extreme example of this atmosphere is the Commerce Department ? a random collection of unrelated bureaus which never did have much team spirit or sense of mission . Today the Bright Young Men infiltrated by Henry Wallace have become almost indistinguishable from the grizzled bureaucrats recruited a generation ago by Herbert Hoover . With equal deliberation they peer at their tables of statistics through bifocal glasses , remember their rubbers on every rainy day , and await their pensions . They all know that their Secretary . Charles Sawyer , is out of sympathy with much of the President 's program ; that his political assets are negligible ; that he has no plans of consequence for the Department ; and that he probably wo n't be around long anyway . A similar case is the Treasury ? once a very hive of New Deal schemers , and now just another refuge for human comptometers . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off with the public treasure so long as Honest John Snyder is on guard . Interior is in a somewhat happier state , because it has a job of some urgency in protecting our dwindling public resources , and because Harold Ickes built a spirited and cohesive organization . It also enjoys the stout leadership of Under Secretary Oscar Chapman , a Truman wheelhorse during the election , and Assistant Secretary Girard Davidson . Both are unusual specimens ? veteran New Dealers who still manage to get up a full head of steam . The general expectation is that Chapman will step into the Secretaryship as soon as the President can find a tactful way to dispose of the plump and lethargic incumbent , Julius " Cap " Krug . Meanwhile , Krug does n't bother anybody much . 0 F Au. the old-line departments , Agriculture seems to be in the best shape . If cabinet officers could somehow be measured for innate ability , its chief , Charles Brannan , would probably stand second only to Acheson . Because of his unwavering labor during the gloomy days of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a career civil servant ? a Colorado lawyer who worked his way up the Department 's hierarchy and understands its workings thoroughly . He has soothed down most of the intramural squabbling which marred the regimes of Secretaries Anderson and Wickard , and the morale of his vast organization is now tolerably high . It got toned up a notch further this spring when Brannan proposed his new farm program ? the first imaginative , large-scale venture put forward by any domestic agency since Mr. Truman took office . This scheme for propping up farm income by an intricate tackle of subsidies , loans , and acreage controls , and at the same time bringing down food prices for city folks , certainly wo n't get to first base during the current session of Congress . Its cost : uncertain , but probably appalling . Opposition : considerable . The plan is such a radical departure from the traditional system of price supports that both of the big , conservative farm organizations ? the Grange and the Farm Bureau Federation ? were shocked into instant protest . ( They were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand in drafting it . ) So far the only vocal support comes from the smallest and most leftward of the rural pressure groups , the Farmer 's Union . Eventually , however , a diluted version of the Brannan plan almost surely will beadopted . The present system of rigged prices is too ridiculous to survive indefinitely ? and it will look even sillier as big surpluses begin to pile up this fall . Last year , for example , the government paid out $200 million to hold up the price of just one crop ? potatoes . There were three results , all fantastic : ( 1 ) Potato growers nicked the treasury for an average of $5,457 each . ( 2 ) Sure of a lush profit , they grew thousands of tons of spuds that nobody needed . ( 3 ) The consumer paid twice over for every potato he ate , once in taxes and again in a whopping artificial price at the grocery store . Already a similar situation is threatening in pork , and other surpluses are n't far off . The Brannan program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? by a direct subsidy to the farmer ? while most prices would be allowed to slip down to their natural levels . In addition to this obvious appeal to city voters , his proposal has the unusual merit of political honesty . It recognizes frankly that American agriculture is a chronically sick industry , which has been living on transfusions from the federal purse ever since the Hoover Farm Board nearly twenty years ago . Some kind of subsidy is bound to continue indefinitely ? if for no other reason , because our electoral system stacks Congress heavily in favor of the rural voter . Brannan is now proposing that we should at last face these facts candidly , and dole out an open , rationally calculated subsidy , rather than ahalf-concealed and grossly illogical one . NA. -1 wonder he shocked a lot of people . In passing , it is worthy of note that Brannan 's shadow is spreading a good distance beyond his own department . The President tagged him to serve as Co-ordinator for Economic Stabilization ? which means that he is expected to see to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together with some kind of rough consistency . He has handled this thankless chore tactfully and firmly , with no effort to hog publicity or build empires at other people 's expense . As a consequence , he seems to have the confidence both of his boss and of most of his colleagues . He probably will never be admitted into the exclusive White House cronyship ? he 's too serious a man to make relaxing company for the bourbon-and-bawdy-joke crowd ? but before the term runs out he may nevertheless become one of the most powerful voices in the Administration . Brannan , like Johnson , is being talked about as possible Presidential timber for 1952 , in spite of his embarrassing home base in a small mountain state ; his close contacts with Democratic state and county committeemen all over the country are a useful asset . But he still runs behind Governors Adlai Stevenson of Illinois and Chester Bowles of Connecticut in the early bookmaking on the nomination sweepstakes . This sampling of the Truman bureaucracy ? and I hope it is a passably fair one ? would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three years ahead . Little brilliance , no ferment of new ideas , no daring experiments can reasonably be expected . But no administrative disasters are in prospect either . So far there is no ground for anticipating any spectacular corruption , inefficiency , or favoritism to vested interests , beyond the normal incidence of such afflictions . For the first time in a generation , Washington seems to he getting back to Business as Usual . INT T HE day-to-day conduct of the public business is not , however , the only yardstick for an Administration . A good deal more important , in the long run , is the quality of its political leadership ; and this can be measured most readily in the Administration 's dealings with Congress . Here the record shows an impressive catalogue of tactical blunders . Almost every major issue during the current session has been handled clumsily ; and as a consequence Mr. Truman and his chief lieutenants have frittered away a good part of the potential influence over legislation which they won last November . To begin with , they insisted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the filibuster at the very opening of the Eighty-first Congress . This was a fight which the President must have known he could not win ; at least he was so told by a number of his most sagacious advisers on the Hill . The results were : ( I ) a damaging loss of prestige ; ( 2 ) a revival of the familiar coalition between Republicans and Southern Democrats , andits temporary reinforcement with a number of Southerners who habitually vote liberal whenever the racial bugaboo can be kept out of sight ; ( 3 ) raw tempers on both sides ; ( 4 ) a month 's delay in the Senate 's work , jeopardizing the rest of the Administration 's program in a legislative log-jam . All of these bad effects could have been avoided or minimized if the fight ( which Mr. Truman was pledged to make at some stage ) had been postponed until the end of the session . This fiasco also exposed the heavy-handed inadequacy of Scott Lucas of Illinois as Senate majority leader ? one of the key jobs in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many Southerners , who had seen their own men in that post for so many years that they had come to regard it as a Dixie sinecure . This handicap was double-weighted during the filibuster struggle by Lucas 's penchant for sarcastic lectures and his unsuspected genius for rumpling sensitive Senatorial feathers . His performance looked even more inept in comparison with the taciturn skill of Sam Rayburn on the other side of the Capitol . The rancor Lucas has stirred up will haunt the Administration for a long while . Mr. Truman and his Council of Economic Advisers fumbled again when they tried to shove through their drastic scheme of anti-inflation controls and higher taxes , long after inflation had ceased to be a danger and deflation was already giving Congressmen nightmares . Still another unnecessary beating came from the Administration 's mule-headed refusal to work out an acceptable compromise on labor legislation in committee , the proper place for such delicate negotiations . Instead , the President 's men insisted until the last moment on the very letter of the union leaders ' extreme demands ? although it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry these demands in either house . In the end , they were stampeded into disorderly retreat during debate on the floor of the House , and only Rayburn 's nimble generalship prevented the conservative coalition from passing its own labor bill . At this writing it seems unlikely that any change will be made in the Taft-Hartley Act at this session ? in which case Mr. Truman will have fallen down on his Number One campaign promise . COUNTLESS minor instances of political awkwardness are cited , with mounting exasperation , by loyal Democratic legislators to almost anyone who will listen . For example , until the last minute nobody remembered to invite the Senators to witness the ceremonial signing of the Atlantic Pact ? although that treaty is worth less than its blue goatskin binding until it gets their approval . The President 's stubborn efforts to wheedle a reluctant Senate into giving his old pal , Mon Wallgren , the chairmanship of the National Security Resources Board ( a job for which his qualifications were virtually invisible ) embarrassed everybody ? just as his nomination of Ed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to put pressure on Congress , it has been both weak and irritating . His patronage weapon has never been handled with the slick finesse that Roosevelt applied so well . Nor does he have the corps of practiced lobbyists which FDR turned loose in every emergency . On the contrary , Administration spokesmen ? especially from the Labor Department ? have often turned up before Congressional committees so poorly briefed that their Republican inquisitors easily made them look like dunces . Ineptitudes of this kind are leading to two important consequences . The first is that Mr. Truman will hardly get more than half of his program through the Eighty-first Congress ? and that is the half that Congress needs to pass for its own political reasons , not because it is labeled : " White House Must . " It now appears that the legislative budget , for this session and the next , may add up something like this : ( 1 ) Foreign Affairs : All the Administration really needs , though perhaps not quite all it asks for . The list probably will include enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modest sum for military lend-lease ; okay of the Atlantic Pact ; renewal of the reciprocal trade program without hampering restrictions ; ample funds for foreign intelligence and the Voice of America ; more money than the armed services can prudently spend . ( 2 ) Labor : Eventually a compromise bill somewhere between Taft-Hartley and the old Wagner Act , retaining authority for the government to halt strikes which endanger public health and safety . Higher minimum wages but not the 75 cents an hour Mr. Truman has asked . ( 3 ) Welfare : A reasonably good housing program , capable of rapid expansion if the recession deepens . Modest extensions of Social Security . Federal grants for better schools in " backward " states . Sizable appropriations for hospital construction and equipment , and for training more doctors ? but no compulsory health insurance . ( 4 ) Public Power : Unspectacular but significant gains , including the TVA steam plant and clear authority for the government to build its own transmission lines to distribute electricity from federal dams . Just possibly a Columbia River Valley Authority ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( 5 ) Civil Rights : Anti-lynching and anti-poll tax bills on a compromise pattern , something like that suggested by Representative Brooks Hays , probably will pass the House and may even squeak through in the Senate next session . No chance for Fair Employment Practice legislation sought by the President . ( 6 ) Government Reorganization : Nobody in Washington is really panting to carry out the Hoover Commission proposals , but there is about an even chance that Congress will let the President go ahead with his reorganization plan , though under some hobbling restrictions . What all this comes to is a modest extension of the original New Deal ? one more step toward the Welfare State , if you like , but a cautious one . No doubt that caution will increase next year , as the rather frightening state of the government 's finances becomes more apparent . A deficit of $4 to $6 billions is in prospect for the new fiscal year , on top of the present debt of $252 billions . It is becoming obvious that even this country ca n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is fighting a cold war , rebuilding Europe , and carrying a military burden of more than $15 billions annually . HE other notable result of Mr. Truman 's fumbling leadership may well be a basic shift in the balance of political power from the White House to the Capitol . There are signs that we may be on the threshold of another of those periods of Congressional government which recur with considerable regularity in American history . Such glacial changes in our scheme of politics always come slowly , of course ; but most of the necessary conditions certainly are now present . For one thing , the timing seems about right . We have gone through a long and sometimes irksome stretch of strong executive rule ; it would be surprising if the pendulum were n't ready to swing . Then , too , hardly a man in Congress is dependent on the White House for his political life . In the last campaign , many ran well ahead of Mr. Truman . They did not ride his coat-tails , as they did Roosevelt 's ; he rode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise . Finally , the Democratic members of Congress are growing increasingly restive under the Administration 's slack rein . They had been used to sure-fingered , strong leadership from the White House for so long that they came to depend on it ? even though they sometimes resented it . Now that it is missing , some of the best men in both houses are floundering , disheartened , and secretly losing respect for the head of their party . So far , they have made little effort to build a strong system of Congressional leadership to take its place . But all that is lacking , apparently , is the emergence of a man ? another Mark Hanna or Uncle Joe Cannon ? with the stature and the will to organize a new party command-post on the Hill . If the Democratshad anybody with the ability , experience , and impulse-to-power of Taft , the task might already be under way . Sam Rayburn may yet turn out to be the man for the iob . Already there are some indications that lie may try to take over leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IT is no paradox to suggest that Mr. Truman 's chief contribution may spring out of the very feebleness of his political leadership . If he is not a hypnotic and stirring leader , he is not a frightening one either . During the campaign , his appeal was that of a plucky little guy fighting against heavy odds ? not that of a Man on a White Horse . No shining legends will ever encrust his Administration ; but neither will anybody be moved to curse him as That Man . His whole personality is sedative . He might easily be remembered as a kind of poor man 's Calvin Coolidge . Perhaps this is a useful thing . It can help greatly to reconcile and reassure those many Americans who have been profoundly disturbed by the vast changes which have swept over our country for the past twenty years , and which are still in flood . The fear and rancor , the jagged divisions within the nation , that were left by the New Deal can have a chance to heal over while such a man is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman is utterly incapable of dramatizing any issue . By the same token , his fumbling and homey touch drains away the dangerous emotions from almost every tension-charged question . His genius is for making the unavoidable upheavals of our day appear commonplace , unalarming , and fit to live with . We can at least be grateful to him for domesticating the revolution of our times .                     