@@475606

IN THE months ahead Korea seems likely to replace Trieste as the number one international sore spot . Here American and Russian interests are grinding against each other in naked and dangerous friction ? and the Korean people are squealing between the millstones . Their country is a sample of the world 's political problem at its worst . Month by month Korea 's troubles become both more unbearable and more difficult to remedy . Unless the two great powers settle their differences ? and quickly ? these troubles may well spread far beyond the Korean borders . Today the country is cut neatly in two , geographically , economically , and politically . The dividing line is the thirtyeighth parallel . Within Korea the iron curtain has become an iron garrotte , for it is strangling the country . Only electricity crosses this border legally . North of the barrier the Russians are hurriedly creating a Communist state , complete with political police , rule by " people 's committees , " countless pictures of Stalin , redistribution of land , and public demonstrations by order of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is belatedly trying to put together a representative democracy , relying on leaders of the moderate right and the moderate left . This makes good sense ; it should have been United States policy from the very beginning of the occupation . Unfortunately it was not . In the early days , the Americans made a whole seriesof administrative and political blunders ? of which the worst was a temporary alliance with a small minority of extremely conservative Korean politicians . These mistakes almost destroyed the confidence of the Korean people in Americans , and are still hampering all of our efforts . The American attempt to set up a stable , democratic political structure also is being hampered by the most flagrant kind of Communist interference . The evidence has become conclusive that Russia is not content just to organize northern Korea in her own way . With her long left arm , the Communist Party , she is reaching into the American zone and attempting to shake the very foundations of order ? transportation , food supply , and the police force . Since propaganda and intrigue alone have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to violence in their efforts to wreck the unity which the Americans ? recovering from their first five months of aimless blundering ? are now painfully trying to construct . A typical example of Communist propaganda in southern Korea was the recent refusal of the Democratic People 's Front , a Red-controlled coalition of political parties , to take part in the celebration of V-J Day by Americans and Korean citizens . Instead the front held its own demonstration to celebrate the theme that Russia had won the war in the Far East . The most blatant instance of Communist intrigue was the large-scale counterfeiting of currency by fourteen Party members ( now imprisoned ) who ran their presses right in the Party headquarters . Their scheme to disrupt the currency ? already dangerously inflated by the flood of paper money released by the departing Japanese ? also included the smuggling of Bank of Chosen yen notes from north of The Line . To aggravate the country 's economic troubles , the Communists have led a wave of strikes , beginning with a walkout of railway workers last August . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent wage increase , " the same labor reforms " which they declared had been achieved in northern Korea ? a naive and revealing slogan . The Communist technique of violence was illustrated by an attack last October on the official Korean police in and near Taegu , the capital of North Kyongsang province . It resulted in a five-day battle , in which fifty-nine policemen were killed , sixty seriously wounded , and one hundred missing . This outbreak was a carefully planned act of revolution , directed not at the U. S. Army ? the Communists are not that foolhardy ? but against the Koreans who are co-operating with our military government . Such incidents give emphasis to the year-long campaign of threats which has been waged against the non-Communist Koreans . Such intimidation is more effective than it might be in a Western country , because the Koreans ? like all Orientals ? have a great respect for force . The tradition has been ingrained by long experience with floods , drought , warlords , and the Japanese army . It is still being taught today by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industries of Manchuria and impose a one-party regime on northern Korea . II T HE Communists in the American zone are a tiny group ? hardly more than ten per cent of that small fraction of the people who take any part in politics . Yet they have come to wield considerable influence throughout southern Korea . There are three reasons for their disproportionate power . First of all , the Soviet forces have helped create a situation of disruption and misery , which is made to order for exploitation by the local Communists . This was easy , because the great bulk of the country 's industrial products , coal , and fertilizer come from the northern zone ; and the Russians have steadfastly refused to permit these goods to move south of the thirty-eighth parallel . The most important result of this embargo was the short rice harvest this fall . The southern farmers had no commercial fertilizer to replenish their paddies , exhausted by centuries of cultivation and starved for the last four years by the Japanese diversion of chemicals to wartime use . As a consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to make matters worse the shrunken harvest must feed not only the normal population but also 1,200,000 refugees brought back from Japanese territory , plus 800,000 who have fled from the Russian zone . These refugees also intensify the housing shortage . A final touch of misery is the lack of heat for overcrowded homes , because no coal is moving down from the Russian-held mines . Cold , hungry , and ill-housed , the Koreans provide a ready audience for Communist propaganda . A second reason for the heavy impact of this propaganda is that Communism has long held a powerful attraction for Korea . Eighty per cent of its people are sharecroppers or meagerly-paid laborers , who have been oppressed for generations by the Japanese and their native landlords . Moreover , they have built up close connections with the Soviet Union during the last twenty years , because thousands of Koreans fled to Siberia to escape from Japanese rule . There many of them received Communist training and opened up underground channels of communication with their friends back home . The result was that ever since 1923 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communists , although the earlier opposition had been led by Koreans with a Western orientation such as Dr. Syngman Rhee and Kim Koo who remained abroad after the abortive 1919 revolution . The Communists got their greatest boost , however , from the blunders of the American Army . WHEN our Army landed September 7 , 1945 , it had an awesome and unequaled prestige . Its influence had been built up in advance by its achievements in the Pacific and by the great respect which American missionaries had won through long years of patient work . These missionaries were the only Americans known to the average Korean , who respected them even if he did not belong to their missions . The American soldier came from the land of the missionaries . He was the " Onward Christian Soldier " of whom the missionaries sang . In the intoxicating first hours after our landing , the Koreans ran into the streets just to touch the clothing of American troops . What followed was brutal . The first act of the liberators was to announce that the Japanese administration would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This was MacArthur 's instruction to Lieutenant General John R. Hodge , commander of the occupying forces , and its announcement startled even the State Department . A similar policy had been employed successfully in Japan and with debatable success in Germany ; but it was totally unsuited for Korea . It did not take into account the basic fact of the occupation : Korea was not a conquered country . Even if the policy could be forgiven , the manner of its announcement could not . Any cub reporter could have phrased the statement more acceptably . The misunderstanding became more hopeless still when General Hodge let slip his remark that the Koreans " are the same breed of cats as the Japanese " ? an infuriating slander which the General has since done much to live down . Unfortunately it set the tone for the first months of the American occupation . The State Department soon overruled MacArthur 's instructions , and Hodge promised that Korean officials would replace the Japanese as soon as possible . Then the Army blundered again . In the three weeks before our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had tried to put together a native political organization in hopes that it would be able to take over in the administration of their liberated country . This group was called the National Founding Preparatory Committee ; it was set up in Seoul , the capital , with supporting committees in the provinces ; it included representatives of both the left and right ; its leader was Lyuh Woon Hyung , a missionary-educated Socialist . Under Communist pressure , the Committee broke up . Some of the remnants , predominantly leftist though by no means entirely Communist , formed the so-called People 's Republic , with Lyuh at the head . Similar split-ups followed in the provinces , where People 's Committees were formed as the local bases of the People 's Republic . The leaders of this organization approached General Hodge with a proposal that the People 's Republic should serve as the government of Korea , through which the U. S. Army could carry out its mission . General Hodge quite bluntly ? all the Army 's pronouncements at that time were quite blunt ? informed them that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Republic could exist only as a political party . This was hard to take , and the Republic entered into a public argument with the General that lasted for three months . Although it nominally expired a year ago , the organization still exists today in the local People 's Committees ; its national leadership has taken the form of the People 's Front , a coalition of left-wing parties . T HE Army 's decision not to recognize the Republic is defensible . It became a blunder only with the next move ? the employment of Korean officials to replace the Japanese . Selection of these native officials was placed largely in the hands of a naval officer , Lieutenant Commander George Z. Williams of Los Angeles , The son of a former missionary , he came to the attention of the high command when it was discovered that he could speak Korean . That seemed enough , in those days , to qualify him as an authority on all matters Korean , and Williams was given almost unlimited freedom in setting up the system for choosing local officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four months the entire national bureaucracy and nearly all the provincial governments had been entrusted to members of the Korean Democratic Party . This was a small party of conservative landlords , hastily organized after the Japanese surrender ; it also had the embarrassing support of a small percentage of Koreans who had cooperated too zealously with the Japanese . The responsibility for this choice can not , of course , be placed on Williams alone . General Hodge and most of his military government officers were predisposed to favor the " respectable citizen " ? the well-dressed , elderly Korean who spoke a little English and who appeared to know what it was all about . Their worst mistake was not the decision to lean on the conservatives ; it was the concurrent decision ( never published but rigidly followed ) not to employ any Korean with leftist views . In this the American command was the victim of its own political innocence , its simple theory that anything radical must be Communist . The left parties , for example , all favored redistribution of farmland and nationalization of industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simon-pure Bolshevism , What these good soldiers could not , or would not , understand in the fall of 1945 was that Korea was different from America . In that country , where eighty per cent of the people are virtual serfs of an Oriental feudal system , a program of land distribution made sense . Because all the industry was Japanese owned ? and about to be left ownerless ? a program of nationalization made sense , too . By the time the Americans had been in Korea five months they came to recognize these facts . The rightist party platforms , when they were eventually made up , incorporated these very principles ? leaving in doubt only the method of accomplishing the goals and the question of sincerity in trying to reach them . But by that time the Americans had handed over the entire government , so far as its Korean bureaucracy was concerned , to one party ? perhaps the smallest party in the country at the time it received control . The unfortunate effect of such partiality was heightened by the favors accorded Dr. Rhee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his country for many years . He came back , not as an official , but " at the invitation of the military government . " He was soon followed by a fellow-exile , Kim Koo . These two promptly embarked on an anti-Russian campaign , sublimely oblivious to the fact that both geography and the joint occupation made antiSoviet agitation unwise to the point of danger . They spurned all offers of compromise from the leftist parties and attached themselves like limpets to the military government . The leftists ? completely ignored in the making of appointments and left out of the limelight which beat upon the two returning heroes ? reacted with shock , then rage , and finally with an understandable though sometimes senseless opposition to the military government . Many of them drew closer to the Communists . For example , Lyuh had offered to co-operate with Dr. Rhee ; and when his offer was refused , he felt obliged to cement an alliance with the Communist Party . Huge leftist rallies , under Communist guidance , applauded glowing reports of the sweetness and light which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Leftist newspapers frequently engaged in hysterical outbursts of abuse against everything the military government attempted . In short , the left soon became what the American command had originally assumed it was . Military government made it easy for the Communists to capture the left-wing organizations and to spread , to thousands of bitter , disillusioned Koreans , the allegedly good news from the Russian zone . nox of this news looked good only when filtered through pink-tinted glasses ; for the Soviet occupation forces made plenty of mistakes . The troops which marched into North Korea apparently were the scrapings of the Red Army reserve , unkempt and in nondescript uniforms . They began their occupation with two months of looting and lust . Certainly this was not in accordance with official Soviet policy . It happened partly because the far eastern army units were badly-disciplined leftovers , partly because the Russian soldier found that even oppressed Koreans had many things which he had never been able to enjoy . These goods were " liberated , " promptly and unceremoniously . This looting declined as soon as the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After that resentment turned more against the People 's Police , a native organization built up under Russian sponsorship . The second curse of the Russian occupation was the Red Army 's habit of living off the land . Each village was assigned its regular quota of food which it had to collect every week . At first this tribute was regarded as a just reward for the Soviet liberators . But as the months dragged by , while food got scarcer and the Red Army showed no signs of leaving , it became a major cause of discontent , On the other hand , the Russians took direct political action of demonstrable popularity . Unlike the Americans , they immediately recognized the local organizations of the People 's Republic and used them as the instrument for carrying out Soviet policy . Temporarily at least , this gave the Koreans the illusion that they were running their own government . Moreover , the Russians promptly disposed of the hated Japanese police and of those Koreans who had collaborated too closely with the Japanese . All Koreans had , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to survive ; so that Russians adopted a simple rule ? all wealthy Koreans were pro-Japanese and National traitors . This proposition may be pretty shaky on both moral and logical grounds , but it delighted some ninety per cent of the people . Since the Americans to the south had taken virtually no action against the small number of slavish collaborators , and since the American officers in Seoul showed open preference for the servile Japanese men and always-willing Japanese women awaiting shipment home , the Russian purge made effective propaganda . TNINALLY , the Soviet authorities spon -- r gored a widely-advertised program of ' land distribution . All farmland , whether Korean or Japanese owned , was divided into twelve-and-a-half-acre plots and parceled out free to the landless peasants . This was heralded as the crowning achievement of True Democracy and it created a powerful vested interest in the new regime ; but the program had some features , which gradually became known in southern Korea , that may have dampened the initial enthusiasm . For example , the allotments were handed out by the local People 's Committees , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by his political standing . A family 's ability to bribe the committee also seemed , in some cases , to have a good deal to do with the kind of land it got . Since the farmer still had to turn in his quota of food to support the Russian army , he was n't much better off than he had been under the Japanese . Ownership was not given to the individual peasant ; the People 's committees simply became the new landlords . The old landlords were permitted to go on farming , but not on their old land ; they had to take allotments in new localities , in order to break up whatever " bourgeois " influence they might have had in their home communities . At the same time the land was being divided up , the Russians handed over management of Japanese industries ? which meant all industries -- to Workers ' Committees . This again was in sharp contrast with the American policy , which left the final disposition of industry up to a future Korean government , and gave temporary management certificates to whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Christians had too much prestige in singled out as billets for the Red Army . The People 's Police appeared to be singularly lax in protecting the churches from looting or their ministers and elders from beatings . On March 1 , anniversary of the 1919 revolution , the Christians were not enthusiastic about the People 's Committee plans for celebrations in northern Korea . Police advice to fly the Red flag and display pictures of Stalin was followed passively but with resentment . In many towns the Christians decided to hold separate services , not in opposition to the state celebration but concurrent with it . When inspired mobs attacked them , the People 's Police offered no protection . There were instances of churches being burned and of ministers being paraded publicly in derision after the March 1 celebrations , which also were marked by student riots and food demonstrations . MHE Russian masters and their eager I Korean proteg6s tightened their political control of the country in January , following the public outburst of anger against the Russo-American plan to place the country under a trusteeship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as the American , but the world was permitted to hear little about them . ) At the beginning of the occupation , the Russians had accepted Cho Man Shik , a Presbyterian merchant known as the " Gandhi of Korea , " as the head of the Executive People 's Committee in Pyongyang , capital of the Russian zone . In January , Cho , who also was head of the conservative party in the north , was " in protective custody " and subject to daily newspaper and radio attacks for " inability to lead the party . " General Kim II Sung , youthful hero who had led a Korean Army with the Chinese Communists , replaced him as chairman . By April the pressure to produce a one-party state had made political opposition physically unsafe . After August 15 , Cho Man Shik ceased to be denounced over the radio . Presumably he either is dead or has been removed from Korea , lest he become a rallying point for anti-Russian resistance . In their dealings with the Americans , the Russians have followed an equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed at the Moscow Conference to co-operate in setting up " a provisional Korean democratic government . " When Red Army representatives met with a United States delegation to work out such a government , however , they refused to accept any plan which would not assure Communist control of the whole country . They insisted , for example , that no Korean parties orindividuals should participate in the provisional regime if they had demonstrated against the trusteeship proposals . The Soviet reasoning , apparently . was that anyone who had challenged the Moscow Conference decisions could not be really " democratic . " This peculiar logic would have shut out the overwhelming majority of the Korean people from their own government , because literally every organization had protested against the trusteeship scheme ? except the Communists . ( Even some of them got confused , apparently because they had n't heard about the new party line in time , and appeared in the street carrying anti-trusteeship banners . ) The Russian stand in these negotiations started the decline of Communist prestige in Korea ? a decline which still continues and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moderate leftist parties in the southern zone . Most Koreans are socialistic , but their nationalism is stronger than their socialism . Soviet behavior has convinced many of them that the Communists would simply lead the country from a Japanese prison to a Russian prison . Only terrorism , such as the Communists are now attempting , and widespread starvation might succeed in shaking the Korean determination to be truly independent independent of both Russia and the United States . Iv S COMMUNIST influence has slipped downhill , American prestige has slowly begun to climb . Military govern-ment has finally disentangled itself from the importuning of Dr. Rhee and Kim Koo . The signing of an agreement last October between Lyuh , the outstanding left-wing leader , and Dr. Kim Kiu Sik , one of the more liberal members of the old government-in-exile ( and incidentally a graduate of Randolph-Macon College ) , was a triumph in political unity . Further-more , the American plan for election of a legislative body and an advisory council for southern Korea will afford a chance for review of many of the unhappy ap-pointments made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all , the United States has made it clear ? both through State Department declarations and actions of the American command ? that it has no imperialistic aims . American policy is now right and it is strong . Undersecretary of State Dean Acheson has announced that our troops will remain in Korea until United States aims ? to which the Soviet Union also is nominally committed ? are achieved . The danger now is that the United States may weaken its present stand . In particular , General Hodge must be given material assistance to offset the strangulation by the iron garrotte . If economy measures in the new Congress strip Hodge of the personnel and supplies he needs to administer the suffering country , the result certainly would be to encourage Russian efforts to gain control of all Korea . The rightness of our policy will influence the Koreans and all far eastern peoples . Its strength ? if steadily maintained ? is the thing which may eventually induce Russia to retreat from its present extreme position . It is vital , therdfore , for us to convince @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us out ; and then to get down to negotiations with them for a joint evacuation at the earliest possible moment . Because the curse of the joint occupation is that the longer it lasts the worse it becomes . If the American and Russian armies were to pull out today , without establishing a strong provisional government , Korea would explode like a firecracker . But if the present deadlock continues for another year , the explosion would be still louder when the oppressed conservatives in the north and the dis-MAGAZINE satisfied leftists in the south finally got around to settling their differences . The worst ultimately would be a civil war between north and south , with each of the armies attacked by dissident elements within its own territory . This catastrophe can be avoided if the United States and Russia will agree to set up a representative Korean government for the whole country , and then to pull out both occupation armies at the same time . Moreover , each of the great powers must pledge itself not to leave behind an arsenal which might support a civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean abandoning the idea of an interim trusteeship . This now seems to be elementary common sense . On the basis of the evidence so far , the Koreans are more capable of governing themselves than the United States and Russia are capable of governing them as trustees . It took the liberators six months to arrange such a simple thing as the exchange of mail between the two zones . Sixteen months after the liberation and a year after the Moscow decision , the preliminary steps towards setting up a provisional government still had not been taken . There is nothing in this record to indicate that the two great powers could ever conduct a joint trusteeship successfully . It would be better for Korea , then , and for relations between Russia and America , if the occupying nations would face up to this fact now and declare a trusteeship unnecessary . Once that decision is made , the way would be clear for negotiations to lift the iron barrier which is strangling their country and to give the Koreans a government of their own .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        