@@179598

Britain 's ambitious , supercharged billikin , onetime War Production Minister , now Private Citizen Lord Beaverbrook , was back in the political stew last week and the stew began giving off strange smells . It was hardly the Beaver 's fault : he had only been quietly filing his teeth when somebody tossed him into the pot . <P> As a man who knows a good popular issue when he sees it , the Beaver has championed a second front since soon after he left the Cabinet last February . His Daily Express is the 1942 second front 's loudest journalistic advocate ; Editor Michael Foot of his Evening Standard is its most eloquent . Since Prime Minister Churchill usually tries to respond to clear-cut public demands , and since Winston and the Beaver are old friends , what could be more natural than that they should chat about the possibility of the Beaver 's re-entering the Cabinet ? <P> Possibly Mr. Churchill and Lord Beaverbrook did have a little talk , but its importance was hardly as great as the furor the mere rumor aroused . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beaverbrook the post of Defense Minister ; that , if he did , Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden and Minister Without Portfolio Sir Stafford Cripps might resign ; that , if they did , so violent a Parliamentary rebellion might take place , that a general election might be necessary , in which event the situation might be similar to that of France before her fall . <P> Behind all this iffy clamor lay the simple fact that to Britain 's two strongest political groups the Beaver smells to heaven . High Tories consider him a Canadian upstart who has betrayed the class to which he never quite belonged . Labor leaders dislike his gusty independence , his appeal to the extreme Left . Since there was little likelihood that either Anthony Eden or Sir Stafford Cripps would resign if the Beaver were appointed , it looked very much as though the Beaver 's Parliamentary enemies were trying to scare the public with a witches ' brew .                     