@@431328

 | America Has to Know Condensed from The Washington Post Thomas M. Johnson The current flood of " now-itcan-be-told " stories about wartime secret-service exploits gives the Impression that our secret war was a processional from victory unto victory . The truth is that , while we had our brilliant triumphs , we had many defeats and failures often unnecessary , that cost us heavily in time , money and lives . Both our successes and our failures teach the same lesson . The spectacular results of good Intelligence work show how valuable it is ; our I failures , most of which occurred early in the war , show how costly are unpreparedness and improvisation . Profiting by our dearly bought experience , we must build a permanent Intelligence Service , well manned and organized , to tell our Government what really goes on in the confused , uneasy world of today and tomorrow . Good Intelligence service is the indispensable eyes and ears of statesmen , armies and navies . Yet it is shocking how little we knew when the fury of Pearl Harbor burst upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technique of gathering information differed little in essentials from that of Revolutionary War days . Naval Intelligence unerringly selected wrong estimates of the Jap carriers ' whereabouts , thought them in home waters . Of our several services gathering information ? State , War , Navy and others ? none was doing a good job . None knew what to expect of the others and they seldom worked together . Instructions from Washington to Naval Intelligence officers on how to improve their work were found after Pearl Harbor in a safe ? still undistributed . One peace-minded diplomat protested : " Change my code ! Why , that code 's good ! I 've been using it 20 years ! " The State Department took days to decode messages and distribute them to 127 different offices . There was no message center . A Joint Intelligence Board , authorized three months before Pearl Harbor , got going three days after the fatal morning ? about the time we decoded some Jap messages , intercepted six days earlier , that would have revealed the enemy 's plans . Although war in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some Japanese-held islands was their latitude and longitude . The State Department , thinking such activity might irritate a " friendly power , " had hampered Navy 's efforts to investigate them before Pearl Harbor . Afterward , Naval Intelligence frantically questioned anyone ? beachcomber , pearl diver , whaler , missionary ? who had ever seen a Japanese island , no matter how long ago . We massed ships and troops against Kiska after the Japanese had sneaked away . On Guadalcanal our Marines had to depend on captured Japanese maps . Although the Japs had rehearsed jungle warfare for years and learned many tricks , we knew neither that fact nor the tricks . In Africa we suffered our first defeat on land partly because when Rangers captured an enemy order concerning Rommel 's counterattack through Faid Pass an important headquarters had no one who could translate it . We were keeping our carefully trained Intelligence experts too far in the rear . It was a costly lesson . Immediately operatives were flown to Africa from Camp Ritchie , Md. , and thereafter all U. S. combat Intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We knew almost nothing about the enemy 's vulnerable bombing targets either in Europe or in Asia . Seventy percent of the Japanese aircraft engines were made in two plants , which no American had ever seen . Air Intelligence said the German electric system could not be crippled by bombing power plants , so we did not try . Now we know it could and should have been done . Our parsimony with regard to gathering intelligence now seems in credible . One " Tar Eastern Intelligence Section " ? covering Japan , China , Southeast Asia and Siberia  - -  consisted of one officer and one woman clerk . An Intelligence officer who gave $500 for diagrams of a hostile power 's airfields was rebuked for extravagance . Washington made military attache in Berlin pay fro his own pocket for a code cable warning that Hitler would march into Prague . State , War and Navy gathered intelligence largely the cheap way through openly accredited diplomatic and consular representatives , and occasional patriotic volunteers But our attaches saw and heard mostly what their hosts let them . Some ambassadors forbade attaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they appear to be spying . When an American attache in one of Europe 's crucial capitals detected among his own office force two Nazi spies and one Russian , all hyphenated . Americans , Washington forbade his discharging them because they were high on the Civil Service list . We had no real courier service to carry and protect diplomatic pouches in which our secret reports were sent to Washington ; both Nazis and japs opened some pouches and read their contents . We gratefully accepted the work  | volunteers , but it was fitful and 1 , countable . One amateur spy re1 ' t ed a new Jap submarine with inch gun that later proved to be rare ; others reported seeing more Japa nese warships than the Japs actually had . Gradually we replaced improvisation with scientific Intelligence work . We set scholars , scientists , analysts . to work , and also just commonsense men gathering information in obvious ways . Topographical and rather data on the Aleutians came rum the Library of Congress . A picture in a German magazine first told us of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . plane standing before a factory indicated where that type of aircraft as made . A Nazi guidebook photograph of an Autobahn tunnel suggested an underground factory and n aerial photograph confirmed it . ' INTELLIGENCE tried everything , however laborious . To locate German oil refineries and shipping routes , hundreds of researchers checked freight-rate reports and railroad carloadings and bills of lading . Tokyo city directories giving business addresses of metallurgists and chemists , checked against aerial photographs , revealed camouflaged war plants . First prophecy of the Kamikaze fliers came from a hint in a radio broadcast , then from prisoners . One said two Japanese battleships had ken made into hybrid carriers by erecting flight decks aft . An aerial photographer found one . But the intelligence experts glared at the photo . " The planes could n't get back , " they protested . " Those anti-aircraft guns are right in the way ! " Then it dawned ? the planes were not meant to get back . The suicide fliers were really coming . Warned , we began to prepare . A German prisoner helped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defenses , the Pillenwerfer , which shot chemical pills into the water astern the U-boat . The pills made bubbles which sounded to our ships ' listening devices like the submarine itself . While we depthcharged the bubbles , the submarine would escape . This fooled us until April 1942 , when a depth-charge explosion brought bright-red bubbles to the surface . Intelligence officers gathered samples , analyzed them . Presently they captured the commander of another submarine . The Intelligence officer remarked casually to the German , " The bubble did n't work this time . " The German started . " Oh , we know all about that . " The American gave details , inspired guesswork , which so impressed the German that he told all . Experiments showed a difference between bubble sound and submarine sound ? and we trained our sub-hunters to spot that difference . A German general , captured early in 1943 in Tunisia and expertly " drawn out , " boasted of having seen the first V-2 rocket experiments .  | Shortly afterward an aerial photograph caught the keen eye of Flight Officer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She spotted a white mark , T-shaped , on a tiny ramp near big earthworks and other mysterious installations at Peenemunde . Peenemunde was bombed , most of the hundreds of scientists working there were killed , and German research was retarded six months on many new weapons . Some believe Britain was saved and the war won by that six months ' delay. * IN THE PACIFIC some 4000 Japanese-Americans risked capture and torture in front-line Intelligence work that yielded 2,000,000 reports , orders , maps and diaries taken from killed or captured Japanese , and from Jap installations . One sheet of carbon , closely scrutinized , revealed a ship movement , a regimental strength-table and antimalaria treatments ; a sketch showed how troop transports were camouflaged . In all our European invasion landings the first waves were accompanied by Intelligence officers who , quickly as enemy headquarters were captured , cracked safes and rushed back valuable papers . Thus was found a chart of mine fields off Sicily . Cherbourg was captured more quickly and cheaply because American secret agents seized a plan of its defenses . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Intelligence personnel . Painstakingly our researchers developed scientific aids to Intelligence . Outstanding progress was made in radio and radar , in the system of interception and decoding of enemy messages , in weather forecasting . We developed the tri-metrogon angle-camera which photographed terrain at the angle from which the flier viewed it , with cameo-clear detail , thereby increasing accuracy in bombing and reconnaissance . Many large areas were mapped completely for the first time . Recognizing the enormous value of spies who can drop behind enemy lines by parachute and report quickly by short-wave radio , many Government agencies took up secret Intelligence work . One , the Office of Strategic Services , was formed to do nothing else . OSS accomplishments were sometimes spectacular , often substantial , not infrequently both.t To underground movements in 16 countries , OSS dropped 27,000 tons of weapons and supplies , and thou sands of agents . The latter not only gathered precious intelligence but also organized effective sabotage . Other agents rescued more than 5000 American airmen . OSS casualties totaled about loo , not exorbitant for success in the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " Saco " ( pronounced " Socko " ) , the 57 Sino-American Cooperative Organization of guerrillas and radio operators of both nations that covered the Chinese coast and most of the interior . Its director , General Tai-li , Chief of Chiang Kai-shek 's secret service , also conducted , with American help , a school where Chinese women were taught how to ingratiate themselves with Japanese officials and generals , get information from them , and then if need be poison them . Among Saco agents were American Navy and Marine radio operators who , disguised as Chinese and protected by Chinese guerrillas , raided and reported on Japanese dispositions and destroyed hundreds of depots , bridges and locomotives . But Saco 's greatest contributions were radio reports on the weather and the movements of Jap ships ? important in the blockade that helped strangle Japan . WE BUILT , finally , the biggest and best Intelligence Service we ever had . It helped win the war more than anyone realizes . One as good could help win the peace if , instead of slumping again into lethargy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a permanent Intelligence Service . We have bound ourselves under the UNO charter to intervene for peace anywhere in the world . We must never again allow our diplomats to face foreign diplomats who are better informed than they ; never gain negligently permit our generals and amirals to face sudden attack by nations whose intention . and capabilities we misunderstand . That , as General Arnold has warned , would be suicide in an age when atomic rockets may be flung across continents and oceans without warning ? in minutes . We can not afford not to know all about progress everywhere in atomic fission , selfpropelled and guided missiles , and electronics . We must know all about every air force in the world . We should know , for example , what goes on in Russia and her satellite states . Recently Russia had in the United States more than 2000 official observers , including many " inspectors " of the lend-lease equipment we gave her . They saw more of America 's industry by far than Americans have seen of Russia 's . There were in Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permission . If Russia insists on maintaining a wall of secrecy , other nations for their own reassurance must try to pierce it . For many reasons all departments now doing Intelligence work ? State , War , Navy , Treasury , Commerce ? should continue . We can not completely merge all those Intelligence services . But we can and must coordinate them . There should be regional offices to prevent , as happened in China , 27 American agencies gathering Intelligence ? and sometimes spying on one another . In Washington , Intelligence should be relayed from the various departments to a central office staffed with experts  | to analyze the reports and separate wheat from chaff . The result should then be redistributed to all Government departments concerned . There must be no more empty folders , no more fatal transmission delays . The first step toward that goal was taken last January when President Truman directed the formation of a " National Intelligence Authority " composed of the secretaries of State , War and Navy , and his own representative , Admiral Leahy , to coordinate existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rear Admiral Sidney W. Souers , lately Deputy Chief of Naval Intelligence . This attempted solution does not satisfy all who are interested . It will give the State Department , which needs intelligence to keep the peace , less voice in gathering it than the Army and Navy which make war . The two armed services are preponderant on the new Authority not only in numbers but financially . For funds will come not directly from Congress but through the State , War and Navy departments which must get them from Congress . Already Congress has threatened to slump into its prewar parsimony that kept us purblind . In a spasm of economy last December , Congress threatened to cut off the money for interception of foreign radio broadcasts which had given many first clues to changing policies of foreign nations . Appropriations for general Intelligence research have been cut . All Intelligence services have been watered down and the OSS demobilized to demolition of many wartime facilities that should be preserved for peace . The new Authority must be no mere advisory committee . We must continue to squeeze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? especially scientific and technical journals , monographs , addresses and proceedings of scientific societies . To keep up with tht world 's best scientific brains we must have in our Intelligence Service the best of ours ? a combined technica Intelligence board representing all services , composed of competent men , well paid at full time , who can tell what scientists everywhere are talking and thinking about and what it means to us in terms of future security . For years we could , through th UNO , continue aerial photograph of japan and Germany , to recognize any camouflaged revival of war industries ; and we should also char our own country and its approaches Even now we have proper defense maps of only about 25 percent of di United States ; and few good cartographers . A revivified service would add t the country 's peacetime facilities . I would keep keymen in banks , import and export firms , steamship corn panics , travel agencies , importan businesses with world-wide connections , to report regularly everything our Government should know . Each should be carefully chosen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build the world 's best intelligence service . Also , directly under the Authority should be other secret corps , a few men picked for high character and ability , undertake delicate missions all over the world . All Intelligence personnel should be , as they have not m en , highly trained . No nation can justly resent our laying cleanly a game that all play often uncleanly . Americans , an alert people always , now have mole reason than ever for world curiosity . While working toward the ideal of international cooperation we must be realistic enough to secure for ourselves the knowledge that means both peace and power . That knowledge can come only through an adequate Intelligence Service . Estimates of its cost range from $5,000,000 a year to $25,000,000 ? from the cost of one submarine to the cost of one cruiser.                     