@@475536

John Fischer of our editorial staff recently returned from Russia , where he spent more than two months as a member of an UNRRA mission to supervise the distribution of relief in the Ukraine . By prior agreement between UNRRA and the Soviet Government , the members of the mission were granted exceptional freedom of movement , observation and conversation with Russians ( with their own American interpreter ) ? more freedom , in fact , than any foreign diplomats or correspondents have been permitted for many years . Needless to say , the opinions that Mr. Fischer expresses are not those of UNRRA nor of the other members of the mission , but his own. ? The Editors THE colonel in the astrakhan hat stepped in front of our car just as it swung onto the narrow cobble-paved ramp which leads from Mokhovaya Street to the Forest Gate of the Kremlin . Three soldiers , carrying automatic rifles with bayonets fixed , moved out of the darkness just behind him . They closed in , two on each side of the car , before it slid to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the headlights I caught a glimpse of the bright blue collar tabs , edged with red , which mark the crack Internal Security Troopsof the NKVD , the political police . While his men inspected the inside of the auto , the colonel reached for our four passes . He checked the numbers against a list in his notebook and held each of the little tan cards up to the light to note its signatures and watermark . Then he thumbed through our passports , read every line of the Soviet visa in each of them , and compared the photographs with our faces . Finally he handed back the documents , saluted , and waved the car on . Nobody had said a word . Just before we reached the gate ? a tunnel through a massive medieval tower of red sandstone ? we passed another guard in a black ? and-white-striped sentry box . Six more NKVD men with tommy-guns stood just inside the gate . The car , moving fast now , shot by them into a great paved courtyard , bright with floodlights . It pulled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle of the court . As we stepped out , four guards ? all officers , armed with automatic pistols in polished leather holsters ? again examined our documents with grave courtesy before they ushered us through the barrier . In the minute or two which it took to walk across the inner court we passed five riflemen . They stood at every door and passageway of the yellow stucco buildings which formed three sides of the enclosure . We headed for the largest of these buildings , the old Romanoff palace which now serves as the assembly hall for the Supreme Soviet . Eight NKVD officers met us at the entrance . Their uniforms were immaculately tailored and none wore less than three medals . After a final careful scrutiny of passes , we were escorted through a maze of walnut-panelled anterooms and corridors to a little gallery overlooking the long hall where the Supreme Soviet ? the Russian equivalent of Congress ? was in session . Six plain-clothes men , looking like detectives the world over , lounged in the foyer which led to this gallery and one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have regarded us ? three American representatives of UNRRA with our interpreter ? as dangerous characters ; but he sat close behind us all the time we were there . Below , in what was once the imperial court , sat some twelve hundred delegates who ( according to the Soviet constitution ) make up the ruling body of the USSR . Later I was told that very few of them had ever been admitted to any other room in the Kremlin . Nor did any of them carry briefcases here , although most Russian officials feel virtually naked without one . They conducted their deliberations under the eyes of blue-uniformed guards stationed at six-foot intervals along the wall . ( " Deliberation " is perhaps a misleading word . The delegates listened pasMA GAL/NE sively to the set speeches , and then voted " yes " with machine-tooled precision . There was no debate from the floor , and there is no record that any delegate ever cast a dissenting vote . ) Additional guards were posted at each door , and at the end of every aisle stood an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any building , not even Eisenhower 's wartime headquarters , so elaborately protected . It seemed a fair conclusion that somebody in the Kremlin was scared . ENOR the next three months , as we trav- eled about western Russia , hardly a day passed that we did not encounter other signs of this pervading fear . The most obvious symptom , of course , was the Red Army ? still mobilized four and a half million strong in spite of Russia 's desperate need for manpower . Mcn in uniform were everywhere , often fully armed ; it was by no means unusual to find the boy in the next seat at a movie theater cradling a tommy-gun in his lap . Military trucks ( at least half of them lend-lease Studebakers and jeeps ) made up the bulk of the road traffic , and every airport was lined with long ranks of Yak and Stormovik fighter planes . It showed , too , in many little incidents ? the nervousness of a Russian official when our American interpreter wanted to carry her camera on a Sunday afternoon outing ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning up in the back of our box at the opera ; the concentration camp for Russian civilians just across the road from the Kharkov airport ; the guard cars loaded with plain-clothes men which trailed the limousines of all important Soviet bureaucrats . It was evident in the embarrassed refusals of nearly everyone whom we asked to our rooms for a chat and a cup of tea . The Ukrainians are the friendliest kind of people ; but in the 1937 purge a good many Soviet citizens disappeared for no apparent reason except that they had once been on cordial terms with a foreigner ? and the lesson has not been forgotten . And in the background there was always the NKVD , beyond question the most efficient and most pampered organization in Russia . Its special army , includTHE SCARED MEN ing Border and Internal Security forces , probably numbers less than half a million men ; but they are the best-trained , best-equipped , and most handsomely uniformed troops in the Soviet Union . Its secret police is at least two or three times as large . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of diplomats with long experience in Russia never ran to less than a million . Protection on this scale naturally does not come cheap . One report , which I believe to be reasonably accurate , placed the internal security budget for 1945 at seven billion rubles or $1,400,000,000 at the official rate of exchange ; but since such statistics are not made public in the Soviet Union , it is impossible to verify . It seems curious that any government should feel the need for such lavish precautions ? especially a government which has just crushed its only foreign enemies and apparently is popular with its own people . ( In those parts of Russia where I worked , at any rate an area including a good fifth of the total population I could find no evidence of serious disaffection . Ukrainians sometimes grumble about a good many things ; but most of them appeared honestly convinced that their government , for all its shortcomings , was the best in the world . ) Yet a sense of fear quite plainly is one of the dominating facts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Americans , since it is shaping ? or warping ? the entire Soviet foreign policy . To the ordinary Russian it is even more pointed , since it is likely to condemn him to at least ten more years of the strain and sacrifice of a war economy . Who is it , then , that is so scared ? And why ? HE first answer II is not hard to guess . I Like nearly every impulse of real importance in modern Russia , the national fear neurosis could spring from only one source ? the group of fourteen men who boss the Soviet Union . They make up the Politburo , the directing brain of the Communist Party . They also hold the key jobs controlling every nerve-strand of the country 's administration . Their lithographed portraits adorn millions of homes , schools , offices , and billboards . From their offices in the Kremlin ? the exact location is a carefully guarded secret ? flow the orders which turn every wheel from the Danube to the Bering Straits . These fourteen work as a board of directors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman . In practice , of course , Stalin is the head man ; but there are indications that he does not operate as a lone and arbitrary autocrat . For one thing , running Russia is not a one-man job . For another , the thirteen men who sit with him plainly are nobody 's stooges . They are tough , able , and aggressive characters , and each of them controls a considerable span of power in his own right . Moreover , British and American officials who have had dealings with the Kremlin for the last seven years have noted certain sharp divisions of opinion within the Politburo . Four members , in particular , generally appear to act together . They form an inner circle of Stalin 's most trusted lieutenants ; and it probably is a safe bet that one of them will be his successor . They are : 1 . Molotov , Foreign Minister and ( to judge from the tone of the carefully-modulated Russian press ) Number Two in the party hierarchy . 2 . Beria , a bald , tight-lipped mountaineer ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The apparatus of the secret police remains under his supervision , although the Ministries of Interior and State Security recently were turned over to two of his aides . He also is in charge of the government 's frantic efforts to develop atomic energy . 3 . Malenkov , known among the smaller-fry bureaucrats as The Fat Boy . He once worked as the Generalissimo 's personal secretary , and his card-file mind has become a Russian legend . Today , as one of the secretaries of the Party , he sits at the switchboard of the country 's political machine . From a similar position , twenty years ago , Stalin was able to out-maneuver all his rivals for power . 4 . Zhdanov , another protge of the Generalissimo and his trouble shooter in countless delicate political situations . He is the boss of Leningrad . a iob comnarable to the governorship of New York . These four gradually have become known as the extreme nationalists , the tough guys , the proponents of a vigorous policy abroad and a tight rein at home . On occasion their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleagues , and Stalin himself apparently has stepped in from time to time to impose a " moderate " compromise . This kind of bellicose behavior is of course a common symptom of inner insecurity ; and it may well be that of all the fourteen scared men these four are the most frightened . There is even some reason to believe ? as we shall see ? that one of them makes it his business to engender a feeling of suspicion and uneasiness among his associates . W HAT frightens them is not so easy to say . Some good-hearted Americans seem convinced that it is merely the atom bomb , and that if we were to hand over The Secret all Russian misgivings would vanish overnight . Such an answer surely is too simple ; the guards at the Kremlin gate are n't on watch for an atom bomb . No outsider can do more than guess at what goes on in the mind of the Kremlin ; for ? as Paul Winterton has pointed out ? there are no experts on Russia , but only varying degrees of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicate that the pattern of fear is a complex one , blended out of at least five separate elements . One of these no doubt is sheer personal anxiety . The men behind the red wall remember how they rose to power , and they do n't intend to leave that route open to any other group of determined conspirators . They remember , too , that over the course of centuries an astonishingly high percentage of Russia 's rulers have died by violence . Most of all they remember the murder of Scrgei Kirov . When Kirov was shot to death in his Leningrad office , one winter afternoon in 1934 , he was Stalin 's closest personal friend and heir-apparent . He was killed by a Comrade Nicolaev , until that moment a trusted member of the Party . For sixteen years there had been no attempt to assassinate a leader in the Bolshevik hierarchy ; and all the costly and sensitive antennae of the secret police had MAGAZINE failed to transmit any hint of danger . For forty-eight hours after the shot was fired , Stalin seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to question the murderer personally , and before he boarded his private train in Moscow every human being was cleared out of an area stretching nearly a mile around the station . The investigation which followed dragged on for three years . It uncovered a conspiracy reaching into the very bowels of the Party , the Red Army , and the secret police itself . The resulting purge inevitably was tinged with panic ; eventually there came an official admission that innocents had suffered along with the guilty in the great wave of executions and imprisonments . Such crude and ruthless surgery ? however justified by the politics of survival ? could not help but leave scars and some itch for revenge . Is it any wonder , then , that members of the Politburo seldom appear in public , or that they prefer to drive behind panes of dark-tinted bulletproof glass ? If Kirov was n't safe , who is ? Another clue to Russian behavior lies in the geography of the country . Naked plains stretch both cast and west with no barrier to provide a defensible frontier . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Mongol , Turkish , Polish , Swedish , French , and German ? since the earliest record of Slavic history . Fourteen times since 1800 hostile troops have poured across the western border ; Minsk has suffered precisely 101 foreign occupations ; Kiev has been sacked so often that its citizens have lost count . And every invader since Genghis Khan has sent spies and fifth columnists ahead of his troops . The result is a suspicion of foreigners , a secretiveness , an obsession with security which was fully developed centuries before the present regime . It was full-blown in the court of Ivan the Terrible , who set up a corps of political police as early as 1564 and who eventually killed his own son in a fit of suspicion ( probably well-founded ) . The ancient obsession was of course greatly intensified by the shock of the last war . I have walked through cities such as Poltava and Kremenchug where eighty per cent of all buildings were razed , not in battle , but by notably efficient German demolition battalions . For two months I lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ravine , where one hundred forty thousand bodies from the SS death camps were dumped in layers and covered by bulldozers ; bones still wash up in every thunderstorm . I have talked to a farmer whose wife and children ( one of them seven years old ) were hanged because he fought with the Partisans , and to nurses whose hospitals were soaked with gasoline and burned with the patients screaming in their beds . These are by no means isolated cases ; nearly every family in the Ukraine has its own story of German terror . If these people view the outside world with a certain nervous mistrust , we may think it regrettable , but we should n't be surprised . A TIIIRD reason for the Politburo 's mis-givings is its awareness of the country 's enfeebled condition . A foreigner who looks at the list of Russia 's vast resources in land , manpower , and raw materials is likely to forget that ? for the moment ? these add up to only potential strength . For all its astonishing industrial progress in the thirteen years before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an agricultural nation and a rather backward one at that . It scraped through the war by the narrowest of margins ? a margin provided only by Hitler 's bad judgment and American lend-lease . During the course of the struggle it lost a stunningly high proportion of its factories , homes , farm machinery , livestock , and skilled workmen . Soviet officials ? including Nikita Khrustchev , a member of the Politburo and boss of the Ukraine ? told me frankly that they could not be completely replaced for at least a decade . After looking at the tangled mountains of scrap metal which once were the industrial centers of Dnepropetrovsk , Kharkov , and Zaporozhe , I am convinced that their estimate is conservative . Because of the Germans ' methodical destruction of tools and equipment ? even to wheelbarrows and farm carts ? the pace of reconstruction is painfully slow . In all the Ukraine I saw only two wheelbarrows . For moving rubble and earth , laborers ordinarily use a sort of crude wooden tray , with handles at each end like a stretcher . Masons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortar with their bare hands , because they lack hods and trowels . Modern steam shovels and bulldozers are pitifully scarce . As a result , the rubble heaps were still piled high on both sides of the main street in Kiev , capital of the Ukraine , nearly two years after the liberation . Incidentally , nearly all of the destruction was done by the Germans . I was surprised to find that neither the Soviet 's famous scorched earth policy nor its plan to remove factories to new sites beyond the Urals were carried out in the Ukraine on anything like the scale which the outside world had been led to believe . The great Dnieper dam , for example , was only partly crippled when the Russians abandoned it ; the power plant was untouched , and except for a relatively small center section the dam itself was left intact . The Germans soon had it repaired , although they were never able to put its electric current to much use . When they finally were forced back from the river , they razed the dam to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to boot . Similarly , most of the Ukraine 's industrial plants , including its largest steel mill and the big Kharkov tractor factory , fell into German hands almost undamaged . The Russians succeeded in moving only the lighter machinery to the east ; consequently the new wartime industrial centers in Siberia were built up , in the main , not from " refugee factories , " but with American lend-leased equipment . The most crippling loss of all was the destruction of the rail network throughout western Russia . Never adequate for a modern industrial nation , the transport system came out of the war literally in splinters . As a result the fast passenger express from Moscow to Kiev , for example , now feels its way over a hastily-patched roadbed at an average speed of fifteen miles an hour . Every siding and junction is heaped with burned-out rolling stock , and an unbombed station is a curiosity . Passengers crowd the train roofs and corridors and ? even in the coldest weather ? hang in clusters on every step and coupling . Nor can the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no such thing as a highway system . Cobbled roads radiate for only a few miles out of the larger cities . Beyond lie the dirt tracks , hub deep for three months in dust and clogged the rest of the year by snow and mud . Even our jeeps bogged clown in that bottomless gumbo . This near-paralysis of transport is clamping a powerful brake on Russia 's economic recovery . It can not be fully cured until the steel mills of the Donbas are rebuilt , because huge tonnages of metal are needed for rails , bridges , and new rolling stock . But meanwhile reconstruction of the Donbas , once the industrial heart of the Soviet Union , is held up by lack of transport to move coal , iron ore , pit-props , and machinery . Moreover , this bottleneck can not be broken by taking locomotives and freight cars from Germany as reparations , because the Soviet rail lines are all wide-gauge . From the Military standpoint , this means that Russia is like a giant temporarily exhausted from loss of blood , with the severed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the atom bomb had never been invented , the Soviet Union today and for some years to come can not begin to match the military and industrial potential of the United States . And to the men in the Kremlin this fact is profoundly alarming . III SIERICANS find it hard to believe that anyone could regard us as a menace . Yet to every good Communist we are precisely that ? a threat potentially more dangerous than Nazi Germany . In fact , since February 9 of this year no loyal member of the Party has dared think of America in any other light ; to do so would be heresy , punishable by excommunication or worse . For on that date Stalin himself set forth the doctrine that another war is virtually inevitable , and he implied unmistakably that the attack probably would come from the United States . This notion is understandable only in the peculiar terms of modern Marxist theology . One of its basic articles of faith is the theory that the capitalist world can never escape from its fated cycle of booms MAGAZINE and depressions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and that eventually the capitalist ruling class turns in desperation to fascism , imperialism , and aggressive war as the only way out of its economic troubles . " Thus , " Stalin explained , " the first World War was the result of the first crisis of the capitalist system of world economy , and the second World War was the result of a second crisis . " A third crisis must be expected , because peaceable settlement of economic conflicts " is impossible . under present capitalist conditions of the development of world economy . " Consequently the Soviet Union must embark at once upon a new series of Five Year Plans to raise its steel production to sixty million tons a year and its output of other war materials to comparable levels . " Only under such conditions , " the Generalissimo warned , " can we consider that our homeland will be guaranteed against all possible accidents . " Such " accidents " obviously are expected to originate in the United States , since it is the citadel of capitalism and the only remaining nation capable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when Russia 's proclaimed policy was co-operation ( carefully limited ) with its capitalist allies , Party executives both in the USSR and abroad were privately warned that this " friendship " was a purely temporary expedient ? that there was no likelihood of lasting collaboration between the two worlds . MO THE average Russian this warning I seemed amply justified by Churchill 's famous plea for an Anglo-American alliance at Fulton , Missouri . The speech was immediately denounced by Stalin as " a call to war against the USSR " and the whole Soviet propaganda machine cut loose with a barrage of vituperation against Churchill and his " fascist friends in Britain and America . " ( The Russian press as usual did not carry the text of the speech , but only the official reply . ) The result was a shiver of horror through the entire country . Dozens of war-weary little people ? farmers , train porters , bookkeepers , who normally took no interest in politics ? asked me anxiously why these evil men were trying to set the world aflame again . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had ? From that time on the Russian press and radio began to speak in an increasingly chilly voice about the United States . ( They had long been pouring a stream of hostile criticism on Britain and its Socialist leaders , whom the Communists regard as Marxist heretics even more wicked than simon-pure capitalists . ) Almost every day some item appeared about America 's " imperialist " efforts to set up permanent military bases in Iceland and the Pacific , or the pampering of " quisling war criminals " in American refugee camps in Germany . The tone was set by Professor P. F. Yudin , a sort of court theologian and ? a revered authority on Marxist doctrine . He demanded a strengthening of the Red Army because " the Soviet Union is surrounded . . by capitalist states which are constantly sending in a stream of diversionists and spies . " How far this text has sunk into the minds of the Russian people was illustrated by one typical seven-year-old school girl . When an interpreter asked her what she wanted to be when she grew up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help fight the fascists who surround our country . " She will be well prepared . Military training for both boys and girls starts in the fourth grade of Soviet schools and continues through college . Red Army instructors are attached to each school , and we frequently saw ten-year-olds drilling with wooden guns in play-yards . Pr HIS Soviet apprehension , so deeply I rooted both in dogma and in Russian history , probably has been deliberately cultivated by the country 's most potent bureaucrats , the political police . For a quarter of a century this organization under its various names ? the Cheka , OGPLT , and NKVD ? has enjoyed a highly privileged position . Its officials have been entitled to the choicest food , clothes , cars , and ballerinas . Its funds have been virtually unlimited , its equipment the best the country can produce . ( The Russian telephone system , for example , is chronically afflicted with odd noises and unpredictable breakdowns ; but the twenty-one NKVD dictaphones which recently were found concealed in the baseboards of a foreign government 's building in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality . ) Above all , the police machine has enjoyed great power . It holds , quite literally , the power of life and death over anyone in Russia except Stalin himself . It can demand access at all times to files , safes , letters , bedrooms , and kitchen cupboards , with no nonsense about privacy . Its dos- . gess record the most intimate details of the lives of everybody of any consequence in the Soviet Union and of thousands of unsuspecting people abroad . Its concentration camps for political dissenters provide an important fraction of the country 's labor force . Not even the Soviet Elite , the officers of the Red Army and the Party , are beyond the reach of its dread hand . This organization was founded to combat the foes of the Revolution , foreign and domestic . The domestic enemies ? Czarist nobles , capitalists , kulaks , and such dissident revolutionists as the Menshevikswere soon disposed of , but the foreign enemies remained a very real threat . First there was the 1918 intervention of the frightened capitalist powers which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After that had failed , there was always the threat of land-hungry Japan and , a little later , Nazi Germany . From the available evidence there can be no question , it seems to me , that Germany and its satellites did make a strenuous effort to plant spies and fifth columnists inside Russia , working with the Trotskyites and other disgruntled elements ; and that the NKVD did perform an invaluable service in blocking these attempts . ( The excesses which followed in the Great Purge are quite another matter . Any nation which employs an all-powerful secret police can take it for granted that such power eventually will be abused . ) With the end of World War II , however , the NKVD 's chief reason for being simply evaporated . Every foreign enemy was crushed ; at home the regime was wildly acclaimed by a grateful people . Consequently , the police bureaucracy had only two choices : it had to peel off its shiny uniforms , give up its power and privilege , and go out of business ? or it had to discover a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would long tolerate such a costly and burdensome apparatus unless it seemed clearly indispensable . Now it is not the nature of any bureaucracy Russian , American , or Fiji ? to go out of business voluntarily . The records of congressional appropriation hearings are full of the ingenious arguments for continued existence which any federal bureau can produce when its original job is finished . Prewar Persia provided a still more instructive parallel . Nearly every session of its parliament would produce a strong movement to cut the budget of the secret police . Then , just before the motion came to a vote , the police would discover a new plot on the life of the Shah . Any legislator who voted for the budget cut would practically be voting for assassination ; so the police appropriation always was approved unshorn . It would hardly be surprising , then , if much the same sort of thing began to happen in Moscow as the war drew to its close . If Beria and his lieutenants produced intelligence of fresh dangers , of plots for a new capitalist encirclement by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oldest instinct of politics , the passion of the functionary for his function . And a number of Western diplomats who have been working closely with the Russians believe that this is precisely what is happening . Time and again negotiations over relatively minor issues have been disrupted by an upsurge of Russian suspicion ? based apparently on sudden and ominous reports from the NKVD espionage apparatus . Rumors that America was forming a Yugoslav Royalist army in its zone of Germany ; that OSS operatives were training Ukrainian refugees to serve as spies ; that the British were maintaining a whole army corps of German prisoners with its formations intact and weapons stored close at hand ? these and countless similar tales have kept Soviet officialdom in a constant dither of mistrust . By the time each of them is laboriously disproved , other rumors take their place.0 UCH stories , however improbable , carry weight in the Kremlin , because members of the Politburo live in almost hermit isolation . Except for Molotov , they seldom have any direct contact with foreigners , or with anyone else except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NKVD is one of their three chief sources of information . The other two are the Party and the Soviet Foreign Office , in that order of importance . Unlike American bureaucrats they can not check their official information against newspaper accounts ; for the Russian press is not an independent news-gathering agency , but rather a funnel for passing on whatever scraps of official information may be deemed suitable for public consumption . The Communist Party , with its disciplined membership in every country , is of course a highly efficient intelligence organization . Both its reports and those of the Foreign Office , however , probably tend to confirm rather than to correct the distorted picture of the world which is drawn by the NKVD . These reports are drafted by men long trained in Marxist habits of thought , and their interpretations inevitably are colored to reflect the current Party line . Nor is such news-coloring always unconscious ; no prudent Communist would care to have his reports differ too widely from those of the secret police . The danger of the Kremlin 's dependence on such prefabricated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At that time the Soviet rulers appeared to believe quite sincerely that the Finnish workers and peasants were sympathetic to Communism and eager for liberation from a handful of capitalists and " Mannerheim White Guards . " Consequently , there seemed no need for a major campaign ; a few Red Army reserve divisions should be enough for the job . These troops , inadequately trained and equipped , marched across the border with bands playing . They had been ordered to expect a joyous welcome from the Finnish proletariat , who would quickly overthrow their oppressors . Actually the Finnish workers were waiting in the bushes with machine guns ; the reserve divisions were butchered ; and Russia found itself involved in a prolonged , bloody , and embarrassing campaign . Perhaps the gravest danger to world peace is the possibility that the Politburo will make another such error in its calculations about the outside world . I am convinced that the Soviet Union does not want another war ? certainly not for the next twenty or thirty years . But there is always a chance that it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its protective ring of satellite states outside every vulnerable frontier . WITHIN the next few years there probably is nothing we can do to tear away completely the barrier of Russian suspicion . There is much we can ? and should ? do to keep it from growing . With enough patience and restraint we may even he able to dispel some of the minor nightmares . A wise occupation policy , for instance , ought to demonstrate eventually that we arc not trying to preserve the control of reactionary industrialists in Germany and Japan , or to set up an anti-Soviet beachhead in China . But no assurance , no gesture of goodwill is likely to touch Russia 's basic fear . For the Soviet leaders simply do not take the assurances of our present government very seriously . In their eyes , Truman and Byrnes are nice , rather fuzzy-minded old gentlemen with an honest yearning for peace ? just as the nice old gentlemen of pre-Hitler Germany were sincere in their pledges of friendship . The trouble is that those German pledges did n't hold good after Hitler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Huey Long whom the Russians expect to stride into the White House with his own brand of American fascism during the depression which they believe to be inevitable sometime during the nineteen-fifties . They are sure that this coming American Fuchrer will he militantly antiSoviet ? a tool of the " reactionary financiers " whom they regard as the real bosses . , f the United States even now . ( One of my Ukrainian friends explained to me that " since every government is merely an executive committee of the ruling class , " both Congress and the White House undoubtedly arc guided by some secret junta of capitalists who pull the strings from Wall Street . For the same reasons , he refused to believe that the anti-Russian crusades of the Hearst and McCormick newspapers represent only the private views of the publishers . Because both America 's press and its government are controlled by The Interests , he argued , those " fascist " editorials must really be a veiled expression of official opinion . ' " If you had a truly democratic government , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " ) Moreover , the Russians have little confidence that the United Nations would be able to hold an aggressive America in check , any more than the League of Nations could stop Hitler . They are willing to play along with UN ? after all , so long as the USSR holds its veto power , the organization can do it no harm ? but they certainly do not consider it a main line of defense . Real safety , as the Politburo sees it , can lie in only one direction : a strong Red Army and " friendly " puppet governments in every border state ? plus constant efforts to prevent the Western nations from forming any kind of association which might someday be turned into an alliance against the Soviet Union . Hest ; views will not be easily changed I by any argument that American diplomats can muster . The trained Communist has his own system of logic , which he believes to be infallible . Anyone who does not speak in the same terms is heard with kindly pity ? much as Cardinal Spellman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devil worship . The Communist is convinced , moreover , that his dialectic materialism provides a crystal ball with which he can peer into the future . The official " History of the Communist Party , " published a few months ago in Moscow , puts it this way : " The power of the Marxist-Leninist theory lies in the fact that it enables the Party to find the right orientation in any situation , to understand the inner connection of current events , to foresee their course , and to perceive not only how and in what direction they are developing in the present , but how and in what direction they are bound to develop in the future . " Even Jimmy Byrnes 's eloquence ca n't make much of a dent on that kind of mind . Appeasement is not likely to work either . If we should suddenly agree to hand over the atom bomb , scrap the Navy , give up our island bases , and pull clear out of Europe , Stalin &; Co. would of course be delighted ; they could then expand their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly would not be accepts as a permanent guarantee of America 's good intentions . More probably they would be regarded as a sign of weakness , another symptom of that purblind softness which is supposed to characterize " bourgeois liberal " governments . P-1-1HERE is only one way , it seems to me , to cure the Russians of their fear of foreign attack . That is for the United States to pull through the next fifteen years without a major depression and without going " fascist . " If we can find some democratic method of controlling the violent ups-and-downs of our economy ? if we can hold on to full employment and our freedom at the same time ? then we will have proved beyond question that the Communist forebodings are ail wrong . That is the only kind or pronf Stalin and his associates will readily accept . Their conviction that the capitalist world is inherently unstable , dangerous , and pregnant with war probably can never be shaken by mere verbal argument . But they can be shown . They have never been slow to reinterpret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact ; and not even the NKVD could succeed in covering up such a fact forever . Moreover , such a demonstration that a free society can still be made to work is perhaps the only practical method of halting the spread of Communism . The economy of the entire Western community of nations is now tied to our own ; and so long as that community enjoys a stable prosperity , it is not likely to yield to Soviet encroachment . For the Communists ' main weapon of expansion is not the Russian army but the Russian idea ? the carefully-nurtured theory that they alone have found the secret of running a modern industrial economy without wrecking it every ten years or so in depression and war , That idea will have considerable driving power until we demonstrate in actual practice that it simply is n't true . When that time comes ? and , I think , not until then ? the Soviets may be convinced that there is a possibility of real co-operation with the non-Communist world . They may begin to rely for security on the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ease up their frantic efforts to build a huge defense industry . The Kremlin might then be willing to relax the iron grip of its political police , and to loosen the lead strings on its satellite nations in Eastern Europe . Eventually it might even feel safe in giving up its veto in the Security Council , and risking some measure of democracy and free speech within its own borders . But for at least fifteen years we must expect the Soviet Union to go on behaving like a frightened neurotic . Such behavior will always be irritating ; at times it may even prove dangerous . If we are wise , however , we will learn to endure it with forbearance , firmness , and tact . 