@@485188

NEXT week The Nation will increase its size to forty pages . The change is an act of faith ; only time will tell whether it was justified . But we were faced with a difficult choice . Our present size  --  thirty-six pages  --  is neither economical nor technically efficient . It necessitates printing a four-page form on different presses from those used for the rest of the paper . The separate operations resulting from this are a nuisance to us and to the printer . So we were forced to choose between returning to the old thirty-two-page book or going up to forty pages . The first alternative would have meant dropping the new section on Political War or , possibly , squeezing it into smaller compass and eliminating other features . We did not like that idea . The new section has been enthusiastically received by readers ; it is followed carefully in various government offices ; and events make it more important every week . We did not want to reduce or eliminate other departments either , and consideration for our readers argued against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we decided , instead , to add four pages . To do this and still use our present grade of paper would involve an increase in cost that The Nation could never stand unless we were prepared to raise the price to our readers . Most magazines have raised their price  --  many have doubled it  --  but we want to avoid this if possible , or at least put it off as long as we can . Another reason why we could not go up in size and stick to our present paper is that the government is urging a reduction in the amount  --  which means the weight  --  of paper used . So we shall shift to a lighter grade of paper at the same time that we increase the number of pages . This change will at one stroke save enough money to make the larger size possible and reduce the total weight of The Nation in compliance with the government 's wishes . That is the story . We shall try to meet the challenge of this stormy period with more and better articles . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their opinions . We shall gradually add new writers and new features . We believe that time will justify our decision to grow rather than shrink . EDITOR , THE NATION The Shape of Things THE RESIGNATION OF LEON HENDERSON IS a severe blow to those who have been insisting that the war should be fought on the home front with the same zeal and courage as on the firing line . Most criticisms of him are an outgrowth of his determination to let no special interest wreck the price-stabilization program . It is probably true that he was not always as tactful with the Congressmen representing special interests as he might have been . He failed rather conspicuously in the vital task of educating the public to the value and necessity of his rationing and price-control program . But it is probably fair to say that no one could have succeeded at this task in the face of constant sniping from a section of the press more interested in discrediting the New Deal than in winning the war . Mr. Henderson was blamed for all sorts of things over which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for instance , fer the complicated questionnaire sent to the truck owners by Coordinator of Transportation Eastman . And he was blamed for the delay in the food-rationing program , though Congress had specifically denied him funds to put it through . Not even his enemies question his integrity , competence , or courage  --  qualities badly needed today . THE RED ARMY HAS OPENED THE THIRD phase of its winter offensive by a sweeping advance through the Nazi lines paralleling the middle Don . Two columns are converging on the important junction of Millerovo . According to the Russian communiques , some 300 villages have been retaken , over 40,000 Germans killed or captured , and a huge amount of booty seized . In an area as large as Russia the recovery of territory means little in itself , as was shown last winter when the German defense system of loosely linked strong points held despite the wedges driven between them by the Soviet forces . But this year the Red Army is slicing into the German lines even more vigorously and levying a heavy toll on communications which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last winter 's campaign Hitler 's isolated garrisons depended largely on air-borne supplies . This year the Luftwaffe 's transport service is also heavily engaged in the Mediterranean . The new Soviet advance threatens the air bases from which the Axis forces in the Stalingrad pocket have been succored , and their position , already desperate , may soon prove hopeless . German radio reports are significantly speaking of military decisions to shorten the front on the middle Don . The Soviets ' brilliant advances will probably necessitate far more extensive movements of this nature , not only by tightening the net around the besieged besiegers of Stalingrad but by threatening the flank of the Nazi Caucasus army . TENSION ABOUT SPAIN DIMINISHED somewhat over the week-end , and Radio Berlin and Radio Rome dropped for the moment their pretense that Dr. Negrin was plotting the invasion of Spanish Morocco with General Eisenhower . A broadcast from London announcing that the Loyalist Premier has been in Oxford during the last few days , attending a conference on European reconstruction , has put an end to Axis rumors of his presence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject for its Spanish listeners in the arrival at Madrid of General Augustin Mufioz Grande , commander of the Blue Division sent by our prospective ally , General Franco , to fight against our actual ally , Russia . Serrano Sufier , in his new all-power post in the Council of the Phalanx , provided the " spontaneous " demonstration that welcomed General Mufioz Grande to the capital . According to Berlin , thousands and thousands of Spanish patriots rushed to the station to hail Mufioz Grande with the cry , " Gibraltar ! Gibraltar ! Gibraltar ! " ? words directed by out prospective ally , General Franco , against our other actual ally , Great Britain . Hitler contributed personally to the glorification of the commander of the Blue Division by bestowing upon him the Iron Cross with oak leaves . WHETHER THE " IBERIAN BLOC " FORMED ON Monday offers a counterbalance to the news coming from Spain on the days preceding , it is too early to predict . In itself Spain 's approach to a country like Portugal , which , although ruled by a dictatorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encouraging . But neither the speeches exchanged in the Place of Cintra between the head of the Portuguese state , Antonio de Oliveira Salazar , and Franco 's visiting Foreign Minister , General GOmez Jordana , nor the composition of the Spanish delegation was reassuring . General Jordana took with him the chief of staff of the Spanish army , General Martinez Campos , a rather curious choice for a mission whose officially proclaimed purpose was to keep Portugal and Spain out of the war . The speeches abounded in praise of peace , " but not a static peace , " observed GOmez Jordan ; " a peace that follows the events of the general struggle with undiminished attention and with a determination to prevent old things meaning , we may assume , democracy from surviving . " The added fact that before leaving Madrid the Spanish Foreign Minister talked at length with the German Ambassador and that Berlin has hailed the Iberian bloc as a contribution to the stabilization of Europe should also moderate any hopes that may be founded on this current peace crusade of Phalangist Spain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking Spain over to the Allies , it is Spain which is trying to assure the acquiescence of Portugal in the event of a Nazi march through the Peninsula . December 26 , 1942 THE " VICTORY FUND DRIVE " HAS BROUGHT into the Treasury 's coffers a great deal more money than had been anticipated . The goal set for December 's super-financing was $9 billion ; the range of securities offered gave the smallest wage-earner as well as the biggest bank an opportunity to participate . Over $10 billion has been subscribed , and Mr. Morgenthau has now raised his sights to $11 billion . This total should be easily achieved , especially if those fortunate enough to enjoy Christmas bonuses invest them in war bonds . A Treasury tabulation shows that of the funds subscribed up to December 19 roughly 45 per cent was derived from banking sources and 55 per cent from the general public , including insurance companies , institutions , trusts , and the like . This ratio is being hailed as very satisfactory , but in our opinion the share of the banks is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-banking sources means the absorption of real savings and is definitely anti-inflationary in its effects . When Mr. X buys a $1,000 bond , his deposit account is reduced by that amount . The Treasury uses the proceeds to pay Mr. Y , a contractor , who puts it in his o wn bank . The effect is to leave the total of spendable deposits unchanged . If Mr. X , however , chooses to keep his savings liquid in his deposit account , he provides a fund which his bank can lend to the government . But after the money has been passed along to Mr. Y , total deposits are increased by $1,000 , and to that extent available purchasing power has been enlarged . That is why borrowing from the banks is inflationary in its effects . It can hardly be avoided altogether , but it ought to be held to a minimum . THE C. I. 0 . HAS PRESENTED A MAN-POWER program to Paul V. McNutt which deserves the fullest support from everyone interested in effective , immediate mobilization of the labor resources of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the activities of those agencies which have jurisdiction over procurement , the issuance of contracts , and the disposition of raw materials . It asks that employers be compelled to make full use of Negroes , racial minorities , and women . Measures are requested to assure full protection for workers who are " frozen " on a particular job or are transferred from one job to another . Participation of labor is asked in decisions involving the drafting of workers from war jobs to the armed forces . Stress is placed on the necessity for expanding the United States Employment Service , with enlarged appropriations for its activities , and on the establishment of national minimum standards of social security for all workers . The C. I. 0-. proposals do not constitute , of course , a complete man-power program . They must be accompanied by a careful plan for enlisting , training , and providing for the special requirements of women workers . Some degree of compulsion is prob-699 ably necessary in placing men and women in war work . But no man-power program can possibly succeed unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safeguards such as those outlined in the C. I. 0 . proposals . THE TWO MAJOR RADIO NETWORKS WHICH in October refused to sell time for the purpose of publicizing the cooperative method of retailing have since then received quite an education . They have learned that the cooperative movement is neither a freak affair nor a subversive organization but an eminently sensible means of self-help , embracing several million consumers and enjoying formidable political backing . The lessons resulted in a partial retreat , which has taken the form of an agreement between the code committee of the National Association of Broadcasters and the Cooperative League . At the time of the original dispute the Columbia Broadcasting Company issued a statement indicating that while radio advertising of a cooperative-labeled product would be acceptable , any attempt to inform listeners about the unique features of cooperative trading would be barred on a commercial program . The agreement now reached declares that " there is no objection to commercial copy incorporated in a program sponsored by a cooperative enterprise which states that ( a ) any person can make purchases at cooperatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voluntary ; ( c ) cooperatives are owned by members , each of whom has one vote ; ( d ) profits or savings are returned to member owners . " This represents a reasonable compromise which will enable the cooperatives to sell their ideas as well as their wares , although it will bar the program originally drafted by the Cooperative League , which by presenting the history of the movement in dramatic form mingled , in effect , the " commercial " with the entertainment . NO DOUBT IT WAS TO KEEP A MILITARY secret from the farm belt that Rubber Administrator Jeffers sent off a committee to investigate Soviet rubber processes without announcing the names of its members . For it turns out , on prodding by the Gillette committee , that the men chosen by Jeffers represent the oil and chemical interests which have been opposed to using farm products in the rubber program and which turned a deaf ear a year ago to Soviet offers of aid . Three members of the four-man committee are from companies which had alliances or friendly understandings with the Standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Rubber , Universal Oil Products , and Carbon and Carbide . The last-named is indeed , as Jeffers said , interested in making rubber from alcohol . In fact , it has the synthetic-rubber program 's entire allotment of rubber to be made from alcohol , no doubt in order to keep that part of the program in safe hands . Carbon and Carbide 700 normally makes its alcohol synthetically from petroleum and natural gas . It is the chief support of the Mellon Institute , whence Jesse Jones and the WPB drew their two main advisers on our badly advised synthetic-rubber program . No one on the committee represents the Midwestern agricultural scientists who are interested in finding new uses for that section 's surpluses and who have done such notable work in making rubber from farm products . Darlan States His Case D ARLAN 'S statement on his purposes and present policies , issued last week , is worth examining from a number of angles . Perhaps the most important thing about it is the fact that it was made public at the White House with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the force of an officially indorsed explanation . In effect it is the government 's answer to those who have criticized the deal with Darlan on political grounds , and by the same token it is an admission that criticism was both widespread and bitter enough to necessitate an explanation . Perhaps it is encouraging to know that Darlan is sufficiently amenable to American pressure to issue a statement designed to soothe the feelings aroused by his assumption of office . Certainly little encouragement can be drawn from the document itself . Darlan 's disclaimer of personal ambition is as unconvincing as his assertion that all he wants is a restored France free to choose its own form of government . His whole record , together with his political-financial connections , described on a later page of this issue , make such talk pure poppycock . Much more interesting are certain concrete references to present arrangements in North Africa . He says that " in actual accomplishments , the High Commissioner himself has already granted full and complete amnesty to all against whom any action had been taken because of sympathy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United Nations were promptly released . . . . The High Commissioner has begun the restoration of rights to those persons from whom these previously had been taken because of their race . Measures have been taken to stop immediately whatever persecution of Jews may have resulted from laws passed in France under German pressure . " Note the wording of that statement , so artfully designed to gloss over uncomfortable realities . Note , for example , with what care it avoids saying that Spanish and Jewish and other anti-Nazi refugees have actually been freed ; how craftily it suggests , without saying so , that all French political prisoners have been released ; how clearly it admits , without appearing to , that legal restrictions against Jews are still effective . The fact is , as the Fighting French radio station at The NATION Brazzaville reported early this week , the Spanish Loyalists are still in prison in North Africa . So are the Jews and the other refugees from the Axis . So are all but a few of the Fighting French . Until the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the anti-Jewish laws swept out of existence , we shall continue to look upon the Darlan statement as an unworthy piece of political hokum . The one thing it clearly establishes is the meaning of the term " temporary . " By giving official approval to Darlan 's own version of his tenure of office , it announces in effect that " temporary " means " for the duration . " This was evident before Darlan told us so , but to have the truth so bluntly and officially admitted will undo any reassuring effect the statement might otherwise have had . The peoples of Europe expect a hard and long war . They have no desire to fight it by the side of men whose character they have every reason to despise . In this week 's Political War section we publish almost the whole text of a leading editorial in Tribune , the well-known London weekly of left opinion . We publish it not because it is a model of accuracy or journalistic prose  --  unfortunately it is rather carelessly put together  --  but because it expresses so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Darlan deal . These emotions are shared by conservatives and leftists alike , and there is no use in censoring them , as the British tried to do . The knowledge that Darlan is in for the duration will do little to relieve the feelings of men who say with bitterness born of three years of struggle : " We did not need an American expeditionary force to tell us that it is cheaper to compromise with an enemy than to fight him . " Peril in China T HE announcement that British troops have recrossed the border into Burma is significant chiefly for its possible effect on the desperate situation in China . So far , the British drive appears to be a limited one , designed to recapture the narrow valley which is served by the port of Akyab . Such a drive of itself would be of no value to China even if it were fully successful , but as part of a coordinated plan to recapture the Burma road , it would have very important consequences . For it is no secret that feeling toward Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in recent months as a result of the failure of those countries to send effective aid to China . Nowhere has the Chinese case been put more effectively than in a recent letter to PM by the distinguished novelist Lin Yu-tang . Dr. Lin points out that of the hundred transport planes requested by China at the beginning of the year only forty were sent , and that twenty-five of these were diverted to India . Although the December 26 , 1942 twenty-five were ultimately restored to China , after months of negotiation , the monthly supplies now reaching China are only about 1 per cent of the normal capacity of the Burma Road and less than could be carried on a small 2,500-ton steamer . He adds that only a handful of fighter and bomber planes have been sent to support the Chinese military effort , and warns us that the Chinese army can not hold out indefinitely unless something is done to replace and repair existing transport equipment . Japan 's strategy for taking advantage of this situation has become quite clear . Recent reports indicate that at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ massed in the Lungling-Tenchung area along the Burma border for an invasion of Yunnan province . Unless the present drive into the Akyab corner of Burma is expanded into an offensive directed against Burma proper , the Japanese can probably succeed in cutting the tenuous air line that now connects China with the outside world . If this should happen , the situation of the Chinese would be all but hopeless , and there is little doubt that defeatist elements in the government would do their best to bring about a peace with Japan . This would , of course , be a disaster for the United Nations on every count , not least because it would rob us of the eventual possibility of using China 's superb airfields for a direct attack on Japan . As Lin Yu-tang has pointed out , China is not asking much . It is not asking us to abandon our African campaign or even to give up the struggle in the Solomons and New Guinea . It asks only for a small fraction of our military output , enough transport planes to restore effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and supplies for an all-out campaign to reconquer Burma before it is too late . To this should be added , as one Chinese spokesman declared recently , enough long-range bombers and fighter escorts to carry the war directly to Japan . As The Mallon has consistently pointed out , these measures are as much in our interest as they are in China 's . The Power Is Nelson 's T HE Small Business Committee of the House of Representatives deals much too harshly with the OPA and much too gently with WPB Chairman Donald M. Nelson in its tentative report on the conditions it found in the South and Southwest . It declares that the Smaller War Plants Corporation , though established six months ago , has had " practically negligible " results in those areas . The committee held hearings in St. Louis , Memphis , Dallas , Houston , New Orleans , Jacksonville , Atlanta , Birmingham , and Charlotte . " In none of the cities visited , " the committee says , " was there an operating organization set up to represent the corporation701 and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all the localities visited the committee found many unused facilities and many distressed small manufacturers who have been trying desperately to obtain contracts to produce necessary war materials . " Who is to blame ? The committee reports that on December 15 it questioned " Mr. Lou E. Holland , chairman of the Smaller War Plants Corporation , " and it attributes the failure of the corporation " to the management . " But Holland and the four nonentities who make up the board of the SWPC are not its management . The management of the corporation lies in the hands of Donald M. Nelson , who is its chairman . Holland , an energetic and able small business man from Kansas City , is only vice-chairman . Under the act creating it the SWPC can obtain no contracts for distribution to smaller businesses without separate certification of each contract by the chairman . The vice-chairman and his colleagues are completely dependent on Nelson , and Nelson 's aid to small business is limited almost entirely to pious reflections before Congressional committees on the importance of preserving it . Nelson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the act was passed . He picked a weak board to run it , and he seems to have succeeded in draining Holland of the vitality and fighting power the latter showed before Nelson summoned him to Washington . The remedy is simple and should be obvious to Wright Patman and his colleagues of the House committee . The original draft of the Smaller War Plants Corporation Act , the Murray-Patman bill , would have set up an independent body empowered to make and finance war-production subcontracts for small business men in a " bits and pieces " program . In order to win Nelson 's approval , the bill was amended to make him chairman of the SWPC and the SWPC dependent upon him . Events since the passage of the act make it hard to avoid the conclusion that Nelson took the House and Senate Small Business committees into camp . A frontal attack on the bill would have been hopeless ; both houses finally passed the measure unanimously . Nelson adopted shrewder tactics . The remedy is to take the power away from him and make the SWPC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they affect the retailer are less convincing than its findings in the field of war production . No doubt there are many cases in which retailers find themselves caught in price squeezes , but the committee has yet to demonstrate that these are not the exceptional and unavoidable tragedies of price control . Politically , it is much easier to assail the " bureaucracy run riot " of price control  --  everybody is against bureaucracy  --  than to look too closely into why small business has been unable to get its share of war orders . We think it wiser to suspend judgment on this portion of the committee 's findings until it publishes the more detailed report it has promised . A Call to Action BY FREDA KIRCHWEY T HE NATION has never been known as a journal that ignored the faults of its favorites . Like a stern parent it has seemed to take satisfaction in chastising those it loves , expecting of them a higher standard of behavior than it demands of the rest of mankind . But even The Nation , I have discovered in turning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has found little to disapprove of in the conduct of George W. Norris . From the day when Norris stood against America 's entrance into the last war to the day when he firmly supported its entrance into the present one , his policies , his character , his whole approach to problems of government have consistently won the praise of this journal of highly critical opinion . His steadfast adherence to the very essence of democratic behavior has been something that the most cantankerous critic could only try to emulate . Next week The Nation and the Union for Democratic Action together will sponsor a dinner in New York in celebration ? I use that word deliberately  --  of George Norris 's recent retirement from the Senate . The response to the invitation already indicates how many people in this part of the country have been eagerly awaiting an opportunity to express their affection for the man whom all progressives , without regard to voting frontiers , have looked upon as their particular Senator . I do n't believe the guest of the evening will have any idea , unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who gather to do him honor are , in a special sense , his legitimate political offspring ; how many , like The Nation itself , look upon him as a chief source of their hopes and plans for a decent society in this country . Again I can properly draw upon The Nation 's long relationship with our Senator to illustrate this truth . It was in 1923 that George Norris first decided to retire from the Senate . The words he spoke at that time were both true and misleading : he had , he said , " been bucking this game for twenty years , and there is no way of breaking it . " But The Nation called him back to the fight in an article by Oswald Garrison Villard which said in part : We understand full well the wear and tear of the daily senatorial drudgery upon him who is worthy of the office . We know that the fulness of years approaches  --  you have passed your sixty-second birthday . And yet , understanding all this , we can but say to you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was you , George W. Norris , who , when a Representative , led the successful fight against Cannonism in the House . . . . It was you who led the numerous struggles to better the plight of the farmer you know and understand so well . ... Everywhere there are indications that the inevitable period of black reaction is drawing to a close , that the tide of liberalismis rising again . . .. New allies and new friends are sitting at your right and at your left in the chamber you have so long graced . Then why surrender now ? He yielded , generously , to the pressure of his friends and ran again for the Senate , but it is certain that he did it without ever anticipating the democratic victories he was to win in the nineteen years which followed . For then , as today , George Norris realized neither his own strength nor the degree to which the progressive forces in the country counted upon him for leadership . His failure to recognize those facts must be attributed to two elements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intermittent , current of pessimism which generally serves the useful purpose of lending realism to his crusades and a salutary drop of acid to his estimate of men and events ; and , second , that profound , unaffected modesty which has colored his whole public life . It is safe to say that Senator Norris looks upon himself as a decent , honest , liberal sort of man who has done his best to represent the people who sent him to Washington and the interests of the country as a whole . That he has achieved a position of national leadership from which he can not possibly retire , especially in this hour of crisis in the fight for a democratic future , has not , apparently , even occurred to him . As we all know , George Norris has left the Senate in a mood of discouragement . His defeat was for him a sign that the tide of progressive political action is ebbing , that his own long , untiring fight has ended in failure . Again he has allowed himself an hour of despair after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a political innocent if I express the opposite view . The defeat of George Norris will , I firmly believe , result in a period of new and broader service for him and in a spiritual awakening for the country . Defeat is sometimes more salutary than victory , and the election in November should be looked upon as America 's political Dunkirk  --  a shock which will rekindle the fighting faith of the progressive forces in this country . On every ground  --  experience , valor in action , wisdom , even seniority ? George Norris is the natural commander of those forces . His retirement from the Senate of the United States frees him for active field service in a war we know today must be fought on all fronts  --  from the farms of Nebraska to the shores of Tripoli . The fight is for a world that belongs to the ordinary man , to whom George Norris has devoted his strength , his integrity , his undiminished courage . It will be a tough fight . The setback suffered by the democratic spirit in America is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can win , but we can win only if we accept defeat as a challenge , if we rouse ourselves to fight together and fight hard . And this we are determined to do . Confidently we summon George Norris to lead us in this greatest battle of his career . 