@@492403

Who Really Elected Truman ? By SAMUEL LUBELL HEN President Truman is sworn into office this week , the American people will be witnessing the inauguration of a political revolution . Who elected him ? What caused this " greatest upset in American history " ? Since that November morning when Tom Dewey conceded that Harry Truman had defeated him , experts have been unusually busy proving how tiny a switch of voters  --  a mere 100,000 in selected states  --  would have sent Dewey ewey to the White House . Such calculations , I be-lieve , conceal the decisive nature of Truman 's triumph , which crumbled what remained of the post-Civil War political lineup and relegated the Republicans to the minority status long held by the Democrats . Henceforth political dopesters must think of the United States as " normally Democratic " or have their predictions boomerang . Probably no previous election was influenced by so many crosscurrents . Yet the pattern of ' Truman 's victory emerges clear and unmistakable . First , Truman won because the urban masses , who elected Roosevelt for four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence that Dewey failed to crack any major groups of F.D.R. 's ardent following is ample . GOP victories in the industrial East were won less through new Republican adherents than by the apathy which kept much of the Roosevelt vote fromthe polls . Far from costing Dewey the election , the stay-at-homes may have saved him from almost as crushing a defeat as Landon suffered in 1936 . The second element in Truman 's victory was a belated catching on of the Roosevelt revolution on farms and in small towns . Much has been written of the farmer 's ire over the reduction of storage capacity to support corn prices . Of greater significance is the fact that the swing in the Midwest was most pronounced among voters of German descent who , apparently , had been held in the Republican Party through dislike of Roosevelt 's foreign policy . In my opinion , it will rank as one of the great ironies of American history that Roosevelt , in his very act of dying , removed the roadblock to a successful assault upon the stanchest Republican citadels . Whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , issue for issue , will be debated endlessly . This much is clear : Dewey 's " high-level " talks on " unity " bear no relation to the way the vote broke . In contrast , Truman 's efforts seem tailored to the returns and constitute quite a tribute to Democratic Chairman J. Howard McGrath , to whom Truman owes more than Roosevelt did to Farley . In Roosevelt , the " common people " saw their benefactor . Truman hit just the right pitch in the matter of issues . He had fighting , folksy tones to appeal to the Roosevelt elements  --  labor , unorganized as well as organized ; the foreign-born and their first and second generation offspring ; also Negroes and Catholics . Helping him was something Dewey sorely lacked  --  enemies to dramatize his political convictions . Although Henry Wallace cost the Democrats New York and Maryland , he appears to have helped elect Truman . So do the Dixiecrats . The election has been dismissed as a vote for prevailing prosperity  --  that plus popular anger against high living costa , inadequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress and the presidency , Republicans now take comfort in the belief that they will profit from the voters ' wrath in 1952 . But the 1948 vote resulted from factors which have been remaking our political life for at least a generation  --  birth rates , economic status , racial groups , the rise of Government as an employer , the development of a new middle class with underdog memories . In terms of these forces , the Republicans appear , to me , weaker today than during Roosevelt 's dazzling victories . All this is said on the basis of a firsthand study of fifteen key cities or states which were decisive in the November voting . Immediately after the election , The Post sent me out to do an original kind of survey . My instructions were " Find out where the Truman vote came from , and why . Forget the rights and wrongs of the campaign . Ignore the alibis of the pollsters . Talk to the people who did the voting . Then report your findings as impartially as if reporting a football game . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1940 I made a similar survey , concluding that Roosevelt could be elected as readily for a fourth or a fifth term , and that " once Roosevelt is out of the picture , this vote will not slip back automatically into its former slots . " My method this time was much the same . Everywhere I went I compared the returns with those of previous presidential elections , ward by ward , county by county , to determine where significant shifts had occurred . Then , on foot , I went into these neighborhoods and townships , talking to ward leaders , precinct captains , farmers , housewives , churchmen , businessmen and workers . I concentrated upon those areas which best reflected the vote as a whole  --  Irish and Italian wards in Boston , a corn county in Iowa . Here is what I found : BOSTON " Dewey by 60,000 " was the forecast for Massachusetts . But Truman 's astonishing plurality topped 240,000 , for a larger popular vote than Roosevelt ever got . Why ? Clumsily , the Republican state legislature put on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on trade-unions . No two issues could have more effectively aroused the Democratic vote , concentrated among working-class elements of Irish , Italian , French-Canadian and Polish descent , all predominantly Catholic . One observer told me , " The church did a job on the women , while the unions got out the men . " The impact of this drive was particularly pronounced in historic Charlestown , where congested hillside streets surround Bunker Hill Monument . In 1940 Roosevelt carried Charlestown by nearly four to one . Truman did better than six to one . Women in their seventies and eighties , who had n't voted for years , came out to cast " a last ballot while still alive . " Many had to be helped to the polls by daughters or granddaughters who had their own grievance  --  higher prices . As surprising as Truman 's showing was Charles-town 's Republican vote  --  the lowest in nearly twenty years . Local issues seem mainly responsible . In contrast , the supposedly disintegrating Democrats were never more united locally . By arranging Maurice Tobin 's appointment as Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Tobin and Paul Dever for the gubernatorial nomination . Another assist to Democratic unity was that little matter of a pardon for Mayor James M. Curley , jailed for mail fraud . In past campaigns , Curley often did a " family-entrance " business with Republicans . This time , one restaurant owner confided : " I was all set to vote for Dewey when the boss ( meaning Curley ) called me in and said , Dever . ' But if local GOP follies hurt Dewey  --  as they did throughout the country  --  his own speeches frightened some conservative voters . A ropemaker in the Charlestown Navy Yard , three years short of thirty years ' service and retirement , was scared by that " biggest , fanciest housecleaning " Dewey promised . More than 50,000 of the nation 's 2,000,000 Federal employees work in Massachusetts . Charlestown 's astute ward leader , William J. Galvin , lists Federal employees as one of three major elements , with labor and the farmers , which elected Truman . On my 1940 visit , Galvin felt " probably no section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charlestown . " The last eight years brought more benefits . Frame houses built in the days of Edward Everett are being reshingled . More conspicuous are new baby carriages . In 1940 there were fewer babies , and they often were wheeled in borrowed carriages . As many as seventy persons a day then passed through Galvin 's door seeking favors , chiefly jobs . Today there are fewer seekers of favors , and these are generally looking for better jobs . Galvin himself now is commissioner of markets , a $5500 post securely upholstered with civil service . An autographed picture of Maurice Tobin hangs on his living-room wall . Both Galvin 's climb and Charlestown 's gains symbolize a portentous new fact . The Democratic Party now boasts its own distinctive success story . That story begins in discrimination suffered by immigrants , in Charles-town 's case , in " No Irish Need Apply " advertisements of the early 1900 's . By the ' 20 's , the Irish regularly toppled the " Yankee Republican " vote locally . The New Deal brought a lift for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irish middle class feels strengthened . Strategists have assumed that people become Republican when they ascend to higher incomes . One Boston election surprise was the suburb of Arlington , with $10,000 and $20,000 homes , going Democratic for the first time . Arlington has been drawing the more successful Irish families from Boston . One resident explained , " I own a nice house , have a new car and am much better off than my parents were . I 've been a Democrat all my life . Why change ? " The heavier Truman pluralities among ItaloAmericans also merit attention . Precincts which went two or three to one for Roosevelt plumped for Truman six to one . This happened through the nation . Some Italo-Americans resented Roosevelt 's " stab-in-the-back " criticism of Mussolini for attacking France . During this campaign , Boston 's Italian wards were saturated with leaflets telling how Truman " saved Italy from communism . " In Springfield , an Italo-American was elected to Congress for the first time . State Senator Mike Lopresti estimates that the Italian vote jumped 10 per cent since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' victory celebration had a brother and sister who were first voters , with six more still to come of age . He kept talking of the " labor party 's great victory . " Had the unions , not the Democrats , won ? He shook his head . " The Democrats are the labor party . We workers are the Democrats . " BUFFALO Republican leaders hoped Polish-Americans would swing to them in resentment against Roosevelt 's alleged " betrayal " of Poland . The heads of the two strongest Polish-American societiessupported Dewey . But , if Roosevelt 's pluralities were thinned , Polish wards in Cleveland , Detroit , Milwaukee , Pittsburgh and Chicago remained Democratic three to one . What happened can be seen in Buffalo , where the Poles gave Truman nearly a fourth of his total city vote . Centering around Broadway and Fillmore , the Polish-Americans still maintain a community of their own , with its own Polish-language newspaper . Of the newspaper 's twenty-two linotype operators , one voted for Dewey . Many of these printers had set type for stories accusing Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rankled them was the Taft-Hartley Act , which the Typographical Union fought . " The Poles voted for their pocketbooks , 1not for Poland , " declared tavern-keeper John Kryzinski , a Democratic ward leader . The years of full employment have nourished a growing middle class here . The Polish community in Buffalo and surrounding Erie County is raising $1,000,000 , matching $1,000,000 of public funds , to build the first Polish hospital in New York State . To young Polish-Americans studying medicine , the new hospital promises wider opportunities . When the Democrats ran Buffalo , Polish-Americans held five top posts , as commissioners of health , parks , buildings , licenses and as city treasurer . In 1946 the Republicans won the mayoralty . " We had a chance to show the Poles they could look to us , but what did we do ? " complained one Polish Republican . " Not one Pole was named a commissioner . " Last November , the . Democrats ran a Polish-American and Italo-American for Congress for the first time , electing both . ST . LOUIS Of the many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most sensational has hardly ded  --  hut did not get  --  big majorities in such traBoulevard . Truman carried the state by 7107 votes . been noted ? the movement of voters of German descent out of the Republican fold . It occurred not only in Missouri , but in Ohio , Minnesota , Wisconsin and Iowa  --  to mention only areas I visited . South St. Louis long has been regarded as an unfailing source of good beer and equally copious draughts of Republican votes . Even in the face of Roosevelt victories , it returned Walter C. Ploeser to Congress four times . In 1948 , Republicans expected a greater triumph . Instead , Ploeser was defeated . Precincts which Dewey carried against Roosevelt in 1944 fell to Truman . Typifying this shift were two precincts back of Broadway , along Bates Street . When erected fifty to seventy-five years ago , most of the well-kept houses cost from $1800 to $2500 . In today 's market they bring $5000 , even $7500 . The owner of one row of houses , a Republican , reeled off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steam-fitter , painter . " They all carry union cards around here , " he said . " That 's what beat us . " As we talked , the tenant in the house alongside came out with his wife . They got into their car and drove off without a " good evening " to their landlord . This same sharp cleavage prevails in every industrial city . What is unusual about St. Louis is that many German-American families of modest means appear to have been deterred from voting Democrat in past elections by some mental block , now lifted . In one family , the wife turned Democrat with the depression because of " everything Roosevelt did for the people . " Her husband was uncompromisingly Republican . At first , he gave no specific reason , then exploded , " Why did Roosevelt get us into war ? " A Republican gave me a r  --  sum ? of German-American voting history . He proudly related how the " damned Dutch " saved St. Louis for the North in the Civil War , becoming Republicans . They were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrat , took us into World War I. In 1928 , Al Smith drew many Catholics . In 1932 most German-Americans swung Democratic on repeal of prohibition and the depression . While many never swerved from the New Deal , some became Republicans again in 1940 , feeling " Roosevelt was a German hater . " Truman is the first recent Democratic President whose foreign policy stirs no conflicts among Americans of German descent . The Marshall Plan , considered helpful to Germany , is popular even among former isolationists . One estimate given me was that St. Louisan send $30,000 of aid monthly to relatives in Germany . Ironically , the Republicans helped the 1948 drift to the Democrats . The unions with the heaviest Germanic memberships are mainly old-line craft units which have had closed shops for more than a generation . The Taft-Hartley Act provoked otherwise conservative unionists . STETTIN , WISCONSIN More dramatic was the German-American shift in rural areas . Milwaukee always went overwhelmingly for Roosevelt . Truman held most of this vote . It was on the farms that Truman really won Wisconsin , sweeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1944 and 1940 . One of these anti-Roosevelt counties , Marathon , was first farmed by Germans and contains numerous townships where German still is spoken . Some of these  --  Berlin , Hamburg and Wien  --  were such powerful citadels of Republicanism that they remained in the GOP column even though the Democratic vote more than doubled . Others , like Stettin , swung fully . Over all in Marathon , where Willkie won by 1540 votes and Dewey in 1944 by 2590 , Truman plowed through for a 4310 plurality . With anti-Roosevelt feeling no longer a factor in 1948 , farmers found it easier to vote their economic interests . Price-support bounties were not decisive . The greatest Truman swing came in Western Wisconsin , rolling dairy country which raises no price-support crops . Eastern Wisconsin , which does , held for Dewey . What the western counties do share is having suffered greater privations during the depression  --  twice as many farmswere foreclosed ? than Eastern Wisconsin . The western part of the state was settled later . Being cutover land its farms were not firmly rooted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stettin , can tell the story . In 1914 he took over his father 's farm , clearing twenty-five acres through his own labor and siring eight children . He lost the farm during the ' 30 's , was on relief , and has rented since . The farmhouse he now rents gleams with fresh paint  --  the kitchen has a modern refrigerator , electric washer , electric water pump , toaster , electric clock and electric iron . Last year Jacoby earned $3000 against $450 for 1932 . He says he has enough money to buy a farm , but refuses to do so at today 's prices . Jacoby , at sixty-one , is only a few years over average age for Marathon 's farmers . They ca n't hope to " come back " if they lose their farms . None are taking any chances on another depression . There has been no speculating in land . A hardware merchant told of one farmer who sold his place and retired last October . The day after elections he stamped into the store , exclaiming , " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dewey looked so sure , and it would have been just awful for farmers . " Efforts to sell Dewey as a farmer stirred suspicions . " What was Dewey 's farm program ? " demanded one farmer . " We knew where Truman stood . " Western Wisconsin has a sizable membership in the Farmers ' Union , which strongly supported Truman , and is also an old La Follette stronghold . Both the Progressives and Milwaukee Socialists have virtually collapsed as parties , and Truman inherited their followers . Wisconsin , once such fertile third-party soil , tossed Wallace a scant 25,000 votes . TWIN CITIES As in Wisconsin , the Farmer-Labor elements here are now in the Democratic camp . This is generally credited to Minneapolis ' former mayor Hubert Humphrey , who trounced Sen. Joe Ball . The contribution of Henry Wallace should not be overlooked . Instead of dividing , Wallace witlessly consolidated the Democratic forces . There were two election battles in Minnesota . The November struggle may not have been as decisive as the one last spring , which wrested control of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reds been left in the DFL , Truman would hardly have drawn as many conservative farmers . In more than thirty rural counties he ran ahead of Humphrey , although trailing him in the larger cities . In Stearns County , heavily Germanic , every third or fourth Republican voter appears to have swung Democratic . One casualty was Harold Knutson , who represented this district in Congress for thirty-two years . Knutson 's first vote in 1917 opposed war with Germany . One of his last votes was against the Marshall Plan . Returning home this fall , Knutson sensed the shift of public sentiment and announced his conversion to 1 the Marshall Plan . Fears that the - publicans intended to tax farm co- I operatives also contributed to the rout of Knutson  --  and Dewey . Truman did better than Roosevelt in St. Paul . That labor was not primarily responsible is indicated by his lag behind Roosevelt in such labor strongholds as Duluth and Minnsapolis . St. Paul 's unusual showing can be traced to a record , or near-record , Catholic turnout . In 1946 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This year the College of St. Thomas alone had fourteen faculty members as delegates to the DFL convention which ousted the " commies . " ' One sociology teacher , thirty-twoyear-old Eugene McCarthy , ran for Congress and won . McCarthy and his wife campaigned in Catholic wards stressing that the " Pope 's encyclicals require a new , liberal economic philosophy . " Humphrey led the fight for the civil rights plank at the Democratic con- vention , which the Dixiecrats bolted . The election returns reveal that the civil-rights issue rallied all those Democratic elements who , as children and grandchildren of immigrants , shared memories of racial and religious discrimination . Commented one ItaloAmerican , a veteran , " The Dixiecrats made me think of Al Smith . " The youth of Humphrey 's campaigners is worth noting . Orville Freeman , Humphrey 's thirty-year-old manager , told me , " Few DFL doorbell ringers were over thirty-five . " Many were veterans , university students living in Quonset huts . A standard home for a vet , wife and baby consists of two cramped bedrooms , living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sink . " You accumulate lots of frustrated energy living in these huts , " explained McCarthy , himself a Quonsetite . " We poured out all those energies in the campaign . " That Saturday afternoon 1 toured one of these projects . Every veteran was listening to the football game , and I had to call time out to learn how they voted . On the Truman side , two felt that he became President at " a pretty tough time " and had n't done badly . Two suspected " Dewey 's backers . " Several felt that Truman was the " lesser of two evils . " GUTHRIE CENTER , IOWA Here was your major upset . After all , Roosevelt carried Minnesota for all four terms , and Wisconsin for three . But Iowa had failed the Republicans only three times since the Civil War  --  in 1912 , when Wilson got fewer votes than Teddy Roosevelt and Taft combined ; in 1932 and 1936 . Des Moines and environs furnished better than one third of Truman 's 28 , - 000 victory margin . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor troubles had led to the killing of one worker . Perhaps the most interesting shift came in the " cash-corn " north-central counties . Guthrie County mixes corn growing with dairying and poultry raising . Guthrie Center , the county seat ( pop . 2066 ) , was one of the Army 's busiest wartime chicken coops . Enough wishbones were processed to enable almost every family to paint its house or buy a new car . To most Guthrians , 98 per cent native-born , voting Republican has been the respectable thing , along with going to church . When I arrived , people still were chuckling over Guthrie 's going for Truman . Even Republicans , surprisingly , seemed pleased at the results . " I talked about voting for Dewey all summer , " explained one farmer , " but when voting time came , I just could n't do it . I remembered the depression and all the good things that have come to me under the Democrats . " With a wife and child , this farmer came to Iowa in 1932 from the Dakotas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my pocket then . Now I have a farm , all paid for , a new car , a herd of cows , money in the bank . That 's what the Government did for me . " Throughout the farm belt , it seemed , farmers were seeking down-to-earth promises which they did n't find in Dewey 's speeches . The pre-election drop in farm prices had the psychological effect of making them fear they were going to lose all their gains . These fears were stimulated when Congress reduced the storage capacity available for supporting corn loans . " We have a strong agricultural policy . Why change when the Republicans were so speculative ? " asked the Methodist pastor of Guthrie Center 's oldest church . When the National Plowing Contest took place at Dexter , near by , this preacher went to catch a look at the President . In his excitement , he took off his hat and shouted , " Hi , Harry ! " A member of his church , standing near by , called over , " Hey , do n't forget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the pastor shouted back , " You mean , I was ! " BROOKLYN But for these rural gains , Truman would have been defeated , since the Republicans carried such states as New York , Michigan , Pennsylvania , New Jersey , Connecticut and Maryland . Where Dewey lost about 56,000 from 1944 in the six states , Truman dropped more than a million . Dewey carried his home state by 55,000 . Truman lost more than 500,000 former Roosevelt votes . In New York City every fourth Roosevelt follower apparently either stayed home or voted for Wallace , who got 422,000 votes . Most of them carne from Palestine-torn Jewish families , who , of all the pro-Roosevelt groups , had the toughest time deciding how to vote . The mental turmoil many Jews suffered can be illustrated by one Brooklyn family which , in 1940 , was solid for Roosevelt , with one exception who opposed the third term on principle . Last November this family , considerably enlarged by in-laws and come-ofagent , split eleven for Truman , eight for Wallace , one for Norman Thomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " she explained , " and must have changed my mind half a dozen times , but just finally gave up . " This particular family had more Wallace supporters than the neighborhood as a whole , which tallied 20% for Wallace , 30% for Dewey , 50% for Truman . The high Wallace showing can in no way be attributed to communist leanings , so far as I could determine . Younger Wallaceites shrugged off talk of his communist following as " red-baiting . " Wallace was the most forceful symbol through which Jews could protest against " shilly-shallying on Palestine . " Dewey 's gains in Jewish neighborhoods in other cities would indicate local resentment against Dewey 's governorship . From a teacher , " Dewey gave the teachers of New York State a rotten deal . " The waverings of this Brooklyn family may help to answer the mystery of the polls . The polling technique was developed during Roosevelt 's man ) terms , when people were either for or against " that man " in the White House  --  when campaigns changed few opinions . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Who would inherit his following ? The pollsters failed to realize that the large " undecided " vote their polls showed were virtually all F.D.R. 's orphaned progeny , pondering where to seek a political home . When it came time to vote , they settled hack as they were , " normally Democratic . " SEATTLE That some of these waverers might have been won is at least suggested by the 60,000 more votes which Arthur Langlie , victorious Republican candidate for governor , rolled up over Dewey in the state of Washington . Langlie said he would veto a state Taft-Hartley Law . He advocated public power , which Dewey side-stepped on his visit . This so angered the Republican chairman of one apple-growing county , I was told , that he walked down Main Street muttering aloud why he would n't vote for Dewey . How feeble was Dewey 's appeal can be seen m Seattle 's Upper Broadway district , almost unchanged since 1940 , except that more skilled workers have moved in alongside white-collared neighbors . Of 2728 Roosevelt voters in 1944 , only 2087 turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was losing , Dewey dropped thirty-eight . DETROIT Nowhere was there great enthusiasm for either candidate , which makes the firmness with which the Roosevelt vote held , particularly significant . In several representative auto-worker precincts around Chrysler 's East Jefferson plant , Roosevelt 's 1944 majority ran twelve to five . Truman 's was thirteen to six . As elsewhere , Wallace helped rather than hurt the Democrats . In 1940 , when I visited the UAW 's Chrysler Local 7 , the hostility of the " leftist " officials in charge was only too evident . The bulletin board bristled with photographs of police clubbing strikers and of tear-gas riotings . Today , almost all pictures on this same bulletin board record annual outings and sporting events . A near-by cabinet is laden with loving cups and trophies won in the city-wide UAW tournaments . The old " leftist " leaders are gone  --  ousted in the fight against communism which Walter Reuther led . Propped on desks of new officers is the slogan : " UAW Americanism for Us . " Steady employment undoubtedly has contributed to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or fifth house is freshly painted . The grocery which handled food stamps in 1940 gleams with fluorescent lighting . Many union members are property owners , wary of radicalism . I was told of one elderly worker who had been indifferent to the campaign until some workers sported Wallace buttons . " Give me a Truman button , " he demanded of the steward . When Wallace campaigned here last May , Chrysler 7 was on strike . Wallace tried to join the picket line , but was hooted away . Of nearly 4000 votes in these precincts , Wallace got 137 . " We never could have got the vote out if the communists were still in the Democratic Party , " said one unionist . " This way no one could red-bait us . " HARLEM , NEW YORK CITY Wallace did make some headway among Negroes . His best showing was in Harlem , where he ran about 5000 votes behind Dewey 's 34,000 . Truman polled 108,000 . Wallaceites expected to do better . Their chance was lost when the Dixiecrats walked out of the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman after that , " one Harlem editor told me , " no other politician would ever take such a stand . " Wallace 's popularity boomed briefly when he " invaded " the South and became the target for ripe vegetables . But his shirt stains were forgotten when , " for the first time in history , " to quote the New York Age , " the President of the United States spoke in Harlem . " Except for Philadelphia , Dewey could n't draw more than a fourth of the Negroes in any city . Yet he had a good " Negro record . " Under him , New York became the first state to enact a fair-employment-practice law . He made more Negro appointments than any previous governor . Why did he fail to win more Negroes back to the party of Lincoln ? ? The best explanation given me is that Negro voters are no longer swayed by the naming of a few colored persons to well-paying jobs . As knowledgeable Harlem politicians explained it to me , the Republicans have no labor program to attract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on public housing , which to Negroes promises relief from both squalor and segrega-tion : In Harlem 's Riverton housing project rentals run fourteen dollars a room . Tenants are " all Negroes who have had a break in life . " Not only did the project go safely for Truman but Wallace ran ahead of Dewey . Riverton Negroes seem to have a deeper sense of insecurity than less-fortunate members of their race . " I 've tried three times to get a job with a white newspaper , " explained one Truman voter . " The only job I can get is the one I have . " " The trouble with the Republicans is that they concede us what we feel we already have won , while the Democrats are willing to take the next daring step forward , " one Negro leader commented . CLEVELAND Ohio was Truman 's closest victory  --  by 7107 votes . Here Republicans lamented , " If only one more Republican had shown up at each of Ohio 's ninety-five hundred voting places . " A more pertinent speculation : Who suffered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cleveland ward , Dewey appears to have pulled more of the Republican vote . One striking example : in Collinwood , Dewey lost 400 votes from 1944 , Truman nine times as many . Near the New York Central yards , Collin-wood is thickly populated with railroad-men , who were divided between disliking both the Taft-Hartley Republicans and Truman 's handling of the railroad strike . Every railroader I talked with in 1940 voted for Roosevelt . This time more than half of those interviewed had not voted . All said they would have gone for Truman . A more graphic illustration of why Dewey lost can perhaps be seen in three middle-class precincts near West Boulevard . The two-story frame dwellings , with stained-glass windows and scrolled-oak doors , reflect a fading elegance . To win , Dewey should have scored substantial majorities on such formerly Republican streets . Truman carried one precinct by eight votes , Dewey the two precincts alongside by seven votes apiece . Two things rang through my doorbell interviews . The younger people voted for Truman . The Dewey ballots were invariably among older folk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " We were high-school kids during the depression , but remember how tough it was , " or " It seemed the safest thing to do . " As a footnote to what ails Doctor Gallup , 20 per cent of the persons approached in the Cleveland Plain Dealer 's final poll refused to say how they would vote . " If we had figured all those refusals for Truman , " explained Vance Kramer , the poll director , " we would have hit it just right . " CHICAGO Here , a score of years ago , the comfortably residential 40th Ward was devoutly Republican . Today it tilts Democratic . Nor has it changed much over the last three presidential elections . The 35th Precinct , at North Whipple and Montrose , has gone Democratic each time about three to two . In the 28th Precinct , alongside , the Republicans have won as consistently by better than two to one . The 28th is part of the swank Ravenswood Manor Development , which once bad its own park and gardeners . In the 35th Precinct homes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newcomers are mainly skilled workers and small businessmen who have saved enough to buy a $5000 to $10,000 home . They have brought with them political attitudes shaped by their struggle to climb the economic ladder . The depression first split the allegiance of the middle class  --  three banks in this neighborhood failed . Few " lost Republicans " have been won back . One woman , who drove sixty-odd miles to vote for Hoover in 1928 , felt that Truman was " one of the people , " while Dewey was " It 's all been said before . " A man in his seventies told me , " I had a real hard time deciding how to vote . I kept thinking of the depression and almost voted Democratic for the first time . But the Democrats are giving so much away to foreigners I stayed Republican . " LOS ANGELES Striking evidence of how Truman may have been swept into the presidency by local congressional battles can be found in the 66th Assembly District here . Little affected by the city 's population increase , the 66th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bungalows . Under California 's cross-filing system , the same congressional candidate won both primaries , leaving no local contest to bring out the voters . Result ? The Democratic vote dropped a third from 1944 . While Truman was thus losing 13,600 former Roosevelt votes , Dewey gained hardly 1000 above four years ago . Nor could he recapture the onetime Republicans who carried this district for Hoover in 1928 . The local Republican chairman complained , " I find the former Republicans far better Democrats than the old-time Democrats . " PHILADELPHIA Philadelphia Republicans made perhaps the best showing in the country . Although Dewey 's total vote fell below forecasts , this was the only city where Dewey gained in every ward . Roosevelt 's 1944 plurality of 150,000 was cut to 6737 , enabling the GOP to carry Pennsylvania . The results were strictly machine-made , though the Re- publican machine failed to bring home the bacon as it had done in recent off-year elections when fat local jobs were at stake . " We got some pamphlets on the Taft-Hartley Law , but threw them into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telephone kept ringing as we talked , and he would stop to tell someone , " No contract gets cleared at the state house unless we okay it . " Rambling on , he explained the machine 's strategy . " We tell the ward leader , ' Forget who 's running for President  --  you 're the candidate . Get out the vote or you 're not re-elected ward leader . ' " PITTSBURGH The great Republican mistake , I believe , was to assume there was a " natural pendulum swing " which had won them control of Congress in 1946 and which would carry them the rest of the way into the White House . In 1940 , in every city I surveyed , Roosevelt 's vote broke at the same level , between forty-five and sixty-dollar rentals , or the equivalent of FHA-value homes . Below this economic line , Roosevelt scored overwhelming pluralities , above it he invariably lost . The 1946 congressional elections were free of this economic voting . But in 1948 the economic line Roosevelt drew across the face of American politics reasserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reveals a virtually identical economic vote . The only change was Dewey 's victory in the Jewish Squirrel Hill district , because of Palestine . In East Pittsburgh , where every grievance is irritated by soot and cinders , the strongest local union is the communist-dominated United Electrical Workers . Its officers plugged for Wallace . But they seem only to have provoked a record Truman outpouring of the union 's Catholic membership . East Pittsburgh gave Truman nearly a fourth again as many votes as Roosevelt got in 1944 . Significantly , most urban areas where Truman bettered Roosevelt 's popular vote were Catholic . The higher birth rates which Italian , Czech , Irish and Polish faniil ies had twenty-five years ago have been hatching out . In one East Pittsburgh precinct with 450 votes , Ward Leader James Duffy picked out forty-eight new voters , all of them Democrats . Overall , I found that in city after city through the Roosevelt years , the former " minorities " became the new majority . This indicates what has become of the GOP pendulum . That pendulum reflected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With each successive election the proportion of the population to whom 1860 has any political meaning dwindles . The Republican problem becomes increasingly one of finding a new political vehicle of a design to attract new passengers . From the Republican viewpoint , perhaps the harshest fact the 1948 returns reveal is how many ordinarily conservative persons feared a Republican victory . Is this because the processes of inflation , government infiltration and global power politics have already gone so far that people feel our whole social structure rests upon government supports ? Whatever the reason , the doctrine of too little government seems to have become as frightening as that of too much government . Unless the Republicans can develop their own concept of the positive role that government is to play in American life , they will have to resign themselves , in the judgment of this reporter , to a minority status , with their best hope for victory lying in a Democratic equivalent of the Bull Moose split . Dewey , in fact , came close to becoming a minority President , as Wilson was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crucial question . Can they cement their new farmer allies with their older labor following ? If Wallace and the Dixiecrats are welcomed back , 64 would that split the Democrats anew ? You can speculate from now until 1952 on how the reshuffling of both major parties  --  now so clearly under way  --  will eventually come out . So far  --  and this is perhaps the ; crowning irony to this mort paradoxical election  --  the Republicans seem to have suffered more from Roosevelt 's death than the Democrats . Roosevelt 's passing removed inthe common foe who united some Republican elements , while plenty of enemies for the Democrats to vote against survived . Perhaps that is the moral of the 1948 election  --  that Americans like to elect their Presidents on the basis of the enemies that they have made . Dewey 's fatal error may have been that he did not choose to run against anybody , especially .                     