@@475110

soua time after it had been announced that Artur Rodzinski had been appointed conductor and musical director of the New York Philharmonic Symphony Society he was asked by a brash newspaperman , " Has n't New York the reputation of being the graveyard of conductors ? " Rodzinski agreed and at the same time welcomed the implied challenge . " The public , " he said , " is exacting and so are the critics . But I 'm a fighter . I can take it . " Anyone who is familiar with Rodzinski 's career would be unlikely to deny that he loves a fight , whether the fight is of his own or another 's making . He seems to have a talent for getting into trouble . He was in the middle of one of the most serious troubles of his career at the time he so stoutly asserted he could take it . Less than two months after the announcement , late last December , that Rodzinski was to be the Philharmonic 's new conductor the lid blew off . The management revealed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were resigning , fourteen others , including the concertmaster Mishel Piastro , were to be dropped . Piastro issued a denunciation of both Rodzinski and the Philharmonic management , saying , among other things , that he was being made the " scapegoat for the management 's past mistakes . " From Cleveland , via the United Press , Rodzinski sent a succinct answer : " I am discharging my preparatory duties as the musical director of the New York Philharmonic to the best of my ability in conformity with musical conscience and artistic integrity . " A grievance committee , purporting to represent the entire membership of the Philharmonic , set up shop at the Hotel Wellington , near Carnegie Hall , and issued the first of its periodic bulletins enlightening the public on what it regarded as the real issues of the case . Formal charges were filed with Local 802 , American Federation of Musicians , demanding an apology or money damages from Rodzinski , on the ground that he had defamed the character of the dismissed musicians and had jeopardized their livelihood . And the Philharmonic management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Rodzinski 's Iap . From the hedging statements of the officers of Local 802 it was difficult to ascertain whether they would be lined up for or against the Philharmonic musicians ? their fellow-members ? who threatened to quit the management entirely and to run their own concerts next season . The management , through unofficial spokesmen , " pointed out " that the Philharmonic Symphony Society of New York was a New York State corporation , with complete ownership of its name . And the musicians ' union , quite aside from the squabble about dismissals , continued to be tough in its negotiations for a more favorable contract for the Philharmonic musicians for another year . The controversy had become so violent that it was hard to see how it could be settled without somebody 's losing face . Only a miracle , it seemed , could save the Philharmonic and Rodzinski . But the miracle took place . The United States Rubber Company bought the rights to the Philharmonic Sunday afternoon broadcasts on a fifty-two-weeks-a-year basis . The obvious implication was that everyone was going to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years had carried the broadcasts through the regular winter season as a sustaining program at a cost of as much as seventy-five thousand dollars a year , would now make money on them , and would have a year-round program into the bargain . The Philharmonic management would increase its revenue from the broadcasts . The musicians ' union , in turn , could count on a more favorable seasonal contract for the Philharmonic musicians , as well as additional revenue for them from the broadcasts , now on a commercial scale . And finally it was made known that a compromise had been worked out by which some of the dismissed musicians would be rehired . Rodzinski came out best of all . But if luck had saved him at a critical point in his career , as his enemies might assert , his friends could point to numerous other occasions in that career when the more plausible explanation for his successful escape from difficulty had been his own resourcefulness and his varied powers ; and they could argue that a man less resourceful would obviously not allow himself to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently that he and those about him must have had small doubt that he would come out on top this time also ; Through the ten years during which he held his previous post with the Cleveland Orchestra he had apparently incurred the active displeasure of many influential Clevelanders , including members of the orchestra board . After long and considerable undercover disagreement the concertmaster had at last resigned . Rodzinski had the reputation of being cordially disliked by many musicians of his orchestra , a fact which by itself would not be particularly significant , since conductors ? especially prima donna conductors on the American scene ? who are not disliked by their men arc exceptional . But there had also been a long feud between Rodzinski and the manager of the Cleveland Orchestra , Carl Vosburgh . This feud was so badly concealed as to embarrass those who had to deal with both men . A shrug of the shoulders front one of them at the mention of the other 's name was snore eloquent than words ? or silence ? as an indication of the feeling between them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not uncommon ; but in this instance the disagreement was somewhat exceptional in its intensity and in the degree to which it was public . But that too was characteristic of Rodzinski . For what distinguishes him from other symphony-orchestra conductors in this country is not that he is ambitious , or that he alternates between warm-hearted generosity and irritable severity , or that his moods are variable , but that he combines these qualities to an unusually intense degree . II irixE many artists , Rodzinski is subject to 3a impulsive enthusiasms which soon cool off . Anyone who works among musicians , as I do , is prepared to take such expressions at considerably less than face value . For example , at the beginning of my business and artistic relations with Rodzinski ( by virtue of the fact that I was in charge of the classical record production of Columbia Recording Corporation and had negotiated a contract with the Cleveland Orchestra ) I did not take too seriously Rodzinski 's first interest in the great body of previously unrecorded orchestral repertoire . I expected ? and my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to want us to assign to him some of the juicy plums , the popular romantic masterpieces , which are the big sellers on records , as they are the most popular items on concert programs We accordingly revised our plans at a later meeting , and I regarded the affair as settled . Not so Rodzinski . As the time for recording approached he insisted on further revisions of our program . This sort of thing happened not once but almost regularly during my three years ' relations with him on the Columbia job . It was in vain that I used to protest , first to Vosburgh , then to the conductor directly , that my associates and I could not run our business that way ; that a recording session ? an expensive affair ? had to be planned carefully and definitely if the expenses were to be kept down . A lamentable occasion was a session in the season of 1940-41 which called for the recording of the Violin Concerto of Alban Berg . The Concerto was a complex , superficially unattractive composition , unlikely to enjoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I agreed that it was a masterpiece . Both of us were doing it mainly as a labor of love , but of course with an eye also to whatever artistic prestige might accrue to both the conductor and my company . For these and other reasons I had repeatedly urged that the recording proceed with dispatch and be concluded within two hours , the shortest period for which , according to union rules , we might call a session . Before the session Rodzinski and I had some discussion as to the prepared repertoire which would be available in the fortunate and unlikely event that the recording of the Concerto required less than two hours . Rodzinski was eager to do the " Spanish Rhapsody " of Ravel , which he had presented in recent concerts . I consented on principle to recording it at a future session , but preferred immediately the Mendelssohn " Italian Symphony , " which had also appeared on a recent Cleveland program , for which we had more urgent catalogue need , and which might more safely be recorded piecemeal ( we would obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The conductor apparently agreed to my choice . At the actual session the performance of the Concerto went beautifully ; and all hands ? the soloist , Louis Krasner , the conductor , and the orchestra ? co-operated admirably and with such dispatchthat the recording required less than an hour and a half . The men were given a brief rest , while my co-workers and I prepared to record two or three " sides " of the " Italian Symphony . " While I waited in the soundproof booth where the recording engineer sat at the control dial , my assistant reported by telephone from the stage that the music of the Ravel Rhapsody and not the Mendelssohn Symphony was open on the stands of the musicians , who were already reseating themselves . I told him to remind the conductor that the scheduled work was the " Italian Symphony . " Through the window of the booth I could see him talking to the conductor and the latter shaking his head , refusing the proffered telephone mouthpiece . The deadlock lasted for ten agonizing minutes , at about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We began the Ravel piece . The recording had proceeded only twenty minutes when the session came to its scheduled close . The men were just beginning to be in the " groove " of a difficult work , and it seemed silly to stop them now . ( I had anticipated this very predicament in my talk with Rodzinski . ) So I allowed the session to continue for another hour . Everything went badly then ( I do n't blame Rodzinski or anyone else for this calamity , which is a hazard of the best-organized recording session ) and we emerged with only one approved side and three to be done over . During the following summer Rodzinski prevailed upon Jerome Kern to do for him a symphonic synthesis of " Show Boat . " When I discussed the repertoire for the approaching season 's recording with Rodzinski at Stockbridge , Massachusetts , where he has a beautiful house and a large farm , I was quick to agree to his suggestion that we record the Kern work , both because it promised to be a sure-fire hit to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loved the " Show Boat " music . It was agreed between us that Rodzinski would present the premiere in his Cleveland concerts as early as possible in order that we might quickly record the work and possibly have it on the market as a Christmas package . I had to go to Hollywood later in the summer , and called on Kern : I was glad to learn that he had already completed his commission , which he called " Show Boat : Scenario for Orchestra . " Stop watch in hand , I listened to him run through a piano reduction of the full score which he had sent to Rodzinski . I was excited anew by the wonderful tunes , and agreed that Kern had found just the right form in " Scenario , " which aptly summarized the action and spirit of " Show Boat . " But when Kern had finishcd playing , and when we had agreed on the division of the work into record sides , he proceeded to what proved to he the principal business of the afternoon . He told me that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did n't think it quite suitable . Kern had tried to find out why , but without much success . He had assured Rodzinski , as he did me , that he had followed the outline of his original intentions , as stated in the first correspondence between Rodzinski and himself . So far as I could see , Kern had indeed delivered his end of the bargain save in one relatively unimportant particular : instead of having Robert Russell Bennett , the expert orchestrator , retouch the Kern draft , as originally suggested , Kern had finally decided to do the whole job himself and had worked a month on it . Kern was obviously upset by the turn of affairs . I realized that mediation was in order . I told Kern , quite honestly , that I agreed with him ; that I thought Rodzinski could not have meant seriously what he said and that probably he just wanted to be coaxed . I assured Kern that I would undertake the task of coaxing , for which I had had ? especially in Rodzinski 's case ? not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went aver the whole affair , and found him no more specific in his objections than he had been earlier in his letter to the composer . It seemed obvious , as I had guessed at Kern 's house , that the difficulty was mainly that Rodzinski had cooled down from his original enthusiasm ? for what reason I could not discover . I had n't cooled though , and this time I was not going to let the conductor get away from me . As persuasively as Icould I employed the arguments which I thought would have most effect on him . 1 told him that the piece would be a great success in the concert hall and " terrific " on records , and that everyone concerned , including Rodzinski , would make a lot of money out of it . I even threatened , if he abandoned the project , to record the composition promptly with another conductor and orchestra on the Columbia list . ( I had got Kern to agree to allow my company to do the first recording of " Scenario " anyhow . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a last-minute flurry just before the Cleveland premiere , when Rodzinski insisted on having the closing measures revised , the project proceeded on schedule . The Cleveland premiere was an enormous success , as were numerous subsequent performances by the Clevelanders on the road and three performances , including a Sunday-afternoon broadcast , by the Philharmonic with Rodzinski as guest conductor . The recording , issued a month or two later , was a hit . III JD irr an estimate of Rodzinski based on such incidents would be inaccurate . He is no mere bundle of variable emotions . He is an unusually intelligent and informed person , not only in his own musical sphere but also in the realm of world affairs . He reads the papers . Of course he reads the critics , is sensitive to them , like most other performers , and is influenced by them in his artistic decisions . But he reads the news pages also . Long before armchair strategy became a national pastime he was well posted on military , political , and economic affairs . The fact that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is a partial explanation . In addition he has a better general education than most musicians have . He earned the " Doctor " before his name at Vienna both in law , which his father wanted him to practice , and in music , which he inevitably made his career . Beyond these things though , and in spite of his tendency to run with fads , whether for expediency or emotional reasons , he has brains , acute analytical powers , and , especially in music , exceptional talent for integrating large-scale projects and ideas . In the smaller affairs of daily life he can be an engaging , sociable companion , a host who puts you promptly at ease , as he did me in his Cleveland home one Sunday afternoon when all the others had left and we adjourned , with our scores , into the kitchen to brew tea . He can be witty as well as penetrating in conversation , and can laugh heartily at a joke , even at some jokes on himself . His nearsighted eyes are keen and take in details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his face is quick to break into a smile which is especially infectious because it is like a grin . He is for the most part free from those annoying , often preposterous affectations of the manner of the grand seigneur with which you have to put up in the case of many other celebrated conductors and musical performers . I do n't say that Rodzinski does not regard himself as a grand seigneur . But if he does it is as a twentieth-century model , minus the trappings of a bygone era . Rodzinski has had excellent training and has solid musical equipment for the job of leading the New York Philharmonic . After studying in Vienna he returned to his native Poland , where he was presently conducting the opera in Warsaw . It was there that the visiting Leopold Stokowski had a look at Rodzinski in action and was so favorably impressed that he asked him to come to America as his assistant . For three years thereafter Rodzinski performed the threefold assignment of assistant to Stokowski with the Philadelphia Orchestra , leader of the Curtis Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company . In 1929 he was appointed conductor of the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra . When the conductorship of the Cleveland Orchestra fell open in 1933 , Rodzinski went after it on his own power and got it , with the assistance of Arthur Judson , who is not only manager of the New York Philharmonic but also the most powerful figure of the American concert world . In Cleveland Rodzinski performed such wonders in rebuilding the orchestra that it surpassed in virtuosity all Americanorchestras except the big three of the Atlantic seaboard ? Boston , New York , and Philadelphia . With still too little to do , he organized operatic performances as part of the subscription series of Cleveland symphony concerts . One of these , in 1935 , was Shostakovitch 's " Lady Macbeth of Mzensk. " which was presented in New York as well . The provocative nature of the libretto , which developed a mild scandal here and a major political one in the Soviet Union , and the brilliance of Rodzinski 's direction brought him national attention . He was engaged as a guest conductor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was setting over that institution in 1936 . Rodzinski was well liked , especially because of a spectacularly brilliant concert presentation of " Elektra " by Richard Strauss . Clearly he was a " must " for the Philharmonic 's next season , with Toscanini gone . As it turned out , the relatively unknown John Barbirolli was given the first ten weeks of the season , Rodzinski was assigned the last eight , and in between came three composer-conductors . The betting was rather better than even that Rodzinski would get the permanent assignment thereafter . But by one of those inexplicable decisions of the Philharmonic management and its august board , Barbirolli , who had been scarcely a brilliant success during his guest tenure , was announced as permanent conductor before Rodzinski even had a chance to appear in the sweepstakes . The decision , which was to create new troubles for the Philharmonic , puzzled the public and no doubt bewildered Rodzinski . But presumably he did not give up hope for the New York position . His chance came finally during last season when it became obvious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conductors ( including Rodzinski ) , that order must be re-established by the appointment of a new director . For a long time the betting favored Koussevitzky of Boston , but at the last moment he decided against leaving his present berth . In a mild panic the directors quickly appointed Rodzinski and gave him three years in which to make good . To his new job Rodzinski comes as musician-conductor , thoroughly professional , surer with the tools of his craft than most of his star colleagues . Unlike many of them , he has been refreshingly free from phony attitudes that pass for inspired interpretation . He is businesslike in both rehearsal and concert . He is not , it is true , so businesslike that he does not sometimes arrive late for a rehearsal ; in fact , this practice has lately almost become a habit . Nor does his prevailingly brisk procedure prevent him from occasionally indulging in antics . At a broadcast in Cleveland some time ago one of the broadcasting officials was both surprised and amused to observe Rodzinski playfully tossing pennies to members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was on the air , even though a large audience was on hand and presumably the scramble for a missed penny might produce untoward noises on the air . But in actual public performance he is regularly businesslike in manner . In fact , he almost seems to cultivate this manner as a pose ? as if he hoped that his audiences would note that he does not wear his heart on his sleeve , no matter how moving the music . He is so completely the master of the technique of conducting that he tends to be ill at case when the music ? like a Mozart symphony ? offers small scope for his virtuosity . On the other hand , when he is performing large-scale enterprises which excite him ? like Berlioz 's " Damnation of Faust " ? his virtuosity can produce wonderful results . Even here though , the excitement is intellectually tempered . His intellectual approach can be of enormous service as a reaction from the usual over-emotional , distorted , overplayed presentations of romantic masterpieces . I remember how exciting I found his way with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work " straight , " without attempting further to emotionalize and sentimentalize a work that is almost hysterical to start with . I got a similar impression from his reading of the " Fantastic Symphony " of Berlioz , another of those grandiose projects that find Rodzinski in his element . In a newspaper interview Rodzinski recently struck out , by implication , against conductors ( save only Toscanini ) who direct from memory . With some inconsistency he has himself conducted from memory on occasion . For the most part though he has the score before him , in concert as well as at rehearsal , whether or not he refers to it much . In recent years he has tended more and more to dispense with the baton . A tallish figure , with a powerful , irregular physique and with a tendency to paunchiness , he has the good sense not to pose , on the platform or off , as an Adonis or a tailor 's model . His gestures and movements on the stage are neither graceful nor awkward . They are simply professional , functional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualities like intellect , ambition , and musicianship , and in spite of negative qualities which might have upset the career of a lesser figure long ago . He has probably missed some chances and ruined others by his idiosyncrasies , yet he has gone on somehow to bigger ones . One such mishandled opportunity came when he was selected to engage and train the NBC Symphony Orchestra , created for Toscanini . Rodzinski assembled a superlative orchestra , engaging men from leading American symphony orchestras , including his own at Cleveland , but carefully sparing the Philharmonic because Toscanini had only recently resigned from it . But whatever good will Rod-. zinski may have created for himself at NBC by his apparently ruthless co-operation he seems to have soon dissipated in embroilments with the orchestral musicians and officials . Despite his ambition and alertness to the main chance , he has often been tactless to people in positions of authority . This frankness would be more commendable if it were not wrapped in an air of arrogance . Toward the powers-that-be at the Philharmonic , aside from Judson , Rodzinski @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backers , particularly among the feminine members of the board , at the time the selection was made ; yet no sooner was he in than he seems to have gone his own way again in making the wholesale dismissals , including the pointedly tactless discharge of Piastro . Another conductor might have waited a year before getting rid of a concertmaster he did n't want . But Rodzinski , seemingly insensitive to arguments of expediency and taste , acted at once . The prevailing opinion among those " in the know " is that Rodzinski decided to dismiss Piastro because he felt that Piastro took too lightly one of the principal duties of a concertmaster ? enforcing discipline among the string players . Piastro was not however the first concertmaster with whom Rodzinski has had a serious disagreement . I have mentioned briefly the case of Josef Fuchs , an exceptionally able violinist , who was concertmaster in Cleveland from the time Rodzinski took charge there in 1933 . By the time my association with Rodzinski began , in 1939 , relations between Fuchs and the conductor had apparently deteriorated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obviously no love lost between the two , even though , probably for the sake of form and for the benefit of Fuchs 's numerous admirers in Cleveland , he was recalled as soloist in a pair of concerts during the following season . Fuchs was succeeded by Hugo Kolbcrg , also an able man , who had been concertmaster of the Berlin Philharmonic for four years before coming to the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in 1939 . He was engaged in Cleveland for a single year , 1941-42 , at a salary less than he asked but in the expectation that an adjustment would be made the following year . When another year had rolled round Kolberg was offered a new contract on the same terms as the old . He reminded the conductor of what he understood to be a promise , but Rodzinski denied having made any promise and even refused an innocuous compromise from Kolberg . Kolberg turned down the new contract bluntly . Among informed Clevelanders and New York musicians there is a strong belief that Rodzinski planned to bring with him to the Philharmonic Tossy Spivakovsky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was deterred fromdoing so by the unpleasant publicity following the announcement of the block dismissal . Many still believe that Spivakovsky will come to New York after another year . It is said also that Rodzinski originally intended to make many other replacements at the Philharmonic from his Cleveland musicians , estimates running as high as two dozen ; but Rodzinski or someone in his confidence talked about this possibility and it was reported in a Cleveland newspaper . Whether because the report came out prematurely or because it was groundless , Rodzinski denied it ; and of the approximately fifteen new members of the Philharmonic only two are from the Cleveland Orchestra . A tempting subject for speculation is how the reorganized orchestra will respond to Rodzinski . His reputation of being a tough man to work for has been aggravated by the public controversy over the dismissals . A certain amount of hostility on the part of many Philharmonic musicians would therefore not be surprising at the outset . But this does not necessarily mean though that Rodzinski will not get along with the orchestra effectively . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ musicians and yet have produced eminently satisfactory artistic results . Rodzinski 's task will not be easy , but for one of his unquestioned ability and wide experience it will be by no means insuperable . Judging from Rodzinski 's past achievements and enthusiasms , it may be predicted that his programs for the Philharmonic will have wide variety and will be frequently spotlighted with large-scale , elaborate musical projects and special programs , like music from infrequently heard operas . They will have the usual overemphasis on romantic music , in which may be included the tone poems of Richard Strauss , a Rodzinski specialty . And they will tend to neglect the early classical masters , Bach , Haydn , and Mozart , in whose music , as I have indicated , Rodzinski does not seem to be at home . Presumably the programs of Bruno Walter , who will serve as guest conductor for six weeks during Rodzinski 's first season with the Philharmonic , will compensate for some of this neglect . Howard Barlow , who will conduct for two weeks as the only other guest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American composers . Rodzinski himself has a long and honorable record for devotion to contemporary composers of other lands , particularly Shostakovitch . He has already indicated to intimates his own intentions toward American composers . Unless they are established names , like Aaron Copland and Roy Harris , Rodzinski will make no promises to present any scores that they submit to him . Instead , he will place on the shoulders of the Critics ' Circle of New York the responsibility of selecting , from reading performances at rehearsals , those works which are worth presenting in public . He followed a similar procedure during the closing period of his stay in Cleveland . V T x : many artists , Rodzinski owes much to his wife , the well-born Polish grandniece of Wieniawski . A healthy , good-looking , hearty , animal-spirited woman , as emotionally stable as her husband is variable , she has the patience and sense of humor to guide him over dangerous shoals . When Rodzinski thought he had discovered a specific for his physical ailments in goat 's milk she cheerfully threw herself into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while they raised goats not only for their own supply but also for the dairy market . It was a typical Rodzinskian enthusiasm , which quieted down after a couple of years . But they continued to spend their summers and entertain hospitably in the Berkshires , where Rodzinski presently developed another hobby , the Oxford Movement . Rodzinski 's wife has to put up with the usual aberrations of an excitable artist-husband . She provides for his spells of restlessness at night by keeping stocked a special food cupboard in his bedroom , so that he may have a night snack without notice . She also has to humor his superstitions , one of which is manifested in his insistence that at the moment he is about MAGAZINE to walk onto the concert stage his arm be pinched hard so that it hurts . Rodzinski has a strong religious bent , which probably explains his enthusiastic espousal of the Oxford Movement . Once an admirer was talking with the conductor . " What , " she asked , " do you do when you are n't occupied with music ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " but you must keep it a secret . I read the Bible . " On a number of occasions Rodzinski has shown that , despite his propensity for getting into quarrels , he is capable of the magnanimous gesture . The following tale , as I set it clown here , is a composite from several sources which do not agree on all details , but I believe I have caught the spirit . The occasion was a particularly trying squabble . After a long tour , when the musicians as well as the conductor were tired out , they were rehearsing a new work . A difficult passage came off muddily from the violins . Rodzinski in anger announced that every member of the string section must practice his part overnight and be prepared to play it individually the next day . The men were resentful , and Kolberg , the concertmaster , was only partly successful in his attempts at mediation . Some of them refused to obey the conductor 's order the following day and were adamant when Vosburgh , the manager , was called in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conductor 's room , where the string players assembled before the concert that evening , the men unanimously indicated their intention to stick by the offenders , from whom Rodzinski had demanded an apology . Vosburgh said the conductor was prepared to play the concert without strings if no apology was made . Meanwhile the audience was in its chairs in the front of the house . The hour for the scheduled opening of the concert had arrived , with neither side yielding . Suddenly Rodzinski , regardless of the position into which he had got his manager , seized one of the musicians and said , " All right . I apologize . You apologize . What difference does it make ? We are all musicians . Let 's make music together . " And they did .                     