@@487474

MERICA bestrides the world like a colossus ; neither Rome at the height of its power nor Great Britain in the period of its economic supremacy enjoyed an influence so direct , so profound , or so pervasive . It has half the wealth of the world today in its hands , it has rather more than half the world 's productive capacity , and it exports more than twice as much as it imports . Today literally hundreds of millions of Europeans and Asiatics know that both the quality and the rhythm of their lives depend upon decisions made in Washington . On the wisdom of those decisions hangs the fate of the next generation . Yet , seen from this tragic continent of Europe , powerful America does not appear to be a happy America . The main decision-making seems to be in the hands of those whose purpose is to return to the principles of that " golden age " when Coolidge was President and Herbert Hoover was preparing to tell the American people that the problem of poverty had been solved . The Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Presidency over the divine right of the business man to do what he will with his own . Business not only rejoices in incredible profits ; it fights angrily for decreases in taxation so that the costs of government need-not be borne by those who are in the higher brackets of income . In the Taft-Hartley act the Republican Party has sought to raise a barrier against further progress by J. LASKI the trade unions . It is trying to cripple strikes by the reintroduction of that judicial power of injunction which pre-war America believed the Norris-LaGuardia act had laid finally to rest . It is eager to break the hold of the TVA on the public mind ; and those who have dreamed of a Missouri Valley Authority to match the remarkable achievements in the valley of the Tennessee will have no consolation except their right to dream for some time to come . There is to be no federal aid for education , urgently though it is needed . Not even the recrudescence of lynching will persu'ade this Congress to grapple with the corrupt electoral machines of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be added the hostility of the Republicans to the control of prices and their grave failure to tackle the problem of housing for tenants of small income , it becomes difficult to realize that we are approaching the nineteen-fifties , and that the nineteen-twenties are almost a generation away . For the international policy of the American government both parties share responsibility , though the administrative responsibility belongs chiefly to Mr. Truman and his party . Here , obviously , there are credits to be entered , as well as debts . The American share in UNRRA was typical of that capacity to be magnanimous in a crisis which is a striking feature in the history of the United States . The Lilienthal plan for the control of atomic energy will be recognized , perhaps in the relatively near future , not only as an outstanding contribu- 642 Lion to peace-making but as a supreme example of wis -- dom in international planning . I know of no effective case that has been made against it by Russia or by any other power . And I am convinced that the persistence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewry  --  in the face of Mr. Bevin 's invective and despite some obvious faltering in the State Department  --  is the reason why the British government never dared to break the Zionist experiment into pieces and - offer its ruins as a claim to the good-will of Arab feudal lords who are not only the sworn enemies of Great Britain but even more the sworn enemies of the purpose embodied in its government . That Mr. Bevin 's record in Palestine is not worse than it is  --  and I say this while accepting to the full the condemnation of the unpardonable terrorism there  --  t is due not to the courage of his colleagues but to the pertinacity of President Truman , - which has kept him awake to the significance of American public opinion on this unhappy theme . B UT the debits are heavy debits . From the conclusion of hostilities the American government has shown hardly a sign of grasping the big issue which confronts it  --  the need to achieve a modus vivendi with Russia . Russia has been suspicious , difficult , arrogant , secretive ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory has imposed a strain upon its internal economy Which will not only take long years to overcome but leave it helpless , if - alone , in another major war . That was why Russia sought to ring itself round with satellites ; that was why its leaders resented the virtual monopoly of authority exercised by General MacArthur in Japan ; that was why they observed with alarm the rearming of reaction in China ; that was why , perhaps most vitally of all , the Russians watched so suspiciously the growth in the United States government of a determination both to rebuild Germany 's industrial potential and to prevent its being socialized , when the alternative was inevitably its joint direction by big business in the United States and Germany . No doubt all this has made Russian policy a matter which needed to be handled with imagination and courage . I do not see that the American government has so handled it . It has helped to create an anti Russian feeling among its own people which has reached fantastic proportions , preventing them from realizing that to seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the appeasement of Hitler . It has encouraged most of the reactionary forces in Europe . It has punished Poland and Hungary and Czechoslovakia for not cutting themselves adrift from an alliance which is their main safeguard against counter-revolution . While it has denounced every Russian move as imperialist expansion , it has justified its own strategic imperialism as the defense of democracy and freedom ; though it is difficult for a The NATION foreign . observer to regard military subsidies to Greece and II etkey in this light . The full meaning of the Marshall e.lan no one yet knows , but it is perfectly easy to see , even by the tenor of the debate in Congress , that help in the form of American credits may easily entail political subordination to the United States incompatible with the independence of the nations selected to be its beneficiaries . If the governments of countries where there are Socialist majorities , like Great Britain , should become so bound by the power of the dollar that they were compelled to act not under the conditions their peoples was chosen but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war could easily result all over Europe . This is a long-term problem which Washington has not yet begun to face . America 's productive capacity is so immense that the unbalance of world economy as between the Western and the Eastern Hemisphere means crisis after crisis , until there has been a large-scale integration of the present inequality . Europeans and Asiatics can not sell to America unless they can buy from America ; that means both an America which abandons its protective tariffs and a Europe and an Asia which gain rapidly in productive power . The first is obviously complicated enough ; in spite of agreements at Geneva , it will require something- like a surgical - operation on the American business mind . The second , in my view , is only possible if the government of the United States is magnanimous and imaginative enough to devise a peace-time scheme of lend-lease which includes Soviet Russia . Without participating in such a scheme , neither Europe nor Asia will be able to continue buying goods from America ; and that will mean , among other things , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else an American New Deal which will make the effort of Franklin Roosevelt seem petty by comparison . As there is no serious evidence that either political party in the United States believes American business would support a great program of social experiment , the question ? assuming peace is maintained  --  is not whether there will be depression in the United States , but when . I T IS all this that makes so tragic the atomization of American liberalism . At the very moment when the world needs so urgently the corrective it could apply to the relentless and impersonal drive of the American economy , there is no organized movement of the left in America to supply it . I know that there are innumerable men and women of liberal faith in the United States  --  in Congress , like Senator Morse of Oregon , and out of it , like Leon Henderson- and Mrs. Roosevelt . I know , too , that there are many inside the labor unions , both C. 1 . 0 . and A. F. of L. My point is that they all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the working of the P. A. C. during the Congressional elecDecember 13 , 1947 tions of 1946 is bound to agree that it was just or more pressure group , trying , like the N. A. M. or the - Zoman Catholic church , to win pledges from the Reps licans and Democrats , both nationally and locally . Not only are the liberal groups without any effective unity , but this lack minimizes their influence on the party machines . It is perhaps an audacious thing to say , but I can not avoid the suspicion that the present condition of Ameri-i can politics is above all a proof of the political immaturity of the American working class . I infer that not merely from the feebleness of the Socialist and Communist parties . I infer it even more from the fact that there is no effective intellectual differential between the two major political parties . Each of them is essentially a machine to capture power and , with power , jobs for its followers ; and each offers to the electorate the candidates and the program which it thinks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observer , for example , it is fantastic to watch Governor Dewey , whose passion to be in the White House is universally known , not only refusing to admit that he is a candidate for the nomination at the same time that he labors with all his might to organize his preconvention support , but taking the greatest care to prevent the American people from knowing his views on any controversial subject lest this prejudice his chances of being chosen . Similarly remarkable is the spectacle of Governor Warren of California , breathing general goodwill but remaining obstinately silent on all the issues upon which he would have to give a lead if , as he hopes , a deadlocked convention should make him the Republican candidate next year . I do not think it can seriously be argued that omne ignotam pro magnifico is a valid principle of political action . An Englishman at least would be surprised if Mr. Eden kept silent upon a major political issue before the House of Commons on the ground that to speak might jeopardize his chance of succeeding Mr. Churchill as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the American political scene without realizing that a large-scale reorientation of political parties is overdue there . What is needed is either a genuine conservative party or a genuine liberal party ; it is now an anachronism to rely upon the chance emphasis a new President will bring to his task as the one person who can be the effective leader of the nation . I would , indeed , go farther and say that the American Constitution is in need of wholesale revision , that both the institutions it has created and the operative formulas by which they live , not least the present division of power between Washington and the states , are historical anomalies which gravely hinder American development . Institutions , as they work , ought to be a source of popular political education ; in their present condition those of the United States often have the effect of miseducation . While I agree with ' Justice Frankfurter that the investigating power of Congress is an invaluable instru 643 ment , the range and strength of which it is desirable to maintain , one can hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was abused in the inquiry into the disaster at Pearl Harbor ; it has been gravely abused by the Dies committee and its successor , the Rankin-Thomas committee . The hysteria of 1919 is not one of the most creditable episodes in American history , but the way in which anyone from a subscriber to Spanish Republican relief in 1938 to a member of the American Veterans ' Committee in 1947 may find himself today regarded as dangerous and probably under the orders of Moscow - would be pitiful if it were not so alarming . There are foolish people in the House of Commons and the French Chamber of Deputies ; there are unworthy people , too . But neither body is so organized procedurally as to pro ; vide the foolish and unworthy with the instrumentalities necessary to make the greatest possible use of their bad qualities , giving them the power to spread poison out of all proportion to their strength . Nor must one forget the additional evil this involves in a time when the media of mass communication are so vital to the community . T O @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my feeling that a good deal of what is most reactionary in the political and social life of America today is directly traceable to the influence of a militant Roman Catholic church , which is as much the expression of the purposes of a foreign power as any influence exerted by the Communist Party . No other body has the same grim responsibility for the tragic fate of the Spanish people . No other body has devoted itself so consistently to poisoning the relations between Russia and the United States . It protects child labor ; it is building , from infant school to university , its own educational inn perium in imperio . It has immense influence over the movie industry , not least where films of a political complexion are concerned . It plays a major part in the repression of freedom of speech . That it has done so little to make impossible the anti-Semitism of Father Coughlin or the adolescent gangsterism in Massachusetts and New York is a painful thing to anyone who remembers the large-mindedness of Archbishop Ireland and Monsignor Ryan . It is attempting with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions in cities where there is a large Roman Catholic population . I doubt whether there are three Americans today whose authority , direct and indirect , counts for more than that of the ' Cardinal-Archbishop of New York . And to this must be added the curious and significant fact that the members of the Roman Catholic church seem able , like their coreligionists in Great Britain , to obtain pivotal posts in the Foreign Service , exercising a power of infiltration which must make members of the Communist Party feel that they are infants at the game . Anyone who measures Roman Catholic strength in the United States today with .644 what it was a generation ago can not fail to be impressed by its growth , as well as perturbed by its direction . Spain apart , I doubt whether there is any country in the world today in which its authority is greater than in America . T AM too much in earnest for either humility or vanity , " 1 wrote Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes at a vital moment in medical history , " but I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death to listen . " It is in that spirit that all of us ought to approach the grave problems of this hour . It is one of the supreme turning-points of history , not less than when Luther appeared before the Diet of Worms , or when the States-General met ' at Versailles in 1789 ? an hour as decisive as when Lenin descended from the " sealed train " at the Finland Station in Petrograd . No power is likely to exercise a more critical influence upon the destiny of this civilization than is the United States . Its position involves special responsibilities . It has not been battered and torn by the tempest of war ; its economy is alike unimpaired and unsurpassed . Its people have a long experience of democratic pracThe NATION tices , and yet not so long a. one as M permit them to forget that they had to fight a revolutionary war to give them the right to that experience . They have been a singularly fortunate people . Nature provided them with an empty continent and boundless resources ; history gave them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of leaders unsurpassed in sagacity and courage . Their national independence has twice been threatened ; and , in-both 1861 and 1941 , fate gave them a leader who commanded the veneration of the whole world . They are a people full of vitality , quick to experiment , eager in their enthusiasm , and swift to be generous when they hear the call of pain . Wise Americans ought to hear the call now , for it sounds unmistakably over the five continents of the world . ' Americans must recognize without delay that they hold the keys of life and death in their hands . Never has it been so urgent for them to listen ; never has their power to understand what they hear been fraught with consequences so momentous . This is the second article of a series . The third , " Russian Realities , " will appear in an early issue. )                     