@@475056

FIVE months ago OPA was the vig- orous leader of the drive against1 inflation . It was thick in the midst of the contest against the various groups that were trying to loot the nation 's treasure of war-swollen rents , wages , and profits . Now the future of price control is in doubt and the collapse of OPA is widely predicted . And yet the recent trouble with Lewis and his miners has only re-emphasized the fact that the threatening floodwaters of disaster are held back by this single rubbery bulwark . Upon the successful control of the cost of living depends peace at home , perhaps continued success on the battlefront , and surely stability in the postwar period . What has happened ? What are the causes ? Where do we stand ? To be complete , any analysis of OPA ? its strengths and weaknesses , its successes and failures ? properly should wait until we have a greater perspective in time . Despite the extreme complexity of the problem however , its urgency requires that we seek the nearest approximation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a way the history of the agency is a chronicle in miniature of the effects of total war upon the American economy and of the changes which have occurred in the sentiments and attitudes of the American people during its span of life . its position has been at the core of the nation 's life ; its every action has touched the whole nation directly and intimately . It has held the critical controls in the civilian economy , and the effects of its orders have rippled outward to the furthermost reaches . It has been the focal point of every sort of pressure , political , social , economic . Actually , the problem is so complex that we can attempt only to throw light on some of the factors involved . The story begins with the birth of OPA two years ago . Since then it has grown from a division of a hundred persons in the old Defense Commission to an organization of more than thirty thousand paid workers and countless volunteers , stationed in every section of the land . The battle against inflation began even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany invaded Poland in September , 1939 , and two days later Great Britain and France declared war . Immediately a price boom began in this country . War materials spiraled upward in cost ; employment swelled ; payrolls reached a new high within three months . As time went on however it appeared that prices had jumped the gun ; the " blitzkrieg " turned out to be a " sitzkrieg , " and the boom abated . None the less the terrible latent threat of inflation had been revealed . Though we were to be caught unprepared at Pearl Harbor two years later , the warning of inflation came in good time and we began then to map our defenses . The " phony war " period came sharply to an end with the invasion of Denmark and Norway in April , 1940 . France was conquered and the British had been at Dunkirk . The United States hastily launched an expanded defense program ; gigantic sums of money were appropriated for war material ; the President called for the swift mobilization of our productive plant for defense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production a Defense Commission was appointed . Significantly it was also charged to check pressures on the price structure . Leon Henderson was appointed to head the Price Division ; the appointment was not surprising . Even though he was not a public figure at that time , Henderson was well known as an economist and was in high favor in the Administration . As early as 1937 he was called the most important fount of new doctrine in Washington , and even then he had a reputation as a crystal-gazer in matters of economics . A year before the great market crash of 1929 he was one of a handful of men who predicted exactly what would happen , and when . Six months in advance he called the slump of 1937 ; he summarized the figures and outlined his reasoning in a note to the President with the Hendersonian title ? " Booms and Busts . " " I 'm the golfer who made a hole-in-one the first time out , " he said afterward . " I had better quit now . " But he did n't quit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the nervous boom in 1939 and laid out the course of war inflation in this country . He designed the strategy of defense . Hence when he took charge of the Price Stabilization Division of the Defense Commission he was in his own back yard . The time was early , and pressures on prices were not then great . The Division consulted with industrialists in order to choke off speculative excesses and kept an eye on the general price situation . For several months these weak controls were sufficient and price rises were moderate . However , as the defense program began to get up steam , shortages spread like a brush fire from one industry to another , and the curve of prices began ominously to creep upward . It became clear that mere advisory controls were not adequate . Early in 1941 the President split the Defense Commission into several major war agencies , and the OPACS emerged as an independent administration . The pressure was on , but several obstacles stood in the way of strong price control . In the first place the whole price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It had no real penalties it could impose . It was not even clear what the powers under the executive order were . In the second place the threat of publicity had little sting because the public was not yet aware of the danger of inflation nor was it aroused against " business as usual " practices which war suddenly had made criminal . The job of price control at that time required , as one dear old Washington lady put it , " A good bluffer with a big bazoo . " Henderson and his " group of bright young men " rushed in where other administrators might have feared to tread . They chose the method of maximum price schedules , backed by consultation , publicity , and voluntary co-operation , as their tool for price control . The first schedule issued covered second-hand machine tools , which at the time were skyrocketing in price . A series of other schedules followed . On a dozen fronts at once they nipped inflationary bulges . By their own actions they established the lines of their authority , and thereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its powers were clarified , Henderson took action to control the price of the most basic of all war materials ? steel . On April 16 , 1941 , OPACS imposed a ceiling on all iron and steel products at the levels that prevailed on that date . To the average citizen the action might have seemed like just another tedious and technical pronunciamento , but that bold stroke has already saved the government and the people of this country hundreds of millions of dollars . In the months that followed the steel order the agency brought under its control a larger and larger part of the price structure and developed several formal and informal types of control . Yet it still had no real sanctions it could apply against violators . Toward the middle of 1941 it was again apparent that the inflationary pressures were getting stronger than the makeshift dikes erected to restrain them , and Congress began deliberations on a bill which would give statutory strength to the price-control apparatus . The fundamental cause of the increasing pressures on prices was of course the increasing volume of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reverberations cracked open the price-control machinery in Washington . Supplies of important raw materials ? rubber , tin , chemicals ? suddenly were cut off , and all hell was ready to tear loose on prices . What would happen when business opened on that Monday after the first news anybody could guess . All Sunday night Henderson worked with his staff planning the bold , decisive steps which had to be taken . When the sun came up on Monday long-distance calls went out over the country to stop speculative rushes in the important commodity markets . In the remainder of that week additional steps were taken to plug the biggest holes . And on the following Sunday came a sweeping action fixing maximum prices on fats and oils . As a result the back of the threat was broken . Basic commodity prices turned downward ; redeyed officials rubbed out their cigarettes and went to bed . Within a month after the attack the President presented his " blueprint for victory " to the Congress . His message made it abundantly clear that we were in war up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to be devoted to the war effort . Among other things , the program outlined meant the end of selective price control . The turning point had arrived ; every part of the national economy would now feel the effects of overwhelming demand and scant supply . Spurred by war , Congress passed the Emergency Price Control Act and the President signed it at the end of January . For the first time the Office of Price Administration , as the price-control agencywas named , had full powers to control prices and rents , and to punish violators . The very existence of pricecontrol legislation was a major victory . In the First World War we had been suckers ; in the Second World War we took the lesson of twenty-five years before and put it to work . We caught the danger early and kept our levees just a little higher than the floodwaters , at least during the opening stages . The question was , could we check the much greater pressures that actual all-out war would produce ? At the time , the President said of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is workable . . Price-control legislation alone can not successfully combat inflation . To do that , an adequate tax and fiscal program , a broad savings program , a sound production program , and an effective priorities and rationing program arc all needed . Finally , all bulwarks against inflation must fail unless all of us ? the business man , the worker , the farmer , and the consumer ? are determined to make those bulwarks hold fast . " Those remarks are the key to much of what has happened since . II HE arithmetic of Henderson 's job of price control was not too difficult to understand . As billions of dollars of war expenditures were poured into the nation 's production plant during 1942 , wages , farm prices , and profits would tumble over one another in their climb upward . At the same time the appetite of the military machine would gobble up a large part of all civilian goods . This wide disparity between the supply of money and the supply of goods would create terrific pressure for prices to rise . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was slack to he taken up in the national economy , persuasion and conciliation if used well could keep prices in line . But when the slack was gone and when unimagined quantities of money were pumped into the machinery , price control changed in its requirements ; it no longer was a one-man or one-agency job . As the President explained in his seven-point program to stabilize the cost of living in April , 1942 , a team of elements had to work together in order to prevent disaster . According to the seven-point paper program , Henderson 's part of the job was to put a lid on prices and to sit on it . Congress was to establish a fiscal program which would suck away inflationary funds ; the Treasury was to expand the war-savings program in order to divert money into bonds ; the Federal Reserve System was to choke off credit ; and Congress and the President together were to limit wages , profits , and farm prices . Without their help Henderson could not stand against the tide indefinitely , for he could control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the others to control the causes . To speak in such exact terms however is somewhat artificial and misleading . If Henderson 's only power had been to control symptoms , and if the economic system ran Like a clock rather than like a Rube Goldberg invention , then his powers would have been nominal indeed . And if the other members of the team which the President named had taken their posts and done their jobs quickly and well , then Henderson would have needed only nominal powers . Inflation would have been stopped , and OPA could have spent its time in routine chores of scheduling and rationing rather than in brawling with every interest across the board . In real terms however the limitation of wages , profits , and farm prices is not done with a wave of the cigarette holder . A thousand lobbyists and a million arguments must be listened to , and a hundred million Americans must be pinched before such settlements are made . Miles of paper must be typewritten , evidence must be piled up , and data on slow-forming public sentiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rise . Henderson could either wait for the others or he could with adroitness and courage advance at every opportunity , slice into the fat on certain parts of the system , play one pressure off against another , frighten the timid into line , encourage the patriotic to hold back on profiteering . His record suggested that he would not play a waiting game . Similarly , hecould wait for Congress and the President to be pushed into taking action , or he could actively stir up pressure for action , call on the press for help , and use his agency for propagandizing the cause of inflation control . Here too his record suggested what he would do . As soon as Congress had given him the power the OPA chief proceeded to prepare a general maximum-price regulation to cover all commodities and services . At the same time orders were prepared for controlling rents in all defense areas . Shortly thereafter the " General Max , " as the over-all price order was called , was issued together with rent orders , and by these measures the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . OPA research men published figures on the effects of uncontrolled farm prices on the cost of living . They published figures on the rate at which corporation profits were zooming in comparison with the growth of wage incomes . Henderson held weekly " lessons in economics " for members of the Washington press to show them what was happening and the causes that lay beneath . He tramped the boards at numberless meetings , banquets , conventions , luncheons ; he became the Billy Sunday of economics . He did his job . What did the others do ? The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System gave a light jerk on the reins of consumer credit ; the Treasury launched a gigantic and weak-kneed voluntary campaign to pull purchasing power into war bonds . The results of their actions were pitifully small compared with the magnitude of the task which had to be done . These combined programs dried up only two and one-half billion dollars of purchasing power , while individual incomes in the same period rose about seven billion dollars . Congress from the beginning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anxious , frustrated , defensive . Despite the imminence of the danger of inflation and despite the plain simplicity of the action which was needed , petty provincial politics have prevailed . All through the summer of 1942 Congress dawdled over certain needed amendments to the price-control legislation . The elfort made to stabilize wages was a flat failure . The tax bill was argued and squabbled over in an endless series of dreary debates . The Farm Bloc in the Senate blocked every attempt to control farm prices , and consequently the Congress was never able fairly to impose restrictions needed on wages . Corporation profits in defense industries swelled , but Congressmen could not muster the independence or the starch to do anything about them . By midsummer it was frighteningly apparent that because the critical elements would not fulfill their responsibilities the battle against inflation was being lost ; like the Germans in Tunisia , we were " advancing to the rear " and conducting a series of " offensive retreats . " Henderson wrote in a letter to the Congress at this time : " It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but I wish to make it again : The President 's program against inflation will succeed only as its every element is made fully effective . . Hesitation on any of the major fronts imperils the entire campaign . It has been a difficult task to hold ceiling prices in the face of this hesitation of each group to take its battle station until assured that the other groups were taking theirs . " The situation continued to grow worse , but the people were waking up to what was wrong . More and more from all sections of the country came demands for the control of farm prices , the stabilization of wages , and the trimming of profits . Surprisingly , important groups were volunteering to accept restrictions . The national farm lobby , headed by voluble Ed O'Neal , began to see the gap widen between its pork-barrel policy and farmers ' attitudes ; State farm groups disclaimed adherence to the Lobby 's program . Labor groups began to ask for a time-out from the referee in the pointless race of group against group for advantage . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and urged the passage of a new price bill , and Congress followed his lead . A month later the President established the Office of Economic Stabilization , headed by perhaps as tactful and effective a political warrior as there is in the country ? Jimmy Byrnes , at that time an associate justice of the Supreme Court . For OPA it seemed for a time that these developments were a beginning and an end ? the beginning of a chance to work and the end of the necessity to fight At the year 's end it appeared that under the authority of the new price-control act our slipping grip on the cost of living had been made firm . Henderson was cocky about the prospects . There were still some weaknesses particularly with regard to farm prices ? but his powers appeared to be sufficient to handle the situation . Immediately before his ouster early this year he could honestly boast of having held the line . With gusto he wrote to Congress : " It is my profound pleasure to be able to report that the mandate of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have thus far been carried out . . . I was directed to stabilize prices . That directive was obeyed . I was directed to establish prices fair alike to buyer and seller . That directive was obeyed . I was directed to stabilize rents . Rents have been reduced and stabilized . " He could point with pride to the fact that as a result of his efforts under the powers given him , he had saved the Federal Government up until that time nearly 26 billion dollars and he had saved American consumers nearly 6 billion dollars . He pointed out that if prices could continue to be held , by the end of the year the Government would have saved nearly 78. % billion dollars as a result of price control , and American consumers would have saved 23 billion dollars . In individual terms , Henderson 's work by December , 1942 , had saved every American family about $140 and by the end of 1943 will have saved every family nearly $500 . It might seem that a record so brilliant would not make a scoundrel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a " Get Henderson " drive began to snowball . Why ? ComE opposition to OPA 's program was only natural to expect . Hundreds or thousands of American business men had grown lean and gaunt during the long depression and slow recovery . Just at the time when business activity picked up and consumers ' pockets were filled with spendable dollars , when demand was as large as their wildest dreams , OPA stepped in and snatched the bread right out of their mouths . Business men arc human , and they felt thwarted and disappointed . Since it was the business of OPA not only to squeeze certain kinds of business but also certain localities , such as the Northeast in the matter of fuel oil , a certain amount of political opposition could be expected . However the volume and intensity of the hostility of business men and politicians toward OPA was out of all normal proportions . What were the special catalytic factors in the case of OPA which heightened and sharpened the usual troubles which the large war agencies get into ? We can put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1932 , Roosevelt has accumulated a not inconsiderable group of political enemies ? purple-passionate Roosevelthaters whose zeal in cursing everything New Dealish will some day be legendary . The OPA for these people was a made-toorder punching bag . Because its program was so vast there were inevitably mistakes which could be seized upon . By the very nature of the program , OPA was a meddlesome third party in every transaction , from the buying of a house to the buying of a button , and it was thus , from one point of view , socialistic , regimenting , boondoggling , impossible The evidence is quite clear that the anti-Roosevelt forces have used OPA as the scapegoat and the whipping-boy for their deep anger . Certain sections of the press have played a daily tune on the misdeeds of the agency , making it a symbol of badness . All business interests are not equally patriotic , and those with a greater urge to cash in on the war than to help win it have joined the bloodthirsty pack and taken up the cry . OPA by its vexing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side with the critics . The success of this political tactic of subjecting one part of the Administration line to extreme pressure is admitted by many observers ; there arc those who feel that the irritation which voters expressed at the polls in the last national election sprang largely from " the matter of 0 PA . " Of course OPA was not without sin . Of the various factors which made it a favorite target for attack , the personality of Leon Henderson is the first to come to mind , if it is not actually the most important . It was a major factor in causing his own ouster , and it was a major factor in the policy course of the whole agency during his time as Administrator . Rotund , somewhat Falstaffian , Henderson is by now familiar in appearance to most Americans . He is rather short and muscular , his clothes usually are rumpled and baggy . A regular part of his physical apparatus is a thick cigar , which on occasion juts from his jaw like a cannon . He is nervous ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vest pocket , pushes his hair back , and squirms in his seat . Intellectually he has been much praised . He has been called a " self-made miracle , " the " Paul Bunyan of Bureaucracy , " and it has been said of him that " he is a human encyclopedia of the social sciences . " Unquestionably he is clever ; talk with him for five minutes and you will see that he knows his business ; economics is his oyster ; and he thinks of economic problems in global terms . Some people think he is too clever . In action he is quick , impatient , positive . He acts tough and he is tough . He can be reckless because he feels he has nothing to lose . In an interview a few months ago he uncovered some of the roots of his ways . " I am a broker , a peddler of economics , " he said . " Sometimes it is policy , sometimes administration , but whatever , there is very little that life could do to me that would overbalance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is entitled to , and had the luck to be available when the good jobs were given out . " With such a shield his battling powers are great . In political skirmishes he has been willing to take on anybody , any time , anywhere , and usually he has insisted on doing the job single-handed . One trouble was that Henderson not only fought when the occasion demanded a fight . Too often he fought just for the pleasure of fighting , even when conciliation might have been more profitable . Consequently he made hundreds of humiliated enemies , and the nation came to know him as a scuffling , singularly undignified public official , He never seemed to learn the lesson that in Washington , as in most places , a few good friends are worth more than a dozen good arguments . It is not certain that his belligerent proclivities were bad , but it does appear that the same qualities which made him an ardent crusader made him also unnecessarily stiff-necked and arch-backed in the day-to-day decisions which had to be made in the operation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would not compromise on principle in major matters , it was perhaps not so good that he refused even to_the do the kinds of horsetrading and give-and-take that often are necessary in making friendly settlements . In all matters he was cocky and confident , and he was sure he could run the whole show from Washington . Had OPA been operating in vacuo perhaps he could have . But to observers on the outside he looked like the worst brand of arrogant ? though benevolent and capable ? bureaucrat . In many ways the whole organization in Henderson 's time reflected the qualities of the boss . OPA officials from the first seemed to take great delight in tramping mud over the fine fabrics of business tradition . Some things can be said in their defense of course ; in the days of " jawbone control " of prices , when OPACS had no real powers , the staff was green , the job was new and big , time was short , and it seemed proper to put the fear of God into non-co-operators . At every conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of the table sat a line of young government men , unfamiliar with the jargon of the industry , limited in their practical experience , and painfully picking at the pocketbook nerves of the old industry men on the other side of the table . That bitter words would be said and that bad blood would be spilled was almost inevitable . On the other hand , it can justly be charged that OPACS and OPA men did not try speaking softly before using the big stick . They did not ask ; they told . They did not invite ; they ordered . The gibes they threw at troubled business men , the smart-aleck pranks they indulged in , and the uninformed bulls they enunciated were hardly necessary . However right the objective they were seeking , their methods often could be condemned . Trade associations frequently were not consulted , and their help was not courted . Two things resulted . The agency lost the benefit of experience that might have saved it from error , and it lost any co-operation that industry might have extended . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding and support for the government program , came to devote themselves to scurrilous attacks on it and everyone running it . OPA has made a vine of disaffection grow where there might at least have been reluctant co-operation . The fact that industry was angry seemed to-bother everyone but those within OPA . Henderson himself was cavalier about the blood that he felt had to be spilled . In a letter to Congress , written in January of this year , which accompanied a report on his agency , he said : every aspect of war , victories can not be won without casualties . This Office has made every effort to insure that individual hardships shall be held to a minimum . I am confident that the record bears out the success of those efforts , and that when viewed against the magnitude of the victory over inflation that is now surely within our grasp , these casualties will not be thought to have been too high a price to pay . " Perhaps he was right in the case of business . But he sowed a breeze and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . In matters of principle and politics Henderson is a purist . And especially in matters of politics . From the very beginning he steadfastly refused to clutter up his agency with patronage appointments . On the basis of some rationalization he was not above appointing his wife 's cousin to a high position and keeping him there despite the fact that his competency was open to question . But he was not even polite in maintaining his general policy of " No Party Hacks . " When Congressmen called to get someone a job he slammed down the telephone . When they went to his office he came as near to throwing them out a -- with Congressmen . Time and again he warned his staff against political entanglements . On one such occasion he publicly said : " No one in OPA is going to be permitted to play politics with the war effort . I have always said that OPA is going to run on non-partisan lines . My order today reaffirms that principle . As I have said in the past , if the Hatch Act does n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well known , Congress in Henderson 's time was on the defensive , perhaps because the war showed up crying weaknesses in both the personnel and organization of the body . It had been led round by the nose . It had been openly laughed at by the major news magazines . It was in a sullen and nasty mood , and in no temper to take such a tramping on its tenderest corn ? patronage -- from any upstart administrator . At first its anger was manifested in more or less mild ways . Protests were sent to the President . Then various legislative measures intended to implement the price-control program were held up or sandbagged . Henderson held firm . Congressmen went back home and grurnbled openly about the " lack of understanding " they were shown . Sometimes they tried to discredit the agency to their constituents . Even Sam Rayburn , Speaker of the House , went home and told a gigantic bond rally in Houston that " more sensible administration of wartime laws is due . There 's nothing wrong with the laws Congress passed . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1942 Congressmen were ready to do radical things . Goaded by lobbyists of disgruntled interests , annoyed by the rebuff OPA had given them , many were ready to smash the whole pricecontrol mechanism or anything that might be necessary to " get Henderson . " To the enmity of certain business groups had been added the anger of the holder of the pursestrings of government . THE one thing upon which Henderson could rely for protection was the active support of those persons whom he wasting nameiy , the consumers , the American people as individual citizens . If they should understand and sympathize with the OPA program , and if they should back it intelligently on critical issues , he would be invulnerable . But if they should be even indifferent , then the forces of opposition would prevail . Henderson 's failure to muster and organize public support can be pointed to as the mistake which cleared the way for his ouster . The price-control program might seem at first glance to be an almost automatic goodwill builder with the general public , for its primary objective is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be remembered that a compulsory program of price control was necessary because a voluntary one had proven ineffective . That is , although there was widespread support for the idea of stabilizing prices , there was also widespread desire on the part of the public to buy things . After a decade of depression they needed iceboxes , new stoves , new cars , new dresses , new furniture , and with their fattest , if not their first , pay checks in a long time they were determined to buy them . From the point of view of OPA the two urges were contradictory and irreconcilable . The strategy of winning and increasing public support in this situation obviously had to be to discredit the idea of buying as unpatriotic and unwise , on the one hand , and to emphasize the individual responsibilities and individual advantages of stable prices , on the other . Simply to say these things would not be enough ; people would have to be built into the program , would have to participate in its administration , would have to be made to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of it . Thus the job was partly one of information , but was also one of general policy and operation . As will be more fully explained later , the Information Division of OPA has been guilty of much stupidity , and it muffed this job as it did most others . To this day people have only a general and fuzzy idea of what inflation is , what causes it , what groups of persons suffer most from it , in what ways they suffer , and what the individual citizen can do to help prevent it . Some define it as being " like in Germany where it took a million marks to buy a loaf of bread , " while others say it is " just a terrible thing because everything you own becomes worthless " ; to most perhaps it is just a sinister word , a green-eyed bugaboo . Good price control must spring out of a sensible program at the top and an intelligent people at the bottom . Although the war has been a college education in economics and geography for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject of inflation , and OPA information in a measure is to blame . Other matters helped to make people feeI that the price-control program had by-passed them . The whole thing was run from Washington . For a long time price ceilings were not published in such a way that the public could help in the enforcement of them . Although OPA 's enforcement activity was woefully weak , no vigorous program for the recruitment and training of volunteer price wardens was initiated . To the average man everything OPA did sounded gruff and legalistic . He did not object strenuously ; he simply felt left out . About rationing there was more serious complaint , and the complaint has tarred the whole agency . Despite the fact that rationing and price control are two separate programs within the OPA , the sins of either have been visited on both . In OPA it has been the habit to excuse public outbursts about the program by saying that " people have not accepted the necessity of rationing . " But the persistence of antagonism suggests that there may be determinable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when shortages of any commodity develop the fairest way to assure everyone a chance to get his proper share is to apportion the supply , regardless of the buying power of different individuals . This means of course that if a program of rationing is to gain acceptance people first have to stand behind the idea of equal sharing ; second , they have to be convinced that shortages do actually exist ; and third , they must feel that the red tape of the program is not excessive . There is probably a scattering of subversive discontent about the first , but in general it is strongly popular ; the second and third are the sources of trouble . Doubts about the fact of shortages , and therefore about the necessity of rationing certain commodities , derive from two sources . In some cases commodities have been rationed on a nationwide scale though there was a surplus supply in specific areas , and in those areas rationing has on the surface seemed uncalled-for ; in other eases OPA either did not make clear that a general shortage existed or did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The attack on Pearl Harbor was explanation enough to justify tire rationing , and special informational activity was not needed . But the full necessity for sugar rationing was never clearly presented , nor was the logic of nationwide gasoline rationing . Gasoline rationing on the East Coast was readily related to submarine activity along the shipping lanes . However , the extension of rationing to the whole country was not sufficiently explained . Actually it was done to conserve civilian means of transportation so as to prevent the ultimate overloading of public transportation systems . But the smoke of confusion which has risen out of this issue has enveloped it . Many persons still believe that gasoline is rationed because OPA thinks supplies are short , because OPA thinks transportation is inadequate to supply Midwestern and Western motorists , or because the Government expects to confiscate sires and wants them in good shape . The foolishness of such explanations , especially for certain areas , gives rise to disagreement and resentment ; a thousand stories about OPA 's incompetence are fed and kept alive in the country by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difficulties of getting information . At times conflicting announcements were made by officials in various government agencies , sonic of which were surface indications of interagency wars . Off-the-cuff statements by Congressmen have frequently been incorrect and out of line with OPA releases . And the press has contributed to the confusion when correspondents have written reports based on conjecture . However the most serious difficulty was caused because OPA 's informational activity did not succeed in reaching and impressing the mass of people with facts about why each action was taken and what was expected of citizens who wanted to cooperate . Some class-conscious OPA writers explained this by saying that the media for the distribution of information which they had to use were the press and the radio , both of which were so largely controlled by merchandisers and advertisers that they had to throw OPA into a bad light . Undoubtedly the antagonism of business toward OPA has muddied the water , and some of the press has been gunning for OPA 's hide from the beginning . But there were ways in which OPA could have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business , where it existed , could have been lessened , though it could not have been eliminated because of the nature of the job which OPA was assigned to do . Means other than simple press releases were at hand for Henderson 's information men to use if they had not been harnessed to the habit of thinking in outdated concepts . But because they were soap-sellers and hack journalists they were na ? ve enough to try to sell a basic national program with their usual tricks . The public-relations job which needed doing required more than posters and the ever-present and ever-unreadable " releases . " Regulations should have been simplified ; vigorous programs to organize co-operators and participants in every neighborhood and to educate and mobilize housewives should have been launched ; and direct means of disseminating information should have been more intelligently exploited . Of course part of the blame should he placed on Henderson himself , for there was once the upsurge of a movement within the agency which presaged the kind of public-relations program needed , and he killed it . The occasion was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand and the Information Division and the lawyers on the other . Information and the lawyers won , with Henderson 's hacking . To some extent the Consumers Division had never been able to get its house in order , and heavy external pressures were against any general organization of consumers ; but to aconsiderable extent it appeared Henderson had no faith in the ability of average citizens to help him carry out his program . At least he failed to grasp the possibilities of the proposal . Another thing which alienated support from OPA was its administrative errors . It is fashionable to make general charges of " mismanagement , " " red tape , " and " inefficiency " against all operations of government ; too often such undocumented charges do not qualify as constructive criticism and serve only to discredit all governmental service . Therefore in fairness it should be emphasized that OPA has a tremendously complicated and laborious task ; although all the questionnaires have been distasteful , they were necessary ; and the bureaucrats who caused the worst troubles sit in Berlin and in Tokyo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it from the bottom , the OPA 's organization seems unnecessarily lumbering and slow . To an unusual degree it has been unable to adapt itself easily and quickly to changes in circumstances and to variations between localities . It has acted in blanket orders , and belatedly . Why was the start of coffee rationing so long delayed ? Why were severe and extended shortages of meat allowed to exist in a number of war centers prior to the start of meat rationing ? What was the reason for the sluggish adjustment of the complex original system of retail-price ceilings ? Could part of the cause be internal imbroglios of the agency ? Walk through any of the long corridors of the flat , jerry-built Washington offices and you can always pick up wind of a dozen current squabbles . Could part of the reason be that the Washington office has kept hold of power and refused to decentralize operations ? Regional and district officers have hammered on the idea that they should be allowed greater discretion . Obviously the delegation of certain powers might ruin the programs , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are held in Washington unreasonably . All the kinks in OPA during Henderson 's time are not yet discernible , nor is this analysis complete . For present purposes however the important fact is that for want of something public support was lost , and for want of public support Henderson was lost . POLITICAL opposition to Henderson in .. ? " Congress , always bitter , became sufficiently powerful after the elections in November , 1942 , to present the President with a flat demand for his removal . The club with which they backed up their demand was a threat to hold up all OPA funds , and thus wreck the program . The President has a warm affection for Henderson , and he was ready to smoke the whole issue out for the public to see . But Henderson asked him not to ; he said he was ready to quit . Among other things , an old back injury from his ballplaying days had been troublesome and his eyes were jumpy from strain . Early this year he left . The removal was greeted with mixed feelings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , were jubilant . Others were pleased because they felt a new chief in OPA would mean relaxed , less effective price control . On the other hand , high praise for him came from rather unexpected sources . The press , which often had dogged his heels , generally agreed that he was a " tub thrown to the Congressional whales " ; some went so far as to say he had been " crucified to appease a group of Congressional critics . " A large Eastern corporation on the day after his leaving ran a full-page advertisement in a number of metropolitan dailies which said , " Henderson did an able , two-fisted job for every man , woman , and child in America . . . His was not just a job . It was the biggest business enterprise in the history of man ? the business of controlling the purchasing power of the dollar for one hundred and thirty million people . " A Republican senator from New England remarked publicly , " Within six months they will be praying to have Henderson hack . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from New England was wrong . Henderson , they said , was no longer essential , and probabilities were that he would not be needed in OPAagain . He had fought the first critical battles for the new agency , and had won . They said he had been a valiant , zealous worker in the people 's cause , but his greatest service was as a planner and as a chanticleer to awaken the nation to the dangers of runaway prices . By the time he left the hard work was done , they felt ; the country was on the alert , finally , and the line had been held meanwhile ; the fundamental controls over the causes , not the symptoms , of inflation were in the building ; the Byrnes office was in operation ; the Administration seemed to have found a way to place Labor and the War Labor Board and the Farm Bloc in Congress at loggerheads so as to neutralize the threats of both groups ; the Department of Agriculture , which had become the official auxiliary to the Farm Lobby , was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national rather than only partisan responsibilities . If Congress could pass an adequate revenue bill the battle against inflation would be in hand , they said . In this view OPA subtly and gradually had changed from the spearhead of the drive against inflation ? which it had been under Henderson- - to a routine service agency well back of the lines and out of danger . The occasion for belligerency was substantially past , they felt , and the time had come to emphasize smooth administrative efficiency . There were others , it was agreed , who could accomplish such efficiency as well as Henderson , who could guide the agency in still waters . But still waters can also be treacherous ; such optimism as this seems now to have been too much and too early . VI ONO before Henderson left last January 11t the dopesters had picked his logical successor . The man who piloted the two price-control measures through Congress , and who was Henderson 's student in the problems of inflation control at that time , ex-senator Prentiss Brown of upper Michigan , was the natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OPA , his appointment being accompanied by a gush of goodwill . Many persons remembered Brown 's courageous stand late in 1942 against the Farm Lobby 's attempt to boost farm prices ; they were a little disappointed when he was beaten in the November elections ; and they had good feeling toward him when he took office as Price Administrator . Because he had been one of them , and because he had always been well-liked personally , Brown was quite acceptable to the Congress ; as soon as he was appointed much of the tension between the agency and the Hill was discharged . Some felt that he would be more conciliatory , and they felt better . But the great majority of people , noncommittal , just watched with interest for what the first developments would be . A number of issues were on the fire at the time , and how Brown would handle them would be concrete evidence of the turn he would take . Would Brown insist , as Henderson had been doing , that price control had to be more rigorous ? Would he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prevent qualitycutting , which would defeat price control ? Would he continue to resist the political pressures that plagued the agency ? What would he do about the problem of " letting consumers in on the program " and giving them a chance to participate ? Brown took his time coming back to Washington , stopping to chat with grocery men and gas-station owners on the way . Then for two weeks after he arrived he made no important public statements . But he was not idle and his actions soon revealed which way the wind was blowing . First he conferred with his two chief aides , whom he had brought with him , ex-senator Clyde Herring , from Iowa , and Lou Maxon , an advertising executive from Detroit . A word about the pair is appropriate because of their importance in the new setup . Herring , mellow-voiced , bland , courtly , is as smooth as butter . An ardent New Dealer , he is a habitual caller-on-invalids and sender-of-flowers . During his years in the Senate he was known as one of its most handsomely tailored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff of OPA and to serve as front man in dealings with the Hill . More pertinent than his personality is the background of Mr. Maxon , who was appointed by Brown to act virtually as his alter ego in all policy matters . Head of an advertising agency the chief client of which is a large Pittsburgh canning firm , Maxon is known as a walking , talking version of the deep-dyed conservative . His primary interests are in his business , where his fortune is , and he has come into the government service like a person entering a fish market on a hot summer day . Once the policy meetings were over , Brown proceeded to the first order of business . Immediately the latchstring was put out at OPA for all Congressmen . And one by one the great statesmen of the country plodded down from their offices to Brown 's with their little requests ? " Here , now , is a special situation in my district and it really ought to be excused from the price ceilings , " and " I was not consulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I want him removed and So-and-So put in because he has worked hard for me in the last two campaigns and he deserves some consideration , " and hundreds of others equally harmless . The new Administrator was most understanding ; he made promises ; he called in Mr. Herring and told him to clear all major appointments in the future with the Democrats in the House and Senate ; furthermore , he told him to begin a housecleaning of all merit appointees in the field organization . Herring leaped to his task and promptly issued his most important manifesto : he intended to fire all OPA executives who ( 1 ) had never met a payroll , or ( 2 ) had never carried a precinct . He then withdrew to consider the " reorganization " of OPA ; his program got under way and ward heelers began moving into influential positions all over the country . Next on the docket was open house for the lobbyists , literally hundreds of whom have been prowling the halls of OPA . The staff of the agency could be divided into two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although the two have co-operated well in general , they have consistently had their differences in policy matters which involved " social issues " ; and the treatment of lobbyists is one of the things on which they have split . Because of Brown 's new policy line , the tendencies of the business group in OPA to pay heed to the lobbies were unleashed . Through the cracks that were opened the outside influences seeped in ; memoranda were rewritten , orders were modified , certain actions were held up . To police and promote his ideas Brown named Mr. Maxon as his deputy in policy matters , and it was understood in Washington that Mr. Maxon now had the authority to suppress anything that might pinch anyone who could holler loud enough to be heard on Capitol Hill . Forthwith Mr. Maxon struck down the proposal for quality-control of canned goods through grade-labeling , saying that " Mr. Brown was not quite sure he had the authority to do such a thing and therefore the whole matter would have to wait until sometime later . " He then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living could be held down , that he expected a " slow , well-ordered rise . " The third item on Brown 's docket presumably was to listen to the appeals of the consumers ' groups . But the howls which had gone up as a result of his first series of actions made it necessary for the consumers to wait . Maxon 's elevation to censor of OPA caused the head of every major operation to threaten to quit . The liberal press snorted . Labor organizations began to attack Brown with the same fervor with which others had attacked Henderson earlier . And then , subtly but surely , changes began to take place . In a sense , Brown had still more compromises to make ; the chameleon began to take on the color of his surroundings . Of all the pressures to which a federal administrator is subject ? Congress , lobbyists , friends , the press ? there is one that in many circumstances it is harder to resist than any of the rest , namely that of his own staff . Even Presidents have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down the throat of an established agency that the civil service is neither passive nor neutral . In a real sense it has a character , and often purposes , of its own ; new department heads have many times learned their lesson . When Brown came into OPA he was a novice in the business of administration and price control . He stilt is a novice , for such jobs can not be learned in a day nor in a few short months . The complexitics are unimaginable , and expertness and experience count above all else . Surrounding him were hundreds of men and women of long service in the operation of the program , familiar with the intricacies of the organization , personally acquainted with the " right people " both within the agency and throughout the government service generally , and expert in the skills of finding the facts . Above all , they had been chosen originally by Henderson and his deputies , and their ideas were still in harmony with his . However much Brown might have been inclined to follow a spineless policy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and carefully been building , he could not possibly continue to resist the stronger logic , the broader experience , and the greater know-how of his chief assistants in their daily face-to-face meetings across the conference table . It was not long before he was compelled to fall back on this front too . The first sign . was his modification of the order which made Maxon censor of all OPA activities . The threatened walkout of his staff had succeeded . The next sign was his public statement discrediting the work of the silky Mr. Herring . Following these major reversals were a number of others , all tending in the same direction . Clearly Mr. Brown had not been fired with new courage and resolution ; the same qualities which permitted him to compromise at first simply made him unable to resist the counter-compromises later . The real question was : did two compromises ever make a back-bone ? A close observer of developments in OPA remarked after Brown 's first actions that OPA had become the world 's greatest jellyfish , formless , sexless , and characterless . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wit , more than equanimity , and more even than simple anger and outcry . It called for every American , for every member of every group , to sit down quietly and think . SCENT developments make clear that the contestants in the race of group against group are crouched at the starting line , ready to start the dreadful run again . Moreover it is too clear that the starting pistol has a hair-trigger , and the twopoint flick of a price index may set it off . It is not enough that OPA , having wavered in the direction of lax control , has stumbled toward strong control . Worst of all , those elements of OPA 's program which have been open to criticism not because of political failures but because of a lack of imagination and intelligence arc still fogbound and faltering . For instance , in lieu of a sound informational program , Brown substituted a Typical American Housewife ; who , having been once a Democratic national committeewoman , seemed more in tune with the ballyhoo , partisan policies of her boss than she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program to organize public support and goodwill , Brown has tried to win it like votes with promises of relaxation of regulations , no enforcement , and " honor " systems . How does it happen that the inflationcontrol program , which in principle has so tremendous a base of popular support , has constantly been at the mercy of organized pressure groups ? Are our democratic processes so ineffective that the key office of the domestic war program can be turned into a political rookery ? New Dealers may wonder what has happened to the cause of the Forgotten Man . Where is the old idealism ? Politically , has not a suicidal mistake been made ? How will the complaint which has been made about the doubtful necessity of rationing compare with the uproar that will burst out if the agency should persist in partisan prostitution ? Others may see in the possible catastrophe of OPA the answer to 1944 . They may see in the observed defects of the agency those things which political opposition has always called evidence of the innate devilishness of the party in power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in moral terms all the problems of bureaucracy , pressure groups , and any public policy . But many will see deeper , more continuous , and less personal difficulties than the glib zealots . Why is there no People 's Lobby ? If the President is busy with international affairs , does that Ieave us headless here at home ? What comfort is Congress ?                     