@@471114

AMERICAN boys are now fighting and dying at remote points in the Pacific and on the Asiatic continent the names of which not one American in a hundred would have recognized a year ago . To what end ? What do we hope to gain by war in that part of the world ? What kind of peace will be deemed worth the sacrifice of life and wealth required before we have victory ? The first thing to bear in mind in dealing with these questions is that America got into the World War not by way of Europe , where it had sought for more than a year to bring about the defeat of one of the antagonists , but by way of the Far East . The second thing to bear in mind is that this was neither an accident nor a coincidence but wholly in the logic of American history . Pearl Harbor was an effect , not a cause . Why Pearl Harbor ? To answer the question historians will not have to take official documents apart comma by comma , as is their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Secretary Hull 's formal statement made a few hours after the Japanese attack . But first it is necessary to get the succession of events clearly in mind . Late in July the Japanese occupied southern IndoChina after wresting consent from the Vichy regime . The next day the American government issued an order freezing Japanese assets in this country , being followed immediately by Great Britain , the British Dominions , and the Netherlands East Indies . The reason was plain . Poised on the borders of Thai-land , Japan could enter that country at will and from Thailand invade Malaya at will , thus threatening the conquest of Singapore , the severance of the British Empire , a German victory in Europe and , in result , a world alignment in which the United States would be virtually in a state of siege . Therefore the United States struck back with economic weapons and the effect was to cut Japan off economically from the rest of the world . Unless it intended to reverse its policy , Japan then had to make a choice : slow economic strangulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Recoiling from both horns of the dilemma , it asked for negotiations with the American government . There began the protracted discussions that ended an hour after the bombs fell on Pearl Harbor . They began at deadlock and ended in collision . But before the end both sides had declared their position in writing , unequivocally and beyond misunderstanding , as revealed in the Hull statement . The American government in its formal proposals for a comprehensive settlement had stipulated certain general principles such as equality of commercial opportunities , abstention from aggression , etc. , and then had made concrete demands . Among these were Japanese withdrawal from Indo-China , the occupation of which had caused American retaliation and the subsequent negotiations ; and furthermore the complete evacuation of China proper , which ostensibly at least had no direct connection with America 's position : The Japanese accepted all the general principles and in addition agreed to withdraw from southern Indo-China , thus removing the presumable cause of conflict . But they refused to evacuate China or to discuss the matter at all . And on that issue the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had had no connection with the last phase of the crisis . All else could be settled ; what was beyond compromise was the status of China ? whether it should be free or left to Japanese conquest and control . Because it could not be compromised the Japanese bombers attacked Pearl Harbor . There was nothing new in this except the bombers . The disputed status of China had been the main cause of conflict between the United States and Japan for twenty-five years . All else was corollary thereto . The disputed status of China had been the main cause of all international rivalry in the Far East for a hundred years , whichever countries were involved . All else in the Far East was corollary thereto from the beginning of international politics in the Far East . The rivalry had never come to formal hostilities because before 1914 no one country had dared to force the issue by an open attack on China . The balance of power , especially in Europe , was too delicately poised . Challenge by one country would have aligned all the others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrew from the Far East as active participant , did one country have a free hand in the Far East . That was Japan . And from 1914 to 1937 , when it actually invaded Chinese territory , Japan had been pressing relentlessly to make itself master of China . The United States as resolutely stood in the way , although after 1937 it held its opposition in abeyance for a number of reasons -- including isolationism at home and a fear of getting itself inextricably entangled in the Far East when Europe was plainly getting ready to ignite . But when Japan cast in its lot with the Axis and in 1941 moved for outright consummation of dominion over the entire Far East , the whole issue could no longer be evaded . In the negotiations at the close of 1941 all the corollaries fell into place , leaving China as the central proposition . The climax had come . There had been no peace in the Far East and there could be no peace in the Far East until the fundamental question was settled : was China to be independent or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what empire ? When Japan moved to make a Japanese colony of China the question could be answered only by war , and there is war . II Against this background it becomes clear why the United States was drawn into war in the Pacific and what it should seek to obtain from victory . What , then , do we want ? First and mainly , that we shall not have to do this again . We want a political system in the Far East such that wars will not be in the natural order . If we could not keep out of this one , we shall be even less likely to keep out of similar ones in the future , for now we are formally engaged in the Far East as parties at interest , at least as much as in Europe . Second and Iess important , we have certain definite material objects , principally equal opportunity for the sale of our products in the Far East and the purchase of raw materials to be found there . It is difficult anywhere and always to make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace . Fortunately , the problem in the Far East is simple by comparison with that in Europe . The European problem is almost four-dimensional . It is almost beyond reach , beyond treatment by normal means . The politics of Europe is so deeply enmeshed in intellectual , emotional , almost spiritual fixities , so deeply embedded in the past , that one may well despair of bringing order out of the chaos that has been solidified , as it were , by tradition . Who can draw a map of Europe that will not leave embittered minorities in one country or another , minorities of blood and language and religion and culture ? How organize the continent as a rational economic unit without expropriating certain areas ? How give it political unity , a community of thought and feeling and aspiration , when hate has for so long bred hate , injustice for so long bred injustice , and the feudist 's oath is almost given with the mother 's milk ? We may succeed , and certainly we must try , if we mean to save Western civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most prodigious political feat in man 's history . It is quite otherwise in the Far East . There the political problem is not given form by any long heritage out of the past and is not yet fraught with complexities . It has no subtleties , no intangibles . It is clear , direct , and obvious . To establish a tenable basis for peace in the Far East is relatively easy . The cause of wars in the Far East can be isolated , so that it is unmistakably visible . It is , as has been said , the disputed status of China , rivalry for the prize of China . Once that cause is laid , the main cause of war in the Far East , if not the only one , is eliminated , and there is as good a prospect of peace as mankind can hope for in its present estate . Given victory , then , what is the program in concrete terms ? First : Japan must be not only defeated but crushed . This may have the ring of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states an essential political fact nevertheless . Only thus can we at once impair the prestige of the Japanese military caste at home and demonstrate to the Japanese people beyond misunderstanding that war cuts both ways . Both are indispensable if Japan is to be lived with and the whole Pacific area freed from constant turmoil . The Japanese for more than a generation have been making war as a kind of lark , an agreeable adventure . They aresituated in an area of weaker , almost unarmed peoples . They have fought on other peoples ' soil . It is other countrysides that arc scarred , others ' villages that are devastated and men , women , and children slaughtered alike , others that must live out the rest of their lives in ruins and impoverished . For Japan the adventure closes with martial celebrations and emotional satisfaction . A few Japanese soldiers are left dead in the invaded territory , but the loss of sons fades out of memory , the more quickly among a people of a warrior tradition . Otherwise no scar is left on the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is vindicated and becomes even more unchallengeable . If Japanese militarism is to be checked , the Japanese must be brought to realize that war exacts a terrible price . This they can learn only when its ruins are left on their own soil as an ever-present reminder of the cost of recklessness . It is not sufficient therefore to break the Japanese armies wherever they have invaded ; it is necessary to carry the war to Japan , to destroy its principal cities and its whole industrial mechanism . This can be done only from the air , and it can be done if Japan is defeated at all . Thus there will be twenty years or more before Japan can recuperate sufficiently to entertain ideas of further adventures ; and in the interval the wisdom begotten by suffering and disappointment may have time to generate another temper or at least resistance to samurai-bomber adventurism . Second : after defeat , Japan must be evicted from the Asiatic continent and the islands off the continent . It must be driven not only out of the territories it has just invaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encroached for decades . It must be forced to evacuate China of course , and Manchuria , Mongolia , Korea as well . It must be returned to the status of before 1894 , when it first made war on China . And all the physical properties established on Chinese soil , all its assets there , must be given to China by way of indemnity . Fifty years of aggression must be canceled out , not only as the righting of a wrong and the establishment in the Far East of a relationship of political equity , but as a deterrent against future aggression . Third : China , evacuated by Japan , must be left completely independent ? sovereign in fact as well as in name . This is to say that the Western Powers too must withdraw from China entirely . They must give up the settlements and residential concessions that have been maintained in Chinese ports , must recall their garrisons and their ships of war from Chinese waters , must relinquish all their special privileges . They must thenceforth remain on the same footing in China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be that of one country trading with another on terms of equality . This is on the whole superfluous counsel . We shall have no choice . If the United States and Great Britain are victorious , China too will be victorious . For one thing , China will come through with an army of several million men , hardened , tested veterans . Moreover , it will come through with toughened fiber and sterner spirit . It will not have sacrificed millions of lives and seen half the country devastated just to return to the old regime of little foreign outposts on its territory . The old submissiveness will be gone . Fatalism will not be deemed pertinent to foreign relations . China already has a consciousness of its own strength . It withstood the Japanese for four and a half years ; the most powerful countries in the world were swept out of the Far East in three months . With the British troops in full retreat in Burma , Chinese were called on for reinforcement and for weeks bore the full brunt of the Japanese attack . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India . Knowing its strength , knowing how to use it , China will know too that it can have its way with respect to its own destiny . The mood will be high , and it will brook no diminution of the nation 's stature . China will take for granted , and if necessary demand , and if necessary get by force , the retrocession of all that has been taken from it . Since there will be no choice ? for presumably we for our part will be in no position to use force to preserve our little settlements and concessions ? we shall do wisely to retire voluntarily . And that , it can be safely assumed , we shall do . III With full recovery of sovereignty , with morale restored and a veteran army at its disposal , China will presumably be able to safeguard its independence . In that case there will be no occasion for international rivalries in the Far East , since there will be no prize to contend for . If any advances toward encroachment are made by any great Power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to nip them in the bud . International morality in the Far East will thus be imposed by constraint . Breaches of the peace will be enjoined by fear of the consequences . Unless some new force which now can not be visualized is injected there is not only a high expectancy of peace but a reasonable certainty . It is because of China that there have been such wars or threats of wars that armies and navies were kept in a high state of preparation in the Pacific , with all the psychological and political consequences of competitive arming . There are in the Far East also , it is true , the colonies that Japan has just wrested from their possessors , but they have not constituted a cause of war before and will not if Germany and Japan are defeated . Difficulties will arise in those colonies , whether British , French , or Dutch , but they will be difficulties between the native peoples and their imperial rulers . These are conflicts of another and Less serious order . The colonies will presumably be restored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cessions are made to the native peoples in the form of an approach to autonomy and preparation for eventual independence , there will be revolts of increasing severity . This applies to all , whether French Indo-China , British Malaya , or Dutch East Indies . If there is any wisdom in the older empires ? and there are some signs that there is ? the concessions will be made in time . Certainly it would be the most egregious obscurantism to act as if there could be simple return to what was before 1941 . Once evicted in the most humiliating circumstances , the one-time masters of the colonies will come back to their colonial possessions with their prestige tarnished even in victory . The glow of invincible might will no longer be about them . The spectacle of the English masters being ignominiously hustled out of Rangoon and carrying their baggage in their own hands ? a derogation from the white man 's sanctity in an older and simpler time ? while natives lined the streets in cool observation was symbolical not only for Burma but for the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all the East to see . He will no longer hold his position by assertion ; he will have to prove his capacity to hold it . Against a really aroused native nationalism he can not hold it . He can relinquish it gradually and gracefully or have to fight for it ? unsuccessfully , because he must fight from thousands of miles away . But even if it should come to struggle between empire and dependency , this will not involve catastrophe on the scale of war between great Powers . In withdrawing from the Far East in the sense in which we were in the Far East in the nineteenth century , we are giving up the perquisites of grandeur . We record our resignation to the fact that the grandiose notions of omnipotence of only fifty years ago are dead . We write finis to the overblown imperialism of the Palmerston , Kiplings , Kitcheners , Salisburys , Teddy Roosevelts ; to the conception of Asia as an economic milch-cow for the West . But it is time that writes finis ; we only read history 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to keep a monopoly of the East politically when the seeds of nationalism have been sown world-wide , or to try to keep a monopoly of the East economically when Eastern countries have started themselves to industrialize . We must , then , withdraw from the Far East in the sense in which we were there until ten years ago . We must give up all our ambitions and perquisites in China and relax control of the colonies . Then we must do two things . First , having crushed Japan , we must give it a fair deal economically : not only a generous deal but a better one than it had before it went amok . Having weakened it as a potential aggressor beyond power of recuperation for a generation , we must give it the means to live , so that there will not be the goad of desperation . Second , we must strengthen China ? strengthen it so that it can never again be a prey to conflicting imperialistic ambitions , and so that it can be more profitable to us economically than it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our reward for renunciation of old aspirations ? a renunciation ordained by the course of history anyway , as it happens . IV First with reference to Japan . A nation as large and potentially strong as Japan can not be kept down permanently . It will burst any bonds , however strong , if denied livelihood . About Japan 's so-called population problem as cause for its expansionism a good deal of superficial nonsense has been written and talked . All that Japan really needs to feed , house , and clothe its people on a standard of living not only up to what they have been accustomed to but considerably higher is free access to Asia and other places for the purchase of raw materials , free access to Asia and equal opportunity elsewhere for the sale of its manufactured products . This entails of course a relaxation of tariffs by ourselves in the East , Then Japan can go on with industrialization and , by employing men in factories , feed its population . And if spared the inordinate drain of a military establishment required to carry out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ margin . To be sure , that means that Japan will be in a position to compete successfully with ourselves for the trade of the East , but , as has been said , that was on the cards anyway . It is geography as well as history . Japan is equally efficient and is nearer the market . Its displacement of us was foreordained once it had begun to industrialize . And if Japan were exterminated , some other Eastern nation would industrialize and fulfill the same function . But will Japan thereby recover and go on the rampage again ? For one thing , it will be left spent . It will need foreign help to get its industrial plant started again and that help can be given only on evidence of good behavior . Furthermore , recuperation does not come so quickly after a disastrously lost war . Even Germany , with all its industrial plant , its cumulative industrial experience , its technological advancement , and its natural proficiency , did not recover until twenty years after 1918 . Besides , there will be China as check @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past have been made possible because there was no other strong Power in the East and the West had so weakened itself in the First World War that it was a negative quantity in the Far East . Finally , Japan will not have the cover of an excuse , for there will be no fear of exclusion economically by other empires in the East . And in any case , there will be pause for a generation , in which much can be done by way of working out a new international order or , at the worst , in which we shall have tranquillity in the East . As for China , we shall have to lend it large sums in the form of capital goodson credit , so that it can proceed with industrialization as rapidly as possible . For this there are two reasons . First , only thus can it attain the strength that will make it invulnerable to encroachment and penetration , with all the consequences that we have seen . Second , thus we shall have recompense for the things that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of greater political security ? and also will take a more material , directly profitable form . When the war is over the whole Western world will be not only impoverished but confronted with the almost impossible task of making a transition back to a peace economy . On America there will fall a double responsibility . The prospect for this country is that of financing a gigantic world-wide W.P.A. For a few years at least we shall have to feed Europe , not because we can not theoretically evade this duty but because practically we shall not want to evade it . America can not in its own interest permit Europe to go into dissolution , starvation , or revolution . It can not write off Europe politically or economically . In any case , America will not do so . We shall feed Europe until crops can be sown and harvested again , and we shall give it , on credit , machinery and raw materials with which to resume production and put its people back to work . This is the only condition on which we can ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be repaid for that which we advance ? more likely not . But even if we are not , we shall have our own problem of keeping men at work when we are no longer making planes and tanks and artillery . And it is better to keep them busy making machinery for Europe , even at the taxpayers ' expense , than to have 15,000,000 men unemployed who also will have to be supported at the taxpayers ' expense . At least there will be some prospect that Europe can resume functioning economically and begin buying from us for cash once more . In that sense the debts owed us , though formally never repaid , will be self-liquiWHAT WE WANT dating , which is more than can be said of most of our own relief projects . The same principle will operate in the Far East , but with one salient difference : there is every prospect that we shall be repaid , with both interest and profit . We shall ? or should ? make huge loans to China in the form of capital goods which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not safeguard its independence and maintain peace in the Far East . China had already begun to industrialize before it was invaded by Japan . The movement has had marked impetus since then , mainly under the stimulus of the war . But industrialization can not go far or fast without the provision of capital from without . That will be our role . We shall provide capital in the form of plant and machinery and raw materials ? and incidentally in the form of surplus technicians left idle by the closing of our war factories . Thus the slack in production resulting from the cessation of war orders can be taken up . As China proceeds with industrialization by means of our capital goods its purchasing power will go up in equal measure . It will repay the credits advanced in the form of capital goods and then buy more on direct account . For , unlike Western countries , China is still in the first stages of industrialization . It is as the United States was seventyfive or a hundred years ago . On all the precedents of economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be to the United States and to Europe as the United States was to Europe in the nineteenth century an outlet for the products of heavy industry . Then the " potentiality " of the Chinese market , which has allured us always , can be realized . And at the same time the United States not only can find means of recovery but can postpone whatever crisis is in store for our economic system . It may be that in the decades in which we are helping China to build up its modern apparatus we can find time in which to solve our own economic riddle . Indeed , no other country can serve this purpose but China . No other country of similar size , population , and resources is still in an undeveloped stage and as ready and willing for development . The wealth of the East , for centuries sought and mystically alluring , may still be found . V One obvious question arises . Will China become so strong as to be itself a menace , with its 400,000,000 people , its resources , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be dismissed , though a good deal of near-profundity is already being aired on it and much more can be expected . Military power in our time is in direct ratio to industrial effectiveness ? a highly organized factory system , ample resources already in process of development , advanced technological skill and experience . Witness Germany 's success and the almost fatalistically ordained failure of France . If , for example , it took the United States , industrially the most highly organized and the wealthiest country in the world , two years to get its stride toward military effectiveness , how many decades will it take China ? which still can not make a plane , which has only a few thousand miles of railway , no merchant marine , no navy , and few factories that are much beyond the stage of handicrafts ? For purposes of defense China will be strong in a short time , is strong now , as Japan has learned ; but for purposes of offense , in the connotation of the word threat , it will not be strong for forty or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance is needless ? and impossible . No one can say what will have evolved politically by that time . We may have worked out an international order , or a new constellation of power may have arisen . In any case , it is fanciful or rhetorical and certainly unreal to elaborate pseudo-Machiavellian designs to cover any such contingency . Therefore we may dismiss as amateur strategics all the theories of curbing China by creating a so-called balance of power , by not letting Japan be too weakened , etc . This is textbook politics . Account must also be taken of Russia , in so far as an unknown quantity can be calculated . Whether Russia will come out of the war revivified for revolutionary dynamism , whether it will be a tzarist imperialism new-style , or whether it will revert to a kind of socialism-in-one-country isolationism no one now can say . If it is to be either of the first two , Russia might play the same role in the Far East as Japan . But there are two factors that make for diminution of fear . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war seriously depleted . Europe will absorb too much of its energy and vigilance to leave any surplus for Far Eastern ventures ? especially when it is remembered that America will be at the height of its power and far from uninterested in what happens in the area in which it has borne the main brunt . In addition , China will presumably be strong in its own right and no more disposed to waive independence in Russia 's favor than it has been disposed to waive independence in Japan 's favor . On any analysis one returns always to the cardinal point : if China is so strengthened that none dare challenge the basis of equilibrium in the Far East the train of events and forces that lead to cotaflict can not be set in motion . This , then , is what we should aim to do in the Far East : defeat Japan and , in defeating it , crush it . Drive it out of the Asiatic continent completely . Then by removing tariff encumbrances in Asia , assure it free economic access and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent by removing all infringements on its sovereignty , including those which have in the past inured to the interest of European Powers and the United States . By liberal loans give China the means of proceeding with industrialization as rapidly as possible . Thus we can have some hope of taking the post-war liquidation without catastrophe , but mainly we can lay the foundations of a political system in the Far East that will work , that will make peace feasible rather than invite periodic wars for imperialistic ascendancy . And in that part of the world at least we can emancipate America from the danger that has been growing since 1900 and has come to tragic fruition in this war .                     