@@494238

Japan a Year Later As A CORRECTIVE to the baseless and , as it proved , dangerous underestimation of Japan before Pearl Harbor , the more recent tendency to overestimate that country is healthy but also baseless . At the end of a year of war in the Pacific it can be said that if the war is not yet going particularly well for us , it is already going badly for Japan . Whatever the map kay show , Japan is in a worse position than we are . America can still lose the war , but Japan can not win it . This is not playing with words . What it means is that Unless America , Great Britain and Russia are over%timed by Germany , Japan can not hold her gains . In other words , Japan can not achieve victory on her own , ' mod she can be defeated if Germany is defeated . In fact , e zit. can escape defeat only as a by-product of German victory . Impressive as Japan 's conquests may be in terms of , square uare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceased eight months ago . Since then Japan as been in a state of suspense , spread-eagled over 4 alf of Asia and half of the Pacific . When she has fought , she has fought not to advance but to stay 2ere she was . Even if she should finally succeed in NSolomonvexing the Solomon and restoring her position in Guinea , she will have scored a defensive success za 7i She Will have expended time , men and resources not to get more but to keep what she has , what she already had last spring . And for Japan this is not enough . For Germany it might be , but not for Japan . She is now learning one of the harsh lessons of military aggression : to win battles , campaigns and territory in hundreds of thousands or even millions of square miles is of little use unless and until the enemy acknowledges the victories and submits . In April Japan had consummated a series of conquests that were , on their face at least , almost unprecedented . In actuality they were largely victories by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from her center of power and divided in strength because the Atlantic had an equal claim on her energy and military resources . Great Britain 's efforts had to be incidental to her main concern , which was in Europe , for Germany might attack in the eastern Mediterranean , or even renew the onslaught on the British Isle ? a . The Netherlands were already prostrate . In effect Japan was capitalizing on her geographical advantages . The first victories over , Japan stood poised before Siberia , before India , before Australia .. And there she has stood ever since , principally because she is now paying the penalty of her political disadvantages and of the geographical disadvantages she took over from those she has displaced . The geographical disadvantages are new ; the political are as old as Japan 's overblown dream of world-mastery . For years her militarists have been torn by a dilemma : to go north or to go south . Their heads increasingly turned by easy successes , they went both ways , and the recklessness may be fatal . They made a threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force of equal power , a force potentially as effective for offense as far defense , if the occasion demanded . Later , tempted by British-American weakness , they swept south . But the putative Russian enemy remained on the north ; the actual enemy was not put out of action in the south . A choice still had to be made , a choice between the horns of a dilemma . After April it was impossible to go beyond Burma into India . The monsoons forbade . The British and Americans , then spent , got time for recovery and for reinforcements . The advantage of momentum was lost for Japan . Australia was so far distant that island bases had to be taken first and consolidated ; and American sea-routes for reinforcement and supply intercepted . This required months , again giving the British and Americans the advantage of time . In logic that left Siberia , and there were , it will be remembered , recurrent reports in the spring that Japan was about to launch the long postponed effort to clear Russia out of eastern Asia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the west and experience had taught the Japanese that the Russian bear was deadly unless first given the coup de grace elsewhere . Japan waited hopefully for the German summer offensive to bring Russia to her knees , and waited in vain . She chose a sorry next best , launching an offensive against China in the renewed hope of clearing her rear , which may prove in time to be her greatest point of danger . As usual she could drive the Chinese back but not exterminate them . For that her forces were already too divided . As usual , she swept forward with exultant claims and then receded equally far . There Japan still is now , precisely where she was last spring . Meanwhile precious months have been lost , months America has turned to profitable account , as witness Guadalcanal , New Guinea and two naval victories while simultaneously preparing a European and African expeditionary force . Indeed , for three months Japan has been exclusively on the defensive , and not successfully thus far . It is true that the fabled wealth of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been made of that in most current speculation . Wealth in the soil is of little use to the possessor unless it can be extracted , transmuted to things of economic and military use and transported to where it is needed . In this respect Japan 's position now is very much what it has been in China . She can not capitalize on what she has won . Germany can get skilled labor from her captured lands ; Japan can not . Germany 's occupied areas are all contiguous , Norway excepted , and the problem of transport is relatively easy ; Japan 's occupied areas are not . They are between two and three thousand miles from the Japanese homeland and the difficulty of transportation is almost insurmountable . This is one of Japan 's weakest points ? the lack of an adequate merchant marine . For now Japan suffers from the same handicap that had restricted America 's freedom of action . She must supply her forces from a distance , on long lines subject to submarine attack . At the same time she must carry raw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Furthermore , Germany had a formidable industrial structure and a superlatively proficient labor supply ; Japan 's industrial mechanism was just in creation and her industrially proficient labor supply is meager . It must not be forgotten that as late as 1940 Japan was dependent on America for a large proportion of her machine tools . American experience since 1940 has shown that the industrial structure for war can not be improvised . The metals and minerals , the oil and rubber and rice and cotton are all there , no doubt ; but Japan must get them , must work them up into munitions in order to continue her attack and prepare for defense . GermanY might do it , but it is doubtful that Japan can . And if Japan can not , then time runs against her almost fatally . For she has been cut off from the world economieallY since mid-1941 , and the conditioning fact for her must always be her dependence on the outer world for essential resources . That Japan can replenish herself somewhat from southeastern Asia is undoubted . It can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other necessities she will get a moderate amount , too ; how much she is already getting can hardly be estimated , though logically there can not yet be much . Time was required for consolidation , for taking industrial personnel to the various areas . But that Japan can get enough to balance the expenditure required if and when she must meet full counter-attack by America and Great Britain is hardly likely unless she has aelfr eral years in which to prepare , unless , that is , a re : prieve is granted by German endurance in the sires ' : In the last analysis Japan must eliminate Great Britain and the United States and China or induce them to give up the struggle as hopeless and make a compromise peace leaving Japan in possession of al ! eastern Asia . To that end she must at the very leas conquer India , so that Great Britain and the United States have no base from which to strike at her frog the west ; she must conquer Australia , so that America . has no point of disembarkation west @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and while Great Britain was wholly on the defensive even in Europe . But even then she found the undertaking too risky to attempt . That she can do all of them now is more than questionable , and probably anything less than all of them would not suffice . India is still the point of weakness for the United Nations , partly because the Japanese are massed just before the industrially crucial environs of Calcutta and partly because of the political complications flowing from the Hindu-British deadlock . Yet to launch a full-scale offensive in India is for Japan to risk everything . She must have as easy a victory as she had in Malaya or she will have to weaken herself so materially as to lay herself open before the American counter-attack from Australia , step by step . If she must fight long and hard for India she will face the American counterattack in partially exhausted condition . And of course if she fights long and then fails , she is finished . The same applies to Siberia ? unless , again , Russia is crushed by Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations have a base from which to attack and a Chinese army with which to attack , an army drawn fine and lacking only modern weapons . Japan hesitates , but she can not hesitate long . Time works against her . Japan started at the top of her form . Unless the European war is stalemated for four or five years more Japan will not again be so strong as she was on the day she struck at Pearl Harbor . Mean while the United States is working up to the top of its form . It has already proved that it can hold the Japanese at bay for two months in the Solomons with a divided navy and most of its air force and available manpower earmarked for Europe and Africa . Production alone , it is true , may not be enough to defeat Germany , but it is enough to defeat Japan unless Japan can set up unscalable walls in the mid-Pacific and in mid-Asia . Germany might be able to meet production with production in equal measure ; Japan can not . She must take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But where ? Everywhere there is risk , dangerous risk , and meanwhile it is necessary to devote everything to beating off the Americans in the southwest Pacific , an effort already costly and not very fruitful . As a matter of fact , the war in the Pacific has gone according to calculations , almost according to the schedule that might have been set by those who remained rational in their capacity for diagnosis in 1941 . The first successes had to go to the Japanese , and they did . Only then would the struggle begin . It will take hard fighting to bring Japan to surrender , no doubt . But it is as unwise to exaggerate Japan 's strength now as it was to exaggerate her weakness a year ago . Seen in perspective , Japan 's prospects are not bright . If our own were as promising in the larger world struggle as they are in the Pacific , there would be cause for rejoicing .                     