@@431208

IN THE middle twenties , when a lot of people were making playrooms out o1 their cellars , Clifford A. Nickle converter his into a laboratory . It turned out to be ar excellent idea both for Nickle and for the General Electric Company , for which he is consulting engineer . Nickle can turn his hand to almost anything today in his cellar laboratory ? from the manufacture of diamonds to the brewing of coffee , each according to his own scientific formula and each with his own scientific equipment . The diamonds are not very good yet , but the coffee is excellent and in the last nine years 21 patents for device : in wide use in various industrial fields have resulted from Nickle 's solitary cellar orgies . He works alone , sometimes not emerging from the cellar of his home in Schenectady ; N. Y. , for days at a time . He will devote days , sometimes weeks , to assembling with his own hands the equipment necessary to carry on his experiments . The corporation used to urge him to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeping busy with his hands that he can keep his brain functioning properly .  | His associates in the General Electric plant see little of him . He emerges from his cellar at intervals only slightly more frequent than the winter ground hog , holds brief but illuminating conferences with his fellow research workers , and then pops into his cellar again . Production , engineering , and research heads of the corporation rely upon him to take almost any knotty problem into his burrow and emerge with a brilliant solution . So far as they have discovered , the scope of his ability in the scientific field is almost unlimited . In a single year his patent applications covered such unrelated subjects as a magnetic core , noncorrosive soldering flux , aluminum reflectors , a coffee maker , a method for grinding optical mirrors , a timedelay switch , a method for making abrasive material , lampblack as a heat insulator , and a carbon microphone . Much of his early work on the behavior of synchronous motors constituted a valuable contribution to the modern systems of providing light and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influential also in the development of traffic timers and other special small motors . For such work the General Electric Company gave him the Coffin Award , its highest decoration for original work by an employee . Application of discoveries made by Nickle were important in the development of the new fluorescent lights , which are about three times as efficient as incandescent lights . Research laboratories of the corporation were busy a few years ago seeking to improve the process of manufacturing ignitron tubes . In the transformation of alternating current to direct current these tubes perform somewhat the same function as a spark plug in an automobile engine . They must flash sixty times a second , almost 2,000 , - 000,000 times a year . Nickle went down in his cellar with the problem and came up three months later with an entirely new process by which the production of the igniter , the heart of the tube , was transferred from the laboratory to a mass-production basis . The method has been adopted in the manufacturing of welding-control equipment widely used in the automotive and other industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of uninterrupted service . Nickle 's methods of control for the welding of extremely fine wires of rare metals , in which the wires are heated without melting , are important in the manufacture of vacuum tubes and lamps . Working with E. E. Johnson , then of the General Electric Research Laboratory , Nickle conducted experiments which resulted in the improvement of the inductotherm or " fever machine . " It was through their work that it became possible to apply the heat locally instead of treating the entire body . Nickle , in the midst of his intense research in industrial fields , during which he sometimes was in his cellar laboratory for days and nights on end , became convinced that there was a better way of making coffee than any so far devised and took a  | few weeks off to consider the subject The result was a pressure coffee-maker , with which he turns out freshly made coffee as the need arises . Much of his time is devoted to working with alloys in a search for compounds of greater hardness , high limit of elasticity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work he designed and built a high-frequency furnace capable of producing temperatures exceeding 6,000 degrees Fahrenheit . It was while working with such high temperatures that he switched from coffee making to diamond making . Artificial diamonds had been made years before , but Nickle believes that the method can be perfected at least to the point where diamonds for industrial use can be turned out on a commercial basis . So far he has achieved only what he calls " diamond dust , " though the product is a good deal coarser than dust and is more like sand . In his work on high-frequency furnaces Nickle has developed also a control , used widely now in iron foundries , by which temperatures of the order of 1,500 degrees centigrade may be held automatically to within three or four degrees of a desired point . Such control is particularly useful when metals or alloys are to be brought close to the melting point without actually melting . As if metallurgy , physics , and chemistry were not enough , Nickle turned a few years ago to astronomy as a minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , machining all the parts and grinding the mirror himself . He uses it now and then for both observation and stellar photography , the camera being another of his minor hobbies . He is a pretty good golfer , too , and when he is feeling right can shoot eighteen holes in the seventies . Fishing , however , is his favorite relaxation . A good fishing day is one of the few rivals his cellar laboratory has . He is an expert angler but , to his mingled disappointment and delight , has not yet succeeded in reducing the art to a science . He has tried his hand at it , though . In a world which bristles with artificial lures of every hue and shape , including transparencies equipped with a minute electric light and dry cell , Nickel has undertaken to turn out something new and irresistible . So far he has succeeded only in turning out something new . Like so many plain , unscientific anglers , he has made the discovery that fishing is replete with variables and unaccountables . Born in Sharpsville , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early interest in electricity and worked for four years as a repair man before entering Penn State College , where he had the highest general average that had ever been made there . After serving as an instructor in the U. S. Army Signal Corps during the World War , he joined the General Electric staff .  |                     