@@487837

partly but not entirely because the Progressives , having been ruled off the ballot except in Cook County , where they won the right to list their local candidates , must rely on write-ins for Wallace and the leaders of their state ticket . Since write-ins cause the invalidation of many ballots as incorrectly marked , large numbers of Chicago Wallaceites may pass up the opportunity so that their party will be sure of receiving enough votes to qualify for future elections . Democratic hopes hinge on labor 's ability to turn out in force and on a. faint possibility of some disaffection among downstate farmers . In his speech at Springfield President Truman bore down on the fact that though the Republican Eightieth Congress passed a stop-gap program for farm-price support , it renewed the charter of the Commodity Credit Corporation in such terms as to restrict its authority to supply non-commercial storage for grains put under loan . Without approved storage a farmer can not collect the government loan at support prices . If a great many Middle Western farmers this 488 fall had to dump @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might drop well below the loan level . Democrats hope that the threat of one-dollar corn will react in their favor . While there is a fine irony in the idea of one-dollar corn inducing the farmers to vote Democratic for the first time since . they voted Democratic over ten-cent corn , it offers but a slender reed of hope to lean on in Illinois Two weeks before election all the straw votes show the Dewey strength downstate continuing . What is more , they show the Democratic machine in Chicago greatly weakened . In 1944 Roosevelt , ' losing downstate by 210,000 , won Cook County by 350,000 . It is certain that the Kelly-less Kelly machine can not deliver anything like that margin this year . The dread thought has crossed some minds that the Republicans may carry Cook County for the first-time since Hoover . Jake Arvey , Kelly 's heir as Cook County boss , was one of the original promoters of the **30;688;TOOLONG movement . This does not mean that Arvey is slacking on the job of trying to elect Truman . He is going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ induced . Arvey to essay the Eisenhower flier are now limiting the machine 's ability to turn out a big vote for Truman . Apparently Truman 's civil-rights program is holding the Negro wards in line . But Truman is weaker than Roosevelt was in the Jewish West Side districts . The Poles , who stuck with Roosevelt in 1944 before Yalta ? show definite signs of a switch to Dewey . Above all , Arvey 's boys are finding it difficult to carry with them the middle-class independents all over the city who joyously helped build the great F. P. R. majorities . Wallace appears to be a minor factor . The polls show his write-in strength at 3 to 6 per cent . THERE are local complications , too . Eighteen months ago Arvey persuaded the machine to run for mayor Martin H. Kennelly , a business man of spotless reputation and notable antipathy to the lower forms of ward-heeling . Mayor Kennelly has not exactly smashed the machine that nominated him ; he still puts in a fatherly appearance at its meetings , accepts its honors and public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things are not the same since Kennelly , has been in the City Hall . There has been a gradual tightening up on the patronage which induces precinct captains to do or die . The cynics are not thinking only of Kennelly 's conservative , business-man views when they say he may prove to be the best Republican mayor the Democrats ever elected . The machine 's strange phase of sacrificial self-reform which began with the nomination of Kennelly was carried a step farther this year when Arvey maneuvered the nomination of Stevenson for Governor and Douglas for The 1 ? 11i110.N , Senator . Kelly would n't have Douglas in 1942 ; the liberal University of Chicago professor of economics had to fight the organization in the primary and lost . Now he is the darling of the precincts . As an unashamed New Dealer , he is making a great fight against Curly Brooks . Early in the summer Douglas folded himself into a jeep station wagon and started touring the state . He has been on the go ever since , preaching the straight New Deal gospel in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign policy . When Brooks disdained to debate with him  --  as Douglas disdained to debate with the Progressive candidate ? Douglas cast his speeches in the form of a colloquy with an empty chair , representing the absent Senator . He hammered steadily at Brooks 's pre-war isolationism and at his post-war version of the same attitude . He wanted to know why Brooks , after running against Stalin in so many flag-waving campaigns , now declined to vote for military and economic policies designed to stop Communist expansion . He argued that Brooks was wrong in opposing the draft to stop Hitler and now must be wrong in opposing the draft to stop Stalin . This kind of campaigning brought Douglas no friends on the extreme left , which has always distrusted him . He was conspicuous among the candidates whom the Wallace party did not withdraw its opposition to . Officially , the explanation was that Douglas had attacked Wallace and the third party too bitterly . To the Progressives he was a dangerous imperialist and red-baiter . Curtis MacDougall , professor of journalism at Northwestern University , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was denied a place on the ballot . Broblcs 's strategy was to ignore the left 's deep animosity toward Douglas and resort to the well-worn tactics of the red smear . He sent Representative Fred Bushey , former member of the House Committee on Un-American Activities , to paint Douglas as a dangerous red throughout the state . Busbey dragged out Douglas 's old speeches and fragmentary quotes from his writings to show his one-time sympathy for a rather mild socialism and a third party . This was too much even for the Chicago Tribune . It dismissed the red smear as nonsense , adding that Douglas 's only trouble was that he never grew up . Both the Tribune and Brooks seem to be serenely confident that the Dewey tide will carry Brooks along to victory . When Douglas points out that Brooks stands for everything in foreign policy that Dewey does n't stand for and suggests that Dewey internationalists should vote against Brooks , nobody seems to be listening . In 1942 Brooks lost Cook County- by 112,000 and won downstate by 215,000 . In 1944 Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his middle-of-the-road philosophy was undoubtedly more palatable on the farms and in the small towns than is Douglas 's agOctober 30 , 1948 gressive economic liberalism . It will be a major miracle therefore if Douglas can win enough votes in Chicago to offset the lead Brooks expects downstate . ' THE Democrats ' hope of Capturing the governorship is based on Adlai Stevenson 's apparent downstate strength . The grandson of Cleveland 's vice-president , Stevenson is a lawyer of distinction . He served as assistant to Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox , helped Stettinius manage the San Francisco U. N. conference , and was a member of the United States delegation to the first session of the U. N. General Assembly . This is his first campaign for public office . The Democratic organization picked him for the same reasons it had picked Kennelly for mayor : because he was eminently " clean , " owed the machine nothing , had character and intelligence , and could appeal to independent and borderline Republican votes . Stevenson has been appealing to Republicans so successfully that he may cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Green came to-Cook County with a 263,000 lead , which shook down to 72,000 in the final reckoning . Today he is a rather tarnished ex-boy wonder . The St. Louis Post-Dispatch , waging a lonely crusade without much help from the more blase Chicago press , has brought to light tie-ups between organized crime and the state Republican machine . Its expos ? of bribery and corruption at Peoria has resulted in grand- 489 jury indictments against local law-enforcement officials , based on the testimony of gamblers as to solicited payoffs . The newspaper has charged that the payoff reaches , right into the Statehouse , and no effective reply has been offered . Violence is rife . Three weeks before election the Republican candidate for clerk of the Circuit Court in Cook County was hacked to death in the Loop at midnight . He had managed the campaign of Cook County 's Republican sheriff and was a power in the Green organization . At his funeral state highway police as well as county police were present to protect the privacy of the motley mourners from newspaper photographers . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greedy Statehouse gang as bad as anything the Democrats ever produced in Chicago 's City Hall , is playing into Stevenson 's hands . Though Stevenson did his duty by paying a visit to Truman 's campaign train and makes no effort to conceal his Democratic background and loyalties , he is concentrating on state issues  --  on the political corruption of mine inspection as revealed in the Centralia disaster , on the debauching of civil service during Green 's eight years , on the suspiciously inflated cost of road building and state institutions , and on the failure of the state to share its swollen revenues with hard-pressed municipalities and school districts . If he can reduce Green 's downstate majority , significantly and does n't get his own throat cut in Chicago , Stevenson may save something from the Democratic wreck .                     