@@491906

But Cambrai convinced leading German militarists , if not all the Allies , that the tank was the long-sought answer to the machine gun . They believed it Wattld eventually free the warrior from entrenchment and restore mobility to the offensive . Cambrai planted in the German military cranium the germ of an idea which eventually shook the world in the form of lightning war . Today it is a truism to observe that the armored army has revolutionized the doctrine and the whole pattern of modern warfare . Yet most of is accept this fact with but a vague idea of what an armored force  --  particularly our American Armored Force  --  really is . Perhaps only a perSon who has been with one of these deadly organizations in combat can really appreciate the vast gulf which separates it from the pre-blitz type of infantry , or understand the latter 's futility before it . But a few comparisons may help . For example : In a single American armored division of 12,700 men , there are 19,000 guns , including more than 6500 machine guns and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is said to be more of those weapons than our entire AEF had when it began operations in France in 1917 . It is probably sixty-five times more than the ordinary Chinese division possesses today . It would take China 's present arsenals three years , in fact , to produce the machine guns for one armored division . Army in Armor A REVEALING over-all comparison is afforded by ammunition requirements . An armored division in combat devours about 600 tons of munitions daily . The ordinary American division gets along on thirty-nine tons . In one armored division there are 3250 motor vehicles , or one for every four men . This is about the equivalent of Japan 's total motorcar production in 1937 , the year of her invasion of China . Moving along a highway , and properly spaced , the wheeled equipment of an armored division measures eighty-five miles from end to end . It takes twenty complete trains of 620 cars to move it . On the road its vehicles consume about 100,000 gallons of high-test gasoline daily . Japan 's own gasoline-production facilities might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate , but she would have nothing left to operate her air force , her navy and her armament industry . Most American tanks are powered by airplane engines . The requirements of a single division , with reserves , are almost equal to Japan 's total monthly production  --  her maximum possible  --  of such engines . She needs them for planes . Her tanks are mostly powered by automobile engines . Some 50 per cent of the rank and file in our armored divisions rate as technicians , or occupational specialists . Armored forces on any scale can be created only in industrialized countries with high standards of mass education . Our own experience has shown that among men with less than seven years of schooling two out of five fail to qualify as tankers . All that is no definition , but merely a few of the things that ought to be implied whenever the phrase " armored force " is used . Actually , people often confuse the words " motorized " and " armored " and employ them interchangeably . They mean , of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the cavalry  --  are being motorized as fast as possible  --  that is , they are being equipped with motor transport to carry them to battle . But armored units are not only motorized . They are units trained to use specially built armed and armored vehicles from which they may actually fight in battle . Another erroneous , idea about armored troops is that they are simply made up of tanks and more tanks . The rolling full-track armored fortress certainly is the principal shape of nemesis in armored warfare . But its effectiveness depends upon the tactical use of an increasingly complex variety of supporting weapons . It is no more true that the tank is the only arm of the armored force than it is true that all naval vessels are battleships . What you have got here is a combination of every means of attack  --  all mobile , self-propelled , armored and fire-spitting  --  just as in the Navy you have got everything from a torpedo boat to a man-of-war . Talk to any commander in our Armored Force and invariably he will stress one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you the strength of his force lies in the co-ordination of the combined arms . It utilizes , on wheels and behind armor and under a unified command , the infantry , cavalry , artillery , air corps , signal corps , engineers , and the various services . I confess all this was a new conception to me when I first saw our armored divisions in action in Louisiana last summer , and began to realize justhow completely they outmoded every other military unit I had ever seen , and that they were what would ultimately fight and win the war for us . Before that I had seen Japanese tank attacks at close up in China . As the Japanese used them , tanks were merely a reinforcement of existing fire and shock power . They fought them in a role of accompaniment for infantry , or purely as a striking force against strong enemy positions . But as we employ the tank ? and as the Japanese do now also , judging from the Philippines and Malaya ? it is part of a complex organism with separate functions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withal retaining unity , interdependence and a uniform rate of movement . War 's Five-Man Team ET us see if , without getting too technical , we 1-1 can get a picture of what one of these blitz divisions of ours looks like in action . " Picture " is not a good word for it . No canvas would be large enough to contain the whole scene , and public misconceptions are traceable not a little to attempts to convey pictorially what an armored battle looks like . Organizationally the armored division is divided into five echelons : command , reconnaissance , striking , support , and supply . Each consists of hundreds of men and vehicles . But we wo n't be far wrong if we consider that , ideally , the five echelons should , in principle , work together with the cohesion and streamlined simplicity of a five-man team . Leading the attack you have the reconnaissance echelon , with its armored scout cars , motorcycles , light tanks , infantry mounted in armored personnel carriers , and half-tracks  --  pneumatic-tiled wheels in front , tractor tracks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are , with co-operating observation aviation , the eyes and ears of the command echelon . They poke about , nosing the enemy line , smelling out weak spots and communicating their findings instantly by radio or messenger . They are not simply scouts but fast tough-hided vanguards prepared to seize terrain or knock out enemy formations if desirable , or to fight their way back to contact with the main forces if necessary . They spread out , infiltrating the enemy lines and cultivating openings for the shock troops which follow . They never move in an unwieldy mass  --  except for the newsreels . ( Continued on Page 37 ) ( Continued from Page 131 Behind them , though occasionally as much as fifty miles distant , comes the striking echelon , carrying the most formidable concentration of fire power and armor in the division . Here are the bulk of the field guns as well as light and medium tanks . Together , by combining fire and movement , they deliver an unending and seemingly irresistible stream of steel . All other echelons  --  and indispensable air combat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purpose of bringing this striking force into the tactical position to deliver its haymaker punch . Close to the striking power is the support echelon with its engineers , artillery and antitank guns , and its infantrymen carried in armored half-track vehicles . It assists in the attack , seizes ground lying between tank lanes , and eliminates antiaircraft guns . It improves security by preparing road blocks , obstacles and land mines , and by performing demolition tasks . The supply echelon furnishes the fuel and rations to keep vehicles and men in action . With its skilled mechanics and its medical detachment it also repairs , when possible , the damage done to both tanks and tankers , and provides maintenance . The command echelon includes the tanks and cars of the division commander and staff , into which information pours in a steady stream by courier and radio from every part of the battle front . Unlike other command posts , this one is usually in constant movement . Much of the paper and head work , the sifting , sorting and coordinating of information , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be worked out inside a moving tank or command car . That 's the general relationship between echelons , but in real life they are never quite ao neatly separated either in function or location . Just as with a football team you have a line and a backfield , and within that frame a wide variety of formations , so , with the armored division , you get ever-shifting groupments , large and small . Here there is a bunching up and there a fanning out , with a bewildering shuffling of echelons . And then you have ever-widening circles of action as the attack co-ordinates more and more divisions of this type . The Panzer Secret In Louisiana I rode during sham battle in the command tank with Maj. Gen. George S. Patton , of the 2nd Armored Division . Most of the time we were miles ahead of the support echelon and right on the tracks of the reconnaissance , or even in contact with the enemy , or far in his rear . The risk seemed to me grave for a command position . Twice I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time a full-speed reverse  --  forty-five miles an hour  --  promptly changed the situation . Thus , armor and mobility and all-way communication give the component parts of the division an amazing versatility in maneuver , flexibility and freedom of action , and power of recovery . It is the mastery of just this art of quick change and regroupment which , our tank experts say , explains German victories even more than their mighty weapons . Down at Fort Knox , Armored Force headquarters , I met Col. James Crockett , who is just now writing our first training manuals for armored troops , and beard him enlarge on that point . Crockett was in Germany throughout the period of expansion of the German army , and is reputed to know more German officers than any two other English-speaking men alive . He attended the German staff college while a military observer in Berlin , and learned blitzkrieg from the horse 's mouth . This is the way he summarized it all , in " layman 's language " : " The Germans recognize that in modern warfare every situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their system of grouping is a new conception and different from our tactical or task force . It is much broader and more flexible . It enables them readily to use the different tactical organizations of every branch of the army in combination ? task groupment  --  under a unified command . This is the secret of the panzer success  --  and it is an altogether new thing in the history of warfare . " The Germans had six years , and the laboratory of Spain , in which to perfect these tactics which brought them such spectacular gains  --  until they became frozen in and helpless in the snows of Russia . So far we have had but a year and a half to practice with the same weapons . Despite years of agitation by people like Congressman Ross Collins and many enthusiastic younger officers in the Army , it was not till July , 1940 , that our General Staff finally recognized the radical changes going on in military science by bringing together all our available mechanized resources to form an Armored Force command . Still under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we remained wrapped in our deep dream of security and peace until Nazi triumphs finally awakened the Administration to the need for funds to put our troops and their guns in armor and on wheels . Nevertheless , once it was activated , our Armored Force began to break all records for speedy progress . On its first birthday it was already clearly destined to become the most important command in the land forces . Today , eighteen months old , it is the outstanding organizational achievement of the entire Army and unquestionably the most powerful combat group we have ever possessed . Little burdened with tradition , ritual and precedent , the Armored Force gets things done with a minimum of red tape . Being directly under the Chief of Staff doubtless helps out . There seemed to me less clannishness than is usual among officers , and a closer relationship between officers and men . Not sure about this , I asked a young captain of infantry his opinion . " I felt the same thing as soon as I came in here , " he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a meeting place of infantry , cavalry and artillery . Usually there is jealousy between these branches , but here we forget where we originated and develop teamwork and loyalty to a new and conIrrion ideal . We have no more tradition with officers than with the men and this makes it easier to get ac quainted . There are no barriers to close association both ways . " Part of the Armored Force 's excellent press may he due to its first-rate liaison officer in Washington , Col. G. K. Cheves , whose patient instruction has made many a correspondent " armor-conscious . " He has excellent reinforcement down in Fort Knox now in Public Relations Officer Tristram Tupper , known to readers of this publication as the author of The River . But mostly the blitz boys have become popular because they are impressively competent . They seem to be officers of higher caliber , and better satisfied than most , and this has been true all along , for months before we got into war . It may he partly because these officers are learning a lot , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly and promotions have been coming fast . Both brigadier and major generals in the A. F. are , on an average , two years younger than the rest of the Army . Callow youngsters  --  one only forty-seven ? have been made brigadier generals . The present commander of the Armored Force is one of the youngest major generals of the American Army . He is Jacob L. Devers , who is fifty-four and looks forty-five . The School of Hard Knocks " Do n't get the idea , however , that this is any place for discards or passed-up colonels , " chuckled alert Brig . Gen. Jack W. Heard , commander of the 5th Armored Division . Wryly fingering a long scar beneath his lower lip , he told me a story . Briefly it was this : An officer , getting along in years , came to Knox from a near-by camp shortly after the Armored Force was created . News had spread that the force was short of officers and he wanted in on the ground floor . All went well until General Heard took him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now with a tank you usually either go right through whatever you hit , without pause , or you come to a sudden devastating stop . There is no in between . The driver has to be the judge of whether he can knock over an object or must go around it . Well , all ut once , bang ! " concluded General Heard . " We hit a tree stump and lost the argument . I was caught with my mouth open . I shot straight ahead into the tank wall and bit a hole several inches long right through my chin . But my fellow traveler passed out cold . When he woke up he was covered with blood from my wound . He thought he was dead . " The brigadier paused and smiled . " He withdrew his application for a transfer . " In other divisions , commanding officers may ride on upholstery , but not here . They take every bump with the men . " You have to be more than a good officer in these hell divisions , " a staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a bloody acrobat ! " The statement is supported by the fact that divisional commanders in-chide some first-rate athletes . Chief " Jakie " Devers was one of the Army 's crack polo players . Gillem was a college football star . Heard was a pioneer of Army flying . Patton starred in track , football and polo , once represented America in the Olympics , and today pilots his own plane to see for himself how his troops look from the air . Many other commanders are outstanding specimens of how to keep fit though an officer . I have seen something of all our armored divisions except the 4th  --  which is wintering in its ski suits up at Pine Camp , New York  --  and the same high standards of leadership prevail everywhere . Most A. F. higher commanders have had combat service in at least one war . An odd point is that an exception to this is General Devers himself . It is a tribute to his organizing and administrative ability , as well as to the Army 's fairness  --  the general has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as his youth he has been given . such a highly responsible command . But the men of the A. F. are more impressive than their commanders  --  as is always the case wherever the latter are really good . In fact , with two exceptions , this is the only part of the Army I have seen where , even in the low-morale days following the extension of the draft , the average selectee seemed , whether in camp or on maneuvers , more interested in his work than in getting home . Former college men , barbers , laundrymen , salesmen , truck drivers , farmers , factory workers , clerks and baseball players  --  I have found and talked to all of them among the tankers  --  there is a self-esteem here comparable only to that of the new recruit in the Air Force . Something akin to a glow exudes from this modern rough rider which marks him apart from lesser breeds who walk without armor . He wears his brilliant tricolored arm insignia , a tank emblazoned with a bolt of lightning , with conspicuous swagger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way  --  combining infantry blue , cavalry yellow and artillery red  --  is one indication of the ways the command used to " sell " the force to the men . It was adopted when sleeve markings generally were verboten , apparently because of laundering difficulties . But the A. F. people got around that . They made the little tanks detachable for washing , by fastening them on with snaps , a practice soon emulated by others . Sons of Flash Gordon Though the Armored Force troops were n't allowed to wear special divisional insignia , nothing prevented them from adopting pet names and popularizing them . Thus the 1st Armored Division became known as Old Ironsides , the 2nd as Hell on Wheels , the 3rd  --  at Camp Polk , Louisiana  --  as the Bayou Blitz . The names spread and caught on throughout the Army . When the 5th Armored Division was activated in October , and selectees were assigned to it from various camps , they busied themselves thinking up an appropriate sobriquet . Before the officers could find one themselves a draftee turned up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Victory  --  Division . And so it is known today . Down in the Bayou Blitz the favorite music is the General Gillem March , composed for the division 's commander by a patriotic private with the musical name of Willie Charkoveky . In a previous article I told how General Patton carved a Pine Bowl out of the forest where he can gather his whole division for a powwow , and of other ways that his men keep interested , busy and happy over at Fort Benning . So it is with every armored division I have seen . From privates to officers they are definitely getting a kick out of it . The fact is the jerries and Japs could n't have chosen a kind of warfare better suited to American temperament . American youth will try anything if it is new , hard-hitting and hard to hit . The very word " armored " is psychologically right . The word stirs the adventurous spirit and evokes romantic ideas of knighthood and crusades . Or , which is more likely , it finds association , in the subconscious mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Superman , Flash Gordon and other machine-age genii invulnerable to everything from stink bombs to invisible rays . It happens that there is just enough basis for such fancies to make the comparison apt . Fighting from battle buggies and bulletproof cars does restore the soldier 's feeling of godlike invincibility . At the same time it simulates the conditions of individual combat and provides that incentive to heroism and initiative which is notoriously lacking when you are part of a herd fighting from trenches . Other obvious factors contribute to the high morale which from its beginning characterized this force . Fully half the men in it are dealing with motors , and the other half are handling the latest improved weapons . Never a dull moment . Almost any American youth can be happy , given that combination  --  especially when the motors happen to be of the aircraft type . " I 'm learning something , " man after man told me when I asked him if he liked it . " It 's fun and it 's something I ought to know . " An American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't take down a motor and put it together again . Being in the Armored Force is like taking a postgraduate course at Government expense . The competitive spirit is sharpened by the relatively high degree of cerebration required for a specialist 's rating . Because it is a new organization , promotions are usually rapid for enlisted men . In the Armored Force School , at Fort Knox , I ran across a sergeant already teaching a class in electricity , though he had been drafted only six months earlier . He had applied for an officer-candidate 's post and expected soon to he accepted . Brig . Gen. Stephen G. Henry , commandant of the school , told me that no less than 90 per cent of all officer candidates for the Armored Force were now coming from selectees . This Armored Force School is something to make any American proud of his countrymen . Few even know it exists . If it did not , we would be in quite a mess at the moment . Yet at the start its organizers found little understanding anywhere and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They lacked funds to buy necessary equipment . They could not get airplane engines or tools for the workshops . Aircraft and automobile experts were needed as teachers , and manufacturers had to be coaxed to release them . Moreover , the British , the Dutch , the Canadians , the Brazilians and the Chinese began sending us students to be taught to use our lend-lease equipment . Even the U. S. Marines come to Knox to learn . Established in November , 1940 , the school opened with 1600 enlisted men and 200 selected officers , enrolled for a three months ' course . Shortly afterward the Armored Force was expanded from two to five divi sions , and a school built to train 800 officers and 7200 specialists annually , had to retool itself to turn out 1400 officers and 26,000 men . But it was done  --  by working the classrooms and workshops twelve hours a day , and , by staggering courses . The vast majority of the recruits here who pass their aptitude tests have had no previous special training . Yet in three months they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio electricians , gunners , clerks and stenographers . Officers get training in tank tactics , ranging from renewed study of the methods of Jeb Stuart , Nathan Bedford Forrest and Sheridan , to analysis of European blitzes . It is tough going , and quite a few fall by the wayside . For example , in the wheeled-vehicle class , students must learn in one week to assemble and disaesemble an entire engine . In another week they learn the uses of twenty-nine different electrical appliances . Graduates of the motorcycle class are capable of making field repairs for any known complaint of their iron horses . Tank students learn three different engines ? the Diesel , Wright and Continental . The Diesel alone has 3500 different parts . Six Men in One Boys who knew nothing about radio but how to turn a dial ? 90 per cent of a big class confirmed this when I asked for a show of hands  --  grasp the rudiments of radio electricity , plus code and cryptography , in the same three months . About every fifteenth man in an armored division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gunners get what at first glance appears to be the ideal combination of play and study . They work on a wobble platform where guns are mounted on a kind of bellows which simulates the movement of a tank in action . From this they fire subcaliber ammunition at a painted landscape , with miniature tanks and armored vehicles moving along at high speed , instead of clay pigeons or tin ducks . After weeks of this , they fire in earnest with live shells . These gunners have to be good , and be six men in one . For instance , the man who fires a 37-mm. gun in the new medium tank must be able to perform the following jobs simultaneously : operate the traverse-control wheel for his 37 , operate its elevator , sight and aim the 37 and the machine gun , handle the button releases for both guns , and control the trigger ; and while doing this receive and relay the commander 's instructions to the tank operator . Obviously , so high a degree of co-ordination is required of this lad that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the folks back home . " In fact , " dryly remarked the artillery instructor who told me all this , " give him a harmonica and a hand in stud poker and he would be a fairly busy guy . " By now we should have approximately 25,000 fully trained Armored Force officers and specialists . This would indicate specialist personnel adequate for four full combat divisions , or , spread out thinly , perhaps enough for eight training divisions . Clearly it is n't enough for the present need . How quickly will we now be able to increase the output ? You might think , right off , that a proper classification system would turn up plenty of skilled men from the ( Continued on Puge 40 ) ( Continued from Page .38 ) draftees who would n't have to be sent to school . The Armored Force people say no ; there are n't enough to go around . It must be remembered , too , that thousands of skilled workers engaged in vital defense industries are being exempted from service . " In an emergency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we can increase the capacity of our school to forty-eight thousand annually . " The emergency appears to be here , and presumably we shall be graduating 12,000 every three months from now on . But even that rate will supply specialist personnel for only eight combat divisions a year . A further doubling or even redoubling may be an early necessity . Even when we get the trained specialists , they wo n't automatically make combat divisions ready for action . " Development of the potentialities of an armored unit , " the late Gen. Adna R. Chaffee , founder of the Armored Force , discovered , " is dependent in an unusual degree to the decentralization of command , operation and maintenance to the enlisted men , coupled with his initiative , judgment and degree of training to meet each situation . " Recently there was an interesting demonstration of how well this point has been pushed in training . Eight reconnaissance parties were sent out by the 2nd Armored Division on a tactical mission lasting some days . At the end the party which won highest credits on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man whose officer had been knocked out during earliest phases of the maneuver . The Race With Time " Experience has proved , " said General Chaffee , " that it takes a minimum of four months to train an enlisted man to participate as a junior member of his team in field service . An additional three months is required in the A. F. School as the first step in qualifying technical experts . " Add to that the man 's initial three months ' general training in an induction center before being earmarked , and you get a minimum of ten months needed to make a junior armored warrior . Brigadier General Henry put the minimum training period at a full year . We have been working on the 1st and 2nd Armored Divisions eighteen months , and they had cadres of trained tankers to start with . This period culminated in the Carolina maneuvers last autumn , certainly the most searching test of the kind ever given in America . They appeared to perform beautifully , but not well enough to satisfy Lieut . Gen. Lesley J. McNair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that they were yet ready for battle . If the Carolinas had been real war our troops would have suffered devastating casualties , he thought , owing to incomplete training . People point to the fact that ? though many of our soldiers were shipped to France before they had fired a rifle , still they gave a good account of themselves in the trenches . But that was cowboyand-Indian stuff compared to today 's fighting . Plainly , a man can not master tank gunnery while on his way to the front lines . And in the A. F. it is n't only the danger of sacrificing untrained men but of losing costly equipment and its terrific fire power , which could be turned against us . Besides teaching us that our troops needed still more practice , the Carolina maneuvers resulted in radical changes in the armored division . The new improvements will unquestionably make it the world 's most formidable fighting unit . Getting down to cases , this redesigning means that the armored division of 1942 will have twice the fire power it took to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 105 mm. ? are to be increased from 429 to 752 . The present three tank regiments of each armored division , two light and one medium , are being revamped into two tank regiments , each containing two battalions of medium tanks and one battalion of light tanks . This will increase the medium tanks from 108 to 232 , while light tanks are being decreaRed from 273 to 158 . Probably the most far-reaching innovation is the addition of an antitank battalion using self-propelled artillery . The antitank battalion , with its twenty-seven self-propelled 37-mm. antitank guns and a large number of selfpropelled 75-mm. guns and 105-mm. howitzer artillery , is the result of a new plan of antitank defense , tried and tested in maneuvers . Like the division 's tanks themselves , the antitank guns will co-ordinate fire and movement in an offensive defense , searching out enemy tanks instead of waiting for them to attack . Obviously , the problem of speedier training is closely related to that of supply ? the prompt delivery of these new weapons . Thus far , paucity of equipment has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The end of 1941 actually saw us with only five armored divisions and the cadres of a sixth . Of the five , only the 1st and the 2nd  --  the 1st Armored Corps  --  had their full quota of tanks on the old basis . But they lacked spares and essential items like self-propelled guns , heavy howitzers and antiaircraft guns . The three other divisions were short of everything . A testament of our unpreparedness  --  and of our good will toward man  --  is the fact that in fifteen years , up till 1936 , this country made just thirty-three tanks . Even as late as June , 1940 , we still had a total of only 393 tanks  --  all obsolescent . Today we are making more than that every fortnight . We  --  our producers and our ordnance technicians ? have passed both Britain and Russia . In a year and a half we have almost overtaken Germany 's seven-year lead . By July we shall have left the Nazis trailing . Tanks are the strong point of ordnance performance . But Col. John Christmas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked him about relative merits . " We think our tanks are at least as good as any other , " he said , " maybe better . But only combat can be the test of that . " Since then American light tanks have been running circles around Axis vehicles in Libya , and military reports show that they are superior to anything Germany or Italy has put against them . Still , we do not know whether the Germans have something better in Europe . This is a job of intelligence  --  and the scandal of the war thus far seems to be the monotony with which we remain unintelligeneed , However , our tank department believes it has in store some surprises of its own . There is confidence in the War Department about the standard tank models now rolling from assembly lines . These are our so-called light tank , which weighs thirteen and a half tons and is almost the equivalent of the German medium , andour own medium M-3 and M-4 , which weigh twenty-eight tons . The latter is an improvement over the M-3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new medium has , for one thing , tremendously increased power  --  many more than the mere 400 horses under the steel hull of the M-3 . It has a power-driven revolving 75-mm. gun mounted in its turret , with a seven-man crewhandling that plus a 37-mm. cannon , four machine guns , and personal arms . The M-4 's projectile-shedding qualities have been enhanced by lowering and rounding the whole contour , and by using cast instead of riveted steel  --  which in this case is almost three inches thick in vital spots . With all its weight and armament , I found this more comfortable than the light tank . With plenty of leg room , and rubber cushioning to take up the jolts , it rides about like a heavy-duty truck , and even with all six guns blazing , the noise inside  --  where you get only the detonating charge  --  is nothing like the din a single 37-mm. gun sets up in your ear if you are outside . This medium M-4 has another feature which may eventually change all tank tactics . It is believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a gyrostabilizing device which enables fire in movement , as on a warship . Till now the Germans have won their victories by a skillful combination of fire and movement  --  that is , groups of tanks cover one another 's movement by alternating at firing , from a standing position , as they progress in a general zigzag advance together . Our tankers have been taught German tactics and never waste ammunition  --  a tank carries only seventy-five rounds for each of its heavier guns  --  by fire in movement , except at close quarters . Now the gyrostabilizer may immensely increase mobility , doubling the rate of advance of a whole line . Armored-force tacticians disagree about the gyrostabilizer 's efficiency . But tacticians like Colonel . Crockett , schooled in the German theory , are still skep tical . They advocate continued fire and movement . Then there is our battleship of the armored fleet , the T-6 heavy tank , of which fifty are being made at Baldwin Locomotive Works . A monster of about fifty-seven tons at this writing , it may go up to seventy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away anything up to heavy field artillery . Its Own armament is now a three-inch gun of high velocity and penetrating quality . A new heavy tank has already been authorized . Details remain secret  --  but it 's a safe bet it will pack heavier guns . Assistant Secretary of War McCloy told me that this new heavy is the mightiest tank ever built , as far as we know . We have proof of a fifty-ton German tank , though we lack combat reports on it . But despite persistent rumors of giants of eighty and a hundred tons , our people ca n't find out  --  even now , in the case of the Russians  --  whether any actually exist . American tank engineers are convinced that no satisfactory tank of such size has yet been produced in Europe , for what seem sound reasons . The Pearl Harbor Goad First , it may be argued that we have been backward in armor design and armament for all our armored vehicles . But it is also true that in mobility and mechanical performance American tanks are far ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have but half the horsepower per ton of American tanks , and hence less speed and maneuverability . Wherever automotive engineering experience counts America already leads . The major obstacle to heavier tanks has been the power train . We now have electrical and hydraulic variable-speed transmissions which promise to relay astounding amounts of horsepower to the tank tracks . This solution was found relatively quickly here because of the help of American automotive engineering . Countries less richly endowed with " automobile brains " simply can not keep pace henceforth . Tanks of 100 tons with a top speed of sixty miles an hour are a possibility , and so are flying tanks  --  despite failures to date  --  and whole armored-plane troop divisions , if the war lasts long enough . But our present heavy tank is considered a special weapon of limited use  --  chiefly because it can be stopped by streams , since few existing bridges are large enough to bear it . Nor can available cranes lift these behemoths to our ships . A few months ago the OPM proudly let it be known that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and 3000 monthly by December , 1942 . But only " under pressure . " However , America is learning that above mere pressure there is a real high gear known as war . When it hit this country all previous bets on production automatically were canceled . We had it on Navy authority that during the attack on Pearl Harbor six workers unloaded and mounted an antiaircraft gun in two hours  --  a job which normally would have occupied twenty men for a day and a half . Obviously , it is that same kind of miracle which is ' going to convert the automotive industry overnight into a tank arsenal exceeding the combined output of the rest of the world . Only Pearl Harbor could have done that for us , as the President pointed out when he recently promised us 45,000 tanks by the end of this year .                     