@@470744

ON the afternoon of August 22nd ? the news of the German-Russian treaty had arrived that morning ? Paul White of the news department of the Columbia Broadcasting System called Elmer Davis on the telephone . Kaltenborn was in Europe and a news analyst was needed . Mr. Davis said that he would oblige , and for many days thereafter was on tap at every hour . Occasionally he would get away to a nearby hotel , but this was no refuge , as he was liable to be routed out of bed at any hour of the night to dea. with a fresh sensation from overseas . He described his experiences last November in an article called " Broadcasting the Outbreak of War . " Since then the feverish Dace has slowed down hot Mr. Davis is still busy as a news commentator and may be heard every evening at 8:55 E.S.T. over WABC and at various other times , morning and aftcrnoon , through the week . In " The War and America " Mr. Davis makes a contribution to the series of discussions of foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few months . In effect he argues that American foreign policy should be dictated by our national self-interest and that an Allied victory is to that interest , and that we may push that interest by furnishing the Allies with material aid on a big scale . He says : " I confess have a personal stake in peace ; beyond military age myself , I have a con whn wrnrlrl t , P anII ? mr the- firct r-511nri ? eltsel I have a job which the government would probably abolish if we got into the war . Consider that evidence of bias , if you like , in judging the foregoing arguments . I have only tried to set forth what seem to me the facts , on the theory that no sound policy can be determined without consideration of all the facts available . One of those facts is that it is to our interest to keep out of this war if we can ; another is that it is no good bolstering up that argument by maintaining that this is a war between the pot and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is something of a cat fancier . He once wrote an article for us " On Being Kept by a Cat . " We reproduce a photograph of the cat that rules the Davis household . LasT November we suggested to Ferdinand Lundberg that it was time somebody got round to the news-letters and in " News-Letters : A Revolution in Journalism " he has done it . By the time he had finished his investigations he had accumulated " nearly fifteen pounds of data . " The research included expeditions to Washington and correspondence with many newspaper people both here and abroad . As we go to press Mr. Lundberg sends us three more examples of news-letters scoring beats on newspapers . It so happens that all three examples are taken from Whaley-Eaton Letters . Their letter of January 23 , 1940 , anticipated by three days the announcement of the Canadian general election . In 1928 Whaley-Eaton had a beat of several weeks on the British intention to shelve the Stevenson rubber restriction and price-control act , a matter of vital importance to United States motor manufacturers . hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long fight against the Stevenson Act . Whaley-Eaton also had a long beat on the British abandonment of gold in 1931 . Mr. Lundberg is in an excellent position to contrast the news-letters with the newspapers since he put in ten years as a newspaper man himself . Three of those years he spent in police and court reporting in Chicago . He was one of the news men who showed up in O'Banion 's flower shop a few minutes after the unfortunate Dion expired in one of Chicago 's most sensational gang murders . In ? . ? . ? ? 1- : c --  .... him near the activities of Al Capone , with time out to cover a chapter of the W. E. D. Stokes divorce . In 1927 Mr. Lundberg came to New York to work for the United Press . For three months late that spring he was at Roosevelt Field covering Lindbergh , Byrd , Chamberlin , and the other flyers who were taking off for Europe every few minutes . After that he worked at the Daily News copy desk and then , for seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herald Tribune . In 1934 he quit this job to write . His books include a biography of Hearst and a book about America 's Sixty Families which Mr. Ickes took for a text in a celebrated radio speech . Mr. Lundberg is now at work on a book about the lawyers . Three chapters of this have already appeared in HARPER 'S . GAS RELUCTANT DIVORCE 4 r-F1HAT Woman " is the third story of 1 Nancy Hale 's to appear in HARPER 'S . Miss Hale has written two novels : The Young Die Good and Never Any More , and a book of short stories called Earliest Dreams . IS THIS YOUR FIRST MARRIAGE ? a or about April 2 , 1940 , twelve days o this number of HARPER 'S reaches the stands , the sixteenth decennial census of the United States will begin . Richard G. Hubler 's " Now for the 1-. ) 40 Census " gives the background for the great enumeration . This census is carried on under a New Deal Administration which has been assailed for eight years with the charge that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . Whether that is the reason for acrimonious talk about the census being just a great big snoop or not is not certain ; maybe it 's always been regarded so . Maybe the arts of communication had not been sufficiently refined in other days so that the news of discontent could be swiftly relayed about the country . At any rate , as the census taking machine moves into action , hoots and catcalls can be heard . Arthur Krock devotes a column in the New York Times to complaints about some of the questions . When William O. Kendrick , the census bureau manager of the Syracuse area , visited Olean , New York , to explain some details of census taking there ened to take a broom to any questioner . Mr. Hubler describes the sample census taken in Indiana last summer . The photograph shows a Hoosier farmer telling all . Until a few weeks ago Mr. Hubler was on the staff of News Week . Now he 's on his way to South America as a free lance . This is his first contribution to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the foreign policy of the United States toward Europe and what he thinks it should be . In " Our Job in the Far East " Nathaniel Peffer presents a thesis for an aggressive policy in the Far East , arguing that the present weakened state of Japan presents our government with an excellent chance tostop the Japs ' expansion and to do it with a minimum of risk . In the past ten years we have published nine articles by Mr. Peffer about the Far East , its problems , and the relation of the United States to them . The first of these articles , " The Death of Chinese Civilization , " appeared in HARPF , R 'S for March , 1930 . The most recent was " Japan and China : Second Year , " published in September , 1938 . In all , Mr. Peffer has spent eight years in the Orient . For six of those years he was occupied as an editor and correspondent ; during the other two ? from 1927 to 1929 ? he was in China as a Fellow of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associate professor of international relations at Columbia University . He has written three books : The White Man 's Dilemma ; China : The Collapse of a Civilization ; and Must We Fight in Asia ? IT is 7:30 A.M. in New York City . Already the radio has disgorged the Farmers ' Digest and the early news reports . It is not yet time for the hearty young man who calls himself The Wife Saver to reveal the fact that Mrs. Stocker of San Antonio cleans her sink drain by pouring a cup of kerosene down it once a week , taking pains not to let cold water follow the kerosene before hot . There is a pause and into this pause bursts WQXR 's " Breakfast Symphony . " An hour later , at 8:30 , Kitty Keane ? through the kindness of Procter and Gamble ? takes up the agony of life , as she must do from Monday to Friday . Tormented and exasperated listeners wonder what can be done with the impossible Charles . Thereafter , through the day , the " Soap Opera " described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . In " WQXR : Quality on the Air , " Henry F. Pringle tells something of the remarkable story of this station and of John V. T .. Hogan , its founder . Mr. Denison studied architecture , quit it to drive an ambulance during the World War ; then he went back to architecture until , in 1921 , he became the art director of the Hart House Theatre at the University of Toronto . While there he wrote a series of plays on Canadian themes . In 1930 he wrote and supervised a number of radio plays for the Canadian National Railways . Sincc that time he has been pretty constantly occupied in radio writing . He has written for HARPtR 'S before on various aspects of the radio as an institution . " Why Is n't Radio Better ? " was one of them ; in " Freedom , Radio , and the FCC " he discussed the problem of radio censorship and control . Since 1936 Mr. Pringle has been professor of journalism at Columbia . Before that he worked for various New York newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been interested in American politics and his books include three widely read biographies : one of Al Smith , another of Theodore Roosevelt , and the recently published Life and Times of William Howard Taft . The Roosevelt biography was awarded the Pulitzer prize in 1931 . He has written many articles for IIARPER 'S but none caused more of a stir than " Why Slum Clearance May Fail , " done in collaboration with Alfred Rheinstein , chairman of the New York City Housing Authority . This article appeared last October and precipitated a storm . For days the papers were full of the details of Mr. Rheinstein 's resignation and the pullings and haulings in which both Mayor La Guardia and Mr. Straus , the Federal Administrator , participated . BALKANS AGAIN A LITTLE over a year ago , in January , 1939 , Peter F. Drucker wrote an article for us called " Can Germany Win the Balkans ? " In this article Mr. Drucker , who is Viennese born and has traveled extensively in Southeastern Europe , described the democratic notions of the peasants and told how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American populism . Carried home by immigrants who had seen populism at work in the Middle West , the names of some of its heroes had become familiar to the Balkan people . Mr. Drucker said that he had seen Bryan 's picture in a Croatian farmhouse and that " Altgeld of Illinois and the elder LaFolle de were , with the obvious exception of Washington , Franklin , and Wilson , the only Americans of whom a Slovenian village school teacher of my acquaintance had ever heard . " This month , in " Europe 's Frontier Lies on the Danube , " Mr. Drucker returns to the same terrain in a discussion of the East European peasants and the political problem which they will present to any peace conference . Mr. Drucker was formerly editor of the Frankfurter General Anzeiger but is now living in this country as correspondent for a number of British newspapers . He will be remembered for his articles on " The Industrial Revolution Hits the Farmer " and " The End of Economic Man in Europe . " The material in the latter piece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called The End of Economic Man . THE BENDS V4lizabeth Enright , author of " Dancing Lesson , " was born in Chicago but has lived most of her life in New York City . Her father , W. J. Enright , is a cartoonist and her mother , Maginel Wright Barney , is an illustrator . Frank Lloyd Wright is her uncle . Originally she had ambitions to be a dancer and studied with Ned Wayburn but the family interest got the better of her and she began to draw . She studied with Boardman Robinson at the Art Students League and later at the New York School of Fine and Applied Art . Since then she has occupied herself as a magazine illustrator , written children 's books , and illustrated others . Kintu , A Congo Adventure was published in 1935 . Another book , Thimble Summer , written and illustrated by herself , was last year awarded the Newberry Medal for the most distinguished contribution to American literature for children . Miss Enright is the wife of Robert Cillharn , national advertising and publicity director of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mental Testing : A Protest " is a reaction against the determinism that in one way or another has got so strong a hold on all thinking . In The Open Door at Home Charles Beard has described the powerful effect , in the day of the industrial revolution , of the discoveries in the field of the physical sciences on the minds of those persons who were concerned with the study of human affairs . The overwhelming power of the church over the minds of men had been challenged again and again ; scientific inquiry finally shattered it . There arose a conviction that by the accumulation and sorting out of enough facts the habits of society could be understood , a positive law stated , and the future , " the shape of things to come , " accurately predicted . In economics , sociology , politics , and history this feeling was persistent . The work of such men as Marx and Freud only seemed to make eventual certainty more certain . The fact that it appeared impossible to get any common agreement on a scheme of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " facts " ? could n't kill this conviction . " At last historical skepticism reached its climax in the doctrine of relativity . " The crash of 1929 which formally opened the world crisis made clear other crises . The idea of certainty was exploded . The crisis has been as devastating in psychology as in any other field and Dr. Mursell 's caveat is evidence of the fact . Dr. Mursell was born in England and educated in Australia . He came to this country in 1918 and since then , in turn , has been director . of the research department of the Interchurch World Movement , professor of psychology at Lake Erie College at Painesville , Ohio , and professor of education at Lawrence College . Since 1935 he has been at Teachers College , Columbia , and is now professor of education and chairman of the Department of Music and Music Education . " HE Who Gets Sick " is the sixth in George W. Gray 's series of articles on recent developments in medicine . These articles , in one way and another , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of individuals to disease . In order these articles include " Sleep and Insomnia , " " The Strange Ways of Allergy , " " Anxiety and illness , " " The Control of Pain , " and " The Problem of Influenza . " The present article on the accumulation of evidence to sustain the belief that disease bears a direct relationship to the constitutional inadequacies of its victims continues the line of attack used in the other articles . ' Mr. Gray was born in Texas , worked on the Houston Post , and then attended Harvard College . On the Monday following commencement he got a job with the New York World . For several years thereafter he was a newspaper man , finally quitting the business to become a free lance . While he was still in high school he had become interested in the physical sciences and had some vague idea of pursuing the interest seriously . But the opportunities and attractions of newspaper work proved too strong and it was not until his free-lance days that he of round to the sciences again . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the scientific field . He has written two very successful books : New World Picture and The Advancing Front of Science . GAZ PRIME MOVER rIIRST the crash of ' 29 and the stupefactions I , and alarms of the last days of Hoover ; then more excitement , courage renewed , and a crusading zeal which arrived with Roosevelt and the New Deal . By the spring of 1939 it began to get clearer that temporary expedients had been pretty thoroughly tried and that despite the changes in social attitudes and in the acknowledgment by government of responsibilities never assumed before , some fundamental change was in order at the heart of the economy . The panacea prescribers had been discarded , the planners had been blocked . The thing got " serious . " At the heart of the new searching was the desire to get past , somehow , the rigid economic tyrannies in the European dictatorships and figure out what could be done here to maintain a flexible economy . What could be done with idle capital , huw could the wheels be started moving ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or unconsciously these attacks are searches for a policy . Last December we published Guy Greer 's " America 's Greatest Need To-day . " Mr. Greer argued that if private capital would not invest , the government should create a department with cabinet rank , and make investments in industry . It should not , however , provide for control or operation of any industry except in case of generally acknowledged necessity . In the February and March numbers Stuart Chase rehearsed the capital investment investigation conducted by the TNEC . " The committee must have known , " he said , " that the facts were leading them ? as they arc leading our economy ? into an impasse from which there is no escape by the road of orthodox finance . " Mr. Berle suggested longterm capital banks to finance both public and private investment at selective interest rates , so that the burden of debt could be kept at reasonable levels . This month we go at this capital investment problem from another angle . Joseph L. Nicholson , author of " Wanted : New Small Businesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commerce and Finance at the University of Pennsylvania . For a number of years after graduation he was employed by the Bradstreet Company , investigating businesses and preparing reports on them . Since then he has worked independently , studying new processes and proposed new businesses for investors ; he has managed for banks , creditors , and security holders , businesses that had previously gone sour . His experience has taken him all over the United States . Out of this experience he makes a proposal which might help little business , the foundation of all business . L , of the poets this month are HARPER standbys . We printed one of Edward eisrniller 's poems last month . Mr. Weis-miller teaches at Harvard and is the author of a volume of poems called The Deer Came Down . Jesse Stuart , a Kentucky Mountain school teacher , first attracted attention in 1934 with a volume of some seven hundred sonnets called Man with a Bull Tongue Plough . His output since has been prodigious . He has written stories ? we published one of them called " Vacation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We are rooted in our earth with our own customs and traditions , " he says . " Is n't it better than not to belong anywhere , not to have anything to cling to ? I have an absolute right to be regional and sing of what belongs to me and my people . " His later books include Head o ' W-Hollaw ? short stories and an autobiographical volume called Beyond Dark Lillis . His first novel , Trees of Heaven , will be in print about the time this issue reaches the stands . Like Mr. Davison , who follows immediately , Mr. Stuart spent a year in Europe as a Fellow of the Guggenheim Foundation . Edward Davison is professor of English literature and director of the Writers ' Conference in the Rocky Mountains at the University of Colorado at Boulder . The poem in this issue is one from an anthology of his work which will appear shortly after the April number is in print . Mr. Davison was born in Glasgow and educated at Cambridge University . From 1920 to 1925 he edited , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was general manager of The Guardian . In 1926 he came to this country to teach English literature at Vassar . For a couple of years he edited " The Wits ' Weekly " in the Saturday Review of Literature . He edited Cambridge Poets , 1914-1920 . His published books include Harvest of Youth , Some Modern Poets , the Heart 's Unreason , and The Ninth Witch . Like Mr. Stuart , David Morton is a Kentuckian . ? For a number of years he was a newspaper man , working for the Associated Press and various Louisville papers . Since 1924 he has been professor of English at Amherst . He has written a number of books of poetry and criticism and has edited several anthologies . Ships in Harbour , Earth 's Processional , Spell Against Time and All in One Breath are in the list . A new volume of verse , Angle of Earth and Sky , is to be published shortly .                     