@@491564

which was not undeserved. lie asked me , at luncheon one day , what I thought he ought to du about a pending amendment providing that judges must- pay state income taxes like other public officials . 1 told him that I thought the only thing to do was to take high ground and advocate it , even if he did not like it . " Make a virtue of it , " I suggested . " What ? " he countered . " You want me to be pious about it ? I could n't do that . " He went back to the convention and was the only prominent delegate who spoke against the amendment , which , of course , was carried . If necessary , I want the Republican Party to be pious  --  if that 's the word  --  in the coining campaign . I want it to put its best . foot , forward . 1 know the difficulties , but the alternatives have all been tried before and have proved fatal . Nineteen hundred and forty is not 1020 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harding , and the miracle by which the logical consequences of this choice were escaped or postponed , are echoes of an era that is not only dead but incomprehensible to this generation of American voters . Election ? Year Crystal Gazers E VERY political generation has its own unique problems . To my way of thinking , the newest puzzle to bedevil government is the fortune-telling device known as the poll of public opinion . Seers , oracles , gypsies , swamis and smart-aleck prognosticators are as old as the handwriting on the wall . The Literary , Digest used to conduct an elaborate canvass , which somehow miscarried in a recent election and left . considerable wreckage behind it . The latest polls , however , are based on formulas interpreting cross sections of public opinion , and rely on multiplieution rather than on addition for their validity . They remind me of the engineer who takes a few scattered borings and then tells you all about foundations and geology for miles around . These newfangled polls can be taken easily and quickly . They work while you sleep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people are thinking about . I have a sneaking notion that sonic of these new short-cut canvasses will end in what our sanitation experts so eloquently call " final disposal . " In the meantime , unfortunately , they have an immense charm fur political leaders , especially those whom a lung period of exile has led into wishful thinking . The pulls show , we are told , that the Republican glamour boy of 1940 is District Attorney Thomas li . Dewey , that he has caught the imagination of the people , that they are fur him , and that he is at the moment better liked . and therefore necessarily a better candidate for the presidency , than anyone else . Similarly , those who periodically take the temperature of the voters let it be known that it became subnormal when Vandenberg lost the neutrality debate and ' raft made a heavy and awkward speech before the Gridiron Club . I can see no sense in this reasoning . If carried to its logical conclusion , it would mean that we should dispense with the conventions and let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of the things which the poll doctors should have reported long a-go is that the temperature of the voter is like that of a small child . It goes up in the most alarming manner , but drops very quickly when the infection is removed . It can go from raging fever to something approaching pernicious anemia overnight . Incidentally , a. thermometer is only one of several necessary devices to measure excitement in the blood . Let me be a little more specific . The compelling argument against Mr. Dewey has little to do with his comparative popularity before the campaign and the contest . He has a weakness which might not survive a hot campaign in which uo quarter will be given . This weakness lies in the fact , which can not Well be argued or disputed , that he has no manifest experience or probable qualification for the job . A Candidate of Limited Experience T HE difficulty , therefore , is to show that he is more than tin engaging , forceful and ambitious young man , obviously of good heart and mind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the live counties in New York City , in a state which has sixty-odd counties , and in a nation which has God knows how many more . Whether he has been a first-rate district attorney in the sense of combating crime and delinquency , at their source is also debatable , as is the fundamental question whether a demon prosecutor makes a good chief executive . Those who recall Governor Whitman will have their doubts . The Democrats will sum it tip for their opponents somewhat in this way : " We have searched the roster of millions of Republicans and have selected a very likely young prosecutor . He has no national or international training or record , but he 's smart and will learn quickly after he gets to the White House . " Against the lack of record must be balanced Dewey 's unquestionable appeal to young voter 's , the Sir Galahad atmosphere which he carries with him , the public fondness for new faces , our lack of fixed standards for high public office , and the American sporting spirit which demands that the young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Tom Dewey has come out of the West to lilt a lance at civic corru.ptiou , which the rest of the country likes to believe is the outstanding- cha ? - acteristic of the wicked met He is a New Yorker at home noel a badger to the rest of the country . which , to mix the metaphor still further , makes it possible fur him to run with 1he hare and hunt with the hounds . Youth finds much to stir its generous impulses in the New Deal program . A philosophy of conservatism and retrenchment. such as Mr. Dewey or any other Republican must . defend . is in its very nature a bit chilling and needs considerable warming up to at tract the young . The Republican appeal in 1940 will be primarily to those more than thirty who have been through the mill and know something of the difference between reality and mysticism in politics , but those below thirty can not be ignored , and Mr. Dewey means SUM , - thing to them . The opposition will still insist that . Mr. Dewey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at might from a county office into the presidency , without stopping on his way long enough to give the country a ehanee to appraise his progress , and to figure out whether he measures up to his objective . It is conceded that he has recently made some good speeches , but it will he noted that while a group of competent brain trusters can write a man 's speeches , they ca n't add to his biography . Only the moving finger of time can do this . At the moment , it would appear that Mr. Dewey is a first-rate candidate for the second place on the ticket , and it would help greatly to clarify the situation if this conclusion were reached before long . Fauarite  --  Son Strategy I am , of course , aware of the fact that the traditional way of getting a man nominated for Vier President is to get the delegation to put him forward for the presidency as his static ? favorite son . This , however , involves some very questionable practices , among them the selection of delegates who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elimination of distinguished people of public reputation and independence who can not he regimented in this way , and who quite properly refuse to be rubber stamps and stooges . The word has already gone out in a number of states that no delegates are wanted who are riot prepared to be camp followers of the favorite son . A convention made up in this way will not be truly representative of the party , will not command the necessary public respect , and will probably be controlled by a handful of old-fashioned bosses in the traditional smoke-filled room in which the cuspidors are inure important than the delegates . Another stock argument for the favorite-son , solid-block-unit rule delegation is that it puts the state in a better position to bargain if the favorite sou is eliminated . It also leads to the worst kind of log-rolling and horse-trading , in the course of which painful impressions are likely to be made on the public mind . It may he said that the Democra tie eon vention will not he run differently . Unfortunately for our side , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have ti leader who has all the power and prestige of the Chief Executive , and because there is no danger of control by obscure men whose motives , however logical , are open to public . suspicion . This is just another way of saying that the Republican strategy must be totally ditTerent from that of the party in power . The aim of the opposition party should be an unbossed convention with real leadership . This sounds like a eontradiel Mil in terms , but is actually a result which can lei arrived at by the selection as delegates of the very best and most men . The Republicans , in the nature of things , can have no recognized leader . The nominal head of a party out power is the last candidate , but no one takes this very seriously . Mr. Landon will , of course , have influence in the convention . but it . is likely to be that of are honorable and aiivabIc mall with a muttered following who is entitled to respect and consideration because he did his best in 1.136 under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership . Ile still suffers and will iilways suffer from a replication of executive itteptitude during the last half of his term . ' The question whether he deserves this stigma need not he argued , It is altogether unlikely that he could be nominated if he sought the nomination  --  which I am sure is not the ease  --  and equally improbable that he i  --  ould he elected . Nevertheless , he has a tremendous hold on influential people and his is all odds the most intelligent , the most patriotic and the best equipped ! flied in the party today . No one who has seen Mr. iloover in a group discussing public affairs . national or international , can question his extraordinary liarkground and equipment . It is , in many respects , a tragedy that he is not himself available , but this tonstitutes no earthly reason why he should not . lie enormeusly influential in the party deliberations , if there are to be any deliberations as distinguished from petty deals and 161. km-hies . There is also a notion that the Repuldiean convention should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mu an . Obviously , t his Iquknot ha pen on the Republican side . The national chairman is a paid employee of the party . There is a lot to be said for paying the executive who gives lull time , but a loss of independence and prestige inevitably goes with the salary . Mr. Hamilton has a. most attractive personality . lie has what the French call situin . Ile has held things together and paid off the debt . Mr. Raskob did this for the Democrats not long ago , and was quietly dropped for his pains after the Chicago Convention of 1932 , There is no inure thankless job in the political world than that of state or national chairman of a Nay out of power . Someday tee may find a method of making the opposition respectable by recognizing it as they do in the British system . The Democrats , following an old Republican precedent , have combined the position of Postmaster General with that of national chairman . There is nowt to be said against this on grounds of public policy , but from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this dual arrangement is enormously effective . For one thing , it is clear to everyone that the national chairman is the agent of the real party leader  --  that is , the President . It may be that Jim Farley is a pretty independent fellow as chairman , but he could not remain Postmaster General if there were any real rift with the President . In the end he will undoubtedly-be the candid friend who takes the figures to the President and proves to him one way or another that lie can or can not be elected to a third term . If the figures show that it can be done , my hunch is that Franklin D. Roosevelt will again head the ticket . If the figures indicate that the result will be in doubt , my hunch is that the President will make a great virtue of retiring and will concentrate on the selection of a ticket , satisfactory to him and which can lie counted on to carry out as many f ) t ' his policies as the conservative Democrats will litarld for . The Third.Terrn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deadliness of the third-term issue . Prejudice against it is stronger among intellectuals than among the masses . Aside from upsetting a great American tradition and apart from fear of dictatorship increased by foreign repercussions , the real objection to a third term is based on plain , ordinary physiology . Any Administration , after eight years in power , gets tired out and needs a long vacation . The President , his Cabinet and his advisers simply ca n't keep up the pace , and for their own good as well as that of the country , they should have time for rest and reflection . Like the man who goes to his doctor for tests and overhauling , the political executive is only impressed when he is a lit tle frightened , and usually does not take medical advice very seriously , It is , therefore , unlikely that the prescription of a long vacation , in the course of which they can enjoy again the blessedness of being little , will appeal very strongly to those who control the greatest democracy in the world . Let us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decide to retire . his refusal of a renomination might be accompanied by a gesture of renunciation so generous , so magnificent , so selfless , and so patriotic as to elevate him to an altogether unique position of iiilluence iu his party and in the count ry . Roosevelt retiring may be as dangerous to Republicans as Roosevelt running . In the meantime , the Republicans will he kept on tenterhooks . They will not know what line-up they are facing , but they can make up their ' minds to one thing at least , and that is that if Franklin Roosevelt is the strongest man on his side , he will be renomi-nated , and that if he is not , someone at least as strong will be selected with his approval and with his backing to make the race . The prospect from the Republican point of view is not too pleasing , and certainly should suggest t // mature minds that something at least moro brilliant than the strategy of 19:Vi should be adopted by them in 1940 . The European war and the Administration 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political ties iind rendered ordinary partisanship contemptible . The incumbents are the beneficiaries of this freak of fortune , and the burden of proof is on those who advocate a change . Mr. Roosevelt is stronger today than he was before the big war broke out . As a temporary expedient and through no change of hearts he has no doubt been less hostile to business , more on the side of economy and shy about big spending programs , pomp priming and relief . This has made business bolder and has restored some of the shattered morale of our deflated industrial and banking giants . It has taken the edge oil the enthusiasm of relief clients , and has made it more difficult for Mr. Farley to prove that the Government rather than private initiative will make employment and restore prosperity . The trend toward conservatism has not been interrupted . The President has merely reengnized and followed it . Meanwhile the war has deflected public interest from local issues and has brought about a boost in business which , however artificial , is ' at least worth something to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told that conservative Democrats will find their real champion in the president of the Senate . Obviously , Mr. Gamer is not a serious candidate himself , and is merely asserting his claim to lead an influential group in the convention if the President is not himself a candidate . No matter what theoutcome of the Democratic con- vention may lie , the notion that any large number of Democrats will follow ; overnor Smith in taking a walk from the party strikes me as being moonshine of the most shimmering and insubstantial character . John Garner 's Position I Are memories so short that we have ? forgotten that . Mr. Garner switched at the critical ballot in Chicago in 1932 , thereby insuring the nominations Mr. Roosevelt and himself : " I'here is nothing fanatical about the Texan . Whatever thirst the " evil old man " IMO , ' have , it is not a thirst . for martyrdom . What , after all , is so had about a third term for darner as well as for Roosevelt ? The Vice President 's disI like of left-wingers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this gentry overboard  --  with a raft handy for later Irescue and return . The Democrats are in more danger from the resentment of the Left than front the obstinacy of the Right . If there is a third party , which is extremely improbable , it will be a party of Progressive Democrats like the Progressive Republican Party of 11112 , and not a party of conservative weeders like those of 1860 . The talented amateurs who for some eight years have been tinkering with our Government will not retire without a at niggle . Their heads are bloody but unbowed , and , if I may paraphrase the poet , they know that beyond the sunshine of office and influence looms the horror of the shade . When will they have another chimee to he the captains of u President 's soul ? The selection by the President . of a ' audideteotherthen himself who would he acceptable to the Denmeratie convention or could be imposed on it without too many future headaches is no simple matter . Mr. Roosevelt bears , like the Turk , no brother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is by i far the most respected , but he is too old . Certainly the man who raised such a fuss over the age of justices of the Supreme Court can not advocate for the presidency a man who would be almost seventy when lie took office . The opposite extreme would be the choice of a man like Paul McNutt , who would certainly be God 's gift to the Republican Party . Between the austere Secretary of State and the handsome , boyish , Federal Security Administrator are many possibilities to encourage or depress the opposition . It is riot in the least likely , however , that the President and the Democratic strategists close to him will come to any conclusion until they have to . In this particular poker game the President has the joker and probably at least one wild deuce . Suppose for the sake of argument that the President should at the last moment pick Senator Wheeler to head the ticket , and balance it with Senator Byrd . With the Chief Executive making the interference , this would be no easy ticket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government and the lack of honor accorded it make it difficult for the Republicans to point with pride and confidence to the valuable talent in the party . The talent is there , but the people do n't know it . and there is comparatively little time for education . Our minority leaders and whips do n't play the conspicuous and responsible part here which the leaders play , for example , in the House of Commons . We get good reliable wheel horses largely on the basis of security and personal popularity , and without thought of the stuff that Presidents and Cabinets are made out of . It 's being noised abroad , that we have a potential candidate in Mr. Martin . Here again , if the vice-presidency is under consideration , the suggestion may have sense , but how can it be possible for the Republican Party seriously to believe that the country would elect Air . Martin over Mr. Roosevelt ? The only way in which Mr. Martin could be nominated would be as a dark horse , after stronger men had been eliminated in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great build-up like that attempted in the case of M r . Laudon , and this would be even less likely to be successful . It would obviously be impossible to prove between Independence and Columbus Days that Mr. Martin was a very great man . The best that could be done would be to picture him as a shrewd common-sense fellow able to get along with Congress , willing to take advice , and not above associating with his superiors . The question is whether the country is looking for such a President in preference to the one we have now , or to a really strong mum running with his support . At the moment , I believe the two strongest Republicans are Vandenberg and Taft , Senator Vandenberg unquestionably hurt Isis chanees by his attitude toward tipe Neutrality Act , which ch svPmed to many people , ine ReOublirans , to be actuated more by professional dislike of Mr. Roosevelt than by a profound tion or careful ennsideration of the country 's welfare . Nevertheless , time senator has a first-rata record , wide fl eft Ith'et4 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i ghhats , efrodr1 lack of a better phrase , what we call presidential stature . He is without question the senators ' senator . Senator Taft has an intelligent , well-balanced , steady , reliable and undramatic personality with great appeal to millions who are tired of radio charm , glad-handing , generous promising and experimentation . He is a little heavy and cold . His mind is fine but pedestrian . There is about him , however , something hearty , comfortable and genuinely American , and the family background of public service through three generations will not be lost on millions of voters to whom the American tradition is still a very real thing . Senator Taft 's Chances A ticket composed of Taft and Dewey would be worth thinking about . The recent relief crisis , if it was a crisis , in Ohio has not helped Bob Taft , and should be a lesson to him and his party . I have been responsible for considerable work relief for several years and am reasonably familiar with the relative functions of the Federal , state and municipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what actually happened in Ohio , although I have read the newspapers , listened to speeches on the radio , and talked and corresponded with people who would ordinarily be presumed to I -- now the facts . I heard Taft 's rather abrupt and unconvincing reply to questious at a. recent . Town Hall meeting ou the air and listened over the radio to a long speech by Governor Bricker at the Ohio Society dinner in New York City , a speech devoted almost wholly to the municipal-relief crisis in Ohio . There should have been enough Republican statesmanship to resolve the conflict between the state and its municipalities and to reach some agreement with the Washington WPA . This would have made unthinkable a Federal handout of food in a big city like Cleveland . The impression certainly got abroad that the Republican leaders in Ohio are so rural-minded that the peculiar problems of the poor and hungry man in a big city do not agitate them . They were pictured as insisting that a surplus in the state treasury must be maintained for political effect , even if some thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of state and local controversy , had nothing to eat . In such a contingency , the man who sets up the soup kitchen , whether he be the agent of the President , of the Red Cross or of the devil himself , is bound to get the credit . Governor Bricker may stand out in this picture as a firm and economical executive , but no one will identify him closely with the good Samaritan . Senator Taft asks that relief be returned to the states and municipalities , with the Federal Government paying two thirds . Two thirds of what ? Does he mean home as well as work relief ? If so , the Federal budget . will be more out of balance than ever . If not , and if only work relief is to be supported from Washington , the tapering-off process now going on can not be expedited without repetitions all over the country of the recent Cleveland relief crisis . There are no more ominous words than " bread lines . " Moreover , if the senator were Chief Executive , he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Taft recently told how he would balance the Federal budget . His formula ( Corstirgued on Page 39 ) ( Canfilna  --  d from Pair 36 ) is pretty vague . Among other things , he advocates consolidation of Federal bureaus and departments as a means of great saving . Those of us who , from time to time , have planned government reorganizations , know that even if they accomplish everything hoped for in facilitating business , fixing responsibility and avoiding duplication , such reorganizations never produce substantial immediate economies . The senator seems to be reviving his father 's slogan of thirty years ago , when the latter promised efficiency and economy through an elaborate scheme of departmental rearrangement . President Taft was a very fine man , but he was a poor judge of issues as well as men . It is a curious fact that while millions of voters will be happy to have as a candidate a man whose father and grandfather took an honorable part in building up the nation , they do n't want the present Taft to imitate everything his ancestors did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reshuffling of departments and bureaus wo n't make enough saving to put in your eye . This panacea wo n't last a week in the campaign . Mr. Taft also advocated cutting out all Federal subsidies . Would he include Federal highway aid and , if so , does he really believe that any Congress which he can visualize would go along with him or that he would actually advocate such a thing if it were up to him to send a message to Congress and stand the gaff ? All of which is just a long way of saying that it is easy to preach economy , so long as you are not specific about it . It is uo purpose of mine to call the roll of Republiean candidates , declared or undeclared , nor to drag into the limelight all the Republicans who might be considered if there were a disposition to consider real qualities : tions . Why would it be ridiculous , in the difficult situation in which we lind ourselves , to list all the available candidates in the order of their real qualifications for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , depression , unbalanced budgets and unemployment , and then to strike from the list . beginning at the top , those who , for one reason or another , can not get the necessary support in the convention or at . the polls ? For example , Wendell Willkie would be well up in the first draft of such a list , but his name would certainly be stricken off when the second edition appeared , simply because the conservatives could not afford to nominate a utilities man . By this process we would reach the name or names which might afford the basis for an agreemen t in advance of the convention . Something like this has been attempted in a rather feeble way in the preparation of the Republican platform . Unfortunately , the committee selected for this work did not represent all the best talent . in the party . It was , in fact. , a thoroughly unrepresentative committee because there were excluded from it . all officeholders , local , stale or national . In one sweep most of those actively engaged in public affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people were thinking about , and those who were bound to make the decision in the end , were excluded . A more unreal and unpromising procedure could hardly have been expected from the veriest amateurs . We all know in advance the issues in the coming campaign . The question is what leaders will exploit and personify them . The Democrats will point to their record . The Republicans will attack it . and will make charges of demagoguery , fomenting class warfare , promising the millennium , loose spending , national bankruptcy , buying of votes out of the public Treasury , crazy experimentation , revolutionary economics , planning by crackpot radicals , quack remedies for chronic diseases , discouraging private initiative , hamstringing business , inflation . expanding Government to socialistic and communistic limits , concentration of power in Washington , nn ( 1 change merely for the sake of change . The problem of the political strategists is to tigure out who will carry the banners , not what is written MI them . Why should it be held absurd to ask the Republican Party to convey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not merely with winning the election and beating Mr. Roosevelt , but with providing a leader who is in truth able to be the President of the United States ? It is not even good politics for the Republicans to be too slick . There is no use counting too heavily on the country 's revulsion from idealism . It is it mistake to count un a return to Harding and Coolidge normalcy . There is a tendency in this direction , but not a strong trend . Why is it so silly to ask Republicans to make a detached and dispassionate analysis of their problem and to pick their leader as thuugh a generalissimo of allied forces were Icing selected in a world war ? We are told that thisIs absurd , politics being what it is. rca n't see why . If the Republicans take high ground , the people may follow them in an astonishing way . Why not learn a lesson from 1936 , and proceed on the assumption that in order to win , they must deserve the victory ? 