@@487515

ON JANUARY 26 , 1944 , Argentina entered the war . On the same day the flag over the University of Tucuman was hung with black crepe . This was done by order of one Zamborini , who is today Argentina 's Under Secretary of Foreign Affairs . His act illustrated perfectly the pro-Nazi character of a regime which has never ceased to be pro-Nazi . Argentine developments in the past year , in both the international and the domestic sphere , merit a special article in The Nation 's series on Latin America . I have not visited Buenos Aires recently , but here and in Europe I have talked with Argentines of widely divergent views , and in complete freedom . I have received , in addition , an abundance of direct information sent me from inside the country . While I am not allowed to name the sources of my information , I can guarantee its reliability . In the international field the outstanding event of this year was the elimination of Bramuglia from the direction of foreign policy . A capable lawyer with former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had shown himself to be a shrewd and forceful diplomat at the Paris session of the United Nations , where he presided over the Security Council and worked tenaciously to find a way out of the impasse over Berlin . When he returned to Buenos Aires , his dareer was cut short . He was the appointed victim of ; - . Evita , PerOn 's " purge . " The reputation he had acquired . - ' aroused the jealousy of a woman who could not endure to see any star in the Argentine sky shine more brilliantly than her husband . But this psychological interpretation does not cover the complexities of the case . Bramuglia 's fall marked the revival of Nazi power . His successor , Paz , together with Zamborini , set Argentina again on the course laid out in the days when the government 's major preoccupation was to protect the Hitler agents whose expulsion was demanded by Washington . Under the new Foreign Minister moderation has been cast aside . The idea has taken root that a South America purged of all liberal influences might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater power and glory . PerOn was encouraged to try to extend the success he thad achieved in Venezuela . It will be recalled that just before the attack on the progressive Venezuelan regime early in 1948 Lieutenant Colonel Marco Perez Jimenez , chief of staff of Venezuela , went to Buenos Aires , received his instructions from Per6n , and returned to Caracas prepared to undermine the army 's loyalty to the government of ROmuio Gallegos . Later PerOn 's ambassador to Venezuela , Pedro Juan Vignale , far from concealing his part in the Caracas coup d'etat , boasted publicly how in the hours immediately preceding the military uprising he had succeeded in overcoming the last scruples of Colonel Perez Jimenez . This officer had also served as liaison between the Argentine dictator and General Manuel Odria , the present dictator of Peru , when the latter was preparing the military revolt which overthrew the government of Dr. Bustamente y Rivero . Peru and Venezuela are thus already in PerOn 's orbit . In those countries as in Argentina the new Latin American fascism , spread by the sword @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all Latin American reaction , Francisco Franco . The most distinguished liberals of Latin America have warned Washington that Spanish fascism has great influence in countries that speak the same language and serves as an example for ambitious military elements in all of them . Its very existence threatens democracy throughout the Western- Hemisphere . One after the other , like puppets in a shooting gallery , constitutional governments fall when generals and colonels point their guns at them . In Bolivia a Congressional Committee on which all political parties are represented has for some months been investigating the foreign aid received by the partisans of Victor Paz Estenssoro and the late Bolivian dictator Gualberto Villarroel . In their armed attempt to overthrow the government , the rebels had modern Argentine weapons . One of their leaders ; an army officer named Carmelo Cuellar , lived in the Argentine city of Parana. , 940 miles from the Bolivian border , under the " strict " surveillance of the Argentine police , but had no difficulty in leaving for Bolivia to take part in the revolt . When the appointment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antonio Arze , leader of the P. I. R. ( Leftist Revolutionary Party ) , he expressly charged Argentina with complicity in the unsuccessful revolution . In Chile the Socialist Senator Salvador Allende , in a well-documented speech , delivered in the Chilean Senate on August 30 last , accused the Argentine government " of promoting the disturbances occurring in various American countries . " " I affirm , " he said , " that a grave danger hangs over the democratic peoples of America ; it is tremendously disquieting to see , in this tranquil Deceniber 24 ; 1949 continent , a great nation like Argentina absorbed by a passion for war and armaments , a passion which impelled it in 1948 to allocate to its military expenses the sum of twenty-five billion Chilean pesos . " His remarks were extremely interesting , for they showed that in foreign affairs Peronismo is moving toward its goal along two lines : it is financing and arming native fascist groups in order to destroy from within every remaining democratic government on the continent , and it is creating a war machine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces that it will be able to dictate to all South America . In the case of Colombia both Franco and PerOn were the driving forces behind the rise of the future Colombian dictator , Laureano GOmez , who spent a year in Madrid learning from Franco how to run a fascist state . The freely elected Colombian government was turned out through farcical elections in which the opposition was forcibly suppressed ; in Panama an upset was accomplished by the intervention of a chief of police . Even in a country like Mexico , with a strong revolutionary tradition , some military groups have been speculating on the possibility of a coup similar to those in the other countries . They are kept in check by the deep anti-fascist feelings of the Mexican people , by the vigilance of the government , and by the shadow of the great Mar ? ardenas . Though ardenas has retired from all political activity and devotes himself exclusively to his project for the agricultural renovation of Michoacan  --  a scheme somewhat like the TVA ? he would not stand by with his arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a final illustration of the international role of the Argentine dictatorship I will cite the agitation against the United States , which rises and falls in accordance with the needs of the regime for American dollars . On tills point also the Argentine and Spanish dictatorships are identical . Both Peron and Franco hate . the United States , but when their shortage of dollars becomes severe , as is the case with Franco at present , they avow their love for the American people and the Washington Administration . Once when feeling against the United States was high in Argentina , certain antiPeronists were accused of having " sold out to Yankee imperialism . " The charge was based on a report of conversations between the United States embassy in Buenos Aires and members of the opposition contained in a confidential memorandum sent by the embassy to the State Department . No one knew of these conversations except the embassy and the opposition members directly involved . People in Buenos Aires ask how the PerOn government learned about them . Are there in the Department of State men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom I have talked declare this to be a fact . INTERNAL Argentine developments in 1949 were not less disturbing . The economic difficulties which became serious in the second half of 1948 put a stop to the large-scale reconstruction of the nation which Per6a had planned in the flamboyant style of Mussolini 's early period . As matters grew worse , the regime dropped its pro-worker , social-revolutionary mask . The honeymoon with the unions and the extreme left came to an end . Peronismo began to show itself in its true colors  --  as military fascism , an exact reproduction of Franco 's , with the same symptoms of economic bankruptcy and grow* ing popular rebellion against police clubs and tear-gas bombs . Argentina is suffering both a financial and an economic crisis . The financial crisis caused by the dollar shortage is becoming more acute as the reserves of dollars , some two billion , accumulated during the war are used up . This money is being squandered on armaments and ships out of all proportion to any legitimate need and on financing Pe r6n ' s propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are prodigally supplied with funds to deceive the world about the true state of affairs at home and to glorify the dictator and his Evita . That other Latin American countries , producers of raw materials or of only one commodity , should have had a boom during the war and , an economic collapse afterward was to be expected . But Argentina might have avoided such an experience , since it has an almost self-contained economy . Its crisis can be blamed entirely on the regime , which ( 1 ) speculated too recklessly with the prices of wheat and meat , ( 2 ) created a state monopoly of all trade , in cereals and meat , ( 3 ) paid producers a much lower price than that prevailing in the world market , ( 4 ) announced a five-year industrialization program to be financed with the proceeds from the sale of cereals and meat but never carried out this industrialization  --  spending the money instead on the army and propaganda . Attracted by the promise of higher wages and the pleasures of city life , many peasants left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation 's principal source of wealth . Since the industries also failed to materialize , the loss was twofold . The administrative anarchy was increased by the ar- i4 bitrary intervention of Mine Per6n in economic affairs . Large sums of money were taken from state funds for her propaganda , her newspapers , and her radio stations . A million pesos a day went into the Social Assistance Fund which she directed . I have been told that she has accumulated an enormous personal fortune and is one of the largest private depositors in the Swiss banks . Indisputably she runs the government . One of my Argentine informants related this incident . An appointment was to be made in a certain ministry . Evita Per &; had a candidate . She telephoned the Minister and gave him the name of her prot  --  g ? . " I 'm sorry , Madame , " he answered , " but the post has been filled . " " By whom ? " asked Evita . " By the President ; your husband . " " Do n't be ridiculous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boss is . " The President 's choice was disregarded , and Eva 's candidate got the place . The growing protests can only be quelled by repression and terror . T TAKE no personal satisfaction in seeing my predic1 dons about Argentina coming true . But in the last four years I have quarreled with the Communists more violently about the Argentine regime than about any other subject . They believed , as did Russia itself at one time , that Peronismo , in spite of everything , contained a revolutionary element , that it was progressive in the trade-union sense , and that opposition to it was an example of the romantic stupidity of traditional liberalism . The Argentine Communists who argued with me are now in prison , and a period of the most brutal repression we may ever see in America Is beginning . The descarnisados who thronged the streets shouting " Viva Perlin " and , cheering with a kind of crazy sensuality the " belle EVita , " " the darling of the people , " have been beaten up by the police and subjected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about in Hitler 's concentration camps . Last week Carlos Aguirre , the Communist union leader , was murdered by the police in Tucurnin . It Is , in fact , Eva Perk , yesterday idolized as a goddess by poor devils who had been exploited for decades , who today directs the action against the workers . The first important break between the government and the unions took place at the beginning of 1949 . The telephone - workers union asked for an end to government intervention and a union election , establishment of a minimum wage , and a maximum of six hours ' work a day for operators . One union had only to regain its voice and , ceasing to depend on the generosity of the government , formulate its own demands in the old union way , for other unions to follow suit . Evita , hurt in het feelings as wife and vedette , reacted hysterically . Her one desire was to show her power and to punish the atorrantm , these ungrateful wretches " who have eaten for the first time in their lives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furious , the opposition was delighted . It was greatly encouraged to see that the union apparatus set up by Perk was not functioning and that the workers ' support of the dictator was superficial and impermanent . The workers were for Peek while he raised their wages and demagogically gave them a central position in Argentine politics which permitted him to use them as a weapon of revenge against the old parties and the upper classes , which regarded him as an upstart and boycotted his wife . As soon as the dictator , pressed by the economic crisis , had to get rid of the trappings of prosperity , and began by reducing wages , the workers deserted him . And not only the workers have gone over to the opposition . The peasants have , too . The much talked-of agrarian reform came to nothing . During Perk 's election campaign his agents went from house to house in the rural regions promising land to the peasants . But the land is still in the hands of the former owners . Peronismo not only tried to give the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the protection of the descarnisados ; it also tried to present the dictatorship as a moderate regime which observed the law even in its clashes with the opposition . The university , center of the intelligentsia 's resistance to the " great revolution " was " reformed " ; newspapers and radio stations were hired with government funds to counteract the critical attitude of independent papers like La Prensa and La Naciim . The government wanted to show that the violence of 1947 , when meetings of the opposition were broken up by Peronist bombs , was a thing of the past . This fiction of paternalism and moderation , however , was ended by the economic crisis and the consequent sharpening of social conflicts . Just recently opposition deputies like Colonel Cattaneo have been forced to flee to Montevideo , and the offices of La Prensa and ' La NaciOn and even of the American Associated Press and United Press were seized by the police and placed under government control . If this had happened in a country behind the iron curtain we should hive seen enormous headlines and protests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American fascism are regarded with greater tolerance . Some day the - American public will wake up to the situation in Latin America . It failed to grasp the truth about China until the violence of the upheaval there shook it out of the opium sleep induced by anti-Russian propaganda , a sleep in which it was able to distinguish only the silhouettes of the men in the Kremlin , as if the rest of the world did not exist . Some day the American public will realize that the advance of fascism in Latin America is a greater and more . concrete threat to the United States and American democracy than the viola tion of civil liberties now going on in Hungary or Rumania . or                     