@@487505

THESE works , focused on single figures in the period from 1760 to 1840 , together present a picture of two generations of American art . John Singleton Copley , the subject of Mr. Flexner 's monograph , still belongs to the pre-Revolutionary world of Jonathan Edwards and Benjamin Franklin ; Washington Allston lived in the days of William Ellery Channing and Hawthorne . Their careers are separated by the gulf between the eighteenth-century world of reason and the nineteenth-century world of the Romantic imagination . The hero of Mr. Flexner 's book is the last and greatest of the colonial painters , who in the portraits of his American period achieved a shrewdness of characterization and a colloquial vividness of statement that make his portraits the most American and perhaps the finest ever painted in America . Mr. Flexner is at his best in the analysis of Copley 's bluntly realistic portrayals of the Tory aristocracy . Almost too much space is devoted to Copley 's career in England , where the artist became another purveyor of the fashionable affectation and generalized prettiness that so endeared the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a generation ago . More interesting than Copley 's attempts to rival Reynolds and Gains-borough were his efforts in the field of historical painting . Although , as Mr. Flexner points out , they are incredibly histrionic in conception , they are interesting documents in the development of the Romantic point of view , with the artist 's turning to subjects from contemporary events . These two books are also significant for their revelation of the changing attitudes toward the arts from the Revolutionary to the Federal period . Washington Allston , the subject of Mr. Richardson 's study , once remarked that the English portraitists were " the damnedest stupid wretches that ever disgraced the profession . " For his imaginative mind there was little interest in the mere process of catching a likeness . Copley 's portraits are collections of painstakingly recorded facts in the manner of an encyclopedist ; Allston 's portraits , like the magnificent sketch of Coleridge , are evocative interpretations rather than realistic presentations of the subject . In the decade before the Revolution it was quite natural for an artist like Copley to observe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular persons , painting would not be known in the place . " Although Mr. Flexner himself has on other occasions tried to point out that there was a considerable body of colonial painting in genres other than portraiture , the fact remains that only with the stabilization of our economy after the Revolution was there any real patronage for kinds of painting that catered to enjoyment rather than utility , and this in the face of warnings of Jefferson and Adams against the dangers of cultivating the luxury of the arts . In Allston 's heyday in Boston ( 181943 ) both private collectors and institutions like the Pennsylvania Academy were by no means limited to the acquisition of portraits . It would have to be admitted , however , that in this as in all periods of our national history , art was almost exclusively a commodity for the " rich and well-born . " This condition is only partly economic : it is also to be explained by an innate suspicion in the American mind of anything that is not practical or that is hard to understand ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printed word inherited from the reading habits of our forefathers . When Alexis de Tocqueville wrote in his " Democracy in America , " " Democratic nations will cultivate the arts that render life easy in preference to those whose object it is to adorn it . They will prefer the useful to the beautiful , and they will require that the beautiful be useful , " we seem to find at once a reiteration of the old utilitarian concept of art and a prophecy of the functionalist ideas of Horatio Greenough . De Tocqueville seems to have been entirely unaware of the imaginative awakening , however limited it may have been , that was taking place in American art and letters at the time of his visit in 1831 . However , even though other visitors , like Henry Tudor , who came the same year , and Mrs. Jameson , in 1838 , found painting other than portraiture accepted as one of the graces of life , the incontestable fact remains that the only kinds of painting that have ever enjoyed any popularity among our " ex nato connoisseurs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to Tocqueville , for the vast majority of the people there was a preference for books " easily procured , quickly read , " and requiring " no research to be understood . " It is significant , none the less , that Allston demonstrated that it was possible to lead the life of an imaginative artist in America : he himself never starved for lack of patronage ; if he starved at all in what William Wetmore Story described as " that fearful Cambridgeport , " it was because his unfinished picture of " Belshazzar 's Feast " grew into a kind of neurosis that paralyzed him for all else . He belonged to a period when the artist 's personal feelings rather than public demand determined the course of art . As Mr. Richardson points out , this attitude of mind was only the beginning of that eventual estrangement of public and artist culminating in the " art for art 's sake " movement and the whole modern conception of the artist 's function . Allston was , of course , no rebel with a credo of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the friend of Coleridge and Wordsworth , who in his paintings strove for something not unlike the program of the " Lyrical Ballads . " Perhaps the explanation for the admiration in which Allston was held by Margaret Fuller and James Russell Lowell is that he belonged to a generation of poets who responded to Allston 's luminous color as to Wordsworth 's sensuous imagery and felt the same spirit in his haunted visions of night as in the Gothic novels and Coleridge 's " Christabel . " 700 The NATION And yet , within a decade of Allston 's death , Horatio Greenough , looking back on the failure of his own career as a sculptor , remarked , " I can not pretend to occupy any space in a work consecrated to American art . I lived with poets and poetry . " If the Romantic period of Allston and his contemporaries was a short-lived flowering , the artist 's innovations and his importance for the survival of romanticism as an individual point of view in American painting form the most interesting sections of Mr. Richardson 's work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of painting in terms of light and color as aesthetic qualities to be enjoyed apart from subject matter , his mood of idealistic quietism that runs like a thread through all our art The real importance of the American protoRomantics is still to be estimated . As Mr. Flexner points out , Copley with such canvases as " Watson and the Shark " anticipated Gericault 's sensational " Raft of the Medusa " by nearly half a century , and even the arch-academician Benjamin West , the teacher of Copley and Allston , painted Romantic subjects years before Delacroix appeared on the horizon . Allston in his evocation of mood in portraiture and landscape was , in a sense , the first modern American painter . Mr. Flexner 's book is extremely readable and makes the career of Copley a fascinating subject even to that nebulous , indefinable creature , the general reader . One could , if with a slight shudder , think of Hollywood 's pouncing on Mr. Flexner 's often exciting narrative of Copley 's career as a subject for a romantic costume piece . All that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obstacle to the movies . Mr. Flexner 's book , like all his contributions to various aspects of our national life , is written with extraordinary facility and a rare sense of humor . His work on Copley reads like a romantic biography rather than a dry work of scholarship , and yet it is crammed with facts and careful analyses of Copley 's work . Why , then , is this not popularization at its best ? The answer is that the weakness of the book lies in the very attempt to stretch a fragile cantilever beween the popular and the recondite and yet maintain the stability of the structure . The reader sways dizzily with the writer between passages of really creative scholarship and flights of romantic fancy , to plunge into an abyss of doubt that this is the last word on Copley . In spite of its formidable arsenal of bibliography , catalogue , etc. , it seems , regrettably , impossible to recognize here anything approaching a definitive treatment of the subject . One has the feeling that Mr. Flexner 's account of Copley was more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biographies , " America 's Old Masters " Stretching the text to bring it to book length has made the potboiler boil over . The thirty-two plates in Mr Flexner 's book , although they present nothing particularly new in examples of Copley 's work , are admirably reproduced . The comparative material chosen from the work of Copley 's predecessors and the British portraitists on whom he relied is useful to have in one collection of illustrations . Mr. Richardson 's book differs essentially in structure and content from Mr. Flexner 's essay in that it is not intended as a biography in the usual sense but rather as an account of Washington Allston as a typical figure of the Romantic period in America and an examination of the significance of this phase in the development of our national culture . Within this self-imposed limitation it is entirely successful , admirable for its sensitive analysis of trends in both art and literature as well as for its clarity of expression in a style completely restrained and uninterrupted by those startling metaphors that explode like bombshells on every page of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal to the general reader , December 18 , 1948 Mr. Richardson 's work on Allston presents one of the best accounts of the Romantic period and its implications for modern art in America . It can be recommended as a very thoughtful and sensitive account of the creative process in operation in the springtime of romanticism ; it should be of special interest to all students of the relationship between literature and art in the period of our intellectual coming of age . Mr. Richardson 's book includes a valuable and complete catalogue of all works by Allston , both known and lost examples , done in collaboration with Mr. H. W. L. Dana . The plates , which include many examples of the artist 's work hitherto unpublished , are exceedingly good ; the colored frontispiece of " The Flight of Florimel " gives a wonderfully accurate impression of the painter 's glowing color that is so intrinsic a part of the mood of reverie pervading his art . BENJAMIN ROWLAND , JR . Our Record in Japan JAPAN DIARY . By Mark Gayn . William Sloane Associates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Martin . Stanford University Press and American Institute of Pacific Relations . $3 . PTIHESE two books deal with the I same country in the same period . The word Japan appears in the title of both . Otherwise they have little in common . It is hard at times to believe that they deal with the same subject . Their purpose , it is true , differs . Mr. Martin was formerly chief of Occupied Area Economic Affairs in the State Department and expressly disclaims any intention of appraising the achievements of the occupation . He contents himself with stating its officially announced purposes and the measures taken to realize them . Mr. Gayn on the other hand is avowedly critical . He went to Japan as a correspondent soon after the surrender , stayed there for two years , with an interval in Korea , and in this volume , in diary form , passes judgment . To the original program of the occupation as stated in the American government 's directive , he gives as much credit as Mr. Martin . It was the design of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest of the world and beneficent to its own people . But the design he finds unrecognizable in the reality . It has been sabotaged , mainly by the Japanese and partly by ourselves . As a result " the Japanese have lost the war , but they are winning the peace , and they are winning it by our acquiescence . " In sum , Mr. Gayn finds that the same groups that ruled Japan before the war and made the war are ruling Japan again under a temporary deference to the occupation . The purge is a fiasco . It has been circumvented by the pre-war leaders . He cites instances of one-time " thought police , " among the worst elements in the country , cheating the purge by resigning before it got to them and then being appointed to other jobs just as important . The former economic rulers , who combined feudal powers and privileges with the power conferred by modern industry and finance , have retreated to prepared positions from which they can advance to their 701. old status when America 's back is turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a twentieth-century society and the masses of its people given a fair share of the country 's wealth , and therefore for the first time a status of dignity , have been emasculated . " Today the spirit of reform is dead , and all the Japanese know it . " " Our worst error in Japan , " Mr. Gayn writes , " was our original belief that democratic reform would , or coula , be carried out by men who hated it . " The Japanese rulers hated it , and our own representatives in Japan , the military in particular , were not enamored of it . The latter wanted democracy too , but they wanted it safe and respectable , a democracy that would not tamper too much with vested interests and American ideas of " normalcy . " And in justice to them it should be said that they were both sincere and consistent . After all , if they had been in occupation in a defeated England , they would have had none of Attlee and Cripps and the nationalization of banks and coal mines @ 