@@487451

Y THE time peace is declared between the radio industry and the American Society of Composers , Authors , and Publishers ( ASCAP ) we shall all have had a liberal education in the confusing issues of their dispute . As everyone now knows , unless a settlement is reached by the first of January , Kate Smith will no longer broadcast " God Bless America , " and " request " programs , even the Hit Parade , will be in jeopardy . Recently , however , the newspapers have emphasized certain larger social implications of the feud . How these may bear on the final outcome is not yet clear , for the dispute is still contractual and may at any moment be coldly resolved in terms of dollars and cents . ASCAP exercises control over the performing rights of nearly all America 's best-known songs and musical works in smaller forms of the last twenty-five years , and of about a hundred thousand popular arrangements of pieces in the public domain . It is affiliated with nineteen foreign societies , whose output in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material it makes available by " blanket license " to various commercial users  --  theaters , restaurants , hotels , dance halls , wire services , radio stations . For that license , radio paid last year $4,300,000 ? about two-thirds of the society 's total income . Now ASCAP has submitted a new contract so framed that in 1941 radio would pay a sum variously estimated at from $7,500,000 to $9,000,000 . What is more , the networks , never taxed before , would be charged about 7Y2 per cent of their undistributed revenue . Fees from individual stations , however , would be progressively lowered , so that the lightest burden would fall on the smallest unit . This strategy of division has so far failed . The outraged chains have rallied not only their own affiliates but most of the independents  --  in all about 457 stations representing 92 per cent of the industry 's total time-salesand through the National Association of Broadcasters have announced that they will not negotiate on the basis of ASCAP 's long-established blanket license . Instead they demand a " per-use " contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a half dollars to set up an extraordinary new instrument ? Broadcast Music , Inc . ( BMI ) , which already functions as a " music publishing house , a coordinator of non-ASCAP music , and a performing-rights licensing society . " The struggle , at an impasse for some months , became a cat-and-dog fight between big and little business early in December , when BMI staged a raid onsome of ASCAP 's own publishing members . After one spectacular defection ASCAP closed ranks in what during recent years has proved its most vulnerable section . ( At least half its largest publishers are today owned and controlled by motion-picture companies . ) Now it has moved to the next stage of battle . For although the broadcasters might well be content to let ASCAP slip quietly off the air , and then sit back to wait for the verdict of their advertisers , ASCAP , cut off from radio , has turned to the press , where it is now vigorously stating its case and indirectly making a plea for arbitration . This appeal to the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry discharge their social function . Broadcasting , which is the fastest growing source of advertising revenue in America , unlike any other communications business may not operate without specific consideration of " the public interest , convenience , and necessity . " Government licenses are issued temporarily and can be withdrawn if these provisions are not fulfilled  --  a threat which has determined many features of broadcasting , for instance , the custom of presenting " both sides of the case " and the " educational " character of many sustaining programs . ASCAP 's relation to the public is far less clearly defined and has not been legally established . It can best be understood perhaps by a comparison with the status of similar foreign societies . In Europe the principle of copyright ownership and the practice of group collection of music royalties had been established long before 1914 , when ASCAP was born . Many of these associations are now officially recognized as national protectors of music rights and , though not subsidized , are to some degree aided in their business routine by the cooperation of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has proved stubbornly reluctant to observe the provisions of its own law on musical copyright . In every field of entertainment , from the night clubs to radio , ASCAP has met organized commercial opposition , and has had to carry its case forward through a succession of major lawsuits . For its fighting record , shrewd handling of public relations , and successful dealings with commercial users of music , it enjoys great prestige in the musical world . But it is still today involved in litigation over the right to collect fees . Several states have recently passed laws specifically designed to restrict its activity . Also pending is an important civil suit brought in 1934 by the Department of Justice , which alleges that the society operates as a monopoly in restraint of trade . Many points raised in that suit are now being aired by the radio opposition , which has added several of its own making . Like ASCAP the European societies issue some form of blanket license , and wherever possible this is paid for by a percentage fee levied on gross receipts . American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including those not using music ; ASCAP says it is music that takes radio round the clock . The great difficulty of winning ASCAP membership is another issue . To be eligible a candidate must have published five works . The requirement , according to the broadcasters , benefits a favored few and " stifles " young American talent . Restrictions exist in all other associations , the general intent being to separate the professional composer from the single- " hit " writer , but ASCAP appears to have set up very stiff conditions . The bitter attacks made on the system of fee distribution are based chiefly on the fact that the number of current performances does not determine the rating of composers and authors  --  although it appears to do so in the publishing group . instead , ASCAP stresses " seniority and service to the society , prestige , reputation , nature and number of works , " and other intangibles . The Europeans , too , employ compensating devices but chiefly to overcome the inequities to which a strict performance accounting subjects serious composers . ASCAP @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extreme . Another charge is that the society is completely controlled in all vital matters by a self-perpetuating board of directors . This criticism is fully supported by a reading of its Articles of Association , which contain none of the usual provisions to safeguard democratic procedure . Perhaps the gravest criticism leveled against ASCAP , one that has recently been discussed in the press with much heat and resulting confusion , is that it fails to represent adequately the musical forces of the country . In pre-Hitler Austria , for instance , the most highly developed musical civilization in the world , every established composer , author , and publisher belonged to the AKM ( Gesellschaft der Autoren , Komponisten , and Musikverleger ) , a society generally held to be a model in the performing-rights field . In 1937 AKM , functioning in a population of only 8,000,000 , had a membership of about 1,000 . ASCAP today numbers 1,084 composers and authors and 137 publishers . In twenty-five years ASCAP has consistently refrained from moving in any important way into the field of serious music . Alone among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halls , where orchestras , chamber-music groups , and recitalists appear , and it does riot collect anywhere for music in the grand-rights category  --  the large orchestral , choral , and chamber-music works . It has admitted about fifty well-known " stand-ard " composers to membership . In a recent statement several of them have declared that the society makes them generous payments , but it is doubtful whether ASCAP collects on performances of their major works If ASCAP is now under fire , its chief opponents , the radio chains , are also having some unpleasant moments . Early in December the Federal Communications Commission called the network representatives to a public hearing in Washington to testify on " arbitrary and inequitable practices " charged against them by a special subcommittee . ' The committee had reported that " from a social viewpoint the profits derived from network operation have not been sufficiently utilized for the betterment and expansion of the industry . " Further , it was charged , the two concert bureaus owned by the two leading chains , " which place about 800 of the best-known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to " limit the effort of much of the great talent in the country to network programs and arbitrarily restrict the programs of independent competing stations as well as the communities in which they are located . " Now in their drive against ASCAP , the chains appear to be leading the industry directly into the field of music production . Broadcast Music , Inc , has possibilities , and any arbitration of ASCAP 's immediate dispute with radio will scarcely dispose of this threat Set up with the avowed purpose of establishing a " competitive market for music , " BMI has adopted , in the interest of efficiency , the very method of blanket licensing which the broadcasters will no longer accept from ASCAP . For months it has employed a large staff of musicians to make workable nonASCAP arrangements of established favorites in the public domain ? " The Old Oaken Bucket , " " The Blue Danube , " the Stephen Foster songs It has also published about two hundred new pieces written by non-ASCAP composers and authors , contracting to pay them one cent per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ASCAP 's classification system . It promises eventually to act as a collecting agency for the performing rights on this newly arranged and newly written music , but now , to popularize its product , it disposes of those rights gratis to any entertainment agency that will use them . Altogether it claims to have available about 250,000 copyright works with which to fill the gap if and when ASCAP goes completely off the air . Whether this large and hastily improvised collection of new and old songs can meet an extended test is of course not clear from the partial trial it has already been given . Spokesmen for the industry are confident " It is likely , " according to Neville Miller , N. A. B. 's president , " that no one will notice the difference in character and quality of programs on and after January 1 , 1941 . " This may be true ? " The music the people like is the music people hear " ? but it is not very reassuring . The speedup , the plugging , the automatic production of songs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfy the appetite of the radio and the juke box certainly make one hit sound much like another . But if radio , the great " popularizer , " has so leveled the public taste that Berlin , Gershwin , Herbert , Kern , Porter , Rodgers  --  the established idols of American light music , men of international reputation in their field  --  can be taken off the air without creating a ripple , then it is open to question how well radio has served the public as a communications medium . If , on the other hand , ASCAP would function as the guardian of musical culture it now claims to be , a little house-cleaning seems in order . Limitation of the power of the publishers , who once before , and again in this crisis , nearly betrayed it , and who are generally credited with promoting the unrestricted plugging evil , appears to be indicated as a simple measure for ultimate survival . And if ASCAP assumes to speak as a representative of the country 's composers , it may well open its doors to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expanding music business  --  now so securely in the grip of the electric-patent industry  --  it could more readily count on public support .                     