@@494246

The State Department Six We shall not enter here into the details of Mr. Clayton 's past affiliations with Germany , Mr. Dunn 's record in the State Department or General Holmes 's responsibility for our North African blunders and his hostility to Soviet Russia . We prefer to comment on the underlying purpose of the men who cooked up the whole plan , and the brazen contempt with which they tossed a sop to the liberals by appointing Archie MacLeish to a perfunctory and peripheral job ? perfunctory and peripheral , that is , compared with the influence the other five men will exert . These other five appointments were just the kind that might have been expected if Mr. Dewey had been elected in November . Giving the five nominees all the benefit of the doubt as to their personal honesty , they still remain reactionary in outlook . They are men who can not and could not possibly work with Soviet Russia , or a Labor government in Great Britain , or a new Republican government in Spain or Portugal or Brazil , or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them , that is , except on terms of stiff formality , cold and ill concealed hostility and contempt . These are men , in the aggregate , who could work comfortably with the British Tories , with the surviving dictatorships ? and with nobody else . It is prOof of the low state of the expiring lame-duck Congress that the one nomination which called out the greatest emotion and the bitterest anger was that of Archie MacLeish . Neither the editors of The New Republic nor Mr. MacLeish himself regard him as any sort of demigod , but certainly he is so superior to the other five men in his personal qualities and his fitness for the task assigned that to bracket him with them is almost an affront . If Mr. MacLeish is unlikely to do very much positive good , the other five , taken collectively , are sure to do a great deal of very positive harm To think of them as participating even remotely 857 in a peace conference ( with the possible exception of the fairly innocuous Nelson Rockefeller ) is to become acutely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old diplomacy at its lowest level or with a new diplomacy which promises to be even worse . The thing that justifies the deepest anger is that all this was completely unnecessary . The State Department under Hull was notoriously the weakest part of the executive branch . The President felt that he had to meet the criticisms , and he took advantage of Mr. Hull 's resignation to make changes . He called in the incredible Harry Hopkins , and Mr. Hopkins proceeded , according to Washington reports which we believe are reliable , to conciliate Jesse Jones with Clayton , to conciliate Mr. Hull with Dunn , to conciliate Dunn with Holmes , to conciliate the whole department by abolishing Rockefeller 's old bureau , to conciliate Rockefeller with a new job , to conciliate the cookie-pushers with Grew and to conciliate the liberals with MacLeish . The transaction was not merely immoral : it was ? and this is worse by the standards of Washington ? incompetent . Harry Hopkins certainly could not have intended to raise all the hell that he did ? nor could the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have intended to let him . The very nearly despairing question one asks is , Why should all this be necessary ? Is n't it ever possible to nominate a group of men of whom decent Americans can be proud , and not ashamed ? Where did anybody get the idea that it is satisfactory to balance an indecent appointment with a decent one or , as in this case , five appointments ranging from mildly to outrageously bad , with one that is mildly good ? It is not enough to ask , as they are asking in Washington today , Who won the election ? It is better to ask , Who is it in the White House entourage who makes blunder after blunder on the repeated , and repeatedly proved wrong , assumption that the American people are a lot of dopes ?                     