@@150117

A layman , confronted with " abstract " art , is apt to lapse into the language of the Two Black Crows and say : " What causes that ? " Probably two things : 1 ) the development of photography , which reproduces reality much better than ' any painter could ; 2 ) the progress of experimental science . <P> About 1870 , artists began retreating from realism . With every fresh retreat they dug themselves a new redoubt , hoisted a flag and proclaimed a new ism . Impressionism and neoImpressionism held that artists should paint with prismatic colors , imitating the effect of light . Synthetism held that they should not . Fauvism held that artists should paint flat , abstract decorations ; Cubism , that the subject should be broken up into planes . Futurism , Orphism , Expressionism , Synchronism , Abstract Dadaism , <P> Rayonism , Machinism , Suprematism , Constructivism , Purism , Concretionism-by the 19205 there were so many isms that the artists themselves got mixed up . Because these later isms had one thing in common-a lack or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them : Abstractionism . <P> Last week , on Manhattan 's 57th Street , four of the leading abstractionists broke out with simultaneous exhibitions . Argentine-born Frenchman Fernand Leger started out as a Cubist with Braque and Picasso in 1910 . Russian-born Wassily Kandinsky and U. S.-born , German-bred Lyonel Feininger were long masterminds of Germany 's Bauhaus group . Spanish-born Joan Miro is a surrealist who is more abstract than Surrealist Salvador Dali . Least abstract of the four abstractionists ' pictures were those of stocky Fernand Leger , who now lives in the U. S. Leger 's intricate designs , drawn with thick , coally lines and colored in flat patches , were made up of recognizable hands , faces , tree roots , fried eggs , birds and feet , looked a little like elaborate sculptural reliefs . Abstractionist Feininger 's subject matter was also recognizable , but his ships and buildings looked , when he was through with them , like earthquakes viewed through a shattered plate-glass window . Abstractionist Kandinsky ran the gamut from fairly conventional , mosaic-like landscapes to amoebic shapes painted on plaster-like surfaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resembled an explosion in a kaleidoscope factory . Abstractionist Miro had littered potato-sack burlap with insectile , wire-worky lines , spots and doodads . Miro 's titles were less abstract than his pictures . Samples : A Drop of Dew Falling from the Wing of a Bird Awakens Rosalie Asleep in the Shade of a Cobweb ; Women Greeting the Crescent of the Moon ; Personages Magnetized by the Stars ( see cut ) <P> To apprehensive men-from-the-street , seeking shelter from last week 's blizzard , these abstractions looked like good clean lunatic fun . But the people who went there on purpose could point out that the simplified cubes and planes of this unrealistic art have influenced nearly every type of modern decoration , from typography , magazine layout , window display and fashion design to streamlining and modern architecture .                     