@@475286

AT MIDNIGHT the train was completely loaded . Food , boxes of ammunition , gasoline , engineering equipment . The five-man crew was routed out of its pup tents . The engineer and fireman took their places in the cab , the flagman , brakeman , and conductor mounted the boxcars . The company commander pushed a case of K-rations into the cab . " Where we off to ? " the engineer asked . He was still sleepy . " Never mind , " the CO said . " Just keep going till someone stops you . " He had only the vaguest idea where they were going . Somewhere up front , that was all . Eighty-six hours later they were finally stopped , at a forward dump a few miles behind the armies . It had been a sleepless , harrowing trip . They had driven through the blackout without headlights , never knowing what loomed round the next bend . Tracks sagged dangerously when the cars passed over newly filled-in bomb craters . Snipers fired at them as they entered a tunnel . Planes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stalled ahead of them . Twice they stopped for lack of coal , and once for water . For fuel , they chopped up cross-ties found along the track , and for water , pressed a civilian fire pump into service . This train ride through France epitomizes the story of military transportationin Europe . Operations in rear areas are better organized , but up forward improvisation to meet the hazards and vicissitudes of combat remains the invariable rule . It could hardly be otherwise , for from the morning of June 6th onward , the Transportation Corps in the European Theater , commanded by Major General Frank S. Ross , has been saddled with a transport job that in size and intricacy has no parallel in military history . It is a truism that supply lines are the lifeblood of an army , and supply lines , pre-eminently , mean transportation fully as much as mat6rieL You must have the stuff , but you 've got to move it before it does any good . Long before D-day , the Germans were probably reconciled to a landing . But they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign our supplies would lag behind the forward thrust of our troops , and that in the pauses for consolidation they would have time to regroup their forces , contain our advances , and move to the counterattack . Supply became the key to victory . If we won the " Battle of the Build-up " on the Normandy beaches and if , later , we kept the armies supplied as they advanced , we could win the war . It is noteworthy that once our initial breakthrough occurred , the only points the Germans favored with bitter-end defense were the ports ? Brest , St. Malo , Calais , St. Nazaire , Le Havre . Their logic was incontestable : stopping the flow of supplies would stall our armies . But we were able to manage without these harbors , thanks to the fabulous artificial ports which were towed over from England to the Normandy beachheads . In the first hundred days of the invasion a million tons of supplies and a hundred thousand vehicles were unloaded in Normandy . Once the stuff was safely ashore , the ports and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roll , and now the burden was tossed to the railroads and the trucks . Transportation Corps truckers and railroaders were plagued by demolished roads and bridges , inadequate communications , combat hazards that posed a host of operational problems ? above all , they were prey to the capricious turns of battle and the unpredictable requisitions of field commanders . II EACHHEAD operations exemplified im- provisation on the grand scale . On the first day they arrived , June 8th , the TC men helped the Engineers clear the beach of wrecked landing craft and vehicles ? they worked all day , under enemy fire from the top of the cliff . They swept the sands for mines . The TC men had n't been trained for the job , but the Engineers lacked enough sappers . Somehow they managed to clear their working space , de-mine it , get operations started . Small craft , barges , DUKW 's ( amphibious 214-ton trucks ) beached the cargo ; then it was transferred to trucks , the trucks dispatched to dumps ? and always there was the job of untangling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cargo from piling up in unmanageable heaps on the sands . The beaches were our greatest gamble , and sometimes our margin of safety narrowed almost to the vanishing point . DUKW 's were sunk by striking submerged objects or mines . It was difficult to locate ships at night . Orders were frequently issued to go out and unload any vessel standing close by . Truck drivers had their problems : roads too narrow forsafety in the blackout , delays at the dumps because of shortages of personnel and equipment . And then , on June 20th , a storm of hurricane dimensions broke , imperiling the entire operation . One of the artificial ports was largely destroyed . All work had to stop for three days , and once the storm was over , the men again had to clear the beach of wrecked landing craft , barges , and cargo . But between June 6th and June 27th thousands of tons of cargo were unloaded , and the supply battle of the beaches was won . On June 27th , Cherbourg was taken . The capture of Cherbourg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans ' stubborn defense had delayed us many days . When we did take it , we could n't put it into immediate operation . The Germans had demolished all port facilities . First the waters had to be cleared of mines , the wrecks of sunken vessels removed , wharves repaired . But Cherbourg presented additional problems : its normal cargo capacity- had to be steeply raised , for it had always been primarily a passenger rather than a cargo port . New wharves and railroad spurs were built , but in addition beach operations had to be duplicated ? unloading onto barges and DUKW 's , towing the barges in to shore . After the port was open for traffic , tonnage figures mounted week by week . By mid-October the other major Channel ports had been captured , but they were not yet operating to any appreciable extent . III G ETTING the supplies across the Channel , safely berthed in port , unloaded , was only a beginning . They still had to move . The armies needed three staples above all else ? ammunition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Supply lines were relatively easy to maintain when the troops were bottled up in Normandy . The hauls were short , and the trucks could easily handle them . While the field commanders fumed and fretted during the Normandy deadlock , the supply men enjoyed a welcome breather . They had plenty of time to accumulate huge concentrations of stocks . They won the Battle of the Build-up quite handsomely . But when the breakthrough came , on July 25th , it pushed forward so rapidly that all our supply plans had to be discarded and new ones improvised . It had been planned to " phase " supply dumps across France as the armies gradually progressed ? that is to say , to build up sizable dumps behind the armies every time the troops scored a sufficiently sizable advance , in order to provision them for the next jump forward . The locations of the prospective dumps were carefully predetermined . But things did n't work out that way at all . There was no time to build up great piles of materiel just behind the Iines , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deserted cow pasture tomorrow . Supply depots had to remain where they were , near the Normandy beaches and Cherbourg , and the transport line had to stretch farther and farther , but not thinner ; if anything , the elastic transport line had to grow in girth as it was pulled out in length . The railroads could n't carry the burden ? not yet . Thousands of miles of roadbed had to be repaired , damaged rolling stock put back in working order , new equipment mounted on rails . It all takes time . You ca n't improvise a railroad by waving a magic wand over a drawing board . But you can improvise a truckline aImost that quickly . Over the long hauls , trucks ca n't carry as much tonnage as rails , but they 're the most flexible mode of transport . Except for airplanes , of course , and airplanes could never carry more than a fraction of the high-priority supplies needed by the armies in France . There 's nothing to loading up a truck , handing the driver a strip map , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks of invasion , truck runs got under way in this slapdash manner . But as the theorists of the Transportation Corps ' Motor Transport Brigade knew all along , trucking and railroad logistics are equally complicated . A host of problems arise . Road repairs have to be co-ordinated with convoy schedules . Otherwise trucks jam up behind the bulldozers . Preventative maintenance has to be kept up on vehicles ? the price of neglect is constant breakdowns . And yet trucks must continuallybe on the move , leaving little time for maintenance . This brings in another dement ? ordnance outfits , which must be readily available for emergency repairs . Delays stall trucks for hours and days . Communication is a constant problem . The dumps have to be told when trucks are to arrive and what they are carrying , in order to have men and equipment on hand to unload and store the stuff . Fully as important is the matter of traffic engineering : routes must be clearly marked , road rules enforced ? otherwise trucks get lost , traffic clots up . A half-dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to move three hundred miles to its destination , unload without delay , and get back quickly . TN THE first few weeks after the Nor- mandy breakthrough , it was impossible to improvise a trucking system fast enough . Road jams were chronic , vehicles broke down and never arrived , lost drivers wandered dazedly over the countryside . Convoys kept getting kidnapped . Looking for forward dumps , unsure of their directions , drivers were easy bait for outfits in dire need of supplies . It was a simple business to direct a convoy to the wrong dump , have it unload , and send it on its way little the wiser . The armies got their supplies , but the waste effort was frightening . The problem rapidly came to a head as Patton raced across France . Patton used his supply trucks as troop transports , in order to keep the infantry moving up behind the tanks . This threw the entire supply burden on the Transportation Corps . A thorough revision of the trucking system was called for . The answer was the Red Ball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ network , stretching over northern France , was commandeered . Traffic ran one way on each road ? convoys moved from Normandy to the front on one road , returned on the other . In the forward areas the highway branched out , one route serving the First Army , the other the Third . It was a terrific haul ? up to a thousand miles round trip when the troops reached the German border ? the biggest trucking operation in military history , " four times as long as the Burma Road , " the Red Ball people boast . Red Ball itself is an old civilian railroad term , denoting priority shipments . Overnight the round red daub appeared on thousands of trucks , trailers , tank cars , wreckers , jeeps . Each vehicle had two drivers assigned to it . Sixty per cent of the men were Negroes . Red Ball immediately instituted a standardized procedure for road operations , and vigorously enforced it . All trucks moved in convoy , each convoy commanded by an officer in a jeep following along in the rear ? to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at regular intervals , kept down to a speed of twenty-five miles an hour . This made for a steady , uninterrupted pace and con-stant movement . Two MP battalions controlled traffic . Every couple of hours the convoys would stop for a ten-minute break , and if the men were lucky they would get doughnuts and coffee from a mobile Red Cross unit . Coffee was vital , for the drivers averaged twenty hours at the wheel , and without it they would doze off , start weaving back and forth ? and crack up . Midway between the dumps and the front was a huge bivouac area , covering several dozen square miles . A driver would bring his vehicle in from the dump , turn it over to his relief man , who would take it up forward . When the truck returned from the front , the first man would take over again for the trip back to the dump . To keep the express line running in high gear , every technical contingency was provided for , every detail in the complicated logistical framework synchronized . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bridges . Repairs were carried on in close co-ordination with traffic control headquarters , to allow sufficient time between the passing of convoys . Red Ball ordnance crews , on the lookout for distressed vehicles , were on constant patrol . Repair shops and wreckers ? huge steel cranes on wheels , to tow vehicles unable to move under their own power ? were scattered up and down the road . The patrols carried a large assortment of tools and spare parts , but if avehicle could not be repaired within a few hours the driver would be issued a new truck . Engine trouble was the most common complaint ? the motors had to take terrific punishment because of the lengthy hauls and scanty time for maintenance . Communication along the thousand-mile route was largely by means of radio ? highpowered transmitters mounted in 2 . ; ? " - ton trucks . When a convoy left the dump , a message would go out to all stations along the route , giving details as to cargo , destination , and handling . Jeep couriers were also used . Red Bail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combat has a way of disrupting even the most farsighted schedules . A few drivers got wounded , and the bivouac area had a chronic shortage of relief men to furnish the trucks which pulled in . Sometimes the same drivers had to make the entire trip to the front , keep going for three days with only as much sleep as they could catch during ten-minute breaks or while the trucks were being unloaded at their destination . ANYTHING can happen while armies are on the move . A convoy of seven trucks picked up some engineering equipment . They were told to report to Chartres , to unload at the Engineer depot . They found the depot .1-lad moved , and were sent to find it ? to Auneau , then to Puisseaux . Once there , they discovered that the depot had pushed on again ? off they went to a town 150 miles away , doggedly determined to get rid of their load . Finally they made it , unloaded the stuff , filled up with gas from a German tank car while listening to the sounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they departed a half-hour later , watched the German prisoners straggle by . They got back to their starting point eight days after venturing forth . Drivers carried their rifles in their cabs , and frequently had to use them . Speeding through the center of Mortain , four trucks , manned by Negro drivers , were machine-gunned by ambushed Germans . The drivers fired back . One driver killed , one truck lost . Three gas trucks were strafed and bombed while unloading their tanks at a truckhead at St. Martin de Mandel . A convoy of thirteen gasoline tankers had to get through Coutances to reach Patton 's army . The town had been bombed into rubble and was afire . The trucks clashed through the streets , under a blanket of shooting flames , heedless of the danger ? though a stray spark igniting the fumes could have blown up the whole convoy . Patton got his gasoline . IV W HILE the trucks kept the armies supplied , the railroads had time to organize their forces . Railway operations in the European Theater are the responsibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clarence L. Burpee . He directs twelve thousand officers and enlisted men , most of whom worked for railroads in civilian life . The first scheduled train run , between Cherbourg and Carentan , took place on July 11th , but the first three months of operations were essentially preparatory . By mid-September thousands of miles of single- and double-track line were in shape for traffic , and tonnage figures began to zoom . Only 137,189 tons had been hauled in the first three months ; by the end of September the lines were carrying an average of 10,000 tons a day-300 , - 000 tons a month . The rails were now doing more than Red Ball , with its 6,000 tons a day . An elaborate organizing job faced Army railroaders when they reached the Continent . First , tracks , signal houses , marshaling and storage yards all had to be repaired before any operations could start . The Folligny yard in Normandy was a good example of conditions generally . For two years Allied bombers had smashed at the yard , raising havoc with German supply movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to have it renewed . When the Army railroaders arrived , the yard was a nightmare of gutted cars , steel rods twisted in a hundred bizarre shapes , deep bomb craters so numerous that one merged into the other . All the railroad buildings , and most of the town , had been pounded into rubble , Parts of two buildings were left standing , and in these barrenhulks the railroad battalion that was to operate the line from Folligny to Le Mans set up shop . But before they could get to work they faced a massive job of grave-digging . The Engineers , busy repairing the yard , kept scooping up the bodies of dead German soldiers who had been buried after bombings . They had apparently been dumped into bomb craters , the earth tossed back over them , and in some cases the railroad track rebuilt over the common graves . Our men dug out all the corpses , reburied them , and then set about repairing the yard . Since operations began on the Continent , the Corps of Engineers has rebuilt over 1,500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up marshaling yards , repaired water lines and coaling facilities . It has spanned the Seine , the Vire , the Oise rivers . One bridge was originally destroyed by our bombers , rebuilt by the Germans , demolished again by the RAF , and finally rebuilt by the Engineers . Although the Germans had damaged a good deal of their rolling stock , much of it was salvageable . Captured railway cars were of French , Belgian , German , Czech , Rumanian , Polish make . Many of them had been damaged by bombing and shellfire , but we put them to use . In the case of badly shattered gondolas , for instance , the sides were cut out , making them flatcars . Twelve locomotives captured in Cherbourg had been shipped to the Continent by the U. S. Army during the last war , later turned over to the French . The oldest engines found included Austrian small-switch 0-6-0 's , stamped 1865 , while the newest were marked 1944 . Near Paris we captured a German execution train , used to transport Jews to isolated country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boxcars , each scaled tight by tar paper . The gas entered the car through a small pipe . No bodies were found , but the characteristic stench of corpses indicated that the train had recently been used . Although captured railway stock has been an important asset , the bulk of our equipment came from the U. S. under a ferrying program that was declared fantastic when originally broached in 1942 . Hundreds of steam and Diesel locomotives were shipped to England , readied for operations , stored . What was really revolutionary was the prefabrication in the States of twenty thousand boxcars , gondolas , cabooses . They were manufactured especially for Continental railroads . The cars are smaller than American models ; they have four wheels instead of eight , and a different coupling mechanism , which allows them to be used with captured stock . The knocked-down cars , like the locomotives , had been sent to England , assembled there by the same railway outfits that were to use them on the Continent , and , after the invasion had started , ferried across the Channel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oceangoing freighters especially constructed to carry railway cars . G ETTING rail lines and equipment into shape was a sizable job , but the biggest headaches came when trains began to move . The crux of the problem was this : The first trains were the most crucial , for they supplied priority cargo to armies on the move . They had to run long before complete railway facilities could be provided ? there was no time to wait for communication lines to be installed , fuel and water points to be repaired or sidings to be rebuilt . The trains moved on the heels of Engineer gangs ? as soon as a section of rail was repaired , the cars rolled . When telephone lines had n't been strung , jeep couriers dashed between dispatch points with orders for the trains . If a courier was knocked off by a sniper , the trains were stalled for hours . Some coal and water facilities had been left standing by the Germans , but most of them had been damaged or destroyed . Thrown on their own resources , our men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ditches , streams , shell craters , and organized civilian bucket brigades . Sometimes there was n't time to provision a train with all necessary equipment before it had to depart . In the blackout , when lanterns had n't been furnished , the brakemen signaled with lighted magazines , the flames of cigarette lighters , or glowing cigarette butts . Even after communication and fuel and water facilities were installed , and regular schedules instituted , a maze of operational problems still continued to bedevil the railway outfits . The demands on the railways were so large that sometimes trains were overloaded , which caused them to stall . This necessitated cutting the train in half and pulling each section into the first available siding . The sidings were frequently far apart , and by the time the engine returned to pick up the second section , later trains ? dispatched as frequently as every thirty minutes from the station ? were piling up for miles down the track . The short-range solution was more sidings . But they took time to build . The long-range solution , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was operating , was to repair both tracks ? allowing more trains , and shorter ones , to run . This required even more time . Finally , the accidents of combat inevitably disrupted the best-laid plans . Communications were a particular problem . Telephone contact frequently had to depend on a single line , strung by Signal Corps men under intermittent harassing by shellfire and snipers . German soldiers , caught in rear areas after the tide of battle had swept forward , frequently cut the line . With the line out , a jeep courier had to be rushed between dispatch points with orders for the trains . It was bad enough when things got snarled on a double-track line , but with a single-track road , with loaded trains heading one way and empties going the other , it took hours to back cars down the line , switch them to sidings , and unravel the tangle . Trains operated within five miles of the front lines . During the early part of July the first railway line ? from Cherbourg to Carentan and Lison ? paralleled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a train passed , the German 88 's opened up . This went on steadily , morning and evening , for two weeks . And the enemy 's guns are not the only danger if trains get too close to the front ? Allied supply trains have accidentally been bombed by Allied planes . Combat pressure has inevitably led to the abandonment of every sort of railroad precedent . Back home , the Interstate Commerce Commission fines a railroad a thousand dollars if any man is kept on duty for more than sixteen hours . On our military roads , a man is n't considered to have served his apprenticeship until he 's been on a continuous run for at least thirty-two hours . The crews live , eat , sleep on the trains . They bed down in boxcars while the trains are stalled or unloading , eat while they work , take their leisure in banter with civilians lining the track . But the trains get through . A little over a month after D-day , they were running down the Cotentin peninsula . Shortly after the city 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? yards that are reputedly more intricate than Chicago 's . In the same swift , impromptu fashion , TC railroaders and truckers expect to make Berlin .                     