@@494272

Reform , Howard Smith Style As a result of this kind of interest , a considerable number of bills aimed at improving Congress were introduced in the last two sessions . Most of them were aimed at simplifying the committee structure , eliminating a major part of the special committees , and substituting merit for seniority as a requirement for attaining committee chairmanships . Senator La Follette 's bill to reduce the number of standing committees in the Senate from 33 to 13 attracted favorable attention . And there was much discussion of another proposal for a joint steering committee , composed of the chairmen of a series of new streamlined committees , to be responsible for laying out an over-all legislative program for the party in power . Representatives Jerry Voorhis of California , Estes Kefauver of Tennessee , Everett Dirksen of Illinois and Mike Monroney of Oklahoma have put in hours of serious study on the question of congressional organization . On the Senate side , Maloney , Pepper and Ball have stood out along with La Follette in this respect . Last fall , Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Houses calling for the establishment of a Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress , to study its operations and recommend improvements . The active forces for reform united behind this measure as the best way to get the facts before the people . Last 792 August , the Senate unanimously passed the MaloneyMonroney resolution , but it included hamstringing amendments which provided that the committee could not recommend changes of parliamentary rules in either house . In the House it was different . Speaker Rayburn showed no outward enthusiasm for Mike Monroney 's resolution , since there was every reason to believe it would change things . With Howard Smith and his cronies , Gene Cox , Martin Dies and Ham Fish , in control of the all-powerful Rules Committee , it was no trick at all to keep the Monroney-Maloney bill bottled up indefinitely . But now , shrewd Mr. Smith has smelled a new wind rising . During the early days of the Special Committee to Investigate Arts of Executive Agencies , of which he was chairman , Smith had run into practically no opposition . Those were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ height ; the progressive defeats in the ' 42 elections were still a vivid memory , and liberals were easily intimidated . But as the Smith Committee moved on from one unwarranted foray into the administrative agencies after another , even middle-of-the-roaders rose against him and his practices . When the excesses of the Cox Committee investigating the Federal Communications Commission seemed doomed to wreck that committee , and the results of the ' 44 primary elections pointed to repudiation of the Dies Committee , Smith began to heed the words of the one progressive member of his Special Committee , Jerry Voorhis of California . Like all fair-minded , intelligent congressmen , Voorhis had long ago realized how much had to be done to put the machinery in up-to-date working order.The Smith Committee report on the reorganization of Congress , just issued , takes ideas formulated by Voorhis and others culled from the Monroney-Maloney bill and freezes them in a new mold . The counsel of the Smith Committee , who presumably did much of the drafting of the bill designed to carry out the report , is Aaron L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms failed of reelection in 1942 , in spite of ? or because of ? one of the most reactionary records even a Mississippi congressman has rolled up in modern times . The bill which Ford and Chairman Smith are offering for their whole committee , if passed , can be the means of freezing reaction at the controls in Congress , even though it is presented as reform . The Smith bill contains four main provisos : ( I ) It establishes a joint legislative staff service available to all committees of both houses to provide expert assistance ; ( 2 ) it establishes a joint committee on appropriations empowered to study the way the executive branch spends its funds ; ( 3 ) it creates a permanent standing joint committee on executive agencies and procedures , to investigate cases in which the executive THE NEW REPUBLIC is thought to exceed statutory or constitutional au. thority ; ( 4 ) it establishes a joint committee to study the operations of Congress and make recommend* tions for improvements . Experts in this field generally feel that , in spite of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the simple provision for an investigation and recommendations called for in the Maloney-Monroney bill . They say that in the former case , reform would probably stop with the mere ' provision of more staff . Politicians go on to point out that it is congressional practice to name as chairman of a new committee the nominal author of the bill creating it . Smith , thereby , would come into chairmanship of a permanent group with more power and prestige than his Special committee ever enjoyed . Larger committee staffs might mean little more than extra patronage for the Smith clique unless the technicians were attached to an existing group like the Legislative Reference Service , or unless other safeguards not now provided were specifically included . Better congressional surveillance of executive expenditures need not mean giving the two Virginians , Smith and Harry Byrd , authority to poke their noses in wherever they wish . Representative Clarence Cannon of the House Appropriations Committee favors building up the present standing Committee on Executive Expenditures to handle the job . Others qualified to analyze the task recommend a Committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British House of Commons so well for so long , to be tied in tightly with the General Accounting Office , which should then be expanded to handle service as well as fidelity audits and to investigate whether various expenditures are wise and efficient . In place of the joint committee to ' investigate cases where executive agencies exceed their authority , nonpartisan students of congressional reorganization favor a streamlined committee system which can be used as a regular means of communication between Congress and the executive , to maintain continuous legislative overseeing of administrative actions . With the ado quate committee staffs which everyone agrees are needed , this job could be done . The Smith bill is now bound for the House Rule Committee , where the Monroney resolution already rests . Smith and his pals are still in control here , is there is no doubt which bill will first receive favorable action . The House is as much in need of reform today s : it was when Champ Clark became Speaker . Power then shifted from Tsar Cannon to King Caucus , to tht floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shift to a democratization of the House is over due . Thirty years is too long to wait for this sots of change . The seniority system has outlived it i usefulness . DECEMBER I I , 1944 Flat rejection of the Smith bill by the House would ICITC notice on Smith and his old cronies that their tide to retain control , to divert the impetus of re- " form , will not work . At the very least , the House should give any committee set up to investigate the ills of Congress a free hand tions it wants to make must not be allowed to 793 in making all the recommenda . Reform a la Howard Smith pass for the real thing . 