@@494274

A Journal of Opinion rom Berlin to Tokyo Both the war in the West and the war in the Fast jive reached critical junctures , at which it is profitable pot only to take stock of the progress made in each , but to compare the two . For the many disappointments offered on the long , hard road to Berlin may yet be opeated , and felt in intensified form , on the longer mnd in some ways harder road to Tokyo , if the lessons learned in the one theatre are not immediately applied to the other . There is no reason to doubt that the military commands of the United States and the United Nations will promptly apply the experience gained in one zone to the problems encountered in the other , but there is every reason to fear that civilians , including many of those in responsible positions affecting war production , may again give way to easy overoptimism . The bombing of Tokyo is the most striking recent development to occasion these misgivings . After two ram and seven months , the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a sprawling empire in process of dismemberment , has again been fitought under direct attack . In April , 1942 , the bomb-by Lieutenant General ( then Lieutenant Colonel ) H. Doolittle 's squadron was a mere stunt , a a raid executed by a specially constituted task force sixteen medium bombers , flying from the carrier Hornet , and each carrying only one ton of bombs . ? AO ' w , Brigadier General Emmett O'Donnell has led force of from 70 to zoo B-29 Superfortresses over the Tokyo area . We have come a long way . No More Than a Start But just what does this progress mean in terms of the approach to final victory ? the only goal that matters ? The comparison with the war in the West provides a partial answer . The Doolittle bombing of Tokyo came only six weeks before the first RAF r , 000-plane attack on Cologne . Two and a half years later , Cologne still has not been conquered . The nation which it serves has been subjected to bombing on a scale which seemed visionary two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . The first Superfortress raid on Tokyo was undertaken and executed in a most admirable spirit of humility and self-criticism by the Twenty-first Bomber Command , based on captured Saipan in the Marianas Islands , 1 , soo miles from the target . Brigadier General Haywood Hansel , displaying a level-headedness too often lacking in the Army Air Forces , admitted frankly that the job was not perfect , nor even up to his command 's expectations . But it was a start , and a promising one . Pacific Fleet censors passed a correspondent 's statement that the aerial invasion of Japan would go into high gear only after bases closer to the target had been seized ? a clear announcement that islands such as the Bonins or the Ryukyus or the Kuriles are marked for invasion at a comparatively early date . Not until that stage has been passed will air attacks on the enemy in the East bear any resemblance to those which have been visited upon the enemy in the West ever since the RAF threw a haymaker at Cologne . 732 The Danger of Overconfidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's men must have carried well over 400 tons . ( It can not be too often emphasized that the theoretical bomb-carrying capacities of large planes bear no resemblance to the loads carried in combat operations . Flying Fortresses and Liberators in the European Theatre are credited with a five-ton capacity , but official figures on their performance show that they usually take only half of this . British night bombers , now being adapted for daytime use , carry almost their rated capacity of five to six tons . The B-29 probably does not yet carry more than half its theoretical load of ten tons . ) Eventually , from bases in the Marianas and from others still to be captured , the industrial complexes of Japan will be operated on by air forces capable of carrying 3,000 or 4,000 tons of bombs to the targets , two or three times a week . What will be the effect on Japan ? There is evidence , in the case of every highly organized country which has been subjected to bombing , that the people 's will to resist is more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convincing evidence that Japanese industry , while it may be slowed down , will not be incapacitated . And again the analogy with Germany provides a pointed warning . The bombing offensive against the Reich was far less effective than had been hoped , because the enemy had transported much of his refugee industry from the Rhineland to the mountains and forests of Slovakia and Silesia . The Japanese have their Silesia , on a far greater scale and far better situated , in Manchuria . The task of knocking it out is going to be a tough one . While the Oil Holds Out Still , the question persists , will not Japan 's war machine be stalled by lack of oil ? That same question was asked in the case of Germany , and with somewhat more confidence . Yet the most recent targets of Allied heavy bombing fleets in Western Europe have been Germany 's oil sources . It is plain that even the most massive blows against these supposedly sensitive objectives can not keep them long out of action . There is also good reason to believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed since 1939 , has been grossly underestimated . Here is yet another warning of errors that may be made in assessing Japan 's capacity for prolonged resistance . Hoarded stocks of oil may be consumed or destroyed . Replacements from the wells of the Indies may be sunk en route by submarine or aerial blockade . Synthetic producers may be bombed . And still Japan must be expected to have alternative sources of supply , at least in low-grade shales , which will keep her war machine running long after the theoretical freezing point has been reached . THE NEW REPUBLIC The Hard-Pressed Germans Fortunately , the war in the West is now in the opposite phase of the cycle from that in the East . It has been brought to a point at which victory is in sight , and two principal elements in the victory now emerging have been strategic ' bombing and amphibious operations . The former began , for all effective purposes , more than two years ago . The landings began with the first hesitant steps on the beaches of North Africa on November 8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after those landings that Lieutenant General Patton touched off the current offensive which offers hope of finality . The German civilian shows no sign of cracking , as he did in 1918 ; the German army , air force and navy still have not produced a Kiel mutiny . But the descriptions of the troops encountered on the Western Front ? after the overeasy assumptions of some of the correspondents have been pared away ? show that unseasoned levies are being thrown into the line . There can be only one reason , on a sector so vital as the Siegfried Line ? and this is that the Germans have nothing better to offer . The day when they could shuttle picked divisions between White Russia and France has long since passed . The destruction of two or three German armies , on either front , within this month should open the entire country to an Allied advance upon Berlin . DECEMBER 4 , 1944 Cordell Cordell Hull looks better in retrospect , as he leaves the State Department , than he did while in office . Inevitably , he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below his plane of action , which in either case , he was unable to control . The Appeasement of Roman Catholic opinion and the unworkable policies toward Spain , France and Italy came primarily from the White House ; the social snobbery and hostility to European refugees came largely from career diplomats over whom no Secretary of State could have complete discipline . We could never get very excited over Mr. Hull 's consuming passion for repro 1-trade agreements , but within the limits of his ambition he did a steadfast , long-continued and effective job . His greatest usefulness came in the last few months of his tenure , in conciliating conservatives of both parties in Congress , and especially the Senate , toward the Dumbarton Oaks proposals . We hope his health will permit him , even out of office , to continue to work with the President on the very difficult job of getting these proposals through Congress without ruinous amendments . Steel Wages and Little Steel The War Labor Board has , as it says , granted some steel workers advances in pay without either bending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be equalized among the various plants , presumably by raising those in the mills paying the lower scales , and night shifts are to be paid more . If this is a decision on the merits of the specific pay increases awarded , and leaves the general formula for basic rates as wide open to revision as before , it may be justified . If , on the other hand , it is an attempt to evade the issue of revision of the Little Steel formula itself , it is a compromise that will satisfy no one . The employers and the doctrinaire supporters of the formula do n't want increases on any ground , while the unions want the principle recognized that wage rates should keep pace with the cost of living . Under the formula they are allowed a maximum rise of 15 percent , while the cost of living has gone up about twice as much . We are not impressed by the outcry that the decision will increase costs of production . As the report of the Board 's panels previously demonstrated , steel profits in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request . for a 17-cents-an-hour increase were granted , and no other changes took place , steel prices could be held where they are and the industry would make more money that it did before the war . Europe : in Ferment The governmental crises in Belgium and Italy , as well as the death-pains of the Polish Government-inExile precipitated by the resignation of conciliatory 7.33 Premier Stanislaw Mikolajczyk , are part and parcel of a political pattern common to all of Europe . It has become increasingly apparent in recent months that no government can stay in power without the continued support of the Left , which has emerged from the various wars of national liberation not only greatly strengthened , but also intent upon participating in governmental affairs . This is particularly true of the Italian and Belgian situations . In Belgium , the failure of the returned government-in-exile of Premier Hubert Pierlot to reach an understanding with the resistance movement , which under Axis rule became what actually is an autonomous counter-government , amounts to political suicide . The refusal of the resistance groups to give up their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only claim to authority seems to lie in Allied backing rather than in popular support . Pierlot 's stupid attempt to solve a genuinely political issue by threatening Allied military intervention seems to have made compromise impossible . His fall can only be a matter of time . Italy and Poland In Italy , the resignation of Premier Ivanoe Bonomi seems to have been the result of pressure from the Left which , influenced by the strong leftist partisan movement in German-occupied northern Italy , has a legitimate claim to greater representation in the cabinet . There has been mounting evidence in recent months that Italy 's urgent economic problems can be solved only by radical means , of which the Left alone is capable because it is unhampered by the conservative commitments of the Right and Middle groups to Italy 's Anglo-American liberators . The resignation of Polish Premier Mikolajczyk proves that there are more than two sides to the Polish-Russian controversy . The intransigent attitude of the Polish Socialists in the government-in-exile shows serious lack of political vision . In contrast to their Socialist comrades in other countries who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ united front against the danger of reaction , the Polish Socialists have obviously overstepped the limits of political reality in their blind hatred of the Soviet Union . Mikolajczyk 's resignation is a serious indictment of Polish socialism and , for all practical purposes , amounts to an endorsement of the Russian attitude toward Poland . Biddle v. Littell Within a short time after Francis Biddle became Attorney General , it was an open secret in Washington that there was no love lost between Biddle and his Assistant Attorney General in charge of Public Lands , Norman Littell . Now the Attorney General has asked for Littell 's resignation , on the ground that their temperaments are incompatible . The two men are ob- 734 viously of very different make-ups , but the basis of their disagreements has always been more fundamental than that . Littell 's integrity and courage have remained unquestioned for the six years he has been in Washington . His crusading spirit has led him on from one administrative battle to another , from Elk Hills and Empire Ordnance to the Breakers Hotel case and surplus-land-disposal policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his chief , who in each of the above-mentioned cases was not active enough to suit Littell 's idea of the public interest . In the most recent fight to take surplus-land disposal out of the hands of Jesse Jones , Will Clayton and the real-estate boards , Biddle refused to support Littell 's position and , we understand , privately reprimanded him severely for opposing the Clayton cabal . Members of the Kilgore and Mead ( formerly Truman ) ' Committees with whom Littell has worked most closely on the Hill have expressed deep concern over the request for his resignation , and in all probability the whole controversy will be publicly aired . Unless the Attorney General brings forth additional reasons for his action against Norman Littell , we feel that progressive forces should insist that Littell be kept in a position where he can continue his strong fight for a strong democracy . Looking Toward 1946 Before the election post-mortems recede completely from our minds , two features of the recent political trend should convey their proper lesson for 1946 and beyond . There is now no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to the extensive campaign to get out the vote . It corroborates the argument of the Democrats a year ago and Louis Bean 's analysis in our May 1 issue that the 1942-43 congressional and local victories were not evidences of a real Republican trend , but rather of general disinterest and of relatively greater apathy among Democratic voters . The larger turn-out on November 7 has erased part of the Republican gains in Congress that resulted from the general lack of voting interest in 1942 and even more from the industrial recession of 1938 . If the Democrats mean to improve on their present moderate margin in Congress , voting interest in 1946 must be kept alive ; but above all unemployment must not be allowed to develop . The second feature of the 1944 election is the relatively greater wartime Democratic strength in the Eastern and Far Western states compared with that of the Middle Western states . This regional division , which characterized the 1940 election , was analyzed for us by Mr. Bean in our September 25 issue as likely to prevail again in the 1944 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the present administration were partly offset this year in certain North Central and Northwestern states , the regional division is still proThe AFL Wo n't Call The Dowager Duchess of American Labor ? the Executive Council of the AFL ? is very careful of her social contacts . She passes the CIO with a haughty stare , and so far as the Soviet trade unions are concerned , they just do n't belong at all . The Executive Council has long had the British Trade Union Congress on her reception list , but when that body so compromises its social position as to invite both the CIO and the Russians to a party , the Duchess decides to stay home , pull down the shades and nurse her offended dignity . The British Trade Union Executives have been given plenty of warning of this attitude , but they have gone ahead with their plans just the same . To them it seems important to have a world labor organization representing all the United Nations , and while they would value AFL participation , they have decided not to buy it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they would even prefer the CIO to the AFL , if they have to choose . The latter is an august and numerous body , but its international labor activities have usually been confined to sending delegates to conventions and nothing more . The CIO is thought to mean business . New Appointments Two members of the three-man Surplus War Property Disposal Board , created by Congress last session , have now been named by the President , and the third is expected to be designated a g aeted soonod friend . oMosto small political observers in Washington expressed moderate enthusiasm over the choice of Edward H. Heller of San Francisco and Robert Hurley of Connecticut to the two jobs . Heller is known to be an independent , fair-minded business man . Hurley , a former Governor of nn t , is n business . Congressional leaders believe that the chairmanship of the board will go to Senator Guy Gillette after the new Congress has assembled . The naming of the advisory board to the Office of Demobilization and Reconversion also had general approval among Washington progressives . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought to be reasonable men , and labor and farm members represent a good cross-section . A majority of the new advisory group should have no trouble getting together on a demand for more , and more detailed , planning for full employment . The Clothing Crisis After months of costly delay , steps are at last being taken to halt runaway price increases and quality deterioration in clothing . For more than two years , the Standards Division of the OPA struggled to prevent the present crisis by means of a joint OPA-WPB pricing-and-allocation program which would set specific dollars-and-cents ceilings on necessary commodities and tie these prices to minimum quality standards . For its pains , the OPA Standards Division was abolished , and most of its valuable consumer research was filed away . Under strong public pressure , a new clothing program is now being launched . First steps are to produce 30 million pieces of low-cost children 's clothing under dollars-and-cents ceilings , and to move in on " over-finishing , " polite trade language for raising prices by fancying up the same old product . OPA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done and will be done to protect the public . " We hope this means that he is now prepared to go ahead with the standards program organized consumers have urged for so long . But even if " everything possible " is done at this stage , clothing will continue to be a major problem until the war is over . Clothing rationing and tight production control are now impossible , and low-income families especially will suffer for our failure . News from Estonia A correspondent who has recently been in Estonia sends us some interesting notes on conditions in that country . Estonia is now again , of course , firmly inside the USSR . No political activity is permitted hostile to the Communist regime . On the other hand , some deference is shown to local opinion opposed to the too complete or too speedy collectivization of industry and agriculture . Farmers may own their farms , up to a maximum of 74 acres , and may employ labor to help them , in the quantities appropriate to a farm of that size . While all the big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less are allowed to continue under private ownership and operation . This is true of private trade in general and privately owned shops of modest size . The agricultural situation must be somewhat confused , since the Russians broke up the big estates when they first moved into Estonia , then the Germans put them back together again , and now they have once more been broken up . The Germans wrought terrible destruction in Estonia , many towns being almost destroyed . Half the cows and horses , and two-thirds of the pigs , have been 735 killed or sent out of the country . Reconstruction is under way , amid tremendous activity . In Tallinn , electric power and water supply have been restored and flour mills , bakeries , spinning mills , a cellulose plant and machine-tool plants are already operating . The railroad to Leningrad has been rebuilt and the trains are running . Estonia formerly had a merchant marine and is waiting anxiously for the defeat of Germany so that her sea commerce can be restored . She still has some ships , which are plying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , whether Russia will permit present conditions in Estonia to be permanent , assuming that she continues in control of that region . If she does , it may give an interesting clue to the realistic modifications of communist theory that she is willing to accept around her borders , for diplomatic purposes . A Handout to Farmers Probably few Americans understand the reason for the export subsidies on wheat and cotton recently announced by the War Food Administration . American farmers receive ( and are guaranteed by the government ) higher prices in the United States than are paid in world markets . The subsidy is a way of sending out the exportable surplus without reducing these prices . It is therefore a bonus to ' farmers , for producing more than Americans would use , paid at the expense of the consumers and the taxpayers . Under war conditions , Europe might have to buy the crops anyway , whatever the price charged . We should have to give or send them the money to do so , in so far as we did not lower the price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               