@@431272

 | To help meet the requirements of rehabilitation that will arise inevitably when the United Nations have won this war , Columbia University established in the summer of 1942 a department for Training in International Administration . Its function is to qualify talented men and women to assist in restoring health and hope to the regions devastated by war . Requirements for admission to the school are elastic . United States citizenship is compulsory . A college background is preferred but not necessary if the applicant can substitute past experience that shows administrative ability . Candidates ? either men or women ? must be between twenty-four and fifty-five . Applications for admission must be made in writing to the Secretary of Columbia University . The final choice is up to the Office of University Admissions . Tuition for the forty-eight-week course of study is $800 . The students complete the equivalent of two years ' graduate work in one . The University will begin in July to consider applicants or next fall 's class . The student body now includes young college graduates , bankers , Jusinessmen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and actors . Their average age s about thirty-five . Though many of the students lave a social-service background , it s not essential or , from the school 's Joint of view , even desirable that hey all be experienced relief workers . The school is looking for men and women with actual or potential administrative ability . Each student must be emotionally balanced and nentally tough . His work may tarry him to regions where famine and diseases are rampant and conitions of life drab and depressing . Instructors at the school have been drawn largely from Columbia Jniversity 's staff , with a few taken from neighboring institutions . Professor Schuyler Crawford Wallace , of the Government department , author and lecturer on Political Science , is administrative director . Philip C. Jessup , Professor of International Law , arranged much of the program . He recently has taken the post of Director of Training and Procurement with Herbert H. Lehman 's committee for Foreign Relief and Rehabilitation . Lectures are given also by such men as General William N. Haskell , head of the American Relief Mission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a former director general of the Red Cross . The forty-eight-week course is so difficult that it can be completed only by exceptional students who exclude all other activities . The last six weeks , students attend the New York School of Social Work . There they get both laboratory work on relief problems and field experience . Each student specializes in a particular country or region . The studies fall into two categories : background subjects designed to give a thorough knowledge of a country or region and tool subjects outlining specific relief methods that may be applied in any part of the world . Nations now being studied include France , Italy , the Germanic regions , Scandinavia , the Balkans , and China . A student who chooses France first learns the language ( before he leaves the school he will speak it fairly well ) , French history , the economic institutions and government of pre-Vichy France , and French geography . He takes courses in French civilization , learning the culture , literature , and art . Military government is a required subject . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduates immediately will begin their work of reconstruction and rehabilitation in the newly freed lands . Though not administrators of military law , they must understand it in order to cooperate with military governors in the administration of relief . Other required courses include : Public Health and Sanitation , First Aid and Nutrition , Social-Service Techniques , Business Organization , and Procurement . With his background knowledge of a particular region and his specific training in relief administration , how will the newly graduated administrator go about his work ? In the answer is found the best possible reply to the German propaganda that the school is an indication of American imperialism . The school teaches its students that a major part of the work must be done by local people . Physical necessity prompts some of this . And the essence of any reconstruction scheme is to establish in devastated areas conditions under which people again can be self-supporting . The school places greatest emphasis on the importance of its graduates ' working democratically and not dictatorially . Part of their job is to teach democracy . This ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by education and example . They are taught to encourage in local people the ability for democratic organization . They are taught never to forbid but to persuade , and to give credit for accomplishments rather than to criticize mistakes . " In the philosophy of war there is no principle more sound than this : that the Permanence of the peace depends , in a large degree , upon the magnanimity of the victor . " Can the students make a career of overseas relief work ? Professor Wallace answers this . " There is no career . The most successful overseas relief worker is the one who works himself out of a job fastest . The primary object of rehabilitation is to aid peoples of devastated areas to reach a point where they can do the rest of the rehabilitation themselves . " The greatest rewards of this work will be realized in the achievement of a great humanitarian purpose .                     