@@470948

THERE is a current popular song in I which the phrase " There 'll be some changes made " recurs again and again . The mood of the phrase ? vague , tinged with hopeful longing and good intention ? comes uncomfortably close to the tone of much of the discussion of what must be done " after the war is over . " After the war is over ? if our friends win ? troubles that have plagued the world since time immemorial will vanish like mist in the sun . Well , nearly vanish . It is as though the shock of war had crystallized intimations felt for twenty years : that the economy of the entire world was out of joint , that things could not go on as they had been going and that something must be done . Men of good will ? some of them in big political jobs ? assure us that restrictions on freedom and , especially , economic freedom will be , must be , done away with . Big business people , experienced in international trade , feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplished somehow if anybody hopes to do business at a profit any more . Of course the moralists are absolutely certain that the great reform can and must be done . Well , how ? More skeptical politicians , accustomed to a world of business and thinking in business terms , may have doubts about the men of good will , but just the same some changes will have to be made . Well , what ? The phrase implies a conscious application to the task and some sense of direction . The world will be confronted with the problem of development . Development implies change , readjustment , adaptation , anything but a static condition . If it is to be made the watchword any talk of a return to the status quo ante bellum is nonsense . If the war itself is not a sufficient guarantee that this is impossible , then the nature of the programs proposed for the future is a guarantee that a return to the old ways is not wanted . It is true that a plea for business as usual will make a tremendous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have any other sort of program anyhow . If , then , the men of good will are not to be routed they had best look sharp at their own plans , and remember that the people are not interested in business as usual . In this country , for example , they do not want to go from WPA through war back to WPA again . We must assume that the crusaders for social progress have thought up a strategy . We must assume too that they have thought up a way of differentiating sharply between schemes for adapting ourselves to the post-war chaos and schemes for surmounting that chaos . A sharp distinction must be made between rehabilitation ( repairing the ravages of war ) and reconstruction ( a fundamental reordering of economic and social life ) . The basic criterion of the latter will be higher standards of living all round . After the last war the passion for " normalcy " and the lazy-minded acceptance of the sufficiency of providing jerry-built storm-cellars as refuges from the winds of chaos blowing through the world , led us imperceptibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broke out . We , and most persons , were flattered into the belief that various and sundry controls over production and trade were the answer to all the social and economic problems that confronted us . We now know that that was not true . The present cry for change is a revulsion from the goings-on between wars . Revulsion from one mistake may lead , if thought is not taken , to the making of a new error , different in kind but equally disastrous in consequences . In order to make intelligent changes we must know where we shall be when the time comes to begin work ; we must clearly understand the way in which the development of the world was accomplished in times past and to what degree that way is relevant to-day ; and we must give intensive thought to the discovery of new approaches to the problem . We must , moreover , keep a sharp watch for perversions of our constructive purposes into which we may be led by appeals to traditional ideas . To reconstruct the world will he a harder task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall have to do it when tired out by war and confronted with the enormous but incidental job of rehabilitation , which will absorb a great deal of our energy . The few rich nations of the world will desire to reconstruct their own economies and also assist as far as possible the poor nations to develop theirs , at least to the point of escaping grinding poverty . We must know how the nations line up as to wealth and poverty . The best quick view of the situation is to be found in Colin Clark 's The Conditions of Economic Progress , published in London in 1940 , where there is a classification of the nations on the basis of real income per head in terms of a statistical fiction he calls the international income unit . We get this picture : before the war broke out , six-tenths of the people of the globe lived in extreme poverty ; one-tenth lived in the midst of relative abundance ; and the rest were ranged between these extremes . The fortunate tenth lived in the United States , Canada , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holland , Irish Free State , and Argentina . We all know that within these countries there were appalling extremes of wellbeing explicable in terms of income rnaldistribution ; but that is not our present concern . Contrasted with the nations enjoying relative abundance , were those in which extreme poverty was the prevailing condition . These were China , British India , the Dutch Indies , and much of Asia outside these areas , most of Africa , most of Oceania except Australia , New Zealand , and perhaps Hawaii , and a large portion of Latin America . These areas and nations have traditionally been the fields in which the wealthy nations have operated as imperialist powers ; and it is to their problems that a great deal of attention will have to be directed in the future . Between these extremes we fund a long list of nations scattered over four continents . At the top of the list , close to abundance , were France , Denmark , Sweden , Germany , Belgium , and Uruguay in South America , followed on a slightly lower level by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lower still in the middle group ? and therefore trending toward extreme poverty ? were such European nations as Greece , Finland , Poland , Italy , Bulgaria , Rumania , and Portugal ; such Far Eastern nations as Japan and the Philippines ; such Near Eastern nations as Turkey and Syria ; and such African nations as Algeria , Egypt , Morocco , and South Africa . Many of these have also in the past been given attention by the imperialist nations . To clarify this picture several generalizations can be made . Only two of the five continents have thus far achieved relative abundance ? North America and Australia ? the former on a higher and more secure level . Europe is best understood by recalling a concept developed by the French economist Francis Delaisi . According to him there are two Europes : industrialized Europe , based on coal and iron resources , and satellite Europe , based upon agriculture . Delaisi has drawn a circle on the map to bound industrialized Europe . The line runs from Bergen in Norway to Stockholm in Sweden , down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hungary , from whence it drops to Florence in Italy , skirts across northern Spain through Barcelona and Bilbao , runs up through Belfast in Ireland to Glasgow in Scotland , and thence back to Bergen . Completely inside the circle are England , France , Belgium , and Germany . These nations are either among those which have had relative abundance or high up on the list of those standing between abundance and extreme poverty . The European nations which have stood so far down the intermediate list as to be perilously close to extreme poverty are all outside the magic circle . Asia and Africa are the poorest continents of the world and no nation on them has achieved anything approaching relative abundance . Japan , politically the most important Far Eastern nation , has been low down in the intermediate group . In the Near East a nation like Turkey has been just over the edge of extreme poverty . In Africa the nation standing highest has been Algeria , but its level has been equivalent to that of Japan . The rest of the continent has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this classification is based upon real income per head , the determinant of prosperity or the reverse . It tells us nothing about the distribution of income within the nations ; and certainly tells us nothing about how the governments employ that share of the national income they obtainthrough taxation . It is well known that , while Japan is far down the list , there arc in that country many fantastically wealthy individuals and corporations and that a tremendous proportion of the national income is expended on armaments to aggrandize the national power . A nation may , therefore , appear before the world in false-face . But markedly to improve living standards requires more than a mere redistribution of the existing income ; it also requires steps to raise individual productivity . The Japanese would be better off if the income going into armaments were devoted to social services ; it is true that a welfare state is better than a power state . But without fundamental domestic reconstruction Japan could not get to a very high level even as a welfare state . In general , poverty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plantation system ? with the production of foodstuffs and raw materials under these conditions . Also the more subsistence farming the poorer the nation . The poverty areas are further characterized by the fact that they usually stand in a " colonial " relation to the highly industrialized countries . Even within Europe this is true , for the poor countries outside Delaisi 's circle have stood in colonial relation to countries inside . To make the same point in a different way , a classification of the nations into those which have been exporters of raw materials chiefly and exporters of manufactures chiefly , with reference to the earlier list , gives this result : The nations which have exported raw materials and have escaped poverty are found to have two important characteristics : high productivity in the agricultural industries and no peasantry or plantation production , and a considerable development of manufacturing . We shall return to their characteristics later . In dealing with the problem of further development of the world 's resources , the fundamental task of post-war reconstruction , we shall have to solve the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital investment and trade . And it is not the problems of technology which will chiefly cause trouble . These can not be dismissed with a wave of the hand , but they can usually be solved without too much difficulty . In many instances it is a question of applying existing knowledge . The problems of capital investment and trade , on the other hand , can be solved only after hard thought . If we really want to bring the poverty-stricken nations up toward the levels which have existed in the better-off nations , we shall , I am sure , have to build new institutional structures in these fields . To make it clear why this is true we must examine the way in which the world was developed during the nineteenth century , the century of greatest progress in this respect . The country which took the lead was Great Britain . III The story of British developmental activities round the globe in the nineteenth century has often been told , both in terms of economic history and of romance . From either angle it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means the least important part of the histories of suchnations as the United States , Canada , Australia , South Africa , Argentina , and large tracts in Africa and Asia ? a perfectly amazing proportion of the territory of the globe . It embraces such commodities as wheat , wool , cotton , gold , base metals of all kinds , rubber , meats , hides , dairy products , sugar ? practically everything modern man requires . However sardonically we may view the official ideology of the adventure , it would be a blind person who failed to understand that the British in the nineteenth century were either directly or indirectly responsible for a tremendous proportion of the economic development which took place . The early part of the adventure is readily summarized : In the nineteenth century there developed a highly interdependent world economy . The equilibrium of world economic forces was based on an international division of labor which had slowly and gradually evolved . The world had become a closely knit , integrated economic structure with interdependent parts radiating from a central point . That center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of rich mineral resources . London was the commercial and financial heart of the whole system . Round this center , spreading in ever-widening circles , were areas of intensive animal husbandry , grain production , and forestry , and , in the remoter parts , the extensive production of animals , cereals , foods , and fibers . The closely articulated trade of quality products at the center rested upon the possibility of drawing the needed raw materials from the periphery of the integrated world economic structure . This localization of industry and the interchange of products between nations and regions were a direct consequence of the unequal distribution of material and human resources . First and foremost was the unequal rate of progress in mechanical technics and skills . Of these England retained well nigh a monopoly until the third quarter of the nineteenth century . There was so much to be gained from an exchange of goods that it was inevitable that England with her new industrial technics should enter into extensive trade relations with the rest of the world . The industrially backward countries found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they could now be exchanged for a variety of manufactured goods . About the middle of the century , economic internationalism reached its zenith . What happened then ? The point is of crucial importance . What happened was that Englishmen discovered that they could export the machinery and skills required to produce commodities as well as the commodities themselves . The consequence was the " internationalization of modern technology . " England 's monopoly of mechanical technics and skills began to disintegrate . This was an immensely important development : a basic factor in any satisfactory explanation of what has happened to the world in the past seventy-five years . What this export of technology has meant in the history of the United States needs no elaboration , for it is the foundation on which our industrial structure was built . The same is true of Germany . And it has played an exactly similar role in Japan . Technology revolutionized India . Canada and Australia have taken advantage of it ; also Argentina and Brazil . Wherever you turn you will find that the rise of manufacturing is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times . The degree of development differs widely , but it must not be overlooked that the process is still going on . The " internationalization of modern technology " ? the trade in machines and machine tools ? is not an impulse that has exhausted itself or that shows signs of exhaustion . Rather , the signs point to the acceleration of the process in the future . It is a fundamental factor in world economic relations yesterday , to-day , and above all , tomorrow . From the very moment that the English began to export their mechanical technics and skills they were destroying the foundations of the particular kind of prosperity that they had enjoyed in the middle of the nineteenth century . They were , whether they realized it or not , transforming the basic factors in international economic relations . In the beginning this export of machine technics was all to the advantage of England . English money flowed out of the country tobuild railways and other communications in the far parts of the world , including the United States . Materials for their construction also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English money went out to develop new plantations , estates , stations , farms , and mines . Incredible quantities of foodstuffs for English consumption and raw materials for processing flowed back to England in payment . The English merchant marine flourished on the traffic out and back ; banks and insurance companies throve mightily . But when the next stage was reached , the stage of building manufacturing industries in the outlands ( an Englishman traditionally goes " out " from England to every other part of the world ) , then the foundations of trouble were laid . The reciprocal relation described in the long quotation began to be weakened . England 's trade began a slow transformation . And when the outlands reached a stage of industrial development where they could dispense with supplies from England , England 's own industries could continue to thrive so long only as sales of these particular commodities could be made to countries which had not yet industrialized . For a long time this was possible . But with the older customers England could continue to trade only by beating a retreat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to gain and hold the trade in lines such as they had not yet begun to make for themselves . When the process of adjusting English industry to new conditions got out of hand the result was the appearance within England of depressed areas , areas in which the industries which had formerly supported them had fallen victim to the consequences of the internationalization of modern technology . This happened between wars . There is another aspect to this story . No sooner had this export of technology begun than tariffs were set up . The young American iron industry did not want to stand the competition of ported English iron manufactures ; the New England cotton spinners were not eager to see Manchester goods in American stores . Tariffs were promptly provided to protect our infant industries . What the United States did , the dominions and other countries did also . The free flow of manufactured goods out from England and raw materials coming back was impeded ; a conflict of economic policy between the dominions and the mother country began . It has never stopped . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and raw materials to England ; other countries did too . During the past forty years repeated attempts were made to adjust the differences between England and the dominions through preference tariffs of various sorts . The most notable attempt was the Ottawa Agreement of 1932 , when England finally accepted the **25;1833;TOOLONG system for herself . W. K. Hancock , the brilliant Australian historian , explains the triumph as revealing " not only a growing awareness of progress in the overseas Empire , but a growing realization of stagnation at home . " But even the Ottawa schemes had broken down by 1938 ; there simply was no way in which England could absorb all that the dominions could send ; the growth of manufactures in other countries and the dominions steadily whittled away the English markets . No longer was England in a position to encourage increases in primary production in the dominions . The dominions must look elsewhere for outlets if they chose to increase production ? outside the Empire , but where ? They could seek relief through industrialization ? even little New Zealand adopted this line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a difficult position as exporter . Nevertheless . . . When the present war broke out , therefore , the British world-community was facing severe economic troubles . The England of the nineteenth century , the England which was the thriving center of a constantly expanding world system of production and trade based upon the international division of labor , no longer existed because the international division of labor no longer existed . The internationalization of modern technology had destroyed it . The emphasis thus far has been placed upon the consequences of spreading industrial equipment throughout the world . To complete the picture it is necessary to deal with the question of surpluses of foodstuffs and raw materials . Surpluses arise in a variety of ways , but basically they are caused by a greater increase in production than is warranted by demand . They may be created when a former importer decides to produce the particular commodity at home , whether to develop an economy able to endure siege in wartime , or to escape the necessity of using up foreign exchange which it has become difficult to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or to develop an imperial domain . France and Italy acted this way between wars with regard to wheat , among other things . Efforts of this kind leave old suppliers in the lurch and surpluses result . Or surpluses may be created by the failure of an importing nation to establish and maintain , for various complicated reasons , a healthy import-export relation with its natural opposite numbers . When Germany 's normal trade relations collapsed in the early 30 's the foodstuffs and raw materials that she had been buying in the Balkans and South America became surpluses in those countries . Frequently surpluses have been created simply because , in the absence of a natural monopoly due to geographical factors , several nations have sought to develop their territories by engaging in the same line of production . This is true of wheat , sugar , and cotton . And surpluses may be created when a nation seeks to escape the consequences of one surplus by turning to a different but already freely available commodity , as when Brazil , despairing of coffee , turned to cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the field of agricultural and raw material production generally an internationalization of production technics comparable to that in manufacturing ; because the difficulties thus caused have been met by resorting to protection , as with manufacturing ; because where favors on the home market have not sufficed , restrictions on production have been imposed ; and because , finally , the upshot has been not only interference with full production in already developed areas but also interference with the opening up of new areas except under special conditions . For example , Australia has developed the only really rich portion of its tropical territory by establishing a cane-sugar industry . But that industry can not compete in the world market , so it is elaborately protected and granted favors in the home market . What sugar can not be sold there is sent to England , where it has a favored position as an Empire product , and is sold for what it will bring . But since no final answer has been found within this system , the bringing of new areas into production is prevented by law . Again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the north of Australia , it paid no attention to this situation and carried out the development on the basis of sugar . How ? Not with regard to the international division of labor , but by incorporating the islands into the Japanese home economy , thus giving them a preferred position in the Japanese market . Just as manufacturing has traditionally developed outside England behind tariff walls , so agricultural development has increasingly taken the same tack . Since the division of labor no longer exists in world agriculture , it has become increasingly difficult to develop new areas in relation to the open world market . In recent years new development has taken place chiefly by tying new areas of production to a particular market and closing it tightly to competitive suppliers . When this is impossible potential areas of pro-MAGAZINE duction have not been opened up . Thus Negley Farson tells us in Behind God 's Back that rich tracts in Africa held by the British are not being developed by them . He regards this as disgraceful , but he incidentally admits that the trouble is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty . He would have felt the same annoyance and confronted the same difficulty had he visited the great island of New Guinea , or the Fiji Islands , or wide areas in South America . This was the situation when the present war broke out . As the present world situation developed state controls have multiplied in manufacturing and industry . Government " interference " with business became epidemic . The present war has multiplied and extended the controls until in actively belligerent countries they have become " total , " when not totalitarian . Few realists expect that they will be discarded when the war is over . Rather there will be a sharp political struggle within each nation to gain the right to manipulate them . For just as during the war the state ( or the government wielding state power ) can determine the nature and extent of production to fit war needs , so after the war will it be proposed to use the new machinery to raise living standards , or to insure the position of the owner-producers , or to aggrandize the state through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those who expect this war to lead to a return to the free market system are doomed to disappointment . Wendell Willkie 's war aim is n't in the cards . Iv We have concentrated attention upon the decline of the English nineteenth-century pattern of international activity in industry and agriculture , accompanied by money lending and trading . The position of the United States must now be defined . That position is also a classic . It is being duplicated elsewhere , as we shall see . But it is , on examination , not as easy as that of England to understand . The American economy is rather more complicated , far more difficult to manage , and no generally accepted principles of management have ever been discovered . The United States was originally developed by establishing intimate reciprocal relations with the " manufacturing belt of northwestern Europe " of which " London was the commercial and financial heart . " As the English system of world development progressed in its appointed round this country was one of the outstanding beneficiaries , taking precedence , as dominion historians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the United States by deliberate policy from very early in its history , and especially after the Civil War , adopted the policy of protection . The purpose was to develop manufacturing . So spectacular was American success that its example has carried enormous weight with other " new " countries . But as things turned out , the United States did not become another England in the field of international economics . It became instead an absolutely unique nation , especially after the financial consequences of the First World War were digested . It was an exporter simultaneously of foodstuffs and raw materials , manufactures , and money . The economic system which made this possible can not be compared to that of nineteenth-century England . It leaves infinitely fewer imports which can be freely received . Our imports are huge because of the size of our economy , but in all-important diversity , they do not measure up to what England was able to take in by way of payment for exported manufactures and money . But in the absence of any but the English theory of running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between wars to make the American economy run along nineteenth-century English lines . The effort was a distressing failure . We tried to be internationalists as sellers . But we also tried to be strict nationalists as buyers even within our limited range . We see our trouble , but we are still blundering , trying to make our complex economy function satisfactorily in an international context . About the only way in which we might become another nineteenth-century England would be to destroy by policy that huge part of our economy which makes us different in kind , let alone size , from nineteenth-century England . That is the part devoted to agriculture . We should have to destroy all of it that produces for export , and destroy an appreciable proportion of that which is producing for domestic consumption . We do n't like that idea at all . A number of the " new " countries in which manufacturing is being developed are assuming the economic shape ( though not the size ) of the United States . They are now sufficiently far along with their industrial development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What they really confront ? I refer to such countries as Australia , Canada , Brazil , Argentina , and so on ? is well expressed by Emile Bruguiere in the Survey Graphic with regard to Argentina : The question that plagues Argentina is whether further plant expansion and the development of new industries will mean decline of the port Buenos Aires and the great agricultural hinterland it represents . To-day Argentina is divided against itself in the hope for self-sufficiency . With the value of food stuffs at present almost the same as that of industrial production , the cleavage is both serious and bitter . The country wants continuation of reciprocal trade ; the city demands industrial expansion . The country admits that trade reciprocity holds no golden future and keeps Argentina tied to foreign apron strings ; the city confesses that it has no solution for the dilemma its industry creates . The present war is giving the upper hand to the city in the new countries . But that circumstance is not solving any problems . We still do not know how successfully to run economies highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ export outlets . Only one new country can be said to have reason to believe that it can function along the classic English lines . That is Japan . But Japan tried to work the English system and failed , for very important reasons . She failed because , while welcome as a buyer , she was not welcome as a seller . As a seller she collided with an old established international seller , England , and a new international seller , the United States , and also with the growing industries of the countries from whom she was prepared to buy raw materials , like Australia . She came too late to be another England . Germany is also a nation which might function along the classic lines . That is really what she proposes to do . And the way in which she proposes to turn the trick is a devastating proof that the system will not work smoothly in a free world . Reporting Nazi proposals for trade relations after the war , John Cudahy wrote in the New York Times for April 27 , 1941 : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be partitioned into spheres for raw materials and industry . . . in this new economy there will be an international labor and economic grouping , each area producing in accordance with its capacity and all complementing each other with reciprocal trade relationships under the direction of Germany , with Berlin as the central clearinghouse . If this is n't a planned reversion to the English system in its most primitive form , a reversion brought about by force and maintained by force , what is it ? We learn elsewhere that the raw-material countries will be deindustrialized to insure to Germany all of their domestic markets . This seems to nail down my contention that the prospects of progressing to higher levels by attempting to revive the collapsed nineteenth-century system are non-existent . England can no longer make it work as a principle of forward action , of further development . The Nazis can revive it only by force . The Japanese apparently intend to do much the same in their co-prosperity sphere of Greater East Asia . The people of the United States are being asked to-day to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This continent is in need of development and , for economic , political , and geographical reasons the United States should take an active part in the task . It is said to be:our special assignment in the task of developing the world to eliminate poverty . Experts have made it abundantly clear that there is plenty to do and that it is technically possible to do it . I have read no comment on Latin America that suggests that there are insoluble technological obstacles to full development . Where the whole business becomes exceedingly difficult is in the fields of money lending and trade . Even here , suggestions have been made which seem to provide answers , but on examination they fit in ill with the professed aims of men of good will . The United States professes to seek a system in which the benefits will be spread in an equitable fashion and make the economic relations of nations mutually , instead of exclusively , profitable . That is the approach we are supposed to make to Latin America . Can we do it ? First of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States can not offer a market for the principal temperate-climate products of Latin America . These must continue to find outlets in Europe and the Orient as in the past . This is widely understood , even by those who deplore it . The search , therefore , is for products the United States can import as payment for capital lent and goods said . These are chiefly minerals , tropical agricultural commodities , and specialty goods . Of these our established trade with Latin America is chiefly composed . It is surely plain that we have not reached our present stage of development without the new things we propose to take . Rather we have drawn them in large quantities from other than Latin-American sources , for example rubber and quinine . We could of course encourage the production of these in Latin America . Both were originally found there and acclimatized elsewhere for intensive commercial production . They could be brought back to South America without too much trouble . And they are only two items on a very long list . Three types of people argue that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systematically that practically nothing that can possibly be produced is ignored . One type I should rudely call the thoughtless ; another thinks in terms of the economics of siege and argues that we must produce all our necessities within our area of military power ; and the third accepts as inevitable the division of the world into huge , hostile blocs . The spokesmen for the economics of siege and for the bloc system presumably know what they are about , and the thoughtless people nobly play into their hands . For if we rush into Latin America to develop its enormous potentialities as a supplier of all the tropical commodities we need , we shall in many instances be creating alternative sources of supply of these goods for the American market . If we do this we shall have to guarantee the new producers a place in our market , for otherwise we shall have thrown our capital away . And if we guarantee them an outlet we shall have to give it to them at the expense of existing suppliers . In his book Pan America Carleton Beals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed to free the United States from dependence upon its existing suppliers . Beals spices his argumentation with a strong anti-British bias , for many of the sources from which we now draw tropical commodities are under British control . To a lesser extent he is anti-Dutch also . He feels strongly that the British and Dutch arc not only traders but also monopolists who have not scrupled to squeeze the United States in times past with regard to prices for rubber , quinine , etc . He would break these monopolies with South American production . He also supports his proposals by reference to the economics of siege and a firm belief in the triumph of the bloc system . Granting the truth of these arguments , Beals 's case is beyond contradiction . So also are the cases of persons who select only one of the three , including Secretary Hull , who , under the compulsion of our war needs , thinks in terms of the economics of siege . But if we base our post-war practice in Latin America on any or all of these arguments we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We shall rather be accentuating them by slowly forcing existing suppliers out of our market ? in many instances the greatest in the world ? and thus creating new and vaster surpluses . We shall have multiplied the facilities of production and further undermined the international division of labor on which the old trading system was based . We shall , in short , have accepted as final the economic chaos which we are supposed to try to escape . As we progress along these lines we shall find ourselves adopting the technics of protection and tied markets for these products and slowly erecting a Western Hemisphere bloc whether we intend to or not . That is n't at all what we profess to desire . In the same statement in which he says that our Latin-American activities are justified on the basis of the economics of siege ( hemispheric defense considerations is the better known way of putting it ) Secretary Hull affirms his devotion to his reciprocal trade treaties . Who is compounding confusion now ? V We must have a program that makes sense . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : ( 1 ) It is incumbent upon the advanced nations to engage in internal reconstruction for the purpose of raising living standards , a task which will increase their power of absorbing the commodities now produced ( with exceptions like wheat ) and the additional supplies which may come forward . On how to do this I gave my considered opinion in Harper 's for August , 1940 : I argued that a lift in the standard of living must first be based , not on an expansion of agricultural or industrial production , but on an expansion of the production of services ? ranging all the way from domestic services to education , recreation , and the arts . Reconstruction at home lacks the attraction of adventures in development abroad . In 1934 the Commission of Inquiry into National Policy in International Economic Relations said in its report , " Reconstruction will not hold out to investors the same promise of large rewards that original construction in new countries holds out . " For that reason a stiff fight for domestic reconstruction will have to be made . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjustments , not external adventures , that will solve our problems . Let us try to keep first things first . ( 2 ) The poor nations of the world should be encouraged to industrialize if their resources permit , but it should be insistently pointed out that this will be socially profitable only if their guiding principle is to raise domestic living standards , not to crowd into the international market late in the game , after the fashion of Japan . As their living standards rise they too will absorb more and more raw materials ? their own and those of different climates ? thus stabilizing production . Nathaniel Peffer writes in his interesting book Prerequisites to Peace in the Far East as follows : . . there is necessary . . . a redistribution of income within Japan . The peasant can not be kept on a subsistence level and the worker on the wage level of a handicraft artisan . Economically the lower classes must be permitted to rise in the social scale . In short , there must be social reorganization within Japan as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a solid foundation . " If the poor nations are not to repeat the mistakes of Japan , they must from the very beginning spread social advance through their entire populations . ( 3 ) While in the beginning a nation like the United States may do a tremendous export business in capital goods for industrialization , it should be recognized that this can not go on forever . As the importers get their machinery into operation they will begin to cut down their requirements for manufactures from abroad . ( 4 ) This will require their old suppliers to keep a close watch over their export industries to insure that proper adjustments are made and no depressed industries and areas develop . In practice , the simpler manufactures will be first to suffer . The specialty lines will be the last to require adjustment . In the end the older industrialized countries will be forced to concentrate on specialties . Vice-President Wallace is quite right in emphasizing the " great variety of inherent national advantages . " All I am saying is that those advantages are not distributed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our policies on that fact . ( 5 ) Until we see clearly what volume of demand we can create we should proceed very cautiously in opening up new areas of production for raw materials and foodstuffs . If we are reckless we may be forced into a bloc system which we profess not to want . Even in meeting the requirements of the economics of siege ( as we probably shall have to do ) we should always keep in mind how we will handle the new areas of production when the emergency is past , and what effect their existence will have on old areas . ( 6 ) We come back to the basic proposition : only by raising living standards so that demand increases can development of a legitimate character take place . The nations now having high standards have an obligation to take the lead in doing this . Now is the time to deal with the problem of means ; and the traditional means appear inadequate to the purpose . If America must lead let it lead in this direction . 