@@494377

" Everybody 's Always Talking About Taft " by Tris Coffin Senator Wherry ? First of a series on the GOP high command KENNETH WHERRY , the Republican whip of the Senate , is a .4 ? . product of the age that created Babbitt , Boob McNutt , the flapper and jazz . He is the supersalesman . He has a tireless and bellicose enthusiasm for his product and works on his customers with a three-cornered technique . He has the endurance of a Southern filibusterer , the sympathetic cheerfulness of an undertaker and the single-minded determination of John L. Lewis . Senator Wherry is selling the same Product hawked by old Jim Watson of Indiana when he was in the Senate and by Herbert Hoover , a wrap-up package Of economic conservatism , high tariffs and isolation . The slogans are new and the package has been redesigned . The Product is widely advertised as a cure-all for high wages and prices , low wages and prices , communism and what Billy Rose calls " delirium Trumans . " Wherry is a conspicuous figure from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He dresses in sporty elegance suggestive of the country-club Set . A huge diamond ring flashes on his right hand . His curly black hair , graying at the sides , looks k , ) though it received 200 loving brush strokes before breakfast . The Senator is not the kind of man who relaxes easily . On the Senate floor , either standing or sitting , he has the air of a man gathering strength for a leap . He speaks so often it is difficult to renleinber him with his mouth closed and no sound coming out . He has one of the loudest voices in Washington , arid some Representatives have complained that his Speeches ' roar clear across the Capitol and spoil their enjoyment of John Rankin ? Wherry 's old friends attribute this longer he talked , the more uninterested Barkley became . Finally after one of those exercises in patience which he enjoys , Senator Barkley took the floor to explain another section of the OPA bill . The supersalesman was not through . He interrupted the Senator from Kentucky and snapped , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The conversation went back and forth . Wherry was either violent or sulky . He said , " We can establish our case in the Senator 's time or my time . " Barkley replied , " He has already taken up more of my time than I have myself . " Wherry said , " If the Senator does not want to yield to me , very well . " Barkley knew he had his audience with him and carefully led Wherry on , saying , " I have done nothing but yield . " The Nebraska Senator clamored , " I ask the Senator to yield right now . " Barkley threw up his hands in mock despair and replied , " Very well , I yield right now , right now , right now . " The Senate laughed with the Democratic leader . Later in the debate , Wherry became so involved that Taft had to lend him a hand . This was a service which the Nebraskan did not appreciate . W HERRY lacks the air of profundity that two fellow GOP Senators , Vandenberg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words , and he has none of the sharp , cold logic of Taft . A Nebraskan who has known Wherry well for many years says of him , " From my observation of him , he is neither the legislative nor statesmanlike type . He never will be . He is a salesman , a salesman of automobiles , a salesman of furniture , a salesman of livestock , a salesman of hardware , a salesman of Republicanism . All that but nothing more . " Kinder description of Wherry was published as an editorial in the Nebraska State Journal , a Republican paper , two years ago : " People knew him as a great big genial fellow whom everybody liked and , who displayed violent symptoms of liking everybody . People knew him also as the kind of a man who could convert the annual , meeting of the humane society into a save-the-republic crusade . . . . He does not attend meetings , he disrupts them . " In real life ( politics being a fantasy ) , Kenneth Wherry is an amazingly successful and versatile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Pawnee City , Nebraska , which sells farm implements and machinery , hardware , furniture and automobiles . He has also been engaged in selling livestock and farms . For the past 25 years he has been a licensed embalmer and funeral director . Senator Guffey of Pennsylvania , referring to this talent of Wherry 's , described him in this tender phrase , " The tri-state mortician . " In the days before he was so busy organizing the world , Wherry was president of the Pawnee County Agricultural Society , an active Presbyterian and a vigorous Kiwanian . He became an energetic and loyal party wheel horse early in life . Being a Republican was as important as being a good church member and Kiwanian . His first office was city councilman , then Mayer of Pawnee City . Wherry was elected to the State Senate 18 years ago . It may seem ironic today , but in those days Wherry gained the reputation of an insurgent and attached himself to the Norris wing of the GOP . He worked closely with Norris ' chief lieutenant , Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speeches and gave him ideas for legislation . The two coOperated on one of the most successful causes in Nebraska during the thirties . Sorensen was the idea man , Wherry the salesman . They demanded that the state , which had a deposit-guarantee law , repay depositors of banks which had failed . An initiative proposal was put on the ballot and it won . This was Wherry 's first taste of victory and public acclaim . It tasted sweet and strong . When George Norris was a reluctant candidate for ralection to the U. S. Senate in 1930 , Kenneth Wherry was an exuberant supporter . Twelve years later , he defeated Norris and won his seat in the Senate . AS A POLITICIAN , Wherry has always . had the unlimited self-confidence of the supersalesman . He waged a heated battle for the Republican nomination for Governor in 1932 , although even the most pronounced partisans shook their heads sadly and said this was no year for the GOP . Wherry lost the , nomination but not his enthusiasm . He tried , again unsuccessfully , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wherry was responsible for the early return of Nebraska to the Republican fold . He was the driving spirit behind the GOP state committee and in 1940 became the name on the letterhead as state chairman . Under the tradition of Nebraska , political workers are rewarded by nominations for public office . Organizer and promoter Wherry did as thorough a job as when he pulled together the county fair . Nebraska went solidly Republican in 1940 . Congressman Joe Martin , then GOP national chairman , spoke rapturously of the new find and named him Western director in 1942 . In that year , a tired and old George Norris was persuaded against his better judgment to run once again for the Senate , as an independent , " to aid in formulating the peace . " Wherry , glowing with success , and good health , won the Republican nomination in a walkaway . Foster May , a radio voice attached to a considerable ego , got the Democratic nomination . Norris spent most of the time in the Senate where the Administration needed his influence and wisdom . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was only a whisper compared to the combined wind of Wherry and May . Democratic politicians refused the Administration call to help the great old man ; they actively fought his independent campaign . - As the election returns dribbled in , the triumphant Wherry gloated , " It was a hard-fought campaign in which the issues were clear-cut . They were issues that affected every citizen . The fight was against New Dealism and its promoters . I championed Americanism . " To Norris the bitterest part of his defeat was that it came from a man he then regarded as such a " phony . " Wherry has been an early and persistent critic of price controls . His intention was plainly murder , but no one took him seriously when he began his campaign right after V-J Day . He turned the Senate Small Business Committee into a platform for the attack , even before the Republican high command had made up its mind . I remember one day when he dragged John Snyder , looking as miserable as a man with a bad cold and hangover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gleefully prepared for the worst . Wherry asked sarcastically what Snyder thought Of the " Bowles program " to put price ceilings on dwellings . The MissOuri ' crony- blinked and answered meekly that , well , he did n't understand the proposal very well . He had n't had time to study it . " Wherry ? smiled triumphantly and asked , " Do n't you think that controls over materials and homes slow production ? " Snyder answered in a low , unhappy monotone that he would have to study it more . He had only a small staff . Hehad to take the OPA 's word for With Bowles , Wherry 's tactic changed from sympathetic understanding to sharp cross-examination . Bowles was reading a statement : " . . . I think there is a tremendous need for housing . " That hiser just snapped , rpopin'Y opinion . " so , assume Bowles replied sweetly , " Oh , so You say there is no need . " The Senator 's voice rose to an enraged shout , " It 's up to you to prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There is need for housing for veterans . " Wherry interrupted again , " How d ? you know ? Talk , talk , talk . " MHE LITTLE BONFIRE started by ' Wherry flamed over the Capitol . He almost monopolized the Senate fiNir . Every day he would roar into batt'e during the period when the Administration was trying to get some sort of bill after the President 's veto . As wherry sat down , Pepper would get up and read the list of rising prices . The Nebraska Senator would scowl fiercely across the aisle . This became a daily ritual . Wherry 's broadside attack was barrassing to the Republican strategists who wanted to avoid any responsibilitY for the . death of price controls . Bob Taft favored a more indirect method ? murder by amendment . When the Obi ? Senator voted for the compromise OVA bill , Wherry stormed to the floor and shouted , " Such leadership is weak-kneed , spineless and does , not meet the need cf legislative authority . " The Nebraska mortician has an opinion on every major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs , he said , " Russia is areal menace to the peace and security of the world . But Russia would never have reached this stage in her aggressions had it not been for the weakness of the State Department policy . . . . We need desperately to clean out the Communist influences in the State Department He voted against the confirmation of that New England patrician , Dean . Acheson , for Under Secretary of State , and was so- angry when other Republicans refused to follow his lead that he threatened to resign as party whip . He was one of 14 isolationists voting against the resolution making the United States the first member of UNRRA . I X7 MERRY 'S great cross is that while the Republicans are willing to let him be a salesman and cheer leader they are not willing to let him run the strategy . This was behind his violent attack upon Bob Taft , who is a strategist , last summer and his recent fight on Taft 's candidacy as floor leader . He was considerably annoyed when President Truman singled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impromptu press conference , Wherry snarled , " Taft ! Taft ! Everybody 's always talking about what Taft has done to the OPA . Fm the fellow that knocked out meat control , and I 've done more to that bill than anybody else . " It is behind his present trip to Europe " to study conditions . " In the coming session he can be expected to challenge the policies of Senator Arthur Vandenberg . Kenneth Wherry intends to talk and talk until the Republican Party takes him seriously or he wears down the resistance of his enemies by sheer energy and persistence . One of the great shows of the next Congress will be to watch Taft , who is more adroit at these things , stick a knife in Wherrys ambitions and slowly turn it . The battle of a wasp and the bull . 