@@453130

rim flood of responses to Professor Arnold Whitridge 's article , ' Where Do You Stand ? ' ? An Open Letter to American Undergraduates ? which appeared in the August Atlantic , and those occasioned by the reply , ' We Stand Here , ' in the September issue , seemed to the editors to establish a cross section of American undergraduate opinion on questions arising from the war . We submitted these letters to Mr. Cram as case-history material . In the first section of this article he analyzes their content . In the second , he discusses the attitude of American educators toward their students . In his third section he weighs certain modern trends in American education which he believes to be largely responsible for a situation and point of view that many thoughtful men and women find profoundly disturbing . ? TEE EDITORS T tin replies to Professor Whitridge 's article , ' Where Do You Stand ? ' ( predominantly from undergraduates and recent graduates ) are so numerous as to preclude any but summary treatment in the space available . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typical either by reason of their tone or in their content , and to illustrate them by condensed quotations . Wherever possible the name of the college and the home state of the writer are indicated . The first , and by far the largest category , is that of isolationist and semi-isolationist sentiment . This is so frequent as to deserve the designation general . No letter writer favors an overseas expeditionary force . On the other hand , few think complete isolation possible . Virtually every one accepts the need of adequate military defense . Many accept the policy of full material aid for Britain , but on realistic rather than idealistic grounds . Real and thoroughgoing divergence from Professor Whitridge arises over the extent of the menace to us and the nature of our defense . Usually it is taken for granted that the Atlantic Ocean will not only hold off Hitler 's legions but apparently keep out Dr. Goebbels 's propagandists as well . Few think the menace of armed invasion serious , at least for a long time . Seemingly the idea that time is on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Britain a year ago , Significantly , the softening of our will to resist through German propaganda or the penetration of Latin America by totalitarian ideas , as the Continent has been penetrated , is not seriously discussed . This is remarkable in view of the almost universal fear of domestic propaganda treated below . Battle is really joined over the question of our duty in the present crisis . Here the divergence between the two generations is plain : our young men do not see any moral issue , They resent the implication that they are dodging a moral issue ; they insist that their own position is as idealistic as their fathers ' ; they deny vehemently that they are cowards , and they accuse their elders of having let them down and of having undergone a sudden , quixotic change of view . The form of our minds has been moulded by your generation . We were taught that war was wrong , avoidable , inhuman , Europe no concern of ours , full of intriguing diplomats , secret treaties , unpaid war debts , and propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that German-Americans were our most thrifty and industrious citizens , Most of all we were warned that , being young , we were impetuous , adventurous , end idealistic . Our entrance into the last war was a masterpiece of folly which enriched the munitions makers . Pictures of mangled bodies and headless children were brought out again . We were particularly instructed never to be swept off our feet by false patriotism like our fathers ' . Well , we have n't been . Most of us ' look under the bed for propaganda . ' We have become so wise that many of us saw through the President 's recent request for money as a bid for reelection . ( Harvard ; home state , Iowa ) Closely akin to this is the disillusioned query , ' Where is the democracy you fought for , the humanity your classmates died for ? What you are attempting is to associate your notions of idealism with us , unwilling as you nro to disassociate your ideal and your method . We have lifted your ideal from beneath your feet . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phrases , but the warmth of our hearts will keep this ideal alive . You have killed to live and have died . ' ( Arizona Teachers ' College , ' 40 ) Equally striking is the demand for certainty , apparently the certainty that if they must die in the defense of de-. mocracy , even in the limited sphere of the western continents , the objectives of action will be limited , the gains permanent and tangible . No one seems aware that only a Hitler , a demagogue , or a fool could make such guarantees under modern conditions . No one says ho will do his duty loyally and cheerfully , cost what it may ; very few say they feel a debt to the older generation or to the democracy in which they dwell . Some imply that if conscripted they will go in bitterness and undying resentment at the horror brought upon them by their elders . ' What guarantee has youth today , ' asks a graduate of the University of Arizona , ' 37 ( now teaching at Brown University ) , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noble " death as followed the death of youth in 1919 ? If one Congress repudiates internationalism , will another embrace it ? Wilson is a much admired man today , but I have heard more enthusiasm for Calvin Coolidge . ' The defeatist tone of many of the letters is striking . ' Suppose we go to war , fighting with England , and even suppose we win . We come back with two or three years of college , an honorary diploma , no business experience . The depression hits . What chance have we to secure jobs and a decent livelihood to compete with others who have had five or ten years of experience in the business world or have been to a graduate school ? There is a fifty-fifty chance that we may lose a limb so that employers will not want us . ' ( Amherst , ' 41 ; West Virginia ) Consciousness of the economic insecurity produced by war is frequent , though , curiously enough , relatively few seem to realize that the Second World War has already made it inevitable for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is taken of the certainty that the defeat of Britain or the German penetration of Latin America will accentuate it still further . These are the children of depression talking , and the demand for economic security above everything else ? above democratic traditions , academic freedom , and the like ? is both poignant and significant . We have a mission to perform ? we of the Western Hemisphere are in the process of creating a new world civilization . All our native genius and capacities are required for the task , and we shall be doing scant service if we dissipate our energies in other fields . It is absurd to suppose that we must forever seek our leadership in Europe or that our fate is inexorably linked to hers . The per- fection of democracy and liberty on this continent is a far surer defense than military ventures abroad . We are also preparing to fight , but not in the sterile manner , not for the phantom goal which you urge . Youth proposes to exercise its prerogative to judge for itself and to find its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ More precise definition of this program is not offered , though a goodly number of other letters draw vague blueprints for youth 's utopia , every one of them centring on material security and prosperity . No one discusses the political , aesthetic , or spiritual details of utopia . Perhaps the most startling symptom of malaise revealed in the letters is an exaggerated fear of propaganda and emotional words . Since none of the writers has defined propaganda in his own mind or decided what he means by an emotional word , they can not recognize a moral issue when they see one or differentiate moral indignation from hysteria . The result is an indiscriminate assumption that their elders are sentimentalists or propagandists . ' We were told in 1917 that the Huns would come after us next , but we believe now that it was part of the disease called propaganda which killed our youth . ' ( A Baltimore interne ) It is not necessary to enlarge on this frequent formula or the denunciations of the older generation for its naivete in dealing with propaganda . ' Professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ( A young graduate , Colorado ) ' We realize that the " Fifth Column " ballyhoo is 99.44 per cent propaganda and bunk , which your generation apparently does not , ' ( Amherst , ' 41 , quoted above ) ' A style replete with inflaming phrases Professor Whit ridge 's , lacking denotative precision , which oversimplifies the whole problem of war , a surrender to obscurantism . ' ( Stanford ) ? Perhaps I seem confused . I am . I am also forced to confess that the system which I so dislike is not entirely wrong in what it is doing , There are some things to be said for the German point of view . I refuse to join you on your side of the fence and join the chorus which screams endlessly that Nazi Germany is evil and always has been . ( University of Washington ) I wo n't go into the state of my morals , but in connection with this war it seems to me that morals are out of the question . In college I studied some psychology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no right or wrong to human behavior . Do you think that the Germans do n't believe they are in the right ? The question is not of good and evil but of life and happiness . If Hitler wins there will be less of both , therefore I am for the Allies . I am pained at the bombing of a village somewhere in England , but I am also pained when I read about the British bomb . ing a German village . ( Smith ; New Mexico ) A Dartmouth graduate of the class of 1939 sums up his position : ' We can not get too excited about the " rape " of Belgium and Holland because we remember England in Africa and India and we remember France under Napoleon . ' Not one letter compares the relative merits and defects of Britain and Germany over a period of time , or does more than mention the horrors of the Nazi regime . None assesses war guilt . Despite Professor Whitridge 's restrained tone , the replies contain a surprising amount of innuendo as to his motives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ callousness on his part , and boasts of the objectivity and superior wisdom of the writers and their generation . This may seem more startling and alarming than the circumstances warrant . Such a tone has been prevalent in college journalism for some time , and need only be mentioned hero to warn the unwary against the assumption that it necessarily indicates an unfathomable gulf between two generations . Inevitably the proponents of a new view think of themselves as crusaders , and rush to defend the right . ' For this reason it is not necessary to assume that the enormous preponderance of letters from the isolationist group presents a true picture of the relative strength of the two camps . The supporters of Professor Whitridge did not feel on the defensive , and for that reason sound more restrained and give a general appeara nce of balance . Here , for instance , is a letter written by a twenty-four-year-old alumnus of a small but famous Massachusetts college to his grandfather : Today 's news is the blackest yet , but somehow I feel very secure , particularly because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make the gigantic effort which will , I am confident , turn the tide both for the Allies ( England now ) and for our democratic system of government . I have heard so much pessimistic talk from the older generation that I think you might be interested to know what my friends and I. feel about the whole dirty business . First of all , we have unlimited faith in the United States : our man power is tremendous and fresh , our industrial machine is overwhelmingly superior , we have worlds of fight which needs only to be properly equipped and led to become the most formidable fighting force the world has yet seen . I have still to find the fellow my own age who is unwilling to offer his services ? and his life , if need be ? to maintain the United States in its present strong position . If compulsory military service for all men of fighting age is the best thing for the safety of our country , all of us are ready today to give up our jobs and learn to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not remain an isolationist nation any longer unless we want to be a third-rate power . Those ideas are as defenseless and naYve as the Maginot Line , . . . There never has been a generation in America that had a one hundred per cent easy time of it . Perhaps it will be the job of my generation to fight a long , bitter war against the dictator powers , or at least to go through the sacrifices of financing that war for the British Empire . So what ? Every generation has had plenty of troubles and plenty of pleasures , and we are confident that we shall nave our share of both . What we hope and need is that the older men of this country do n't feel sorry for us , but that they will make use of their wealth of experience and wisdom to show us how to fight . These older men must , however , be sound in their think ing , far-visioned in their planning , and bold in their policies . At least nine democracies have succumbed within the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unwillingness to face hardships . The older men of our country must not expect the younger generation to follow that kind of leadership ? we want clean-cut , decisive action , and we 'll know it when we see it . We 'll never let them down . No letter pro or contra is quite comparable to this letter in its entirety , and it needs no amplification or comment to express the consensus of the group opposed to narrow isolation . One other letter is appealing in its humility : flailing from a small college perhaps does not grant me the voice to cope with the mighty tongues of the undergraduates of the more illustrious universities . Nevertheless I fun grimles1 a heart . I hope there is still a place for hearts . We have become cowards , we Americans ; we have become cowards because of our selfish and unscrupulous views , because of our lack of foresight , because America to-slay sets aside values along with the anthropomorphic gods that science and life justly refute . This cowardly withdrawal has arisen partly because the idealistic young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' were disillusioned and embittered by the results that followed 1918 . They thrust aside the tattered ideals of the past and with it all the valuable ideals that tend to create the understanding , unselfishness , fortitude , and foresight that are strength to Use nations that nurtures them . Our god became , as you yourself mentioned , the god success . At last we began to accept evil as a force not capable of being combated with courage or the strength of sincere convictions . Because we stood naked of our valises , we failed to realize that the acceptance of evil was a disgrace that fell upon the shoulders of him who accepted . Our moral death may destroy us in the long run . Today we need men who do not overlook the past , who grasp the present , who not only hold to the ideal of a better future , but work for it . ( Ursinus , ' 40 ; New York ) No letter out of these hundred-odd unsolicited expressions of opinion from American university-trained young men approaches the philosophy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose letter to his mother was quoted in the Christian Science Monitor : Those who serve England must expect nothing from her ; we debase ourselves if we regard our country as merely a place in which to eat and sleep .. . . We are faced with the greatest organized challenge to Christianity and civilization that the world has ever seen , and I count myself lucky and honored to be the right age and fully trained to throw my full weight into the scale . For this I have to thank you . . . . I have no fear of death , only a queer elation . . . . Toward the end of their first year as sleeping partners in the Second World War , Americans suddenly began to realize that democracy , after a century of relative security , is everywhere at war . An undeclared war , universal , remorseless , unending , aims at the extinction of democracy . The new strategy of this new kind of war , the ' strategy of terror , ' seeks to destroy the will to resist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unity of democracy . It has been everywhere successful on the Continent . In a single month it has destroyed the proudest military tradition since the days of Rome , breaking the army of France . It may destroy forever the most gracious civilization the western world has known , if it can shatter the soul of France . Dimly sensing the implications of all his , Americans began to turn uneasy eyes toward the youth of America , noting the sharp , even bitter gulf opening between two war generations , between the fathers , veterans of the First World War , and the sons , destined defenders of democracy , if it is to be defended , in the Second World War . Such was the background of the sympositun on ' America and War ' in the Boston Sunday Herald ( June 30 , 1940 ) . This symposium , to be sure , did not cover schools and colleges outside New England , but since New England draws students from all over the nation , and the educators quoted were analyzing the views of their students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ range is more apparent than real . Tho collective diagnosis by this representative and influential group of New England educators , and their comments on the present attitude of our undergraduates , taken in conjunction with the mosaic of national student opinion provided by the replies to Professor Whit ridge , present an illuminating and disturbing aspect of our national crisis . Our young school and college men , say the educators , are serious , well-equipped idealists , and courageous . Confused children of a cynical generation , horn amid an orgy of prosperity , and reared in depression , they were told by their elders that war was a futile , sordid business . The historical half-truths of their fathers ( and especially , it must be added , of their mothers ) demonstrated that the First World War and the peace were a betrayal . Economic determinism and prosperity were played up . Their parents , as President Hopkins points out , tried to save them from all the hardness of life , seeking for their sons , as for themselves , the easier way . Psychologically unprepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get on with their careers . Dubious about the merits of each side in the great battle for western civilization , they are indifferent , but when the crisis comes they will be worth ty of our best traditions . If may judge by the letters to Professor Whit-ridge , student opinion heartily endorses this defense by one of its teachers . A rapid , if delayed , shift of student opinion followed the invasion of Holland and Belgium . Some of our youth , it is pointed out , eventually became aware of the moral issue , even saw , at long last , that our way of life is directly menaced . General inertia has been succeeded by a general willingness to fight in defense of this continent , even , in the case of some , for this hemisphere , always provided guarantees are given that the peace will meet their wishes . This interpretation is hardly strengthened by the letters , for there is slight evidence of patriotic ardor , small feeling of responsibility to society . Such responsibility as there is seems rather a sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and others , exculpate the young men now on the threshold of college and in college on the ground that ' the indifference of our students to the moral issues in the present war ' represents the reactions of a nation which still hardly knows its own mind , ' and is sadly in need of leadership . This exculpation releases a large black cat from the academic bag . For years American secondary school boys and college men have been the recipients of an unprecedented bounty , an increasingly heavy charge upon the nation , justified by the universal assumption that higher education is a sound investment in potential leadership . Now Dr. Fuess implies that these same young men must be excused for their indifference to the greatest crisis of civilization since the Christian era , because they are no better and no worse than the nation of which they are a phase and an essential part . ' The Headmaster of Tabor Academy turns the knife in the wound by saying that our boys will begin to realize their full responsibilities after a month in their homes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means that the recipients of a unique educational bounty have done no better in a pinch than their less favored fellows . In a society already close to the limits of its permissible errors , such a diagnosis , if correct , is tantamount to an admission of a dangerous defect in the education of an especially favored group . This view is refinforced by the letters . Dr. Perry of Exeter maintains the thesis that young men are realistic . He quotes the commeneemen t oration of one of his seniors to the effect that youth greeted Hitler 's advance with wonder rather than indignation , felt little indignation at the invasion of Poland , and considerably less than their elders at the catastrophe of Norway , Belgium , and Holland , but would not make the mistake of idealizing Hitler . The young orator might have added , as a further demonstration of realism , that the heroic deeds of the British Army at Dunkirk and the simple bravery of French youth produced not a ripple of admiration among his contemporaries . That admiration , if one may judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not idealize , but seem to admire because he ' delivers the goods . ' Certainly the few specific repudiations of Hitler are in the most restrained manner . The constant assertion that youth is sound and can be depended on in a real crisis looks comforting in the symposium . It ignores the fact that the crisis is upon us and that the symposium was designed to explain why the young men have failed us . In any case this cheerful conviction has an uncomfortable suggestion of the fatal and futile complacency of Britain and France a year ago . It is now beside the point for French educators to say ( if any do ) that , given time , their pupils would have thought wisely , would have died nobly . Their first duty to French democracy was to prepare their youth for the terrible hour of decision . France was not ready for the supreme test , and there is an awful lesson in that fact for every teacher in every democracy in the world . Obviously , to defend our boys on the ground that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an answer . Educators must stop such wishful thinking and finch a way , not merely to make democratic idealism vital and efficient , but to make it more vital and more efficient than its ruthless and terrible rival . The search for an historical alibi must be trans- deleted material man and radio commentator of international reputation for honesty and penetration . In fairness to the educators it must be remembered that the symposium was a relatively hurried , ad hoc job , not to be judged by quite the same standards as Mr. MacLeish 's gracious inea culpa or Mr. Swing 's Olivet Baccalaureate . Mr. MacLeish 's conclusions are ominous , and it is symptomatic that among the educators Dr. Moody alone approached him in penetration and perspective . ' If the younger generation in America is distrustful of all words , distrustful of all moral judgments of better and worse , then it is incapable of using the only weapon with which fascism can be fought , and the moral and spiritual unpreparedness of the country is worse than its unpreparedness in arms . ' Written as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a terrifying mantic quality in the light of details leaking out from the ruins of French democracy . Mr. Swing , speaking in a tone suited the occasion of his address , says in t , ' If they the young must question outer semblances , have they learned to trust the processes of establishing truth , which can be demonstrated in the research laboratory and in the recesses of their own souls ? If a man does not believe in the godhood that is in him , he is going to believe there is godhood in the dictator . Not having cared for responsibility , which is the other meaning of freedom , he will have thrown all responsibility on the leader . Man was not always free to say , think , read , what he pleased . Men died for these things . The men who founded this Republic prized these things more than life itself . We are their heirs . ' Can we escape the conclusion that one possible explanation for the great gulf opening between the generations today lies in the fact that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper man , who best diagnosed the mortal sickness of democracy and best de fined the task of education in a democracy ? Is there no connection between the keen sense of frustration common among young teachers and lackadaisical cant among the undergraduates ? This raises a fundamental problem of our educational policy . III Since the First World War , the general tendency toward expansion of educational endowment has been phenomenal . Before 1910 , money poured out in floods , and only recently has there been a really serious slackening of the tide . Confusing expansion of plant and an almost fanatical ardor in creating an educational bureaucracy ? a process which may justly be called ' educational inflation ' ? with improved educational production , we have gone ahead for two decades until a situation has arisen in the academic world exactly parallel with that in business and government . An aloof , Byzantine administration of executives , experts , statisticians , and other academic camp followers , dominates the educational scene , and dwarfs the ultimate personality , in this case the teacher , overwhelming him in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years has passed into the hands of administrators rather than teachers . Few indeed are the teachers who , upon being elevated to places of great power , continue to exercise the teaching function . Soon the teacher is lost in the administrator . Constant necessity to reconcile himself with parents , alumni , students , the press , the public , donors , and now more and more with professional educationists , blurs his perspective . Before he knows it , he has submerged the supreme task of the teacher in a democracy , which is to form character and to create personality , beneath the collection of statistics and the construction of graphs . Under the circumstances , it is hardly astonishing that the nation and its edu- deleted material and European thought , just as the Bible was a precious link between the two Anglo-Saxon democracies . Is it , then , extraordinary that we have to lament that our sons are cold to the agonies of the great tradition to which our culture belongs , indifferent to the fate of British democracy , though our national fate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a policy which will leave our democracy to face totalitarian ruthlessness alone and isolated , a policy of ' realism ' ? From the code of the ancient world , and its revival in the humanistic tradition of the Renaissance , came the English code of the gentleman , the embodiment of the ideals of heroic individuality and personal leadership without which no democracy has long been able to survive . Significantly enough this code is now subject to constant jeers from Berlin . Through long apprenticeship in the Classics , men acquired habits of close analysis of thought and expression , habits of exact definition of idea and word , a sense of propriety in thought and act , a feeling for loftiness of conduct and speech ? an intuitive technique in dealing with human and political ideas that prepared them for personal self-discipline , for self-government , and for leadership in society . The necessity of understanding a distant and widely different civilization was an important training in perspective , and , most precious of all , a unique school for the imagination . Certainly two more perfectly complementary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered in Anglo-Saxon educational history , nor two more essential to the preservation of a democracy . Before it was possible to give modern languages , literatures , and histories a fair trial as a replacement for the humanistic discipline , two new elements appeared to complicate the problem ? the fashion for science , and the vogue for ' modern education . ' No man in his senses will question the greatness or brilliance of the giants of science . Still less will . he deny that some of the great scientists have been great sages , for many examples come readily to mind . This is not the same thing as saying that science as taught to-day in the United States deserves the emphasis that is being placed on it . The explanation of this distinction is simple . One of the greatest merits of science is that it is an exacting master , and another is that it demands an intuitive technique all its own . But the other side of the shield is that science , partly by virtue of these two great merits , is highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of secondary school ' under good instruction , he will have mastered , not science as an approach to ideas and to society , but science as an approach to more advanced science . As often as not. , science will become for him an insulation from society . lie will scarcely have begun to think of science as a key to civilization and human relations . There is no reason to assume that t his will remain a permanent defect of a discipline which is at once one of the newer and one of the most dynamic branches of human knowledge . Nevertheless , so long as this difficulty persists , it must remain a serious objection to the establishment of science as a foundation for education in a democracy . Despite the risk of appearing , to my scientific friends , outrageously partisan , it seems impossible to leave hard questions unasked at this point : ( 1 ) Can we rule out all connection between the materialistic indifference of our youth and the current emphasis on the ruthless formulae of science ? ( 2 ) May it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roots of democracy exactly as Marxian economic and historical determinism has done ? ( 3 ) Can all possibility of a conne lion between the prestige of German science and the ruthlessness of Nazidom be excluded ? Finally , coming with great diffidence deleted material years great strides in education have not been accompanied by parallel progress in liberty , but an increase in nationalism , dictatorship , and totalitarian tendencies . Responsibility for this phenomenon , in Cobban 's view , rests , to no small degree , on the change in educational ideals . At the end of the Middle Ages , control of the state passed to men educated in the humanism of the Ancient World , just then revived in the Renaissance . To the humanist , education was a preparation for the responsibilities of government , the art of government a profession like any other . In England this tradition was dominant from More to Gladstone , and is still vital . A similar trend existed throughout Europe . Such a training in the Classics produced a ruling aristocracy resting on education as well as blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceased to fulfill this mission ; for whether in the humanities , science , or history , the desiccating rule of the specialist has robbed learning of its ancient philosophical and speculative content , cut it off from the life of the community , and replaced the rule of philosophical governors with the rule of experts who substitute meticulous , scientific exactitude in the mastery of detail for a grasp of the broader , humane values . Few sounder observations could be made than Cobban 's statement that the art of government is not merely a technique but a psychological attitude , better absorbed from tradition than transmitted by instruction . Today the older forms of government are on trial wherever western civilization exists , because the remarkable technical progress of civilization has broken down the prestige of ancient ways and old traditions . This produces a sense of domestic insecurity , and leads the intelligentsia , now without an important direct share in government , to welcome the rule of the new , supreme expert , the totalitarian dictator . Cobban 's final query at this point raises the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ages of Faith may be returning , but will it be a faith built up on the inherited culture of a great civilization , or will it be the fetichism of a new Dark Age ? Whatever it is , it will be imposed by force , for the expert has armed authority with almost irresistible power for the destruction of freedom of thought and for the slow but irresistible barbarization of the western world . ' It is already too late to repair our errors in dealing with the post-war generations . In that sense , they may be said to be lost generations , and we must accept the results of our handiwork . At the moment we have one task , the obliteration of Hitlerism on land and on sea ? and from our spirit . Until that task is done , thoroughgoing reform of democratic education must wail . Meantime we must recall the words of the young man to his grandfather , quoted above , and remember that some of our youth want an end of ' timidity , vacillation , soft thinking , and unwillingness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our ultimate educational reform , as it must be the foundation of victory . Once victory has been won , we must turn a pitiless eye on our educational short cuts , the sentimental softness of our pedagogy , our willful blindness to the bitter lessons of the past , and must root out the projections of a sordid epoch from educational thought and practice . As we embark on our task of reform we shall do well to remember that the man who wrote , ' Those who serve England must expect nothing from her ; we debase ourselves if we regard our country as merely a place in which to eat and sleep , ' spoke for a nation whose educational tradition reaches back through Arnold of Rugby , More , and Colet , to Socrates .                     