@@475447

AT THE moment of the Japanese surrender , the Soviet Union formally announced that a new Five-Year Plan ? its fourth one ? was about to be put into operation . The full details of this plan are apparently still to be worked out , but enough has been published to show that this is by all odds the most ambitious postwar blueprint produced by any of the powers . It provides valuable clues to an understanding of future Russian policy . If the Five-Year Plans before the war aimed at making Russia economically strong enough to withstand a war , the new plan proposes to make her economically strong enough to play the role of a superpower . The goal is still to industrialize the country , and at an accelerated pace . The main emphasis , as in the prewar plans , is on building up the capital-goods industries . The eastward trend of these industries ? which began in 1932 and was greatly speeded up by the war ? will also continue . The Russian planners do not put first the satisfaction of the needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living now is ; they intend to make him wait for the goods he needs until his country 's industrial strength has been built up . Top priority in the plan is apparently to be given to an increase in steel production to thirty-five or forty million tons a year by 1950 , which is far above the 1940-41 figure of a little less than twenty milliontons ( to say nothing of the mere ten million tons in 1942-43 , when the steel centers of the Ukraine were in enemy hands ) . The Russians claim that their steel producdon is already back at the prewar level , partly as a result of large-scale repairs but largely because of the new huge steel centers built behind the Urals during the war . Even if this be true ? and other Russian reports indicate that this was the " plan " for 1945 rather than an actual achievement ? the new program would call for a virtual doubling of the prewar rate of expansion during the next five years . Next in importance to steel production are the building of a powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Far East . The atomic bomb may lead to a revision of this program but hardly to an abandonment of the principle that direct armaments have the first claim on all industrial capacity . Other major aims of the new plan are the expansion of internal and external communications : the construction of a large ocean-going merchant fleet under the Russian flag , a substantial railway building program , the construction of highways and canals , and greatly increased production of railway equipment and trucks . Twice as many tractors are to be built during the next five years as there were on all the collective farms when Germany attacked ; this will be done partly to replace the equipment destroyed during Mr. Drucker , author of The End of Economic Man and The Future of Industrial Man , frequently writes on economics for the Saturday Evening Post and other magazines . He teaches at Bennington College . the war , partly to provide tractors for new farms in Siberia . And an entirely new building industry is to be created to make prefabricated plants and prefabricated houses . ( Incidentally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies , as before the war , but are to be sold to the workers on very generous terms . ) Pr HE official comments insist that RusI sia , by 1950 , should be able to supply all her peacetime and wartime needs in the basic products of an industrial civilization . And not only this ; Russia must also be capable of supplying the capital equipment of the countries in the Soviet zone of influence in Europe and Asia . It has become a recurrent theme of Russian political discussion that the security of the Soviet Union would be threatened if neighboring countries ? even those under " friendly governments " were dependent on non-Russian sources for their supplies of capital goods . According to this theory , it was Germany 's position as a heavy-goods exporter that gave her control . over Eastern Europe ; and if the political co-operation between Russia and her neighbors is to be on a sound basis , it must be supplemented by close economic co-operation , with the Soviet Union holding the place formerly occupied by Germany . Today , obviously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited needs for capital equipment as those of Bulgaria or Iran , let alone those of heavily industrialized countries such as Poland and Czechoslovakia . But by 1950 , according to the press comments on the new plan , she is to be the capital-goods center for the entire border region from the Baltic to the Straits of Korea . Contrary to popular belief , a Five-Year Plan is not rigid . It is revised constantly in the light of economic developments and it is under constant pressure from all kinds of political and economic interests . Actually , every Five-Year Plan in the past was drastically amended during its operation , not only in detail but in direction . The " goals " of a Five-Year Plan are not meant to be precise production figures ; they are sights to aim by . But even if we discount the figures given in the new plan as propaganda designed to prevent a slackening of the Russian production effort during the crugoods for the civilian consumer except the basic subsistence requirements in food . In no year since 1928 has Russia invested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital goods and war supplies . In critical years , such as 1932 and 1939 , the figure went above 50 per cent . During the war it may at times have reached 75 per cent . To get the full impact of these figures you must remember that we in the United States ? a country infinitely wealthier than Soviet Russia have never , not even in the peak years of the war , allocated more than 50 per cent of our national income to such uses . Altogether , Russian economic policy during the entire period since Stalin became the undisputed master has been based on the doctrine that the civilian economy should get only as much as is absolutely necessary to keep the people in reasonable working condition ; everything above that is to go into capital investment . The best evidence of the severity of the regime which the country imposed on itself is the impression of luxurious abundance made upon the Russian soldiers ? the best supplied of all Russians ? by the poverty and squalor of eastern Europe . In Berlin they have been paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans from the ruins . In Bucharest , the first foreign city most Russian soldiers had ever seen , they were overwhelmed by the " luxury and affluence " in which the Rumanian worker lived . Yet the slums of Bucharest were probably the worst in all Europe . The Viennese worker impressed the Russian soldier as a " bourgeois " ? so much so that there has been considerable looting of working-class homes . Yet under Nazi rule Vienna ? a place of dire unemployment ever since 1918 ? had gone almost entirely without consumer goods . To own a suit of clothes in addition to overalls , to own a radio , some china , or a watch , the things for which apparently the looters were hunting , is " luxury " for the Russian who has gone without consumer goods for almost twenty years . Hence there has been a gigantic " inflationary gap " between the money income of the Russian population and the supply of goods available to them . Half or more of the money income of the Russian popula-MAGAZINE tion has consistently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the market . To Iet this purchasing power compete for the few goods that were available would have wrecked the economy ? and with it the industrialization program . In such a situation , the first step is , of course , rationing . But though the Russians have used rationing so extensively that money at times has been almost meaningless and ration books have been the main currency , rationing controls are not enough in such an extreme situation . It is necessary to siphon off the surplus purchasing power of the consumer . This the Russians did by two methods . The first was a general sales tax concealed in the retail price of all commodities . This sales tax accounted for 60 per cent of the average retail price and took about 40 per cent of the income of the Russian consumer . Such a tax inevitably hits hardest at the low income groups which hold the bulk of the surplus purchasing power . Accordingly , the sales tax ? the official Russian term is " turnover tax " ? was highest on the articles of popular consumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price , for instance , concealed a tax of 60 per cent , the sugar price one of 80 per cent . Yet bread is the staple of the Russian masses and sugar their only highenergy food , as the Russian diet contains little meat , fats , or dairy products . The other instrument of fiscal control was a tax on the farmer concealed in the fee that the government charged the collective farms for the use of tractors . This charge may have taken as much as a quarter of the farm income ? and half of Russia 's population still lives on the farm . x A developed industrial economy such I fiscal measures would by themselves bring about an expansion of capital goods and armaments production . But Russia lacked the first requirement of an industrial economy : an industrial labor force . When Russia began to industrialize in 1928 , it was an almost wholly agricultural country . Out of a total working population of ninety million men , not more than six or seven million were employed in industry , transportation , and public utilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were added to the industrial labor force ? about nine million workers and three million clerks , engineers , bookkeepers , and executives . Counting dependents , between twenty-five and thirty-five million people were moved into industry . Since Russia did not permit immigration from abroad ? which was the way in which a similar problem had been solved in the United States between 1680 and 1914 ? the labor had to come from the farms . And at the same time the farms also had to supply the additional food to feed the new industrial workers . This was done by collectivizing the farms . The traditional Russian family farm had been too small for efficient cultivation and so backward in equipment and methods as to need far too much labor . The new program involved consolidating small farms into one big unit , replacing manual labor by machines , and increasing the output per worker in order to cut down the number of workers needed per acre and thus to free men for work in industry . The collectivization of the farms was thus the cornerstone of Russia 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first Five-Year Plan . According to the official Russian version the peasants themselves wanted collectivization . This is blatant nonsense ; the great majority were bitterly opposed and a considerable minority resisted actively . But it is just as false to sec collectivization as inspired primarily by the desire of a totalitarian regime to establish complete control over the people . Collectivization was not the result but the cause of Russian totalitarianism . The transformation of the Russian farms into collectives within five years was the most violent and most radical social operation ever performed on a social body in peacetime . It could only be achieved by the most ruthless methods and through complete regimentation . Soviet Russia in 1928 was not a democracy in any sense of the word . But it was collectivization that made her into a police state , that made the Secret Police all-powerful , and that led to the introduction of convictlabor and concentration camps ? first used for the millions of peasants who fought collectivization ? to suppress all opposition . In the last analysis the cause of Russia 's development into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from abroad ; once this decision had been taken , rapid industrialization could be achieved only on a totalitarian basis because it could be achieved only through collectivization . ( This , incidentally , is not a purely theoretical argument about past history . For Russia , as we shall see , is again faced with the decision between allowing free immigration and Secret-Police rule . ) Stalin himself was opposed to collectivization for a long time . He clearly saw that it amounted to a major revolution which might break the regime . He gave in only because there was no other way to achieve industrialization . Events proved his fears to have been justified . Food production collapsed , partly because of the resistance of the peasants , partly because the new tractors failed to arrive in time . The three-year famine ? from 1931 to 1934 ? almost broke the Russian economy . The resistance of the peasants almost broke the government ; it was subdued only after millions had died of starvation and more millions had been shipped off to forced labor . By 1935 , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been lowered by twenty million people , while total food production had been nearly doubled . It is true that this great increase was made possible only by a general shift from the production of highprotein foods , such as meat , vegetables , and dairy products to crops that could be produced on mechanized farms such as grain , potatoes , and sugar beets ; yet the total supply of food to the cities increased sufficiently to take care of an increase of the urban population from forty to eighty million . To obtain workers in sufficient quantities was one thing ; to convert the peasant into an industrial worker was another . Actually , the increase in Russian industrial production from 1935 to 1941 was almost exclusively accomplished through a steady rise in industrial efficiency . This was achieved by means of a nation-wide training program for workers , by ruthless speed-up methods , and by the most comprehensive system of wage inducements used in any industrial country , Altogether , the rise in industrial efficiency is probably the most impressive of Russia 's achievements ; it certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the first FiveYear Plan , Russia 's industrial plants seemed on an average to be not more than one-fifth as efficient as comparable American plants . By 1940 this figure had risen to 35 or 40 per cent , at least for plants that had been in operation for several years . Management efficiency , especially on the foreman level , was still very low ; but it too was increasing in spite of the 1937-38 purges of managerial personnel , III EVEN if Russia should try in the five years ahead merely to restore her economy to the prewar level , the task would be prodigious . But the new FiveYear Plan provides for a considerably expanded production ? and not of consumer goods but of capital goods . This makes the task herculean . For the war has not only largely undone her previous achievements but has confronted her with new and pressing difficulties . She is now forced to solve her labor problem all over again , under circumstances in which her former methods either will not work at all or else will be much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has decimated the Russian industrial labor force which had been built up so painfully during the previous fifteen years . The industrial workers were the largest single group of military age in Russia , most of them being between twenty-five and thirty-five years of age ; they were also the physically fittest and the best-trained group . Hence they furnished the bulk of Russia 's combat troops and accounted for a very large proportion of Russia 's staggering battle casualties . In addition the Nazis , in their deportation of Russians to forced labor in Germany , singled out industrial workers and farm mechanics , partly because they needed trained men for their factories , partly because they wanted to weaken Russia permanently . And even those workers who survived the horrors of the Nazi labor camps will not be fit physically and nervously for sustained industrial work fora long time to come . According to Russian estimates which seem fairly reliable , no more than ten or twelve million out of a prewar total of close to twenty million workers are available immediately for employment in industry , transportation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial force considerably larger than that of prewar days . Much of the work to be done is construction work , which is laborconsuming even with the most modern equipment ? and the Russians lack this . Also a good deal of the work is to be carried on in new regions , such as the central and far east , where living and transportation facilities have to be provided before actual construction can start . To offset the war losses and to provide for the new expansion as many as fifteen or twenty million new workers may be needed . But there is no longer any surplus labor on the farms . On the contrary , Russian agriculture suffers from a manpower shortage just as much as Russian industry . It is not so much the loss of life which is responsible as the almost complete destruction of mechanized equipment , especially tractors which can not be replaced for several years at the earliest . Manual labor will have to take its place to produce the absolute minimum of food . Hence returning Russian prisoners of war have been put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial workers before the war . We also know that Russia postponed the beginning of the demobilization of her armed forces until October 1945 because the men were needed for the harvest . Where then will the millions of new workers come from who are needed in non-agricultural employment if Russia is to expand industrially ? MITE war has also largely destroyed the I consumer goods industries which supplied the prewar population with the essentials of life . As most of these industries were located in western Russia , especially around Moscow , Odessa , and Kiev , the main industrial centers of czarist Russia , they have been razed twice ? first by the retreating Russians in 1941 , then by the retreating Germans in 1943 and 1944 . To a certain extent this loss can be offset by converting war plants to civilian production . This is easiest in the metal industries , which have already begun to turn out such goods as pots , pans , and bicycles , and in the tank plants , which are being converted to the production of badly needed farm equipment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to produce the goods which , next to food , are most urgently needed by the population : clothing , shoes , building materials , bedding , and furniture . To restore these industries merely to their prewar level should not be a major problem , to be sure , nor should it require too much manpower . The machines which the Russians removed in such large quantities from eastern Germany , Hungary , Czechoslovakia , and Austria , came largely from consumer-goods plants ; and the equipment they will get during the next year from western Germany as their share in the reparations ? mainly from the metal-processing and chemical industries ? should speed up the process considerably . Even so , American government officials in close touch with Russia estimate that until the spring of 1947 Russia will have to rely to a considerable extent on captured German Army stores , on relief ( the Soviet Government has asked UNRRA for $700 million worth of goods for 1946 ) , and , perhaps , on the purchase of American Army surplus stocks in Europe . By the summer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to supply the minimum consumer needs of her population . But the question ? a big question ? is this : will the Russian people be satisfied with minimum subsistence supplies , or will they demand a higher standard of living ? All through the prewar years the incredible sacrifices which the people were asked to make were justified by the promise of abundance and plenty once Russia had become strong enough to withstand a war . Now that this war has been won at the price of even greater sacrifices , the new Five-Year Plan proposes again to subordinate the satisfaction of consumer demands to the expansion of the capital-goods industries . Will the people be willing to accept another indefinite postponement of the promise of a more abundant life to make the Soviet Union a " super-power " ? There are many indications that the Russians are not only unwilling to continue to live in a war economy but that they are physically and mentally unable to do so . They have been living , after all , for thirty years under conditions of extreme strain . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every ounce of physical and nervous strength to survive . They probably realize that they will have to live under a regimen of severe austerity until the country is rehabilitated . But it does not seem likely that they can accept continued privation . And now , for the first time in twenty-five years , they have an organization which the government can not suppress , and through which they can voice their demands : a victorious army . And , as all reports agree , this army has been deeply impressed by its first contact with the higher living standards of the outside world , especially those of the American and British soldiers . Recent announcements and actions of the Soviet government clearly reflect mounting pressure for a speedy increase in the supply of consumer goods . In the official announcement of the demobilization policy , officers and men were promised ample clothing and housing upon their eventual return to civilian life . Even before the final surrender of Germany , the Russian press began to feature popular demands for consumer goods ? and such a campaign is usually the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a decree of the Supreme Soviet , announced early last September , which forbids the exportation of consumer goods out of the province in which they were produced . This , obviously , does not solve the problem ; on the contrary , it makes things worse for the population of European Russia where the industries have been destroyed . But it shows that the workers in the consumer-goods centers were no longer willing to go without the things they themselves produced ; indeed there have been unconfirmed reports of riots in textile and food-processing plants whose output was destined for shipment to the big cities of western Russia . While not conclusive , the evidence certainly suggests that Russia can not put the new Five-Year Plan into effect with her own resources alone . She lacks the manpower to produce both the capital goods ( including armaments ) that she is resolved to produce in rising quantities , and the consumer goods which her people will demand . She can put the plan into effect only if she obtains from abroad considerable amounts of consumer goods or , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods ; or if she can import workers to meet her shortage of labor . IV MHERE has been no public discussion in I Russia of how the problems of labor and consumer-goods supplies are to be solved . But there are not many ways to solve them . Indeed , there is only one real solution to the consumer-goods problem : a large American loan . To some extent Russia can obtain consumer goods from abroad without such a loan , by paying for them with the one commodity which she produces without having any use for it herself : gold . This explains the great interest that Soviet diplomacy has shown in the raw-material producing countries of Latin America , and the considerable commercial organization built throughout the Latin American continent by the late Soviet Ambassador to Mexico , Mr. Oumansky . To buy Argentine wheat and meat , Uruguayan wool , Brazilian cotton against gold is not only good business but good politics as well . For , as Germany proved before the war , it is the buyer and not the seller who wields political influence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , incidentally , why Russia , after twenty years of scoffing , has become such a fervent admirer of the gold standard and has been supporting the American currency position since the Bretton Woods Conference . To pay for raw materials with gold means actually to pay for them with a check on the United States , which alone of all major countries today is willing to supply goods against gold . But for a real solution of her consumer goods difficulties Russia would have to have access to the American market and would have to finance herself through a MAGAZINE long-term American loan . For she needs finished goods , or machinery to make goods , rather than raw materials ; and finished goods in quantity and against a loan can be obtained only in this country . Russia has officially announced that she is about to ask for such a loan in the amount of six billion dollars . And yet it is by no means certain that Russia intends to go through with such a loan . There is little doubt that there would be formidable opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this magnitude would constitute a radical departure from the principles of Russian economic and foreign policy . It has been an axiom of Communist thought ? developed largely by Stalin ? that a foreign loan means intervention and control by foreigners . This conviction springs from Russia 's experience with the loans of the czarist regime . But it would be held to apply with equal force to loans obtained today from this country , and with reason . For although Soviet Russia is undoubtedly a good financial risk ? probably the best risk among all potential governmental borrowers ? nevertheless loan to Russia , especially one of the magnitude needed , would be primarily a political transaction . It is most probable that the United States government would demand political concessions in return , especially in respect to Russia 's relations with the countries in her zone of influence . It is certain that Congress and public opinion in this country would regard such a loan as ample justification for a very " tough " attitude towards the Soviet Union . This is not a matter that could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign to be nice to Russia . To borrow six billion dollars is an admission of weakness and dependence , however honeyed the language of the lender . It would bring Russia into America 's economic zone of influence and control , and would establish the U.S.A. as the superior power . Certainly Russia would accept a loan only if there were no political strings to it ; and it is most unlikely that the Soviet government would submit to the kind of cross-examination the British have been subjected to in their negotiations for financial assistance . The announcement of a request for a loan is thus not conclusive proof that Russia has finally decided to give up her traditional financial autarchy . But it does indicate the seriousness of the Russian economic situation . E VEN with an American loan to buy consumer goods in America , the Russian problem of labor supply will be difficult . Without such a loan it will be much more difficult . Certainly it will involve Russia in another and more pressing question of foreign policy . For she will have to decide between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers from the Balkans . We know she intends to use large numbers of Germans as convict workers ; actually by now she must be using , for her rehabilitation work , something like five million German war prisoners and Nazis caught in eastern Germany . It is also probable that large numbers of " antiRussians " and " Fascists " from the territories annexed by Russia in Poland and the Baltic states have been drafted for work in forced labor battalions under the supervision of the Secret Police . But there are indications that Russia wants to obtain still more convict workers ? many more . The spectacular trial of the leaders of the Polish Home Army last spring was not only intended to put pressure on the Polish government-in-exile . According to the Russian comments at the time , the conviction of these leaders as anti-Russians and Fascists automatically made every member of the old Polish underground liable to imprisonment or forced labor . The same doctrine has been put forward by Russia as a basis for the trials of the Nazi leaders . And while the report , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German compulsory workers to be used for five years was hardly to be taken very seriously ? even half the number would be hard to obtain ? it may not have been pure chance that the figure coincided so closely with Russia 's needs for industrial workers . To use such large masses of compulsory workers would create considerable policing worries . But problems of this sort Russia is well equipped to handle , since the Secret Police have been runningforced-labor camps since 1933 . Also the policy would be cheap and popular with the Russian masses . It would , however , meet with bitter opposition abroad , especially in England and western Europe with their strong trade-union tradition . It would also alienate the peoples of eastern Europe for generations to come , and would tend to create the very anti-Russian bloc the Soviet Union is most afraid of . Nevertheless , the policy is likely to remain Russia 's first choice . Why ? Because the alternative would raise even greater problems . The alternative is free immigration from the Balkans . T FIRST sight immigration would seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem but also of the problem of Russia 's relations with the Balkan countries . The Balkan peasants make good and adaptable industrial workers . Most of them would assimilate fast , being closely akin to the Russians in language , tradition , and religion . The Balkan countries , Rumania , Bulgaria , southern Yugoslavia , and Hungary are extremely overcrowded and desperately poor . There are no large estates to divide among the peasants except in Hungary ; and even there the available land is sufficient to settle only a small fraction of the landless laborers . The only solution for these countries , if their people can not migrate elsewhere , would be industrialization . Russia is today incapable of supplying them with industrial equipment . Furthermore , as the Russian press has been stressing , she is not willing to let any western country do it , as that would bring the Balkans again under the influence of western Europe . Denied both industrialization and a chance to migrate elsewhere , the Balkan peoples are almost certain to be in perpetual unrest . But Russia , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Balkan cauldron from boiling over . Why not do it by admitting Balkan immigrants ? The difficulty is that the immigrants would have to be given political and economic rights denied the Russians . No Balkan peasant will move voluntarily unless guaranteed religious freedom and promised a chance to acquire his own little homestead . Immigrants would have to be allowed to send money home , to go home on visits , and altogether to keep up the contact with the " old country . " They would tend to settle together , to be critical of the new country , and to compare it not only with conditions at home but with conditions in that Mecca of Balkan emigrants , the United States . Above all , even though the Balkans have been under various kinds of dictatorships all along , these were never very efficient or very stable dictatorships . Hence the Balkan peasants are used to much more freedom of discussion than Russia has known for fifteen years , and also to a considerable degree of party politics and to real ? though violent and corrupt ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same freedom in the country to which they emigrate . Russia might grant them religious worship ? in the state-controlled Orthodox Church ? and home ownership , as she has already promised both to her own subjects . But could the other rights be given to immigrants without being given to Russians too ? And is the Soviet regime willing or able to abandon so much of the basis of totalitarianism ? Some of the Pan-Slavic propaganda that has recently come out of Moscow sounds as if the Russians were thinking of encouraging Balkan immigration . But it would be a last resort ? even more so than an American loan ; a minimum prerequisite would be complete control by Russia of the Balkan countries from which the immigrants are to come . V r-ruE Soviet Union is thus faced with a I decision between two alternatives . Shall she maintain the absolute autarchy of a police state , at the risk of endangering her industrial expansion , or shall she attain her industrial goals at the price of considerable dependence on the outside , capitalist world ? Which alternative ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choose , only a fool would dare predict . The decision will depend on economic and political pressures inside the country , and on Russia 's estimates of the chances for world peace during the next decade . And then there is the big question mark of the eventual succession to Stalin and of the policies of his successor . Nevertheless the main effects of Russia 's economic problems on her foreign policy are reasonably clear . In the first place , an analysis of Russian economics strongly supports the argument ? developed for instance by John Fischer in a recent issue of this magazine ? that Russia 's overriding interest in the period ahead must be the maintenance of world peace . The next few years will be a very critical period indeed ? as critical almost as that after the last war or as the years of the first Five-Year Plan . Russia 's economic program will absorb every ounce of her resources . She can hope to reach her economic goals only if she is allowed to work in peace . And to play an aggressive role in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It may not even be too far-fetched to explain Russia 's uncompromising attitude in recent international negotiations , particularly where they touched upon her zone of influence in eastern Europe , as reflecting a consciousness of this economic weakness rather than of strength . At the same time , however , the publication of the new Five-Year Plan at this moment , and the comments with which it has been introduced , show clearly that Russia 's basic trend in economic policy will continue in the direction of autarchy and industrial self-sufficiency not only for herself but for the countries in her zone of influence as well . Moves in the other direction would be concessions to the needs of the moment rather than signs of a permanent change in fundamentals . It is very possible that Russia will be a large buyer of American goods in the next few years ; but if so , the long-range objective of these purchases will be to make Russia again independent of foreign supplies . The biggest concession would be the opening of the country to immigration , and this is unlikely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immigrants are to come , that is the Balkans . In short , the indications are that she will combine with a concern for world peace an insistence on going her own way , dependent upon nobody else , keeping herself to herself , and so far as possible bending her immediate neighbors to her will .                     