@@487508

REPORTS FROM WASHINGTON SUGGEST THAT the President 's budget message will include a recommendation for repeal of some or all of the war-time excise levies . These taxes are universally unpopular , and their abolition , with the possible exception of those on definite luxury items such as the more expensive types of jewelry , is long overdue . Most of them ? were imposed during the war to inhibit certain kinds of non-essential consumption and so free resources for war production , rather than for the sake of revenue . There was then justification for a 15 per cent tax to check travel and the use of communication facilities . A case could even be made for discouraging purchases of leather goods and cosmetics , although the incidence of taxation on these articles fell over heavily on women who could reasonably claim that handbags and lipsticks had become necessities . But such levies , which are definitely regressive in that they burden small incomes more than large ones , have no place in our permanent tax system , and we hope Congress will do away with them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's reported view that repeal of the excises should be accompanied by additions to other taxes large enough to make up for the loss of revenue . Under any circumstances another unbalanced budget is in prospect , thanks to what Senator Paul Douglas has called " the warfare state . " But in view of the danger of renewed inflation , it should be the aim of both the Administration and Congress to keep the deficit as small as possible . This objective is not inconsistent with the President 's apparent and proper determination to maintain , and even enlarge , the social services . It can be achieved , in our opinion , by stiffening taxes on profits and the larger incomes , thus reversing the course so recklessly pursued by the Eightieth Congress , and by cutting out administrative waste . THE IMPLACABILITY OF THE REUTHERS ' would-be assassin indicates either a maniac or a shrewd criminal giving a good imitation of one . It is fantastic to believe that a mere anti-unionist or Communist , no matter how fanatical , would make three atrocious assaults of the sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April , 1948 , Walter Reuther , president of the union , was shot at close range through the window of his home . He lost the use of his right arm and very nearly his life . Thirteen months later his brother Victor was shot in almost identical circumstances . He lost an eye and came even closer to being killed . Last week enough dynamite was planted in the U. A. W. 's Detroit headquarters to blow up the building and was discovered only six minutes before it would have gone off . The Reuthers know of no one whose personal enmity would carry him to such a pitch of determined violence , but there are reports , not much discussed in the press , that before Walter Reuther took the helm of his union , the numbers game flourished in the automobile plants , while management and the left-wingers , then in control of the U. A. W. , looked the other way , to say the least . The breaking up of this flourishing racket may have made the Reuthers the target of gamblers suddenly deprived of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the FBI has now stepped in , though it may have been quietly at work on the case ever since the United States Senate asked it to take action at the time Victor Reuther was shot . With the evidence available  --  a discarded shotgun and now the dynamite  --  it should be possible for the federal agents , the Michigan state police , and local detectives to lift the intolerable menace that has hung over the union and its officers for the past nineteen months . IN GLARING CONTRAST TO THE APPARENT hesitancy of the FBI in the Reuther case has been that agency 's shocking over-zealousness in the affair of Judith Coplon . Indeed , its disregard of the law in the matter of wire-tapping may lose the government its case against Miss Coplon and Valentin A. Gubitchev , now under indictment for conspiracy and espionage . The merits of the case have nothing to do with the established fact that government agents grossly violated the law in their efforts to obtain evidence . By their own admission they tapped the telephone wires in Miss Coplon 's Washington apartment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in her parents ' home in Brooklyn , and in Gubitchev 's home . They planted a microphone in her office , intercepted her mail , and according to Archibald Palmer , her attorney , even eavesdropped on telephone conversations between him and his client . Judge Sylvester Ryan , unlike Judge Reeves , who refused to take cognizance of wire-tapping in the first Coplon trial , considers it a serious matter . The Supreme Court has clearly ruled 634 The NATION that evidence obtained in this way can not be used in Federal courts . Judge Ryan , conscientiously postponing the trial to permit defense counsel to question all the FBI men involved , has indicated that the charges will be dismissed unless the government can prove that its evidence does not originate in " the tainted source " of intercepted communications . This " dirty business , " as Justice Holmes called it , is a federal offense , punishable by two years in prison and a $10,000 fine . There is less danger to the country in a Coplon untried than in a Justice Department which considers itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES IN 1948 Counterattack , a newsletter published by former FBI agents and others , attacked Frederic March and his wife Florence Eldridge as Communists . After the last reference , Mr. March and Miss Eldridge brought suit for libel , Last week , after twenty-one months of legal skirmishing which terminated in an out-of-court agreement , and after the accusation had been widely repeated in the general press , Counterattack printed a complete retraction . So the wheel swings full cirde , and one fortunate couple , with the means to force a legal showdown , have at last sliced off a lie at the root . But have they killed the lie ? The day before Counterattack 's retraction appeared , the national press was giving wide circulation to the testimony of ex-G-man John J. Huber before the Senate Judiciary Committee , in which Frederic March was once again smeared . Huber 's statement is privileged , since it was delivered in a Congressional hearing . He can not be sued nor can Mr. March force the committee to allow him to prove Huber a liar . IF THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a conference in London , is to become a really effective force , it will have to develop methods for implementing its program . Participating organizations included both the A. F. of L. and the C. I. 0 . , Socialist trade unions of Europe and Asia , Catholic trade unions , organizations of colonial workers , and exiled labor leaders from Russian-dominated countries , Spain , and Latin America . A manifesto which emphasized that political and economic freedom were inseparable invited workers everywhere to unite " to achieve a world in which men can be both free and secure and in which the peoples of all nations may live in peace with one another . " More specifically the confederation set forth its demands for improvement in workers ' standards and called for support of the European Recovery Program , unification of Western Europe , the quick conclusion of peace treaties , help for peoples who do not now enjoy political freedom , technical aid to underdeveloped countries , a universal system December 31 , 1949 of atomic control , voluntary migration of workers from overpopulated countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the A. F. of L. to the free-enterprise system doomed a number of Belgian amendments to the constitution designed to give it some faint Socialist color . Not only were references t ' a classless society and to participation of workers in the control of industry eliminated , but suggestions of the need for international economic planning were also toned down . The potential power of the confederation is enormous , but if it is to present a real challenge to the Communist World Federation of Trade Unions , it will have to offer forthright leadership even at the risk of clashes within its heterogeneous membership . JUDGE CHARLES P. HUTCHINSON OF NEW Jersey 's Mercer County Court is so concerned about " professional ethics " that he has denied the right to choose their lawyers to three defendants who will soon , for the second time , be tried for their lives before him . He has withdrawn from 0 . John Rogge and two New York colleagues of the left-wing Civil Rights Congress the permission to argue in behalf of three of the six Negroes to whom the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the murder of a Trenton second-hand-furniture dealer . Apparently , the attorneys have fought too vigorously to extricate their clients from what they are convinced is " a crude frame-up . " Since the end of the first trial they have , according to judge Hutchinson , engaged in such violations of . . . . professional ethics " as addressing mass meetings , offering a reward for information leading to the arrest of " the real murderer , " and referring to the proceedings as a " Northern Scottsboro case " and " an outrage . " Furthermore , Judge Hutchinson objects to the fund-raising activities of the Civil Rights Congress , an organization that has also supported the convicted Communist leaders . It so happens , however , that it is perfectly proper for lawyers , in their clients ' interest , to express their opinion on the conduct of a terminated proceeding ; in this case , by the way , Rogge joined the defense months after the first trial had ended . How the defendants finance their appeal is none of Judge Hutchinson 's business , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . If improprieties exist , that is a matter for separate investigation by the state , without bearing on the facts of a murder trial . Judge Hutchinson 's only real function is to conduct the trial in an orderly and just fashion ; what he has done in effect is rule the defense attorneys in contempt of court in advance  --  a novel procedure . His judgment in the first trial was found " tainted with error " by the State Supreme Court ; his recent ruling has done little to restore his standing in the eyes of the community . ( 35 SPAIN ENDED THE YEAR WITH A MASQUERADE , assembling its " Parliament " to approve the budget for 1950 . Chosen according to a procedure which in effect disfranchises every Spaniard who opposes Franco , that is to say 90 per cent of the population , one of the chief prerogatives of the Cortes is silence . Members may not speak ; they merely vote . They are of course expected to vote " yes " ; once by an inexplicable error they voted " no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decision . Naturally the Cortes unanimously approved the budget , which totals about 18,000,000,000 pesetas with a prospective deficit of about 200,000,000 . This , however , is the " book deficit " ; in reality the deficit is many times greater , as is normal under a regime in total bankruptcy . A look at the budget itself is illuminating ? 31.8 per cent for the armed forces , exclusive of the police ; 19 per cent for the Ministry of Government , in charge of repression ; less than 1 per cent for the Ministry of Agriculture  --  this in a country where agriculture is the chief source of wealth . Nothing for the widely proclaimed national campaign against tuberculosis , although the tuberculosis rate in Franco Spain , a result of hunger , is the highest in Europe . Such is the government that some of our legislators and military men want to finance at the expense of the American taxpayers . Even an authority on foreign affairs like Senator Vandenberg , in his first public appearance after his illness , favored sending an ambassador to Madrid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December 22 , this can not be done without playing " into the hands of Communist fifth columns in every country of the world " and giving Franco 's regime " the greatest moral victory  --  perhaps the only moral victory  --  to have been gained since the war ended . " Pageants , Fast and West BY FREDA KIRCHWEY T HE year 's end belonged to two men ? Stalin and the Pope . One used his own birthday , the other the birthday of Jesus , as an excuse to dramatize the immense monolith of power each heads and symbolizes . Both claim the devotion of millions of followers , a devotion based on faith and arising in large measure from the craving for a better life  --  here or hereafter . But while the splendor and opulence of the pageant in St. Peter 's had a dignity only tradition could supply , it surely was no closer in spirit to the humble faith taught by the carpenter from Galilee than were the bombast and hero-worship of Moscow 's more garish celebration to the impersonal austerity of Marx and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rallying of the faithful , and a gesture of defiance to enemies and unbelievers . Both were political acts , above all else . 636 This is not to say that the emotions which flowed out in homage to Stalin and Pius XII were synthetic . It was because these emotions were real that the demonstrations had political significance . They proved that the cool and ambitious minds in the Kremlin and the Vatican have at their disposal , in pursuit of their contrary aims , an immense body of unquestioning support in every part of the world . Strictly speaking , this needed no proof , but both headquarters understand that the essence of successful promotion is to raise loyalty to the pitch of ardor and then to magnify it until it takes on the look of invincibility . Foolish outsiders may have laughed at the picture of Stalin 's bust suspended in midair over the Kremlin or grown indignant over the medieval spectacle staged at Rome . Wiser men paid more attention to the purposes behind the apotheosis of Stalin and the Pope 's lavish initiation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public-relations officers in Rome and Moscow trying to put over ? Surely Stalin was showing the world that the satellite states are still solidly with Russia , no matter what cracks have appeared here and there in the front . At the same time he was telling the satellites that they could not afford to be anywhere else , no matter what Tito-like ambitions may have infected the minds of certain leaders . And he was telling Mao Tse-tung in particular that only as part of the Soviet coalition could the Chinese revolution hope to survive the struggle for power between Moscow and Washington . In addition , by a process doubtless regarded in Communist circles as dialectical rather than paradoxical , the birthday triumph was used as an occasion to warn of coming purges , not only in neighboring states but in Russia too . While the main stream of editorializing and oratory was naturally turned against Tito , who has betrayed the faith doubly by surviving , for the time at least , the verdict of Soviet justice , Georgi M. Malenlcov commented ominously on the " complacent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while further drastic action against " deviationists " was promised by satellite representatives . I F-EVER the fate of the heretic should overtake Mao Tse-tung , it was not forecast at the Moscow celebration . The Chinese revolutionary leader was the outstanding figure among all the foreign guests . His reception clearly revealed the Kremlin 's firm purpose to attach Communist China to the Eastern bloc ( just as Washington 's all-out welcome of Nehru showed a determination to keep him out of Moscow 's dutches ) . Mao , on his part , hailed Stalin as " teacher and friend of the Chinese people " and reported that his people " always deeply felt the importance of the friendship of Stalin . " These are warm words If not obsequious ones . It would be nonsense to read into them any hidden reservations . The NATION One thing is sure . In the present state of China 's relations with the West , Mao is bound to proclaim his allegiance to Moscow . To do otherwise , even assuming he wished to , would be impossible . Nor can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intentions in China , whatever sources of potential conflict exist , Moscow at least has not supplied money and arms and bombing planes to Chiang . For Russia the Chinese revolution is today a source of incalculable prestige , a powerful and convincing offset to the retreat of Communist strength in the West . Moscow did little positively to help the revolution ; indeed , Stalin is said to have tried in 1947 to halt its progress on the ostensible ground that the Communist drive complicated his already difficult relations with the West . Whether this tale is true or not , there is good reason to doubt Russia 's capacity to hold on short leash the mighty force loosed in China . Whether it will accept this view and permit the Asian revolution to take its own course , or will try to control it from Moscow no one would dare predict . Perhaps Tito has taught Stalin a lesson . But if this is so , it will mean a revolution in Kremlin and Cominform policy  --  and a new hope for the world . If not , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow , even if they lead to a treaty of friendship , will signify no more than similar amenities in the past . For it can not be imagined that Communist China , in the full flush of its revolutionary triumph , victor in a civil war directed by its own leadership and won by its own armies will accept the sort of tutelage that is exercised by Moscow over all the Cominform states . QTALIN 'S spokesmen and the Pope alike talked of " peace . Their ideas about it differ . The Vatican called for a Christian rally aginst the forces of " militant atheism , " and warned the people of the world not to barter their immortal souls for illusory earthly gains . Moscow announced several annual peace prizes , amounting to some $20,000 each , to be awarded to citizens of any nation for outstanding service in the struggle against war and warmongers . But peace will not come from Vatican-directed rallies or Stalin prizes . More hope lies in Malenkov 's detailed exposition of Stalin 's thesis that communism and capitalism can coexist in amicable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come . If this signifies a readiness to discuss freshly the differences between Russia and the West , some action should be taken to indicate the change . For only concrete evidence can convince a doubting world that the rulers of either Russia or the West are prepared to put peace ahead of other major national interests . As for the Pope , his underlying purpose made itself manifest through his ill-timed invitation to other Christian denominations to " return " to the Holy See . This arrogant claim upon the loyalty of the non-Catholic world could not have been made at a less opportune moment . Protestants are no doubt disturbed over the threat to peace and most of them are fearful of Moscow 's intentions . But never within recent years were they more keenly aware of the encroachments of cleric .. 1 control upon Protestant and secular interests in every country . " Rome my Fatherland " is a slogan that sums up , as Pius XII himself put it , the concept of the " pc1- ennui authority of the Vicar of Christ . " By those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken es a challenge rather than a friendly invitation .                     