@@224700

Last week the Chinese High Command in bomb-scarred Chungking had grave new worries . Marshal Chiang Kai-shek 's troops have been getting most of their war supplies from the southwest over the Burma Road , from the southeast by night smuggling from Hong Kong-via Chinese junks and coolies ' carts-to the free sections of the Canton-Hankow railway . Last week the Japanese were slicing viciously at both supply lines . <P> Hitherto Japan 's attack on the smugglers has been mostly by bombing planes , largely impotent against the scattered traffic in the dark . But early one morning last week Japanese warships and transports steamed out of the mist into Bias Bay , 40 miles north of Hong Kong , landed a force reported at more than 10,000 which promptly began moving inland , covered by bombers , across the smuggling country . Soon they threatened Wai-chow , an important smuggling station , and no strong Chinese opposition arrived . <P> Chungking admitted last week that transportation on the Burma Road had been seriously disrupted . Shanghai reports said that Burma Road bridges across the winding Mekong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as wreckage downstream . Months ago Chinese anti-aircraft guns were foolishly placed high on the rim of the Mekong gorges . Japanese bomber pilots soon learned to swoop below the gun level , bombed the deep-gorge bridges with relative impunity . Later the guns were lowered . Last week it was said that along the Road supply trucks were jammed up by the hundreds-fine bombing targets - waiting for flimsy wooden ferries often unable to float a single truckload . <P> Threatened with the loss of the Burma Road , Chungking talked of leaning more heavily on the long-way-round supply line that helped greatly when Britain closed the Burma Road last year-the 3,100-mile rail and caravan route from Vladivostok to Chita and Lanchow . But last week Soviet Russia and Japan sat down to negotiate a trade treaty-which might lead to the long-prophesied non-aggression pact and the closing of Vladivostok to supplies for China .                     