@@494172

I Saw France Fail Many articles and books have been published giving the reasons for the French collapse ? so many that additional discussion seems unnecessary unless the author has exceptional sources of information . Mr. C. Bertrand Thompson , who wrote the subjoined article , is in that position . For twenty years he has known France and French industry widely and well . in the Great War , he was consultant management engineer for the French Munitions Ministry . He lived and worked in France from then on and at the begin-fling of the present war he was asked to train as rapidly as possible a large number of experts in industrial organization . They were urgently needed ( as they will be here also ) for vital war industry . This took him at once to the heart of the manufacture of airplane motors and accessories and to close contact with the Air Ministry , industrial leaders and workers . ? THE EDITORS I N SOME RESPECTS the French democracy was more like our own than any other . Some of its weaknesses revealed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under similar circumstances , as they have in England . They have deadly potentialities in all modern states , some of which have corrected them , at least temporarily , by suppressing democracy . That is not the American way . The recent history of France enforces on us the necessity of finding our own way , for the industrial debacle there is closely connected with rampant abuse of democracy . In the last ten years French politics has followed two main tendencies . On the one side , the radicals and Socialists with a Communist fringe , represented principally by Blum and Daladier . On the other side , the conservatives with a fascist fringe , represented by Laval and Flandin . Both groups wanted votes . Forthe Left group this meant ( as in England ) disarmament , and at the same time baiting the dictators . For the Right , it also meant disarmament ( again as in England ) , but at the same time soft-pedaling the opposition to Hitler and Mussolini . Thus there was virtually unanimity on disarmament until the War clouds became too threatening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start . In 1936 , when M. Marcel Deat , journalist , became Air Minister , the government was somewhat war-conscious ; but the conflict between war consciousness and disarmament produced a curious compromise . Large-scale production of civilian planes was stopped and the policy of prototypes introduced . The proto type is a plane designed in detail and manufactured in very small quantities for experimental purposes . If the model were adopted , provision would be made , at least theoretically , for possible production on a large scale . This policy was meant to ensure constant improvement in design and preparation , without expenditure for actual production . When , six months later , M. Pierre Cot took over , this policy was continued through the critical years 1937 and 1938 . M. Guy La Chambre , Cot 's successor , stayed in the same rut , despite many urgent warnings ' The heaviest responsibility in this matter is M. Two factors seemed to have determined his pat " ' On the political side , M. Cot was an ardent believer in the solidity of the Russian alliance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he accepted the judgment of General Gamelin , who had no faith planes or tanks and who obtained the diversion to heavy armament of huge sums meant for the air force , Gamelin 's error is now so evident that one won ; ders why the supreme command was ever entrusted DECEMBER 9 , 1 9 4 0 to him . When the question of military preparation became acute , there were three possible leaders . The only real choice was General Weygand , but he was anathema to the Leftist majority . Next was General George , who was supported by the Right but had no chance with the Left . Daladier picked and imposed the innocuous Gamelin . We come now to the social aspect of the problem . To most people this suggests Blum and the Popular Front , the forty-hour week and class war . All of this ? like most standardized thinking about the French ? is based on misapprehensions . In 1936 , the number of unemployed was exceptionally high for France . The forty-hour week was imposed with the idea of spreading work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diminution of production . In the majority of plants , badly organized and equipped , output was decreased , or the law evaded . The policy was imposed brusquely , with no gradual adjustment . Emphasis was laid on the increase of leisure time . Everyone was encouraged to work as few hours as possible . Strenuous efforts to recover from this false position came too late . There was , of course , Widespread class hostility . But it should not be charged to Blum . The historical basis lay in the hatred of oppression from which the French People have suffered so deeply before and since the Revolution . Corrupt politicians bred distrust of the governing classes . The pennywise capitalist policy killed respect for business leadership . The tyranny of sruall business and executives brought violent reaction . Prostitution of press and government completed the general disgust . The mild social reforms of 1936 came too late . There was much apparent communism among the workers and soldiers . But it was essentially a violent Protest against the abuses of democracy . The FrenchInan , whether worker or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a profound distrust of his civil and military leaders . In the army there was little disaffection before the enemy , but a general lukewarmness behind the front . In industry the consequences were more evident and more disastrous . There was apathy practically everywhere because of distrust of the government . The sequence of order , counter-order , disorder , was visible each day . The toleration of fifth-column activities in the press , in business , and even among the lower army officers was well known . The government shut its eyes to many manifestations of communism up until the beginning of this year . In ? rIe nationalized airplane factory , a necessary and sufficient condition for employment was that the applicant a Communist . The workman who suffered from this sabotage had little incentive not to practise it himself . He saw successive Cabinets made up by the reshuffling of the same ncompetents , men who used their high office solely ' 783 for self-profit . He saw private manufacturers fighting the state manufactures by manipulation of priorities , arbitrary rejection of products and interference in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air motor manufacturers . No. i was a famous , well organized concern in the hands of a family of technicians . No. 2 was a progressive affair directed by able men , not overscrupulous , and among their objectives was the acquisition of No. 3 , a decrepit affair which had been nationalized in 1936 . No. 2 decided to demonstrate that a state concern could not produce until returned to private ownership . A director in No. 3 soon noticed that their requisitions for materials were sidetracked and indefinitely delayed . Their better personnel was sent to the army or to other plants . Their normal work was interfered with daily by unnecessary investigating and control commissions . Their assembly foreman was rejecting perfectly good pieces as not good enough for him . The assistant to the new director was sabotaging all efforts to improve the situation ; and when advised to resign before being discharged , answered : " My connections are such that you can not get me out of here . " Several commissions denounced his activities , but the denunciatory paragraphs dropped out before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this ? The Air Minister himself ( now also under arrest at Vichy ) was counsel for Company No. 2 . In the Air Ministry there had been for some time at the head of the technical and manufacturing department a well known scientist and experienced administrator , M ; Albert Caquot . For years , M. Caquot had proposed the decentralization of airplane and motor plants . He had prepared and surveyed plans of the innumerable quarries which are found throughout the southwest and had advocated the extension of power lines and rail sidings to them . This advice was consistently rejected and at the beginning of this year M. Caquot was replaced by a military officer who began by filling his department with relatives and business friends . It is not surprising that under these circumstances , the eloquent appeals to increase production had no effect , especially when accompanied by numerous contradictory orders . A twelve-hour day and seven-day week were ordered and countermanded . Paris was ordered evacuated , and the next day all workmen were instructed to remain . A day later all civilians were told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to evacuate ? by which time the government itself had left and everyone was free to do as he pleased . The import of all this was not lost on the workers , and when decentralization and evacuation were finally forced by the German invasion it required nothing short of dictatorship under Main to stop revolution . Last but not least in this sad catalogue of causes must be placed governmental and private incompe- 784 tence . We have already mentioned the policies of appeasement , of reliance on Russia , and of the limitation of production to prototypes . Add to this an extreme slowness in the design of planes ; the refusal of even reasonable standardization ; lack of planning and coordination , with resulting bottlenecks ; conflicts of priorities between the Air and the Munitions ministries ; inability of motor production to keep up with plane production ; insufficiency of foundries , machine tools and other indispensable accessories . The worst bottlenecks were due to the failure of the motor manufacturers , making a very- complicated and delicate product , to keep up with plane production , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of foundries and forges . There was an interval of eighteen months between the placing of an order for motors and the final testing of the first completed batch . Each plane required from one to four motors , and planes can be comparatively rapidly produced ? even in spite of incessant " improvements " ordered during production . And finally the generally low level of competence among the manufacturers themselves . France had few modern plants compared with other countries ; most of the factories were small , often family affairs , THE NEW REPUBLIC passed down to timid offspring , old-fashioned in ideas and parsimonious . Some of the more progressive attempted in the last ten years to do something in the way of modernization ; but many fell prey to the horde of charlatans who had invaded the profession of industrial consultants and organization engineers , and had nothing more to show for their effort than a complete mistrust of all modern ideas . And even in the best of the large concerns there was a play of " internal politics , " which appealed to outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite well known and led inevitably to collapse of discipline . In short , France fell a victim to all the political and industrial evils which can flourish in a democracy unless and until they are checked by a general patriotism based on confidence in a government of justice and fair play , equal opportunity , genuine interest in individual welfare , competence and honesty . France went the way that England would have gone but for the grace of God and the character of her people ? the way it is hoped we ourselves may yet escape . But we shall escape it only by untiring vigilance and by learning from the experience of an unfortunate and great people , once as proud and as democratic as ourselves . 