@@485671

Since the early 1970s , businessmen in the United States have become persuaded , that ideas have political consequences . A number of neoconservative intellectuals have helped convince , many corporate executives that the future of American capitalism is dependent on the attitudes and beliefs of a " new class " of upper- , middle-class professionals . As a result , corporate executives are now engaged in an unprecedented , effort to influence the social values of the nation 's highly educated citizenry . Businessmen have been haunted by the lack of public confidence in ' their leadership ever since public opinion polls began to report a decline in public approval of " Big Business " during the mid-1960s . Believing that elected officials care only about , pandering to the public 's whim , they ' found the substantial legislative gains of the consumer and environmental movements during the late 1960s and early 1970s , very puzzling . The performance of the economy during the second half of the 1960s was , if anything , superior to that of most of the postwar period . So why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public policies critical of business ? Inspired in part by the rhetoric of Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew , most corporate execu-tives initially blamed this lack of public support on the liberal biases ' of two institutions : the media and the universities . At a series of private conferences of corporate chief executive officers that I attended in 1974 and 1975 , , all but a hand-ful of the participants were firmly convinced that public disapproval of their performance was based on nothing more than misunderstanding . ( Continued ' on Page , 625 ) the strong endorsement of the Roundtable is promoting the teaching of economics from kindergarten on up . The Roundtable has also urged member firms to make greater use of the press , meet informally with journalists and news commentators , and advertise their political , program more extensively among their own employees , stockholders and communities . Among its other efforts to promote pro-business sentiment , the Roundtable sponsored a series of articles on the virtues of free enterprise and high worker productivity and the evils of inflation that ran first in the Reader 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bulk rate for distribution to workers . The Roundtable has also extensively promoted capital formation as a national issue : It has criticized government policies that it maintains hold down the rate of savings and investment . It has strongly backed tax bills which , like President Carter 's recent bill , reduced corporate taxes . Hailing the Carter tax measure that passed last year , the chairman of the Roundtable 's Taxation Task Force , G.E . ' s Reginald Jones , observed that " considering the untidy nature of the democratic process , and the need to respond to the legitimate interests of so many different constituencies in our society , the Congress managed to produce an improved Federal tax structure . " Jones added that " now it is important that we maintain the momentum in the next Congress , with emphasis on further reductions in corporate tax rates , measures to overcome the effects of underdepreciation , a solution to the double taxation of dividends , and retention  --  indeed expansion  --  of the tax provisions that help keep this country competitive in the battle for exports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of investment tax credits , the delay in proposed abolition of foreign tax credits and the recently introduced bills sharply accelerating industrial plant depreciation schedules indicate that the Roundtable is till busy . Not all Roundtable initiatives have been as successful . In the mid-1970s , a proposed merger of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the NatiOnal Association of Manufacturers , which the Roundtable had supported , fell through . As stories of the Roundtable 's involvement in the merger negotiations leaked to the press , smaller firms in the other two organiza , tions complained of big-firm domination ' and strongly resisted the move . And within the Roundtable itself , plenty of divisions exist . The December 1973 announcement of the formation of an Energy Users Task Force and a correlate , but deliberately distinct , Energy Suppliers Consulting Group hinted at a split between member firms that later oil price rises have exacerbated . ( Indeed , at least one oil company refused for a time even to join the Roundtable . ) Though the Roundtable has thus far managed to preserve a united front in public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , notably G.E. , is rising . Such tensions are sure to be compounded as the enormous cash flows of the oil companies lead to a sharp increase in their bids to take over other firms . Foreign policy and international trade are also areas in which substantial disagreements exist among member firms . Managing the conflicts within a business community bitterly divided between free traders and protectionists poses a continuing , probably insuperable problem . In a decade marked by extensive business organization around the issue of international trade , the Roundtable has only intermittently had a task force on the subject . It endorsed the recent Multilateral Trade Negotiation ( " Tokyo Round " ) agreement , but so many ancillary understandings concerning import limitations for specific industries were attached to that package that almost no one opposed it in its final form . The Roundtable has formulated no major public statement on such other divisive issues as trade with the Communist economic bloc and China or national ' defense spending . Nor will mounting interest rates ease the tensions between manufacturers and the banks that have traditionally loaned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Roundtable , most of whose members are manufacturers , although for some of them alternative financing schemes presented by the Eurodollar and other financial markets may cushion the impact of tight money in the United States . Whatever the extent and ultimate impact of these internal divisions , the Roundtable represents an extraordinary consolidation of corporate political power . Big Business is now capable of a degree of coordinated , disciplined intervention and guidance of policy outcomes inside the Congress that it had previously exercised only within the institutions of executive authority . This enhanced centralized power of Big Business has accrued at the direct expense of labor , which has thus far been unable to develop a comparably unified political program . As divisions within a weakened labor movement proliferate , the politics of clientelism flourish . After a decade of defeat for the trade union movement , Lane Kirkland and other " enlightened " labor statesmen are now negotiating with key Roundtable figures for a separate peace . With this , final twist , the New Deal comes full circle . In the late 1970s , as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the populace can not imagine it otherwise . , ' ? ew Class ' ( Continued From Front Cover ) They expo essed confluence that if those responsible for shaping the public 's perception of business were accurately informed about the benefits of a market economy , the demand for increased regulation would end . It would be difficult to . exaggerate the business community 's hostility to journalists and college professors . One executive described the press as " destructive and misinformed , " while another bemoaned the " anti-establishment bias of a large portion of our education faculties . " teaches David Vogel ae at the School of Business Administration at the University of California at Berkeley . His most recent book is Lobbying the Corporation : Citizen Challenges to Business Authority ( Basic Books ) . ' 626 The Nation . December 15 , 1979 It is in the context of the frustration of businessmen over " , their inability to communicate their virtues to the American people that the conservative intelligentsia offered their contribution . While most executives had attributed the steady growth of goVernment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bethal , Herman Kahn , Michael Novak and , most notably , Irving Kristol proposed a more sophisticated  --  and sinister  --  explanation . They ar ? gued that reporters and academics were neither misinformed nor misguided . On the contrary , they were engaged in a highly self-conscious effort to undermine the freedoms of the private sector : Nor were the problems of business con ' fined to only two institutions . Rather , the individuals who controlled the media and higher education were part of a broader network of prCifessionals who also dominated most ' foundations , research institutes and , most important , the regulatory bureaucracy . hat did all these highly educated people have in common ? They were the vanghard of a " new class " committed to replace marketplace freedoms with government controls in order to increase their own power in the society . This new class was roughly similar to the new , working class or technostructure that writers such as Michael Harrington and Kenneth Galbraith had earlier identified as the potential locus of opposition to corporate priorities . But while those on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were progressive , the right accused them of elitism : by supporting additional public controls over business , the " new class " threatened the continued ability of the American corporation to satisfy the economic desires of the " masses of ordinary Americans . " - Notwithstanding the modest merits of this analysis , it became quite popular among businessmen . Kristol and Kahn made frequent appearances at business conferences and management seminars , while Novak 's pamphlet , The American Vision , received wide circulation within the business community . Within a few years ; the perfidies of " the new class " ( or , the " neofascists , " as Kahn labeled them ) were as familiar to many executives as their corporate balance sheets . Not since Herbert Spencer propounded the , principles of Social Darwinism at Delmonico 's in the late 1800s had American corporate executives proved so receptive to a new social theory . The popularity of the new-class doctrine among businessmen is easily explained . It reassured business executives that their interests and those of the public were indeed identical : whatever tensions had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of an elitist minority . The new class thus represented a perfect substitute for the " Communist conspiracy , " which had served business so well during the two decades following World War II , but which had since fallen out of fashion due to renewed interest . , in East-West trade . Indeed , there are striking similarities between the institutions now said to be dominated by the new class and those which were formerly alleged to be the center of Communist Party influence . Now businesS once r again had a subversive " villain " against whom it could attempt to unify the American people  --  although this time its origins and interests were ekclusively domestic . - The theory of the new class also provided businessmen with a convincing explanation for what many had long suspected but had never quite managed to articulate , namely that those who criticized them were not well-meaning , though misguided , reformers concerned about ameliorating genuine abuses . Their most paranoid fears were confirmed : what was at stake in the battle over government regulation was nothing less than the control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the term " class " was a deliberate one . For the American business community , the battle over government regulation had begun to assume the dimensions " of a class struggle . The issue wa not so much that particular " ' government regulations , were cumbersome , expensive or even unnecessary . It is rather that their cumulative effect challenged managerial prerogatives in a fundamental way  --  in many respects comparable to the establishment of industrial trade unions during the 1930s . The idea of the new class also made sense to businessmen on a more personal level . It publicly exposed the pretensions of their critics , revealing them to be just as concerned with advancing , their own selfish material interests as they had always accused businessmen of being . Moreover , in spite of its intellectual origins , the theory appealed to the strain of anti-intellectualism that has traditionally characterized American business culture : what were the members of the new class if not those who lacked " practical " experience in the world of commerce ? And finally , notwithstanding the Jewish background of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-Semitism behind at least some of the receptivity of businessmen to this ideology . It is noteworthy that those parts of American society allegedly dominated by the new class , namely social science departments at major universities , the TV networks , the Eastern-based press and Hollywood , are also among the contemporary centers of . Jewish influence in the United States . Those who sought to awaken businessmen to the threat of the new class were not merely interested in influencing business thinking . Explicit in their analysis was also a series of recommendations for countering its power . In essence , they argued that it had now become imperative for the business community to start to take ideas , and those who created and disseminated them , seriously . Businessmen could no longer afford to write off the intelligentsia . Marx had simply got it backward : in the final analysis it was the superstructure  --  the realm of ideas  --  that determined the structure , the control over the means of Business was helpless to reduce the influence of the intelligentsia on public policy ; their control over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entrenched . What was required instead was that their influence be made benign . A significant " segment of the new class needed to be persuaded that a viable profit ' sector was not incompatible with their personal and social goals . Business had to meet their social Critics on the latter 's terms . They could no longer rely on their economic performance to maintain public loyalty . Rather , the ideas of their Critics had December , I5 , 1979 The Nation . ' 627 to be challenged ' directly . As Novak argued , " Corporate executives need a political strategy that step by step meets that of the new class . . . . They need td enlist university study ' groups and independent intellectual organizations of several sorts : ( 1 ) to set forth their own vision of the world , with its intellectual and moral underpinnings , and its own connections to what they are actually doing ; and ( 2 ) to rebut the opposing ideologies and accusations launched by the new class . " ? While it would be wrong to attribute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusively to the analysis and recommendations of conservative intellectuals , their impact has been important . For example , William Simon concludes his best-selling defense of corpcirate prerogatives , A Time for Truth , by citing Kristol 's writings on the new class in support of his plea for businessmen to cease subsidizing " collectivist ideals . " Writing in The Wall Street Journal , Kristol urged business to consult with intellectuals sympathetic to them before allocating funds for research . Shortly thereafter , an advisory committee was established to perform precisely this function  --  with Kristol as a member . Similarly , the Mobil Oil Corporation has allocated funds to the Hudson Institute in order to sponsor a series of position papers on various pUblic policy issues  --  which would in turn be circulated to influential opinion leaders  --  while the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation has subsidized a series of books on the American economy that was published by New York University Press . In fact , there have been two amply funded studies of the new-class theory , itself . One , edited by B. Bruce-Briggs , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Class ? ; another more extensive study , based in part on in-depth interviews , will be forthcoming from Kahn at the Hudson Institute . Both were funded by the Scaife Family Foundation . The most visible dimension of the corporate ideological counteroffensive is the growth of advocacy advertising . These are ads designed not to sell products or influence the public image of a company ( " institutional advertising " ) but rather to persuade the public of the merits of a particular political perspective . Corporations spent approximately $100 million on advocacy advertising in 1975 , and $140 million in 1976 ; all estimates point to a steady expansion of expenditures in subsequent years. , The most active corpora- tion , Mobil , spent $5 million in 1975 ? the last year for which figures are available  --  more than three times its 1973 , total . While more ' than thirty-five corporations and trade associations have launched public-advocacy campaigns , energy and utility companies are most active . The latter , along with their respective trade associations , have been devoting approximately half of their advertising budget to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now spending about one-third of their advertising dollars on campaigns aimed at the public in their roles as . , citizens rather than consumers . ' These advertisements enable corporations to bypass what they regard as the liberal biases of the media 's news coverage and editorializing . Unlike the campaigns to sell " free enterprise " that business sponsored in the 1950s , contemporary advocacy advertising appears to be particularly aimed at influencing the thinking of the highly educated , i.e. , the new class . Mobil 's regular purchase of space on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times is the most obvious example of this effort  --  particularly since the page is carefully read by editors of newspapers throughout the United States . Many politically oriented corporate advertisements are now specifically directed at audiences who hold relatively critical views of business  --  as any reader of The New York Review of Books , The New Republic , Dissent or The Nation can attest . Corporate sponsorship of public television programming , as well as various cultural events , is also aimed at roughly this same audience . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other key new-class institution , the university . A growing number of business spokesmen , including David Packard and William Simon , have begun urging corporations to politicize their contributions to higher education . Rather than making grants to private universities on the basis of their academic reputations , corporations should be more discriminating , they say . Instead of subsidizing their intellectual and political adversaries , they should provide funds only to those schools , departments , institutes or faculties that are sympathetic to the free enterprise system . The wisdom of this approach remains a source of controversy within the business community  --  a recent issue of the Harvard Business Review featured a debate on precisely this issue  --  but a 1979 survey of the attitudes of leading corporate executives toward higher education reported that more than three-quarters of the executives believed that the social sciences are " so slanted on the liberal side as to seriously impair the future objectivity and judgment of college graduates . " Nearly one-third felt that restricting corporate giving to " only those universities and departments , which give equal weight to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost 90 percent want executives to work harder , " to get the business community 's side of the story across to academics and students . " 0 ver the last few years , about thirty-five endowed Chairs of Free Enterprise have been funded by various corporations at a wide variety of univer , sities , including Cornell , Columbia and the University of Wisconsin . The purpose of these chairs , according to Management Today , is " to counter-attack the lamentable public standing of business . " As the vice president for advertising and public relations at LTV Corporation noted , " Enormous influence is wielded by professors , and 1 think business has dropped the ball for a long time , in not maintaining close relationships with campuses . " In addition to establishing chairs , corporations have engaged in a variety of other efforts , to counteract what the head of a Texas-based educational consulting firm clescribes as " the virtual monopoly that antibusiness people have had on campus for thirty years . " These include executive-in-residence programs , faculty-business forums , contests for students , company-designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One hundred and fifty of the latter have been established in twenty states . In 1978 , the Council for Financial Aid to Education reported the existence of about 100 programs linking corporations and colleges . That same year , the Association of Private Enterprise Education was established in order to " encourage the creation of private enterprise education programs in colleges and universities . " In a more subtle effort , a number of businessmen , assisted by various academics , are attempting to convince university officials and faculty that they have more in common with business than with government . Focusing on the enormous burden of complying with government regulations faced by both institutions , they are encouraging universities-to emphasize their identity as a private institution  --  which they share with business  --  over their nonprofit status  --  which they have in common with government . Two conferences have already been held on this subject , and earlier this year a book on government regulations of universities , entitled Bureaucrats and Brampower , was published by the Institute for Contemporary Studies . In his introduction , the president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . suffer a common problem in the growth of bureaucratic regulation . . . . This commonality of interest may be the most important insight to be drawn from this book . " Finally , as a direct response to the funding that public interest groups and various left-of-center scholars have re- . i ceived from liberal foundations and institutes  --  most notably the Ford Foundation and the Brookings Institu-tion  --  business has moved to fund their conservative counterparts . The old , established conservative institutes , such as the Hoover Institution and the American Institute for Public Policy Research , have grown dramatically since the mid-1970s ; the American Enterprise Institute currently has a staff of 125 and a budget of $7 million  --  equal to that of Brookings . Corporate grants have also fostered new institutes , including the Institute for Contemporary Studies , established in San Francisco in 1974 , , and the , International Institute for Economic Research in Los Angeles , which was created in 1975 . The volume and scope of their publications , which include newsletters , reports , magazines , books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journalists interested in public policy issues affecting business . In contrast to the traditional corporate propaganda in defense of free enterprise , which emphasizes the virtues of economic freedom in the abstract , much of the output of these institutes seeks to evaluate public policies affecting business in more pragmatic terms . Written almost exclusively by economists , their primary objective is to document the inadequacies and limitations of government regulation of business . While the quality of this output remains uneven , it is increasingly scholarly and sophisticated and has probably improved the level of public debate over the impact of government on the economy . Although these are clearly prosperous times for conservative intellectuals , it would be misleading to exaggerate the significance of these corporate subsidies . Business can not be ' held responsible for the recent conservative shift in the climate of intellectual opinion ; corporations have benefited from the shift in intellectual fashions , but they neither caused nor initiated them . The principal tenets of neoconservatism were formulated and articulated long before businessmen discovered the existence of the " new class " ; corporations have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their contemporary influence less to business subsidy of ' their research than to the increasingly apparent inadequacies of Keynesianism . Oh balance , conservative economists and neoconservative social scientists have helped business more than business has helped them . Just as the writings of left intellectuals during the late 1950s and early 1960s ultimately prepared the groundwork for the concrete political gains made by left-liberal forces during the late 1960s and early 1970s , so did neoconservative writers during the late 1960s and early 1970s prefigure the revival of the political fortunes of business that took place during the mid-1970s . In this sense , the new-class theorists are right : ideas do matter . It is businessmen who are na  --  ve in believing that they are simply another commodity to be bought and sold . ?                     