@@494186

Secretary Knox Reports The news from Pearl Harbor , as finally made public by Secretary Knox , is bad enough ; but it is far less serious than most Americans had believed . Only one important battleship , the Arizona , was sunk . The Oklahoma was capsized . The Utah , which was sunk , was not part of our fighting strength . Three destroyers and a mine-layer were sunk , and other ships were damaged to an extent requiring repairs that will take from a week to several months . But the bulk of the fleet is intact and is at this moment cruising the Pacific seeking an engagement with the enemy . Secretary Knox said nothing about losses of airplanes , which were undoubtedly heavy , except that the machines destroyed are being replaced . Japan lost three submarines and forty-one aircraft . For the United States , the attack on Pearl Harbor was a defeat but not an overwhelming disaster . The loss of life , however , was heavier than had at first been reported . The navy lost 2,729 killed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wounded and 26 missing . Civilian deaths were about fifty . Once the battle was joined , the Americans fought with great gallantry , but Secretary Knox himself admits that the defending forces were not on the alert and announces an immediate investigation . Final judgment should of course be suspended until that investigation has taken place . The whole conception of the power of airplanes against battleships throughout the world has undergone revision within the past twelve days . It is not too early , however , to say that some of the blame must lie with civilian government officials in Washington who , until the last minute , followed a policy of appeasement that made adequate war preparations much more difficult . Some of the blame , also , can be charged even this early against the authorities at Pearl Harbor . An American journalist with much war experience was in Hawaii only a few days before the war began . He was shocked to see orderly rows of airplanes drawn up on a flying field , and said so to the officers who accompanied him . When they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war begins , " the journalist 's comment was " Do you expect to get an engraved invitation to go to war some Tuesday night ? " Appeasing the Enemy One by one the puppet governments of Europe are declaring war upon the United States . Over two , which are fully cooperating with our enemies , the strings have not yet been jerked . The governments of Franco and Petain have not yet been made to declare war , a fact which should make us excessively alert Vichy France has openly sided with Japan and obeyed her orders in Indo-China , despite the strongly democratic convictions of the 40,000 Frenchmen in that colony . In Europe , Hitler clearly intends to seize Tunisia , to hold the British at the Mareth Line , to attack the weakened British navy with the French fleet , and to advance upon Dakar . If he succeeds there will be no major field of battle outside of Russia on which his armies may be met and beaten . By taking the Atlantic bases of Portugal , Spain and Vichy , he will place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Darlan and Petain have probably committed themselves in their recent conversations with the Nazis . We should at once seize Martinique , the Cape Verde Islands and the other bases of the Axis in the Atlantic . Is it conceivable that by dickering with Admiral Leahy , Petain will succeed in delaying our action until Hitler has struck ? Secretary Hull 's statement of December is , in which he expresses " confidence in the French people , " is alarming . The French people are not in control of their government . After its monumental lack of realism in dealing with Kurusu , is the State Department still beguiled by the phantom of appeasement ? Eire 's Naval Bases Recent naval losses have set every Allied strategist to thinking out means of compensating for Japan 's initial blows . It has been generally concluded that American naval units would be withdrawn from the Atlantic to restore the balance in the Pacific , so weakening the vital Allied line between our Eastern seaboard and Iceland and Great Britain . Mr. de Valera has been quick to see that such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irish naval bases : in his speech at Cork he deliberately jumped the gun by reaffirming Eire 's neutrality . Such an attitude is of the utmost gravity today . Eire is one of the few democracies withholding aid in the fight against Hitler . At the same time she is banking on her strategic position to ensure herself of Allied protection . When Mr. de Valera exhorts the men of Cork to be prepared , he is simply making gestures appropriate to his policy . Eire 's security depends , now as before , on Britain 's survival , which in turn depends upon safety in the Atlantic . By denying to the Allies the use of bases which would greatly increase the range and coOrdination of naval and air patrols , Eire is doing her part to cut the Atlantic lifeline and her own throat . Now is the time for American pressure to be used in backing de mands for Eire 's bases . Civilian Defense Needs a Head Though the Mayor of New York is a highly talented individual , his strong point has never'been an appreciation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is better than he at arousing people to action , and in that respect he has contributed much as the head of Civilian Defense . But as a well oiled organization Civilian Defense has been woefully deficient ; it has been almost totally lacking in orderly administration . The time has now come when Mr. LaGuardia 's combative energy is of little use in this endeavor ; he should be replaced by someone who can devote full time to it , and can provide the farsighted coordination needed . The Mayor will be doing well he can manage in his own city to prevent a repetition of the confusion attending the action of responsible agencies in the first air-raid alarms ; that confusion might be disastrous if the enemy really were in the clouds . Keeping the Balance In following the war news , the American public should be careful not to indulge in either excessive pessimism or optimism , unwarranted by the facts . In regard to HongKong and the Philippines , for example , it is well to remember that until a few weeks ago , few military experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time against a Japanese attack , and especially if the enemy were in control of the nearby mainlands . In the case of HongKong in particular , the defensive installations were largely intended to help the morale of the inhabitants and to prevent a surprise attack that would result in the immediate fall of the city . Already , HongKong and the Philippines have held out far beyond the expectations of many observers . Even if both of them were to fall , the Japanese would be a very long way from winning even their segment of the war . Indeed , the superior strength and resources of the democratic powers over those of the Axis would still make final victory overwhelmingly probable , if they are used with the proper energy and intelligence . If we should not be too pessimistic about possible bad news from the Far East , neither should we be too optimistic about the news from Russia . There is no doubt that the Russian forces are doing a magnificent job against the Germans ; but it is also a fact that Hitler 's forces have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter . True , they may not be able to stop where they wanted to ; true , also , Hitler 's time-table has been completely wrecked in spite of the fact that he got within about twenty miles of Moscow . But as things stand today , there is plenty of striking power left in the German army , either for use in Russia in the spring or for an immediate operation through Spain into northwest Africa . If we engage in false overconfidence now , we are helping the enemy . Enemy Aliens So far as the treatment of enemy aliens is concerned , the United States and its possessions have been divided into two areas . One area , Guam , the Philippines and Hawaii , becomes the responsibility of the Secretary of War . The continental United States and Alaska are the responsibility of the Attorney General . A number of rules , some disturbingly broad , have been laid down . For example , enemy aliens may not interfere with political activity or seek to influence public opinion . They may not use cameras or short-wave radios @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to be members of certain organizations which the Attorney General is to name . Any enemy alien deemed dangerous to the public safety may be summarily arrested , and once arrested he will find himself tied up in an enormous bundle of red tape . The arresting agency , it is to be underscored , is the FBI . That organization , since it may arrest on what amounts to the merest suspicion , will have its powers vastly increased . The FBI 's record hardly makes for full confidence in the belief that its powers will not be abused . On the other hand , with the memory of fifth-column activities in the rest of the world engraved on all our minds , it is clear that extraordinary powers had to be given to the Justice Department . At the moment we can do little more than hope that enemy aliens will get fair treatment . We must certainly hope that the United States will not repeat the policy of France and Britain , which in general was to lock up anti-fascist refugees while Axis sympathizers went free . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly have no democratic sympathies . Those are the ones for the FBI to watch . The Labor-Management Conference The conference of union heads and representative employers to decide on a means of avoiding interruptions of production during the war is exactly what was needed . Both sides were prompted to take this step by the imminence of drastic legislation which neither approved ; the attack on this country by the Axis has immensely reinforced the original motive . Neither side can now afford to take the onus for failure to agree . The task is in essence a simple one ? to suggest a machinery of adjustment and to adopt the broad principles by which it is to be governed . On the question of machinery there is likely to be little disagreement ? a tripartite board for mediation or arbitration , which will be voluntary in character because resting on joint consent , and whose decisions will be accepted in advance as final , is obviously what is required . But there may be argument about the principles to underlie the decisions , particularly regarding the status of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limitation of wage increases . Statesmanship is required to discover an acceptable formula on such issues , but the task is far from impossible . Labor can not be expected to accept the status quo without possibility of modification . Nor can it expect the employers to consent in advance to a universal closed shop or to unlimited wage increases . Within these limits , a modus vivendi surely can be found . It goes without saying that not only the vindictive Smith bill , but all other proposed legislation , must be abandoned pending the result of the conference . Arms for India For all the news of military victories and defeats which fill the headlines , every new pronouncement of Allied strategy shows the far greater long-term significance of the supply problem . Sir R. K. Shanmukham Chetty , head of the Indian Purchasing Committee , in discussing his country 's potential strength , painted apicture of the most dazzling nature , qualifying it with an equally impressive " if . " India , he said , can not only raise an army of four or five million men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States will supply her with the material essential to a developing industrial economy . India has clothed her present army and given it 16 , - 500,000 units of small arms . With machine tools and special steel from . America she can roll out the heavy stuff for a self-contained fighting force of great size . It is disturbing that this invaluable offer comes at a time when the same need for supplies is the bottleneck in the whole Allied war effort . But we are glad it has been made . Our supply plans can be shaped only on a global scale if we are to prosecute the war in an effective way : supplies for India are as vital to our own strength as they are to the millions who now form the link between the Far East and the Middle East . Underscored As it goes to press , The New Republic receives the following note from William Harlan Hale , author of the article , " Trouble for Admirals , " which appears elsewhere in these pages . Mr. Hale Comments : " Secretary Knox 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monday afternoon , completes the picture which my article had to leave unfinished . It corrects my article in one respect ; it now appears that we were not , after all , the first nation to sink a battleship with a ' bomb . Captain Kelly 's feat of destroying the Haruna was preceded by the even greater Japanese feat of dropping a bomb directly down the Arizona 's smokestack . This does not change the naval lessons of the fateful week , it merely underscores them . " Last Week Seventy-two hours after the Japanese bombers and submarines had spread death at Hawaii , the war formally became the Second World War . Germany and Italy declared war on the United States , on December io . President Roosevelt 's message to Congress on Thursday , December i 1 , said " The forces endeavoring to enslave the entire world are now moving toward this hemisphere . " The fact was indisputable . There was no dissenting voice . The provision of the Selective Service Act forbidding the use of United States troops outside the Western Hemisphere was canceled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ navy at Pearl Harbor and awaited that process of replacement of peacetime military leaders by the unknowns whose right to command will be disclosed through the fighting . As the week went on it was evident that there was plenty of fight in the navy , in the Marines on Wake Island and in General MacArthur 's regulars and Filipinos . FDR was speaking quietly and his jaw was out at the old angle . People spoke of that , grinned a little themselves and went to work .                     