@@475906

August and September , as the greatest wave of American tourists since the twenties receded from Europe , a good many people must have found themselves with a puzzling problem in reconciling what they had seen with what they had heard . Obviously Europe ? apart from Germany which only the specially-documented elite was allowed to enter ? looked good . Streets were busy and shops were full . The resorts were crowded and not exclusively by Americans . New buildings were going up , factories were busy . Here was the impoverished , stagnant , and down-at-the-heel continent that the Marshall Plan was supposed to rescue and from all outward evidence it seemed to be doing very well . Hence the question : Why does this busy and even superficially prosperous community need so much help ? The answer to this question is certainly one of the most-needed pieces of economicintelligence of our time . There is no doubt as to the facts . Western Europe has been recovering ? and it does need help . There is even a possibility that further recovery , so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will leave it nearly as dependent on assistance as at present . Western Europe , in short , may be incapable of self-support . Why ? The experience of the past three years as it bears on Europe 's ability to pay its way , though far from conclusive , is far from encouraging . Except in Germany and Italy , industrial production is now generally higher than before the war . Agriculture , though far less vulnerable than industry to the modern arts of destruction and to the even more serious disorganization that accompanies war , has recovered much more slowly from the wounds it did receive . However , last year 's good crops have brought basic bread-grains An economist who is lecturing this year at Harvard , Mr. Galbraith has been an editor of Fortune and an official of the OPA and of the State Department . production nearly back to normal . The United Nations Economic Commission for Europe ( the ECE ) recently concluded , to the surprise even of those who had been in close touch with European economic affairs since the war , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Armistice in 1918 . Yet Europe 's deficit ? the difference between income from exports , tourists , and services , and outgo for food , materials , and other imports ? has actually increased since the war ended . In 1946 , the first full year of peace , Europe received about $2.5 billion in loans and credits , mostly from the United States and Canada , it received another $2.3 billion worth of UNRRA assistance , and it spent another billion from its own reserves of gold and dollars . Thus it fell short of paying its own way by about $5.8 billion . In 1947 the first frigid breath of cold war froze most of Eastern Europe out of American assistance , but the deficit , nevertheless , mounted to $7.5 billion . The figure for last year is still uncertain but the official working estimates for the fifteen months ending next July ? that is , the first fifteen months of the Marshall Plan ? range from just over $7 billion to just over $9 billion . The experience of the United Kingdom , which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is especially instructive . The British recovery has been the most rapid in Europe and it is possible that the British efforts to balance income and outgo ? and to accept hardship in the process ? represent the greatest single achievement in self-government ( and self-restraint ) the world has yet seen . Since 1946 industrial production has increased by a quarter and it is now well above prewar levels . The volume of Britain 's exports is now a third higher than it was before the war , and in July of last year their value was the highest in Britain 's long history . as a trading nation . The British merchant fleet has grown from 13.5 million tons in 1946 to 16 million tons at present . More than half of all the ships now being built in the world are being built in British yards . In 1946 Britain spent about $1.5 billion more for food and raw materials , for feeding the British zone of Germany , and for militarycommitments in Greece , the Middle East , and elsewhere than she earned from exports , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was nearly doubled . It will be smaller for 1948 , partly because exports have grown and imports have been cut , but also because German occupation costs and aid to Greece have been shifted to the United States and other military commitments have been liquidated . But it will still be about as large as in 1946 . The sad truth is that Europe , since the war , has borne a discouraging resemblance to an industrial concern that is expanding operations but losing a little more money with each increase in business . To shut down the plant would be unthinkable ? there would be unemployment , unrest , and probably violence . The Communists would surely go to town . But the sad fact remains that the plant can only keep operating as long as someone pays the bills . B CC UT surely , " someone will want to ask , " the Marshall Plan provides a guar- antee that Europe will become self-supporting . Did not the sixteen nations assemble at Paris a year ago last summer and formulate a plan for achieving this goal ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " Such a plan was made . But it involved , unhappily , the planning of things over which the planners had very little control . The representatives of the sixteen nations did conclude that by increasing production , reviving trade with Eastern Europe , and expanding exports they could , beginning in 1952 , pay their own way . ( There was a further and vital assumption that the prices of the things they imported would not continue to rise . ) Unfortunately they had no choice but to reach this conclusion . There was no chance whatever of getting American aid if they seemed to need help indefinitely . Not even God is more devoted than the United States to the principle of helping only those who show capacity to help themselves . In any case the conclusion that Western Europe could become self-supporting depended on estimates of future production , future imports , future exports , and guesses as to what prices of imports and exports would be . One man 's guess as to what the world price of wheat will be in 1951 or how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that year is a good as another 's . Inevitably the assembled experts used estimates and guesses that gave the pre-ordained result . There was nothing mendacious about this . They could hardly have done otherwise . Not even the framers of the gosplan are more fascinated than the people of the United States by efforts to blueprint the economic future . It is not surprising therefore that the Paris plan for self-support , somewhat scaled down as to the amount of American aid required , was hailed as an important achievement in this country . Even the Pre-Cambrian statesmen who fought the European Recovery Program in Congress concentrated on the narrow issue of whether so much American assistance was really needed to consummate the plan . That an effort had been made to plan the unplannable and that nothing had been proven as to Europe 's capacity for self-support was scarcely mentioned . II I T wILL be suspected that the trend of this argument already shows signs of by-passing the vital point , which is that Europe has just had a war , that some of its worst troubles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the Marshall aid will get Western Europe over the hump , that it will buy the necessary time . The importance of Europe 's temporary misfortunes must be conceded . Three and a half years of peace is not a long time . Within a similar period after the Civil War , as Geoffrey Crowther of the London Economist recently reminded an American audience , Grant had not been inaugurated and the Reconstruction had not begun . Also the winter of 1947 was exceptionally severe ? over nearly all of Europe transportation and power supply were disrupted and factories closed down . It was followed by poor crops . There has also been the partition of Germany , a piece of major surgery with drastic shock effects . In the past three years American and world prices have also played a devastating trick on Europeans , especially on the British . Each increase in prices has increased the drain of dollars for the food and raw materials that Europe must buy . In 1947 Europe 's deficit would have been cut nearly in half had it been possible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further misfortune that the prices of her particular imports have risen much more rapidly than those of the staple manufactured products she sells . In June of last year , prices of British exports were two and a half times higher than in 1938 while prices of imports were only a fraction under three times as high . Finally , in a number of European coun ? tries , part of the deficit is to be explained , paradoxically enough , by the zeal with which the tasks of recovery and reconstruction have been tackled . The repair and modernization of industrial plant , the building and equipping of new mills and factories , and the housing programs have all exaggerated the demand for imports and have used manpower that might otherwise have produced goods for export or products that would replace imports . The British government 's investment program , in spite of severe cutbacks , has come in for especially energetic criticism . Could it be shown that Western Europe 's temporary misfortunes or miscalculations explain all or the worst of its economic troubles , it could be assumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unfortunately nothing of the sort can be shown . The far more fundamental problem of Western Europe is that it possesses a system of divided administration that is incapable of performing its task . Worse than that , as Western Europe is now managed , each individual government has assumed responsibilities that it can only discharge with damage to the community as a whole . Europe 's most serious problem is a system of government that is no longer tolerable . III P ARTLY because it is an industrialized area with a relatively high standard of living , partly because it is a small area , Europe west of Russia is a closely interdependent community . Nearly all of it depends for thermal energy on three major coal basins . It draws on common sources of iron ore , non-ferrous metals , ferro-alloys , and lumber . The Continent proper is served by a closely integrated network of rail and inland waterways ; all of it is linked by cheap coastal and intercoastal transport . Since Western Europe is much more heavily industrialized than Eastern Europe , and industry brings reliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree of interdependence increases as one moves from east to west . Apart from Russia and the postage-stamp principalities , this interlocked area is now administered by no fewer than twenty-five governments . West or south of the Curtain , counting Western Germany as a single country and Turkey as a European power , there are seventeen governments . The increased interdependence of the European economy as one moves west , accords broadly with an increased diffusion of responsibility for its administration . The politics of Europe 's many sovereignties ? that of maintenance of the balance of power and the temptation that has been offered to adventurers and despots ? has been well understood for a century . The economic consequences have never been so well understood , for one reason because they have been constantly changing . Until the first world war it is possible that Europe did not suffer too acutely from its divided administration . Germany and Italy were still profiting from the consolidation of yet smaller states and agriculture was still relatively important . Farms , unlike steel mills or chemical plants , do not reach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for markets on the other . Mixed farming areas such as Maine or rural Maryland even today could be divorced from the United States and survive . No industrial state would be so fortunate . If everything that Pennsylvania buys from other states were subject to the export licensing regulations of the United States Department of Commerce and if all of its exports were made subject to the United States tariff , grass would surely grow in the streets of Pittsburgh and Chester . Before the first world war , moreover , mass-production methods had not yet given an overwhelming advantage to manufacturers who had access to huge markets . The American producer enjoyed no great advantage over the Belgian , French , or Italian manufacturer . It is worth recalling that British , French , and German inventors and engineers played a notable part in the early development of the automobile . It became an American industry not because American workmen were more skilled , American engineers more talented , or American management more intelligent and virile , but because the American industry alone had a market that could absorb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OWEVER , neither industrialization nor the developing need for mass markets has been the chief factor in making Europe 's organization obsolete . The critical event has been the most comprehensive , subtle , and worst-described revolution in modern history ? one that no Western country has escaped . In the simplest terms it has consisted in the assumption by governments of the responsibility for providing a minimum standard of living for their people . The character and even the fact of this change ? which has affected the United States no less than Europe ? has been disguised by a vast semantical confusion associated with the terms socialism and capitalism . Journalists , politicians , and scholars alike have searched for differences between governments which find it fashionable or politic to call themselves socialist and those which , for similar reasons , assert the purity of their devotion to free enterprise . In fact , all Western governments , regardless of ideological billing , have committed themselves to minimum guarantees of what their citizens shall have . Before last autumn 's election every political party in the United States promised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a secure standard of living for the ordinary citizen . No avowedly socialist government has promised much more . In the United States it is a commonplace that the new responsibilities of government have made public administration more elaborate and complex . Only eccentrics and the hopelessly romantic ever expect to see again the simple and comprehensible bureaucracies of the age of McKinley or of Coolidge . But in the United States the revolution only made administration more complex . In Europe it made it impossible . There could be no more dramatic evidence of the effect of this revolution on Western Europe than the simple fact that , before it occurred , it was not even possible for a country to have a deficit in its balance of payments . Then , if imports exceeded exports for any period of time , people simply ran out of the means with which to buy imports . So they went without ; and if the imports so sacrificed consisted of food , they went hungry In the process , which was slightly more subtle in mechanics but not different in principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into balance . Even after World War I a good many million Europeans went hungry and some millions in Eastern Europe starved as an incident to maintaining this balance . There were no deficits in the modem sense . When governments have assumed responsibility for the standard of living there will be a deficit whenever income from exports and other services to foreigners is not big enough to buy the food and raw materials called for by the government 's guarantee to its people . The deficit can always be eliminated by lowering or eliminating the guarantees . Prior to the passage of the Foreign Assistance Act , the British had in reserve a highly-unpublicized plan for use in case the Act failed of passage or if the conditions attached by Congress proved too insulting . It provided for a further cut in rations and an especially drastic slash in raw-materials imports . As a result of the ensuing shortage of materials , several millions would have become unemployed and their consumption would have been further reduced as they moved on to the dole . Housing and most other construction would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of consumer goods would have disappeared entirely from the shops . In the process imports would have been sharply reduced ( exports , also , though not so much ) and the balance of payments would have been brought into balance . But few moderate governments could hope to survive such Draconian remedies . They must meet the minimum guarantee their people demand or perish . This guarantee not only makes a deficit possible but it is likely to mean that it will be covered with some difficulty . Even in prosperous times in the past , a good many English , Dutch , or French working-class children suffered and died from malnutrition . IC is no longer possible to single out any group for this fate . If there is milk for any children an effort must be made to provide some milk for all . So with meat . So with housing . Ac-cordingly , once governments have guaranteed a minimum standard of living , ' a good deal of leveling up is inevitable . This has happened in some degree in nearly all Western European countries since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Britain where standards of consumption are now , on the average , nearly as high as ever in history . LONG with this leveling up go some highly consequential measures that are neces- sary to insure that the guarantee is covered . If there is any serious risk of insufficiency the government must ration food to make sure that the available supply goes as far as possible . Obviously , it must prevent food from being exported . Fuel , steel machinery , and equipment must also be used to produce essentials , not luxuries . There must be exchange control to insure that dollars or other scarce currencies earned from exports are pooled for the purchase of needed food and raw materials . It is equally necessary to keep too many goods from being sold for soft currencies ? for currencies of those countries which are themselves short of goods and where , as a result , it is hard to spend money . In short , if there is any problem about meeting the minimum guarantee , a government , whatever its ideological preferences , must go in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has provided a fascinating demonstration of this compulsion since the war . There , as in socialist England , a minimum guarantee of food , fuel , and a few other essen-tials has been made to the people . There , as in England , it has been necessary to place elaborate controls over production , distribution , and foreign exchange . Any number of American business men have advised General Clay in the past two years that his elaborate regulations are a sin and a crime against free enterprise . He has almost certainly been uncomfortable about them . But free enterprise or not he has been a captive of his promise to keep Germans ? or most of them -- alive . C ONTROLS and their concomitant questionnaires , forms , requisitions , and red tape may or may not be as stifling to enterprise and degrading to the human spirit as has been commonly rumored in the United States . But not even the freewheeling adjectives of the N.A.M . do full justice to their effect , when applied by sixteen separate , individual , and highly interdependent governments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country a small autarchical island more or less divorced , as to trade relations , from its neighbors . Ports of entry were once places where customs duties were collected or circumvented ; now they have become the focus of the whole system of internal regulation . Here the exports of essentials and the imports of non-essentials must be controlled and sheafs of trade regulations interpreted in the process . Decisions must be made as between admissible and inadmissible currencies as well as hetween admissible and inadmissible travelers , and the former must be equipped with the ration books and gasoline coupons needed for life and movement . The urge to exchange goods is capable of surmounting extraordinary resistances , but it is severely curbed by such obstacles as these . While European production has been climbing back to prewar levels or above , ehe exchange of goods between European countries has remained at only about half of prewar levels . Even between Belgium and the Netherlands which , with Luxembourg , have negotiated . the Benelux customs union , the internal regulations have proven a far more serious barrier to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has developed has been badly warped by the universal struggle to sell only for good currencies and to keep essential products at home while unloading non-essentials on the neighbors . On the authority of a United Nations economist concerned with European trade , it was possible a few months ago to buy a Swedish-made vacuum cleaner ( a non-essential ) in Norway but not a Norwegian one . It was possible to buy a Norwegian but not a Swedish vacuum cleaner in Sweden . In both countries vacuum cleaners are made by subsidiaries of the same American company . Further recovery , which means that it will be easier to maintain living standards , will ease some of the restrictions on European trade . ECA will also be able to help , and it is now urgently at work . on the trade snarl . But full recovery of production will also bring surpluses ; governments will then have no alternative but to impose new regulations to safeguard employment . As Western Europe is now organized , governments have responsibilities which they can not escape and which they can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It would be hard to imagine a worse way of managing a continent . And neither time nor the Marshall Plan is , of itself , a remedy . V I T MIGHT still be possible to make out a case for Western Europe 's capacity for independent survival , were it not the victim of three further misfortunes , all of which also have a strong flavor of permanence . In ascending order of importance , these are ( 1 ) colonies and investments , ( 2 ) the United States , and ( 3 ) Eastern Europe . Colonial areas were once an important source of dollars for Western Europe . Apart from shipping and tourist services and a few specialized commodities like wine , whisky , and woolens , Europe did not sell heavily in American markets . It did supply capital , management , and goods to Malaya , Indonesia , Indo-China , Africa , and other dependent areas which in turn sold rubber , tin , sugar , copper , copra , and other materials for dollars . Except for the African colonies ? an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial condition since the end of the war ? all of the areas just mentioned are in a more or less chronic state of revolt . Moreover the war aims of the Indonesians , Malays , and others include the privilege of spending themselves the dollars they earn or believe they earn . Only the most obtuse of imperialists could suppose that pacification would restore the old dollar harvest . Other investments are also gone . Before the war Europe received about $1.4 billion annually in interest and dividends . This has dwindled to a bare $400 million . The problem of the United States is partly that it is an exceedingly inconvenient country to have on the same globe , much as a supermarket is an awkward neighbor for a group of independent grocers . But the problem of the United States is not exclusively one of superior competitive power ? indeed in becoming , as the late Lord Keynes once predicted it would , " a high-cost , high-living country , " it is probably in process of surrendering some of its competitive advantage . The much more important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience in supplying its own mass market , or the imitative tendencies of mankind have given the United States a near or absolute monopoly of supply . The construction of a big hydro-electric installation or a modern oil refinery or even a modern highway or hospital anywhere in the world brings an urgent demand for American equipment and technique . No long-distance airline can be operated safely and economically without American planes . There is an equally imperative demand for a wide variety of industrial machinery . And only American goods are relevant to the universal longing , never completely repressed , for nylons , Camels , intricately supported breasts , and Arrow shirts . Someone has suggested that in the second half of the nineteenth century there was not a country in the world where Scottish engineers were not at work building British railroads . True ; but when American leadership superseded that of Britain , it did so with a difference . The demand for British coal , steel , ships , railway equipment , and the yearning of a masculine century for English suitings and London tailoring were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and raw materials from the world at large . While selling to the world , Britain in order to live , was compelled to distribute the sterling to the world . She found it an easy currency to manage for it nearly managed itself . The United States , by contrast , is under no similar compulsion to distribute dollars to the world . It has the world 's most efficient agricultural plant and is uncommonly well supplied with raw materials . Before the war a mere half-dozen items ? rubber , sugar , coffee , tin , pulp and paper , and silk ? accounted for roughly a third of all imports ; and two of these , silk and natural rubber , are now semi-obsolete . While the world is terribly dependent on the United States , the United States is not terribly dependent on the world . This does not mean that Western Europe or other areas trading with the United States face a permanent dollar shortage ? the phrase is somewhat meaningless , for any shortage canalways be eliminated by not buying American goods . It does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the American goods they want and the question is whether the sacrifice of doing without can be afforded . For thirty years ? the years of American industrial pre-eminence ? the issue has been finessed . Europe has either used its gold reserves to buy American products , or ? via the Treasury Loans following 1918 , the Dawes and Young loans , the great Wall Street lending spree of the late twenties , and since 1945 via UNRRA , the British Loan , Export-Import Bank loans , Interim Aid , and now the Marshall Plan ? the United States has managed to discover new justifications for the unnatural act of giving away money . If the United States continues to find new formulae for largesse , then Western Europe , while it will not be self-supporting , will not be in trouble . But it would hardly seem wise to count on this possibility , in which event Western Europe 's misfortune is engraved on both sides of the coin . Not only does it have to live with its own obsolete organization but it must contend with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T HERE is a further and final chance that Western Europe will also have to compete and contend with a much more effective management of Eastern Europe . In this age of spy hunts and saliva tests for loyalty it has become unfashionable and perhaps dangerous to think rationally about Communism . Otherwise Americans could hardly but be impressed by the achievement of the Communists in converting several million Europeans ( a minority but a large one ) from a parochial nationalism to a militant faith in supranational , if Russian-dominated , order . This has been mainly accomplished , in the most practical of political traditions , by organizing from the bottom up ? by persuading men and women at what we choose to call the grass roots . Moreover , Communism has captured Eastern Europe under circumstances that , al ) things considered , are auspicious . Because it has more agriculture than Western Europe and is accustomed to a lower standard of living , the Molotov area is inherently more manageable than the Marshall area . Tito 's insurgency notwithstanding , there is evidence of close integration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Czechs and Poles , under what amounts to a common Communist government , have teamed together for the joint exploitation of the Upper Silesian and Teschen industrial regions . In Poland , Yugoslavia , as well as in undamaged Czechoslovakia , recovery appears to have proceeded as rapidly as anywhere in Europe ? and without a Marshall Plan . If by ridding itself of petty nationalism , Eastern Europe should succeed in eliminating economic instability and distress , its chances for capturing all Europe would be excellent . That would be a misfortune of unparalleled gravity for the liberal world . But the Marshall Plan itself is based on the shrewd notion that people who are insecure , hungry , and without hope are not ardent defenders of liberal institutions or discriminating in the political systems they embrace . VII W ESTERN Europe quite obviously has one way out . That is to use the three and a half years during which the Marshall Plan makes American assistance reasonably certain , to exchange its obsolete constitution for one under which it can survive . Although the Marshall Plan , of itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it could be indispensable in financing Western Europe to this goal . The great hope for the Marshall Plan , in fact , is that the world may come to look upon it as a rather secondary event of our time . The prime event of current history must be the union that the Marshall Plan helped bring into being . Only that will insure a management for Western Europe that is competent for the tasks of twentieth-century government and offer prospect for survival between the vast economic monoliths to the West and East . If the diagnosis in this article is valid it must be a union that conforms to definite and , on the whole , rather difficult specifications . For , if it is agreed that the principal cause of Europe 's obsolescence is the new responsibility which governments have assumed on behalf of their citizens , the only reorganization that will do much good is one that establishes a central authority with both the power and the means for discharging this responsibility . The need for union arises not from any inherent virtues of the large state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no quarrel with a federation that leaves to constituent states the greatest autonomy in cultural affairs , in exercise of the police power , and in the whole range of welfare activity and community enterprise and experiment . But on economic policy there can be no compromise . Voluntary collaboration , customs unions , committees for economic cooperation will not do ? in fact they are dangerous booby-traps for the undiscriminating believer in union . Unless Western Europe is to return to the laisser-faire patterns of the nineteenth century ? in which event no union is necessary ? there must be a single organ of economic administration . Otherwise individual governments will assume responsibility on behalf of their people because they have no choice but to do so . It is useless to talk of a union which leaves individual governments with the tools out of which disunion is made , in an age when their citizens will demand that they use them . 