@@485118

WITH the appearance on the streets of Boston last week of a newly recruited police force of 1,200 men , the rest of the country will be disposed to regard the strike of September as a closed incident , and forget it . Boston will not so easily forget an event that led to the patrol of its streets for three months by armed soldiers , that became the chief issue of the recent gubernatorial campaign , and that brought the class struggle nearer to the front doorsteps of Beacon Hill and Back Bay than it had ever come before . When I visited the city , nearly two months after the walkout , I found that partisanship and rancor had permeated almost every circle , even to Harvard University , the president of which had offered 1,000 students ( who fortunately never appeared ) to take the place of absent police , while one of the lecturers had addressed a gathering of policemen 's wives so sympathetically that a number of graduates were demanding , under pain of not contributing to the endowment fund , that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind the Boston police strike without getting straight certain facts that have finally emerged from the mixture of prejudice , misrepresentation , and truth that constituted our first knowledge of the event . Nor should it be overlooked that the striking policemen won better conditions for their successors and for their fellows in other cities . The pay of the Boston police has been advanced from $1,100 to $1,400 for the first year , plus a free uniform not previously given , and other causes of dissatisfaction are , or soon will be , remedied . Especially to be remembered , as the police strike passes into history , are these facts : First , a citizens ' committee , representing the solid business interests of Boston , reached an agreement with the counsel of the police ( including withdrawal from the American Federation of Labor ) that would have prevented the strike , but the Police Commissioner rejected the plan and made a walkout inevitable by dropping the officers of the Policemen 's Union from the force . Second , riot and disorder were needlessly permitted , if not encouraged , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion definitely , against the police ) , not only by the refusal of the Police . Commissioner to call for militia , although advised to do so by the citizens ' committee and the Mayor , but also by the failure of the Police Commissioner to use volunteers already mobilized , or even adequately employ the policemen remaining at work . Many of these facts were not known at the time of the strike , when public opinion in the United States was molded through the press dispatches , and have not yet been fairly explained outside of Boston . Even there they are known only to persons who have taken the trouble to read in detail the statement of the citizens ' committee , appointed by Mayor Peters and headed by James J. Storrow , which was printed in the Boston newspapers of October 4 , after pressure by organized labor and nearly a month after the policemen walked out . Except for certain conclusions , inserted between the first and second drafts and since challenged by the counsel for the policemen , the report of the Storrow committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history . Yet outside of Boston it either received no attentionby the press or was treated in a hopelessly perfunctory way . The New York Times gave it half a column , sent by the Associated Press , of which all but a nine-line paragraph at the end consisted of the conclusions to which the counsel for the police later objected . For many years the American Federation of Labor refused to let policemen organize under its jurisdiction , but at the convention in Atlantic City last spring the way was opened , and unionization began in a score of cities . In a number of cases official objection followed , and in a few instances the policemen abandoned their efforts ; in others , they stood their ground , and their action was accepted , somewhat doubtfully , as inevitable . In Boston alone the issue caused a serious upheaval . It is everywhere admitted now that the policemen there had legitimate and serious grievances in respect to pay , hours , and working conditions . The Police Department of Boston is not a part of the city administration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is appointed by the Governor of the State and is removable by him , but apparently is intended to stand a little apart from his administration , since the Commissioner is appointed for a term of years and the Governor is elected for only one . Edwin U. Curtis , the present Commissioner , was appointed by ex-Governor McCall , although he took office almost simultaneously with the present Governor , Calvin Coolidge . When the affiliation of the police with the American Federation of Labor ( the Boston firemen and other civil servants were already in ) was broached last summer , the Commissioner voiced his opposition , but did not undertake to forbid such action until organization had been effected and some 1,100 out of the city 's 1,500 policemen had signed as charter members . Then he promulgated the following rule : No member of the force shall join or belong to any organization , club , or body composed of present or present and past members of the force , which is affiliated with or part of any organization , club , or body outside the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republic , the United States Spanish War Veterans , and the American Legion of World 's War Veterans may be formed within the Department . As one of the counsel for the policemen later pointed out , this rule would have prevented a member of the Department from belonging to the Methodist Church . The rule also appears to run counter to a State , statute ( Revised Laws of Massachusetts , chapter 106 , section 12 ) which says : " No person shall , himself or by his agent , coerce or compel a person into a written or verbal agreement not to join or become a member of a labor organization as a condition of his securing employment or continuing in the employment of such person . " This law has been declared invalid by a Federal court in so far as it affects the United States Government as an employer , but it is apparently still in force with respect to other persons . The policemen went ahead and elected officers ; whereupon Mr. Curtis countered by ordering nineteen of them before him for trial  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as such by mistake on stool-pigeon evidence . He announced that he would render decision at a later date . This was the puzzling and by no means one-sided situaDec. tion that confronted the city of Boston when on August 27 Mayor Peters , although without jurisdiction over the Police Department , appointed a committee of thirty-four men to find , if possible , a way out of the dilemma . Although spoken of as a " citizens ' committee , " the membership was made up overwhelmingly of substantial , well-connected business men  --  such a body as the Chamber of Commerce itself might have appointed . It may be inferred , therefore , that the committee had no bias in favor of the policemen . Quite the contrary . Its chairman , Mr. Storrow , made this abundantly evident by issuing a personal statement before the committee had even met to the effect that the policemen should not affiliate with the American Federation of Labor . When the committee met the next day it adopted unanimously a resolution in the same sense . It should be noted here that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Curtis is a Republican , an apparently honest effort was made to eliminate party politics . Before the appointment of the committee was announced , Mr. Storrow communicated through a friend with Mr. Curtis to learn if he would approve of efforts by such a committee and if the proposed chairman would be agreeable . He received favorable assurances on both points , and Mr. Storrow 's preliminary statement against affiliation with the American Federation of Labor was seen and informally approved by the Police Commissioner . On Labor Day , September 1 , a sub-committee of the main body had a friendly conference with Commissioner Curtis , the latter coming to Boston from his summer home at Nahant for the purpose . It was understood that Commissioner Curtis would render his decision in connection with the nineteen policemen under charges on Thursday , September 4 . The Storrow committee realized that if the finding were adverse to the men the work of reconciliation would become impossible , and hence sought on the day previous to obtain a postponement of the decision . But in the meanwhile Mr. Curtis had come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whom he had retained as his personal counsel . Mr. Parker was at one time Attorney General of the State , and is spoken of in Massachusetts as counsel for the Beef Trust and the Standard Oil interests . He has also been alluded to as representing indirectly the United States Steel Corporation . He was a member of the committee on initiative and referendum at the recent constitutional convention in Massachusetts and signed the minority report against adopting those devices . He is reputed to have been the sponsor in the Legislature for the " secret police " bill , which was exposed by the Harvard Liberal Club and beaten , and also the backer of the anti-anarchy bill , which went through . The character of the latter may be inferred from a colloquy that took place in one of Boston 's most genteel clubs at which the floor leader for the proposed legislation was present . Said one of the club members , pulling a radical publication from his pocket , " Why , they could put me in jail merely for having this in my possession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for you , Bob , " replied the floor leader suavely . " It 's so we can clap those roughnecks down in Lawrence in jail . " ( The Lawrence mill strike was in progress at the time . ) Further light on Mr. Parker may be gleaned from the fact that although the Chamber of Commerce had urged Commissioner Curtis to employ personal counsel , yet on learning of his choice it sent a committee to him to suggest a change . According to a statement subsequently made by James H. Vahey and John P. Feeney , counsel for the Police-men 's Union , " some of the members of the Mayor 's executive committee , the counsel for the policemen , and Chairman Macomber of the Chamber of Commerce were fearful of the influence of Mr. Parker , not upon questions of law , but upon the policy of the Police Commissioner . " ( The italics are mine . ) But let us return to the Mayor 's committee and its attempt on September 3 to obtain postponement of the decision in the case of the nineteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A letter requesting postponement was presented at the office of the Police Commissioner by a member of the committee . The result is briefly but suggestively recounted in the report of the Storrow committee : " No action was taken in response nor reply received to this letter , because counsel ( Herbert Parker ) for the Commissioner , who received and read the letter , declined to permit its delivery to the Commisioner . " In the evening of the same day ( September 3 ) a new figure entered the controversy , or rather was brought in by the citizens ' committee . Governor Coolidge , although vested by law with the appointment and removal of the Police Commissioner , and thus apparently responsible for his acts , had so far , studiously avoided the issue . When appealed to by representatives of the citizens ' committee on the evening in question he continued to avoid it , saying that he felt it was not his duty to communicate with the Commissioner on the subject . Mayor Peters came to the rescue , however , by sending a letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was announced that the decision would be postponed for four days ? until Monday , September 8 . The Storrow committee continued its work , and on Saturday , September 6 , had evolved a plan acceptable to it and the counsel for the Policemen 's Union . The first clause of the agreement provided that the policemen should surrender their charter in the American Federation of Labor . Other clauses provided for the protection of the leaders of the unionization movement and for the consideration of wages and other grievances by arbitrators , the latter to have , however , only recommendatory powers . The plan was formally submitted to Commissioner Curtis on Sunday morning , September 7 , but no answer was received from him in the course of the day . As the committee knew that the decision against the nineteen policemen , if made the next morning , would precipitate a strike , it gave the plan to the press that night , and the proposals received the editorial approval of every daily newspaper in Boston on Monday , with one exception . In regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report says : The executive committee . . . was already of the opinion that on Sunday the plan was on the point of being approved by their ( the policemen 's ) officials , and that it would also be approved at a general meeting of the men . The opinion of your committee in this regard was also confirmed by the fact that the counsel for the Police Union , Messrs . Vahey and Feeney , both unqualifiedly advised the officials to accept it , and also undertook to attend the general meeting of all the members of the Police Union and there unqualifiedly advise the men to accept it . Such a meeting could and would have been held probably on Monday afternoon , September 8 , but instead of considering your committee 's plan on Monday afternoon , the men as the result of the Commissioner 's finding of that morning ( following his earlier declination to consider the plan ) thereupon entered upon the business of taking a strike vote . At this point , or just before , Governor Coolidge was again sought by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vol. 109 , No. 2842 effort was made to obtain a conference with him , but the executive who later made such boast of preserving " law and order " by a flourish of musketry was " reported to be in. the western part of the State " when action was needed to avert the crisis that threatened Boston on the morrow . Finally , on Monday evening  --  after Commissioner Curtis had given decision against the policemen and the fat was in the fire  --  the citizens ' committee succeeded in having a talk with the Governor . It was suggested that he might yet save the situation , but in lieu of Such action he was urged to have troops ready to patrol Boston at 5:45 P. M. the next day , the hour set for the police walkout . The next afternoon Mayor Peters visited Commissioner Curtis to suggest the wisdom of asking to have the State Guard in readiness , but was assured that ample means were at hand to protect the city . Even the volunteer police , who began to inquire if they were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon until the next day . At 5:45 P. M. Tuesday , September 9 , the 1,100 union policemen walked out . The men did not , as many persons were led to believe by the newspaper dispatches , strike for more pay and better working conditions . They - went out because nineteen of their number had been ? dropped from duty for doing the same thing that all of them had done . Right or wrong , they were actuated by loyalty rather than selfishness , and were carrying to its logical conclusion the Commissioner 's action in - disciplining nineteen of them . Viewed in this light , the action was as much a lookout by Mr. Curtis as a strike by the men . That night there was disorder and some - robbery and rioting , and the next morning Mayor Peters , acting under a law that ? gave him power ' after - rioting had actually occurred , took control of ' the Police Department , called out the State Guard located in Boston , and , presto , order was ' restored . Enter again the Governor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity offered , and having refused requests to protect Boston ' in advance from disorder , ' he ' now notes that the mischief has ' been done and public sentiment has been turned violently and almost unanimously against the policemen . He accedes at last to the Mayor 's request to call out the State Guard from elsewhere in Massachusetts , and , assuming command after order has been restored , he puffs out his chest ' proclaims " What a good boy am I ! " The words of the Storrow committee on this point are a model of restraint and - yet of ' illumination : . " By Thursday morning order had been generally restored in the city . On Thursday afternoon the Governor assumed control of the situation . " One takes leave of the Boston police strike feeling not so much that injustice was done the men as that the city was the victim of a miscarriage of I the normal processes of democracy , and that the public interest was flouted by three personally insignificant men  --  a Police Commissioner , a lawyer , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right or expediency of the affiliation of the policemen- with the American Federation of Labor . That is something for the whole country to solve gradually through deliberation and ' experiment . Boston alone can not settle it , ' much less a single Police Commissioner by personal fiat . One - may admit that the police were wrong - in quitting their jobs , although assured that order could be maintained without them , and acting from a - motive of loyalty to their fellows to which nine out of ten Americans would have responded similarly . The facts remain that the strike had been settled the Saturday before by an agree-ment between the Mayor 's committee and the counsel for the police ; that the Police Commissioner was at first friendly to the work of the Mayor 's committee , but ended by needlessly forcing the police out in spite of their wish and that of the public to the contrary ; that both the Police Commissioner and the Governor were urged to take advance precautions against disorder , but that nothing was done , ' even to the proper use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needlessly given over to a night of disorder , which was only stopped next day by the Mayor 's exercise of the power given him by law in the presence of actual riot to take control of the Police Department and call out the State militia within the limits of the city . What explanation is there of the amazing attitude of Messrs . Curtis , Parker , and Coolidge ? If Mr. Curtis had acted alone , one might attribute his course to wilfulness , vanity , or ignorance . Acting , as he did , on advice of counsel , this seems less likely . It is possible that Messrs . Curtis and Coolidge , as Republicans , were playing for partisan political advantage against Mayor Peters and the head of his committee , Mr. Storrow , both Democrats . But the game was so dangerous and uncertain from that standpoint that hardly any one but a god or a devil would have essayed it . Messrs . ' Curtis and Coolidge have not the distinction of being either . Certain persons in Boston , looking behind the superficial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced upon the policemen against their wishes and the almost unanimous sentiment of the city , see the hand of Big Business , grasping at a chance to discredit - organized labor with the public and so make dt easier to defeat union ' demands looming ' up elsewhere in the country . " A police strike would be the most unpopular of any-that union workmen could support . If we can force them to defend such an issue , we can give them a black ' eye that will weaken them all over the United States . Why not fight the steel strike in ' Massachusetts instead of Pennsylvania ? Why not make Boston the Belgium of our struggle ? " In some such words as these one can imagine certain national captains of industry discussing the tactical possibilities of ' the Boston police situation in the latter part of August and the early days of September . Indeed there is a man in a confidential business position in Boston who says that letters conveying such ideas were received by certain influentialpersons in the city from a high official of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telling , too , in this connection , centring around the longstanding feud between two - well- known Boston ' banking houses . It has been customary for each to have . a representative on any committee like that to settle the policemen 's troubles , but in this instance , apparently by accident , one of them was forgotten . On the day before the walkout a friend - went to see a member of the ' latter - firm , who is also a director of the United States SteeleCorporation , and was told " Why , Bob ' is out settling the police strike . " It may be ' that those persons in Boston who consider national industrial interests responsible for the police strike are right . It may be that the explanation of ' this otherwise almost inexplicable sequence of events is that , consciously or unconsciously , Messrs . Curtis , Parker , and Coolidge were - serving the purpose . of Big Business  --  led by - Mr . Gary and the ' Steel Trust  --  in its effort to perpetuate a decadent and despotic industrialism by discrediting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  