@@475197

A PROJECT to construct an American oil pipeline in Arabia looks on the face of it like just one more wartime measure . At a time when billion-dollar appropriations and expenditures are a common feature of our everyday national life , when American youth is spread all over the globe , and when American capital , enterprise , and skill build bases , railways , roads , and airports in Australia , India , Burma , the Pacific islands , the Caribbean , South America , Egypt , Iran , and many more far-flung and Godforsaken places , the Arabian pipeline project with its estimated cost of one hundred sixty-five million dollars would certainly impress no one as staggering in its dimensions or implications . Financially it is a mere bagatelle compared with other more expensive ventures . Yet one could hardly find any other single venture so pregnant with danger for America or so unjustified by war expediency , economic necessities , or our legitimate political aspirations . The United States government , which has initiated and is actively sponsoring this pipeline scheme ? against the practically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following arguments to justify it : 1 . It is dictated by military considerations of the present war.It will provide us with oil for future wars . 0 . Our oil reserves are dwindling , and through the Arabian pipeline we shall create new reserves . 4 . America will get cheap oil from Arabia . Taken at their face value , any of the above arguments separately and all of them together present a good case . But none of them can be sustained . And the dangers involved in our going ahead with the scheme constitute a formidable opposing argument . EFoRE we go further it is only fair to 111 ) sum up the facts of the situation . ( As we go to press the British oil mission has just arrived in Washington ; before negotiations are through the pipeline project may be pushed around severely , but the fundamentals of the transaction , whatever happens , can only be regarded as a specimen of the Administration 's considered policy . ) The Arabian pipeline project represents a three-cornered deal between the United States government ; three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Standard of California ( owners of concessions in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait ) ; and the respective rulers of the above Arab lands . To be exact , it is a deal composed of two deals . The three American oil companies have had these concessions for some time . They obtamed them directly from the governments concerned . This was the first deal , in which the United States did not appear as an active partner . The recent development consists of a contract between the Petroleum Reserves Corporation , on behalf of the United States government , and the American oil companies concerned , to which contract the Arabian rulers are no direct party ; but the contract is conditioned upon the sanction of the King of Saudi Arabia and the Sheik of Kuwait . Until this sanction is obtained , the agreement signed between the government and the companies is to be considered an " agreement in principle . " According to this agreement , the government will invest an estimated sum of from $130,000,000 to $165,000,000 in the construction of a pipeline from the concessions , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mediterranean . The government will decide upon the route of the pipeline and its plan of operation , will maintain it and own it . In exchange , the companies undertake to keep a reserve of one billion barrels of crude oil at the disposal of the United States government , notably for its military and naval needs . The government is free to call on this oil at any time within fifty years , or not to take it at all . However , if the government buys this oil , it will be entitled to a reduction of 25 per cent of the market price . In addition , the agreement provides that the government shall have undisputed control over the sale of this oil to any foreign government or foreign nationals . This is , in short , the essence of the lengthy agreement signed by Harold L. Ickes as president of the Petroleum Reserves Corporation and the representatives of the oil companies . We may now embark on a survey of the project and its manifold implications . II A T is characteristic that the government bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even the " agreement in principle " between the Petroleum Reserves Corporation and the oil companies opens with the following preamble : Upon the recommendation of the War Department , Navy Department , Joint Chiefs of Staff , and the Army and Navy Petroleum Board , and with the approval of the Department of State , .. ; This preamble in itself , invoking as it does the authority of the highest leaders of our war effort , is intended to invalidate any criticism by laymen who can not attend staff conferences and can claim no knowledge of war secrets . Fortunately , knowledge of certain areas and their conditions and problems , as well as of political and economic phenomena , is not restricted to members of government departments and general staffs . Governments , moreover , can certainly claim no monopoly on logic . The military argument must be analyzed ? especially as many other unseemly acts of foreign policy in the course of this war have been similarly explained as military necessities . Giraud was preferred to de Gaulle for military reasons . Badoglio was put in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States of a resolution favoring free Jewish immigration into Palestine was halted because of opposition by the Chief of Staff . If Mr. Ickes defends the Arabian pipeline as useful for the winning of this war , he is obviously telling a fairy tale . The highest tempo of production and construction could not make the pipeline active before this war is over ? unless it lasts longer than the most pessimistic prophets expect it to . The Iraq Petroleum Company , partly owned by American interests , needed three and a half years to complete its pipeline from the Mosul oilfields to Haifa . The Iraq pipeline is 500 miles long ; the planned Arabian pipeline will be at least 1,200 miles long , and possibly considerably more . In fact , I understand that no reliable reconnaissance has been made to establish the exact length of the proposed pipeline and the cost involved . The figures with which Mr. Ickes operates have been obtained by aerial reconnaissance alone , which is not dependable in the best of cases , and certainly not in a desert area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more difficult than that of the Iraq line . The oil deposits are at the Persian Gulf , at sea level . The pipeline must be laid across hundreds of miles of desert , with its dunes sinking , rising , and disappearing , over high elevations , and back to the sea level at Port Said or Alexandria in Egypt , or at Jaffa in Palestine . All this must be done in a country with no transportation except the Biblical camel , with no skilled labor , no industry , no repair shops , no settled population except the desert nomads , and above all with no water . American industry has performed wonders under wartime pressure , but not even miracle-makers could lay this pipeline before the end of this war . Furthermore , whatever oil could be produced in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait ? and there is plenty of it ? could be transported easily by oil tankers through the Suez and the Mediterranean to wherever it is needed . Thank God , the Mediterranean is now safe for the United Nations . It would be cheaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long run , as it does not require an investment of over a hundred million dollars . III IF IT is future wars that Mr. Ickes and the government have in mind , they obviously confuse availability with accessibility , and this may prove a costly mistake . Suppose the Arabian pipeline project has fully materialized . Oil flows from Arabia to Egypt or Palestine and is stored there for the United States government . A new war breaks out . This is obviously the time when America needs those stored oil reserves . Will they be accessible for the United States ? Let us suppose , simply for argument 's sake , that America is at war with Great Britain . Will the British navy let its enemy take any of that oil stored in Egypt or in Palestine ? Is it to be supposed that , under similar circumstances , America would allow the British to have any oil from Texas , Venezuela , or the Caribbean ? The same argument will apply , though less obviously , to a war with Germany or Russia , Italy or France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mediterranean shores will be worse than useless if a European enemy can move between us and those shores and cut off our access to them . In war , more than ever , it is easy and quick accessibility that counts , not formal ownership and theoretical availability . Both Americans and Britons own oilfields in Rumania . Could they use any of that oil in this war ? This confusion between availability and accessibility is a serious slip on the part of the authors of the pipeline project . The oil at the end of the Arab pipeline would be available to the United States , but who is to say that it would be accessible ? In 1913 Winston Churchill succeeded in acquiring for the British government 51 per cent of the stock of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company , contending that he thus secured the necessary oil supplies in case of national emergency . But when , during the next few years , the British Grand Fleet was at Scapa Flow , it was not the 51 per cent of stock of the Anglo-Persian Company that enabled the fleet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British control of the seas which enabled the oil tankers to reach Scapa Flow from the Persian Gulf . Indeed , the experience of two world wars has proved this point conclusively . In both wars , the Allied war effort has been oiled predominantly by American , South American , and Caribbean reserves . The explanation is simple : those were the only oil reserves to which the Allies have had free access . The entire Middle Eastern production ( Iran , Iraq , Saudi Arabia , and Bahrein ) has amounted to no more than 412 ' per cent of the world production even in the most critical periods of this war . American oil has had to be used ? because it was not only available but also accessible . IV ALL the above criticisms of the Arabian pipeline project may be countered by the argument that America is running short of oil ; that her reserves and known deposits can not take care in the future of either her peacetime or wartime requirements ; and that the United States has as much right to the vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power . It can be argued , moreover , that there was a great deal to be said in favor of Mr. Churchill 's 1913 deal , as it was obviously better for Britain to control the stock of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company than to have it controlled by Germany . Acting on the same principle , it might be to the best interests of America to own the Arabian oil , even if one admits that the accessibility to it in time of war may be doubtful . These would be powerful arguments were they built on a sound foundation . But the whole foundation happens to be faulty . The present oil scare is not the first one in America 's history . Such scares have been periodically created from 1903 on . How much truth there has been in them can be best judged by recalling the scare created in 1923 . In that year , a geologist said that in fifteen years ' time the United States oil reserves would be used up ; therefore we must have a share in foreign production . By 1927 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ration production had to be introduced . By 1932 , the pro-rating of oil was general in the United States , accompanied by the shutting down of wells . By 1938 ? the fifteenth year , in which the geologist had prophesied the end of American oil ? the United States was proved and admitted to have greater oil reserves than when the prophecy was made . It is true that in this war the United States has used up considerable quantities of its oil . But it is also true that the United States possesses now the predominant part of the world 's oil riches . Here are the figures furnished to the Truman Committee , in 1944 , by Mr. Ickes himself as Petroleum Administrator for War . According to these figures , the petroleum reserves of the principal producing countries of the world total 50,701,800,000 barrels . Out of this total , 20,032,793,000 barrels ? about 40 per cent ? represent the reserves of the continental United States . In addition the United States owns , participates in the ownership of , or could easily acquire by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 150,000,000 ) , Mexico ( 600,000,000 ) , South America ( 6,734,000,000 ) . These reserves would place at the disposal of the United States ? especially in case of war ? enough additional oil to give her over 50 per cent of the world 's total . But American interests have a share also in the oilfields of Rumania , Germany ( including Austria ) , Hungary , Italy , Poland , and ? what is of greater importance ? the Middle East . The United States controls 25 per cent of the Middle East 's oil , which is estimated at a total of 15,500,000,000 barrels , but may in reality prove much larger . One could mention the varied experiments , in this country and elsewhere , in making synthetic oil and in extracting oil from various minerals . But even if we dismiss these efforts in synthetic production ? efforts on which tens of millions of dollars have been spent , not without results ? and restrict ourselves to the natural oil reserves alone , we can hardly expect a scarcity of oil reserves , either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slightest basis for the oil panic , which is being actively sponsored by government agencies in order to pave the way for the acceptance of the Arabian pipeline with all its political implications . Not only that , but even if there were a basis for the panic , the Arabian pipeline would not enrich America or the world at large by one single barrel of oil that was not there before . All it proposes to do is to take the oil out of nature 's reservoirs and store it in man-made facilities . One may argue that all this could be done , more efficiently and certainly in a manner less costly and less dangerous from the point of view of political and military commitments , by the oil companies . Whether one likes or dislikes the rule of free enterprise and private capital , one must honestly admit that the American oil industry was efficient enough and alive enough to discover , produce , and develop oil reserves in America and throughout the world , to provide an oil arsenal for two world wars . V rr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its advocates ? the provision of cheap oil for the American consumer -- -has , / am afraid , no more substance than the other three . Judging by past experience , Arabian oil is anything but cheap . Though the Saudi Arabian and Kuwait concessions are still in their infancy , the Iraq oil concession has been in existence long enough to provide us with an illustration . A survey of the achievements of the Iraq Petroleum Company , which is owned in equal shares by British , American , Dutch , and French interests , would show that the royalties paid by the company to the Iraq government were the highest in the world . The Iraq Petroleum Company has paid to the Iraq government in royalties , non-interestbearing loans , educational grants , and various fees a total of over $80,000,000 . The oil obtained by the company has amounted to over 180,000,000 barrels . This comes to about 45 cents per barrel paid to the Iraq government ? or almost 40 per cent of the value of the oil . In the United States , on the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the crude value at the seaboard . In South American countries the royalties run between 7.16 per cent and 16 per cent . Nowhere except in Iraq has the oil industry been forced to pay nearly 40 per cent of the cost for the privilege of producing oil . The experience of the Iraq Petroleum Company hardly buttresses the hopes of the Administration to get oil from Arabia cheaply enough to warrant a considerable investment of the taxpayers ' money , even if we forget for the moment all the other aspects of this ill-considered project . VI VV E Now arrive at a picturesque fu- sion of the internal progressive New Deal with the external imperialistic New Deal . The concessions in Arabia were obtained by private American oil interests . American participation in the Iraq Petroleum Company was obtained in the same way , namely by legitimate co-operation of industry and government with all the governments concerned , most carefully avoiding political and military commitments and government ownership . Here is the place to remark that the diplomatic history of the years 1920-1927 proves that the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and effectively supported American nationals in securing a due share of foreign oil production . Statements to the con-MAGAZINE trary are in conflict with the official records of those years . The oil thus produced by free enterprise , with governmental backing , has always been available . It is equally undeniable that the American oil industry commands all the capital it needs for the exploitation and development of its holdings . It is not as if the oil companies which hold the Arabian concessions had approached the government with a request for financing . On the contrary , the Arabian pipeline project came into being on the government 's initiative . It is the government that has decided to step into the oil business , in a manner which must lead sooner or later to a transfer of ownership of the concessions from the oil companies to the government . It is said that in the days of Rommel 's victorious advance in Libya , when it looked as if he would conquer Egypt and the Arab Peninsula , representatives of the American oil companies owning the con .. cessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a request for governmental help ; and that this request spurred the official interest in the Arabian concessions which ultimately led to the pipeline plan . The story in itself , for all we know , may be true , for in time of crisis one turns in every direction looking for some way out ? although if Rommel had succeeded in his Libyan-Egyptian campaign , obviously no pipeline would have made any difference in the situation . But the structure of argument built upon that story is undoubtedly untrue . The Arabian pipeline project is the creature of the Petroleum Reserves Corporation , and the genesis of the project must lead us inevitably to that corporation . Mr. Jesse Jones , the head of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , was asked once who was responsible for the formation of the Petroleum Reserves Corporation . He answered that it was set up at the direct request of President Roosevelt . Whether Mr. Roosevelt himself originated the idea of a government-owned agency which would strive to take an active hand in the oil industry in America and overseas , or whether he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , adopted it , and acted upon it , its underlying tendency is obvious . Large investments of state funds in the industry and ownership of pipelines must logically lead to partnership of the government in the industry and to its gradual nationalization . This is presumably the New Deal idea behind the Petroleum Reserves Corporation and its first child , the Arabian pipeline . Apparently the government realized all along that the Arabian pipeline project , if considered on its merits , would not survive public discussion and expert criticism . So the project was enveloped in strict secrecy for many months , and then was sprung on the nation almost as a fait accompli . Before public opinion was allowed to share in the pipeline secret , the agreement between the government and the companies already had been signed ; millions of dollars , in money and lendlease arms , had been handed over to King Ibn Saud as preliminary " baksheesh " ; and the government was all set to embark on the enterprise itself . It was no accident that Congress was not consulted . The Reconstruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dispose of enough funds to finance the pipeline without Congressional approval . The desire to escape public discussion explains also why the pipeline project was introduced as a measure purely of war expediency . Not until the entire oil industry had risen in arms against the project was a Senate Investigating Committee established to have a closer look at it . It will probably take months for the Senate committee to study thoroughly the Arabian pipeline plan , the program of the Petroleum Reserves Corporation , and the oil policy of the Administration in general . The committee will do well to look into the qualifications and competency of those entrusted with shaping the oil policy of the government and managing government-owned oil or pipeline interests . An interesting sidelight on the financial aspect of the project is thrown by the present British-American oil negotiations . At this writing , the negotiations are just about to begin in Washington . It is most instructive to compare the composition of the British oil mission with that of the American negotiators . The British representatives are Sir William Brown , an able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Godber , representing the Shell combine ; and Sir William Fraser , who is chairman of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company and represents the Scottish element in the Anglo-Persian Company and also the Burma Oil Company . Thus two of the three members who appear on behalf of Great Britain are two of the leading directors of British and British-Dutch oil interests . Their opposite numbers on the American side will be departmental officials , in whom it would be surprising to find the wide knowledge or aptitude which would enable them to contend with such seasoned commercial negotiators . VII ImmoAnoNs of President Roosevelt 's in- clination to adopt the methods of European power politics rather than to make Europe abide by the principles of the Atlantic Charter have been apparent for some time . Our relations with Vichy France , the de Gaulle-Giraud controversy , the flirtation with the Victor Emmanuel-Badoglio group in Italy , the silent condoning of both Great Britain 's and Soviet Russia 's expansionist policies ? all these and many other developments have caused much uneasiness over the direction of America 's foreign policy . Each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expediency , not to be taken seriously as an indication of any real change in our position . But a series of " practical " steps may lead one straight into commitments which necessitate a change of policy . And in the case of the Arabian pipeline , the practical advantages are so nonexistent or remote that one is tempted to conclude that this project is not simply a tremendous blunder by Mr. Harold Ickes , but President Roosevelt 's official inauguration of a " New Deal " in America 's foreign policy . Had the United States acquired colonies or protectorates in the Middle East , it could hardly have taken a more imperialistic step than the proposed Arabian pipeline . For this project is intended to grant to the United States exclusive rights to the oil of Arabia , including the control of sales outside the United States government 's requirements . Even the British government , with its empire to protect , has never demanded such privileges in the Middle East . Oil is about the most universally and urgently needed raw material in the world . Peacetime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than on any other raw material . When President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill promised to the world through the Atlantic Charter ( Article 4 ) , " to further the enjoyment by all states , great or small , victor or vanquished , of access on equal terms to the trade and to the raw materials of the world which are needed for their economic prosperity , " they could not possibly have excluded oil from their thoughts . That is why the Arabian pipeline project is not only a flagrant breach of the letter and spirit of the Atlantic Charter , but the first clear-cut illustration of Roosevelt 's determination to take steps which inevitably would involve us in an adventure in imperialism . M O REALIZE fully all the implications of the Arabian pipeline project in the field of American foreign policy , accompany me for a moment on a short excursion to the Middle East , the scene of the planned pipeline . ( A map of the region appears in the Personal and Otherwise Department . ) As I have already said , the pipeline will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rub'al Khali . Desert , which is a sand waste half encircling the eastern borders of Yemen and the southeastern border of Saudi Arabia . The Arab Peninsula as a whole is very sparsely populated : the average is seven inhabitants per square mile . But the desert ? as the term implies ? is hardly populated at all . It is a sand waste with very few oases . The Bedouins of the Peninsula have a primordial mode of life , but in the desert there is no life at all . The Iraq Petroleum Company has had trouble time and again policing its five hundred miles of pipeline . Whenever some revolt or uprising has taken place in one of the Arab countries , the pipeline has been one of the objects of attack , both because the pipeline symbolizes Western capital and Western rule and because it is so much easier to attack a pipeline in the desert or in the open field than to attack police barracks in the city . It is less risky , and the Arab does not like to take too much risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us remember that the Iraq pipeline is located in a predominantly British area . The Arabian pipeline , however , will be an American enterprise in an area in which America thus far has incurred neither political nor military obligations . How is America going to police and protect these 1,200 miles of pipeline ? What will happen if the line is cut again and again by desert riders , out of spite or at the instigation of some foreign power or rival company ? Will America go to war with Arabia or with that eventual foreign power for the sake of the pipeline ? As matters stand today , any quantity of oil produced on those American-owned oilfields could be shipped in tankers from the Persian Gulf to any desired destination . Guarding the oilfields near the sea would be a comparatively easy matter , and there should be no shortage in tankers after this war . The political implications of the pipeline enterprise reach beyond the possible complications in American-Arabian relations over the smooth functioning of the pipeline . The Sheikdom of Kuwait is a British protectorate . Saudi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British sphere of influence , and is surrounded on every side by British-ruled or British-controlled territories and waters . This applies to Iraq , the Bahrein Islands , Kuwait , Aden and Hadhramaut , Transjordania , and all the other sheikdoms and principalities on land , as well as to the Persian Gulf , the Gulf of Oman , the Arabian Sea , the Gulf of Aden , and the Red Sea . Russia , too , is close to the scene and has very definite interests and aspirations in the Middle East . The Arabian pipeline project thus cuts right across American-British-Soviet relations . Were America 's two main allies consulted about this oil venture , and was their consent secured ? The pipeline , in order to reach its outlet on the eastern Mediterranean , must traverse Transjordania and Palestine , two territories administered by Britain . Were agreements reached on the subject with the local administrations , or with the British home government ? There have been at this writing no authoritative replies to these questions , but the indications are that the pipeline project is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debate on the air between Mr. Ickes and Senator Moore of Oklahoma , Mr. Ickes was asked whether it would not be more logical and more expedient to allocate the requested steel for widening the Iraq pipeline , rather than to embark on the new enterprise ; why did the government persist in refusing this allocation to the Iraq Company ? To this Secretary Ickes replied that he was interested in a Mediterranean outlet for American oil and not for British or British-American oil . If one further recalls the conditions imposed by the government on the companies in the aforementioned " agreement in principle , " establishing the sole control of the United States government over the entire production of the Arabian concessions , one is justified in doubting the existence of any inter-Allied accord in the matter . P ROCEEDING on this assumption , let us visualize America 's position in any future world conflict , or any conflagration in the Old World . From the very outset America will be involved , for no major conflict in the world ever skipped the Middle East . From the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Middle East has always occupied a place of prominence in imperialistic rivalries . The Middle East lies on the King 's Highway of all empires , ancient and modern alike . Long before the machine age , which made oil one of the most indispensable resources , long before oil was discovered in the region , the Middle East attracted conquerors from East and West because it lies at the crossroads of land , sea , and air communications , and is the gateway to three continents and the junction of the main waterways . To lay an American-owned pipeline in that crucial area , and to demand exclusive rights to the riches of that area , would be most hazardous even if America were badly in need of the Arabian oil . As it is , America can not claim even moral justification for this strange departure in her foreign policy . The inevitable implications of this project , if materialized , must be clear by now to everyone who follows the course of history and world events . Economic imperialism must be interlinked with political and military imperialism or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Middle East without the protection of American political power , and without a garrison , naval outposts , air bases , and readiness to meet any challenge by force , would be about the worst kind of political quixotism recorded in a long time . Is it possible that the American people are being treated to the astonishing spectacle of an American government which ? however unthinkingly ? has gone more nakedly imperialistic than many an imperialistic power in the Old World ?                     