@@471157

number of projects . All of them strive to relate the work of the individual in the plant to the performance of the product in battle . When this is done successfully more and better work results . The projects include bringing war heroes to the plant , where they speak to the workers in the canteens . The British get better results when they bring privates and lance corporals than when they bring officers . In addition , recordings are made of stories told by pilots , soldiers , and sailors and are broadcast over the public address systems in the plants . The communique type of poster which reports a battle won or an enemy plane shot down with the products of a given plant is the most popular type of poster . The Ministry of Aircraft Production was planning when I left England a series of posters based upon accounts of British bombing raids reported in German newspapers brought to England via a neutral country . Russian posters , with an English translation added , have been very popular , The Ministries attach a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared with the quota from day to day . Every plant in Britain employing 250 workers or more is required to serve at least one hot meal , including meat , to every shift every day . Extra rations are allowed the industrial as well as the service canteens , with the result that the best food ( as well as the least expensive ) in Britain is served in the war plants , not excepting the finest hotels in London . This has done much to promote and maintain morale . All women in British plants are in uniform , and this has helped to eliminate class distinctions , to save the workers ' money , to promote safety , and to build pride in war production . IV It is not likely that America will ever be subjected to the fierce and continuous bombing Britain has suffered . Buthit-and-run raids are entirely possible , if not probable , before victory is attained . We should therefore profit by some of the techniques which the British have developed out of bitter experience which are applicable to our problem . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five homes in Britain has been destroyed or damaged by German air raids ; that 44,000 civilians have been killed and more than 50,000 injured . It is also well known that in resisting those raids British fighters shot down 3,692 German planes in three months ? more than four times the number of British planes lost in the same period . What is not so well known is that many of the most vital war industries which the Germans have tried repeatedly to hit have never been scratched , although in many cases the Germans have reported their destruction . The identity of these plants and how they were camouflaged and otherwise protected are facts which obviously can not be printed during the war . The facts are available to our own civilian defense agencies and to plant protection officials of our industries . A few useful conclusions which the British have reached , and which can and should be published , are these : The heart of the protection of a plant against air raid is the control room , the only bombproof room in most British plants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in advance about approaching enemy aircraft so that protective measures may be taken . There is little doubt that " radiolocation " did more to save Britain than any other single invention . The plant control room also maintains communications with all buildings and departments of the plant itself , especially the Air Raid Protection Services organized within the plant , including the fire brigade , the rescue squad , the first aid unit , the ambulance squad , plant messengers who go to work if and when the intra-plant communication system fails , and the gas decontamination squad , as well as the lookout on the roof of the plant and the men manning the anti-aircraft guns . The public address system , which every British plant has installed with a loud speaker in every room , is hooked up with the control room so that instructions to the employees can be given . In the early days of the blitz the employees of British plants responded to the air raid warnings sounded by the city , stopped work , and went into the shelters built outside the plant and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sounded . The result was that war production in Britain was suspended whenever an enemy plane approached the city , and was not resumed until all enemy aircraft had been shot down or routed . Now shelters have been built inside the plants and the workers do not stop working until the plant publicaddress system gives the warning from the control room ? which does not happen until bombs are actually falling close to the plant . This has cut lost production time due to air raids tremendously . In the early days of the blitz confusion invariably developed between the various ARP services . This confusion led to the appointment of " incident officers . " Now whenever a bomb falls an " incident officer " is put in charge and all the ARP services take their orders from him . Also , in the early days no two persons could tell the same story of what had happened in an air raid , and there was consequently uncertainty as to what steps to take to improve protection against future raids . Now one person keeps a detailed record , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Total mobilization of man and woman power , effective air raid protection , positive relationships between employees and employers , and the concentration of the civilian goods industries , all have helped to make possible an impressive production record . Complete data on British war production have not been released because such data would be useful to the enemy . It is possible to present these facts , however : British plane production has doubled in the past year and is now believed to equal Germany 's . Britain is producing 40,000 big guns every year with 25 million rounds of ammunition . Ammunition produced for small arms exceeds two billion rounds per year . Shipbuilding in 1941 totaled 1,250,000 tons . British tank production is now twice as great as it was in August , 1941 , three times as great as in February , 1941 , and five times as great as in August , 1940 . To send supplies to Russia Britain has been assembling 200 trucks per month in Iran ( Persia ) and putting them immediately to motor convoy duty . Britain has sent three million pairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woolen garments . Our own war production volume did not pass Britain 's until April of this year . There is only one way in which Britain can increase her war production , and that is by installing more equipment . The idea that " England specializes in craftsmanship , America in mass production " persists . It possibly was true in pre-war days with regard to certain fine fabrics , briar pipes , Rolls Royce cars . But it is an unfortunate distinction to apply to war production . The notion that mass-production technics cut the quality of the product is demonstrably untrue as applied to war production , to tanks , guns , planes , munitions . The quality of a product is affected only when the materials are being changed in their dimensions or composition . British plants use the same equipment and methods we do to cut , grind , punch , trim , and heat materials , etc . Indeed , a very substantial share of the machine tools in British plants are American made . And the British have generally adopted the principle of interchangeability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But mass production involves the movement of goods as well as their conversion . Raw materials must be moved from the receiving platform , through inspection , moved into raw materials storage , moved to and through various processes , moved through finishing and assembly operations , moved through finished goods inspection , moved to finished goods storage and on to the shipping platforms . It is only when materials are moved through a plant by mechanical methods , and therefore more quickly , smoothly , and economically , that mass production is achieved . The British use overhead cranes to move material too heavy to move by hand . But the great mass of lighter materials is usually handled by hand methods , or in hand-operated trucks . One rarely sees a conveyor , the skid system , or the truck-trailer method of materials handling in a British plant . And hand movement of materials adds nothing to the quality of the product . But it does add precious man hours . Most British plants were built many years ago and were designed for singleshift daylight operation with windows and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been attached to individual machines , the general level of illumination of British plants is low . Bad lighting increases worker fatigue , accidents , spoiled work . Modern fluorescent lighting was found in only two gauge-inspection rooms in all the plants inspected by the author . Britain does not use welding as much as we do , and rarely electric welding . Riveting is still the general practice . No infra-red lamp installations were found . We use them extensively to speed drying of painted materials . If British plants could be supplied more plant equipment , materials handling , fluorescent lighting , welding , infra-red lights , British production would increase and its labor force would be more productive and less fatigued . V No people anywhere are more keenly aware that our first job is to win the war ; and yet England is far ahead of us in post-war planning . England learned the hard way that no nation can prepare for war overnight , and her leaders recognize that it will be no easier to prepare for peace overnight . The British people want more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tremendous sacrifices they are making . There appear to be four certainties about Britain 's post-war economy . The first is that the advent of 5,500,000 women in British plants will pose neither social nor economic problems when peace comes . Although Britain has always used a great many women in her industries , particularly textiles , and will doubtless continue to employ them in such industries when peace comes , still millions of others , drafted especially for war production , will be delighted to quit when the war ends . Indeed , the government has assured the unions that their pre-war status will be restored after the war ? that dilution will end , that the men will get the jobs now assigned to women for the war period . But more important than all such promises is the attitude of the women themselves . One can not walk through British plants without being impressed by the efforts the women make to preserve their femininity . Few under forty will cover their hair with the required turbans or snood caps intended to protect their hair from flying belts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a scalping in order to show their curls . Next to the dance floor , the most popular place in the great hostels which the government has built to house the " mobile women " is the hairdressing parlor . The manager of one plant employing 9,000 women told me that he would rather have 1,000 pounds of cosmetics than ? 1,000 sterling to stimulate production in his plant . I asked one girl , who they told me was the pace-setter and leading spirit in the riveting department of a plane plant , how she liked her work . " Bloody awful , " she snapped . " I 'll be damn glad when this war ends ! " . Another girl was making a lot of money on piece-rate pay in a Royal Ordnance Factory doing a repetitive operation which would drive a man mad . Asked what she thought about as she went through the same motions all day , she replied : " I think that the more of these shells I get into the machine the sooner Jack will come home from Libya . And then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more money we 'll have to start a home with . " A second certainty about Britain 's post-war economy is that the government will continue to have a great interest in the policies , if not the ownership , of British corporations . When I asked , " Will your company have enough money with which to convert back to peacetime production when the war ends ? " every corporate officer whom I interviewed replied in the negative . They further asserted that normally they would sell securities to their rich friends to raise additional capital , but that their rich friends were no longer rich . All of them felt that it would be necessary to get capital from the government , that the refund of 20 per cent of the excess profits ( now taxed 100 per cent ) promised after the war will be insufficient . This refund is itself subject to tax , so that it will actually amount to about 10 per cent . Asked if this was socialism , and whether America was drifting in the same direction , a high official of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a rich country which adopted socialism , nor of a poor country which hung on to capitalism . " Compared to America , Britain is poor . On a per capita basis her public debt is already four times ours and her national income 40 per cent less . More important , Britain has utterly inadequate natural resources except for people and coal . She is short practically everything else , which leads to the third certainty about Britain 's post-war economy . Rationing will continue after the war . Sir Frederick Leith-Ross estimates that rationing will continue for eighteenmonths after the war ; Sir Maynard Keynes , for three years . Mr. Bevin feels that the key to post-war readjustment is to get the capital-goods industries going vigorously , and quickly . This would include a tremendous program of home building , made necessary by the blitz , by the fact that two million couples have married during the war , and by obsolescence . It would include also the rebuilding of industrial and public buildings and other public construction projects . The problem will be to hold down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to divert the highest possible proportion of purchasing power into capital goods . For this purpose Mr. Bevin strongly favors the continuation of rationing and curbs on the interest charged on installment purchases . By getting the capitalgoods industries going quickly Britain will at once provide widespread employment for her ex-soldiers and - sailors and raise her standard of living . Mr. Bevin does not confine these observations to Britain , but believes that they apply generally to the world and favors international co-operation for this purpose . This leads to a fourth certainty about Britain 's post-war economy . The bulk of her exports must be of a different character from those before the war . And England must export . Unless she exports she can not import . Unless she imports she can not live . That is literally true . But Britain 's foreign trade has been based mainly upon importing raw materials and exporting finished consumer goods such as textiles . Now other countries of the world from which Britain has always purchased her raw materials , particularly the Dominions and Colonies of the British Empire , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to sell the finished goods in the world markets themselves . Every thinking Britisher recognizes that this is a world trend , that it is irresistible . What to export , what she can export , then , is Britain 's greatest post-war problem . Many Britishers have a defeatist attitude about this , and have resigned themselves to the notion that Britain can no longer compete in world markets on the old scale and must adjust herself to a lower living standard and seek to serve as the University of the United Nations , devoting her energies and enthusiasms to intellectual and cultural pursuits and to the manufacture of a few truly craftsman-built products . But that is not the attitude of the British industrialists , nor of many of the heads of the British government , nor of the press . For there are in Britain a great many people who feel that the industrialization of the world is a very necessary development ; that only by industrialization can China , India , Africa attain standards of living equal to those of the Western world ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a secure peace . These men therefore feel that England should devote her energies after this war to developing industries throughout the underindustrialized countries of the world , and that her exports should consist , in the main , of industrial equipment . The London Times joins this group , urging that it is high time that England plan to export what the rest of the world wants to buy rather than those products which the British enjoy making . One distinguished Englishman high in the ranks of the British Government made this statement to me : " It is difficult for Britain to make definite postwar plans not knowing what America is going to do when peace comes . If America chooses again to go isolationist there will be another war . And of course the next war will be even more terrible than this one . If America , on the other hand , chooses to participate in world affairs she will be the leader of the world and Britain will become her junior partner . The intelligent Englishman is adjusted to this point of view . Gradually the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world affairs is passing westward , to the new world , to America . Our greatest concern is whether America realizes what is happening , realizes that she will determine world history from this point on , whether she wants to or not , whether she again withdraws from the international scene or takes a leading part in reshaping it for a better future . Our greatest hope is that Americans may recognize now , before it is too late , that your power and your resources , your wealth , your influence give you the greatest worldwide responsibilities and opportunities any country has ever had in all history.7 WHEN Hitler started his invasion of Russia in 1941 , Nazi casualties on the Eastern Front were unexpectedly high . Doctors at base hospitals needed thousands of pints of blood for emergency transfusions and appealed for immediate supplies . The call reached German officials in conquered Poland , who ordered all persons between the ages of fifteen and sixty to donate their blood ( Aryan or non-Aryan ) for wounded Nazis . Polish blood was obtained , but only after police had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only a few months later another bloodgathering campaign moved into action under American auspices in Hawaii , after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor . Blood stores had been exhausted in treating American casualties on December 7th and new and larger reserves were urgently needed , not only to bring wounded men back to health , but also for use in case of future raids . Within fifteen days three thousand five hundred Hawaiians , soldiers , and sailors had voluntarily donated as many pints of blood , and many more have followed suit since then . Local police have agreed to give traffic offenders a choice : pay a fine in cash or else give a pint of blood to the Red Cross . This measure has added extra pints of the vital fluid to important reserves . These two examples from Poland and Hawaii serve to emphasize that , wher ever the battlefront , blood is as necessary for the fighting man as gasoline and oil are for tanks and airplanes . Twentiethcentury research has brought the civilian close to the battlefield in more ways than one . His blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent to aid armed forces throughout the world . The life-saving " powder " is dried plasma , whole blood minus most of its water and its red and white corpuscles . Thousands of wounded fighters owe their lives to the prompt use of a Red Cross plasma kit about the size of a cigar box . The kits were stored in Bataan and Corregidor ; they are on hand at Pearl Harbor , Alaskan bases , and Aleutian Island outposts . American warships stocked with the units ? packed in cases marked " Dried Human Blood Plasma for United States Navy "  - -  - carried the fight to the enemy at Midway Island . Wherever seriouslyinjured men find their strength and life ebbing away because of blood loss the kits are the medical officer 's first standby ; for they contain all the equipment necessary for prompt , on-the-spot transfusions . Each box contains the most efficient and simplest blood-supplying apparatus ever devised and will help any soldier regardless of his blood type . All the attending physician has to do is take a bottle of triple-distilled , sterilized water and mix @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dried plasma . The flaky , yellow-brown material can not produce the often fatal internal clots that form when untyped whole blood is transfused , because it is the donor 's blood cells , not the patient 's , which clump together in such accidents ? and dried plasma , containing no corpuscles , is harmless . Once the dehydrated flakes are mixed with distilled water , the doctor simply takes a hollow needle provided in the kit and inserts it into a vein in the wounded man 's arm . The plasma mixture flows along a rubber tube , also included in the kit , through the needle , and thence into the man 's bloodstream . Within fifteen to thirty minutes the patient receives the equivalent of a pint of blood , which is usually enough to see him through the difficult journey to a mobile field hospital or a base hospital many miles behind the main fighting zone . II The wounds of 1942 arc far worse than those of 1917 . Dr. John J. Moorhead of New York , who visited Hawaii to give lectures and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harbor , had the following explanation for the increased severity of injuries . " Back in 1917 , " he stated , " bullet wounds and machine-gun wounds were the most common injuries . Now it is a case of shrapnel wounds from bombs . The ones I saw were terrific . Those bombs generate tremendous heat and the splinters cover a wide surrounding area . " In statistical terms , it is estimated that at least eight out of every ten 1917 casualties were victims of bullets or bayonets , while preliminary figures indicate that such wounds are relatively rare in the present war . Shells and shrapnel and torpedoes cause more than 80 per cent of the casualties and that means more than 80 per cent su Fier from the most critical types of wounds . As a result , the average casualty loses a large amount of blood , faces a greater danger of fatal shock , and needs more blood more quickly than ever before . Physicians using World War transfusion methods to treat such wounds would fail just as surely as soldiers who tried to stem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep pace with military weapons . A dramatic report from Guy 's Hospital , London , illustrates how well the plasma technique may work . One air-raid victim had lost so much blood that his systolic pressure dropped to 40 ( the normal level is between 110 and 140 ) . Typed whole blood was unavailable , so Drs . R. T. Grant and E. B. Reeve used plasma in what may be a world 's record for high-speed transfusions . In fourteen minutes the sufferer received two pints of plasma , which promptly raised his blood pressure to 130 . The British physicians also described another dramatic case of a patient whose leg had just been amputated . " After the end of the operation , " they wrote , " his face and extremities suddenly became pale and he sweated profusely ; he lay motionless and apparently unresponsive . . . . Plasma was not obtained for a quarter of an hour and was then transfused at the rate of one pint in twenty minutes . The observers expected the patient to die , but in fifteen minutes there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his mental condition had improved and he conversed normally . " Thousands of equally successful , if less sensational , cases on tropical and sub-zero battlefronts have proved that plasma can take the place of real blood in an emergency . The United States has a vast reserve supply of this valuable substance , because in 1940 ? when the nation was still at peace ? the Surgeons General of the Army and Navy had the foresight to stimulate important research " just in case . " They requested the National Research Council to find the best available blood preparation for American armed forces . There were several possibilities on the medical market . The British flew supplies of whole blood mixed with anticlot sodium citrate to casualties at Dunkerque , but the vital fluid has the disadvantage that it will deteriorate unless refrigerated in space-consuming containers . Although liquid plasma and serum ? plasma from which certain clotforming proteins have been removed ? do not require typing , they too must be refrigerated . So attention focussed on dried preparations of these two fluids . Because medical opinion was divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plasma product was chosen for mass production . Since then physicians have found that dried scrum is also effective and this substance is used in Great Britain . One result of the National Research Council 's studies is the compact driedplasma kit , another is a civilian blood drive unparalleled in history . The drive started early in 1941 , and blood for drying is collected at special donor centers in New York , Chicago , Los Angeles , Cleveland , and more than a dozen other cities . Blood is usually taken from the large arm vein just visible below the biceps . The region is first daubed with alcohol , wrapped in sterile towels , and a blood-pressure cuff tightened around the upper arm . The cuff increases venous back pressure and facilitates blood extraction . After applying a pain-killing substance above the vein , the physician inserts a needle and draws the blood out into a bottle containing anti-dot sodium citrate . It takes about seven minutes to obtain a pint of blood in this manner . The fluid is then transferred to 80-pint containers which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bottled blood is placed on a high-speed centrifuge which , working on the principle of a cream separator , whirls the glass containers until the red and white cells settle at the bottom and the clear plasma remains on top , where it can be easily drawn off . Skilled technicians freeze this important fluid ? which is more than 90 per cent water ? and then subject the solid chunks to high vacuums . The greatly lowered pressure causes the water to evaporate away , leaving dried plasma which consists of glucose , body-strengthening proteins , and other organic materials . The dehydrated blood flakes will keep more than five years . During the World War millions of families would gladly have given their blood to save the lives of their sons in France ? if there had been any way of getting the blood overseas . The new medical order has made this possible . Of the blood collected before Pearl Harbor , 17,000 plasma kits were sent to Great Britain and the blood of American civilians was used to save the fives of more than 5,000 British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kits have been prepared and they can be found wherever American forces are stationed ? in Alaska , Iceland , Ireland , Australia , and other bases . And the drive for blood has just begun . Military officials have already spoken for about 2,000,000 or more kits ; the quantity may soar even higher if further aid is needed for a potential 10,000,000-man army and for other United Nations forces . In a people 's war the world 's soldiers will receive life-saving transfusions prepared from the blood of the world 's civilians . III The development of dried plasma represents one of medicine 's greatest triumphs in a long struggle to find just what blood is and how it works . The circulating fluid which supplies the tissues with oxygen and nourishes the body 's cells was sadly misunderstood in the 17th century . Pioneer transfusionists of that day believed that all blood was equally beneficial and that the source made little difference . Proceeding on this assumption in 1662 , Dr. Jean-Baptiste Denis tried transfusion on a fifteen-yearold boy suffering from anemia and some obscure fever . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recovered rapidly , thus arousing the enthusiasm of his parents , Dr. Denis , and most of the medical profession . The potency THE STORY of lamb 's blood was widely hailed and no one stopped to analyze the details of the case , which were extremely significant . Before the fever-stricken child came to Dr. Denis he had visited a physician who recommended blood-letting . Repeated bleedings left the unfortunate patient worse off than ever , and by the time his parents sent him to Dr. Denis it was not surprising that he suffered also from anemia . The Parisian physician administered the negative benefit of simply not bleeding his young patient , which by itself was a step in the right direction ; for the body 's red-cell manufacturing center ? the bone marrow ? undoubtedly worked overtime to replenish the youth 's blood supply . The nine ounces of lamb 's blood were probably more of a hindrance than a help , because the bloods of two unrelated species are antagonistic and often produce dangerous reactions . Furthermore , nine ounces of even properly matched blood would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case , the amount was too small to cause irreparable damage . Dr Denis was ignorant of these facts and proudly credited the transfusion with saving the boy 's life . As a result , he received applause which should rightly have gone to Nature for providing man 's body with efficient blood-manufacturing facilities . After a few other similarly " successful " cases were reported , blood transfusions became as popular as pulling teeth or removing the appendix was a few years ago ? and almost as popular as vitamin pills are to-day . People argued about theoretical issues such as whether a dog would recognize its master after receiving blood from another dog , or whether the religious beliefs of an Anglican archbishop would be affected by the blood of a Quaker . Scientists suggested the possibility of prolonging life by transfusing the blood of eagles , elephants , and other long-lived creatures . But knowledge ran a poor second to enthusiasm . As early transfusionists administered larger quantities of animal or untyped human blood and encountered more stubborn cases , the toll of deaths mounted . The bubble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheep 's blood . The man died . A French court promptly prohibited unapproved ? and that meant all ? transfusions , the practice was prohibited in England , and the Pope issued a special ban in 1675 . Doctors learned a lesson they never forgot ; they learned that animal blood contained something which made it incompatible with human blood . They recorded that patients often passed " urine black as soot , " a sure sign that valuable red cells were clumped together , destroyed , and then eliminated via the body 's wastedisposal system . Dr. Denis had noticed that severe reactions were rarer when human blood was transfused , but they still occurred and frequently caused death . The cause of this unexpected complication was still a mystery more than one hundred and fifty years later , when research slowly began to revive . Even by the 1890 's scientists had no answer for the all-important question : why should natural blood often become a death-dealing poison when injected into the bodies of patients ? At the turn of the century only about half of the hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treatment a last resort . Scientists throughout the world , however , were busily tracking down the problem of blood incompatibility and the solution finally came in a rather roundabout fashion . Bacteriological research revealed that when germs enter the bloodstream the body throws up ingenious and complicated defenses . The blood contains certain proteins called globulins , the countless molecules of which compose an amazingly versatile army . Pneumonia germs , for example , would be invulnerable to microbe-killing white blood cells if it were not for the activities of this army . The mere presence of pneumococci in the blood puts the globulin molecules in a cold physiological fury . Attracted by chemical forces , the particles drift toward the germs , bump against tiny portions of the harmful cells ' surface , and change their own structure so as to mold themselves firmly to the invaders . As a result the bacteria weaken and become easy prey to the white cells . Globulin particles which exert such antidisease effects are called antibodies and these units arc the system 's customs officials whose duty it is to dispose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rumpus ; the high fever during the crisis of pneumonia is simply heat thrown off as a result of the antibody-pneumococcus battle . The blood of many persons also has a strong aversion to ragweed and pollen , and if particles of these plants enter the circulation the fight manifests itself in the sniffling and sneezing of hay fever . By 1902 Dr. Karl Landsteiner , Nobel Prize winner of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research , and other scientists had used such knowledge to solve the mystery of the fatal blood reactions that brought transfusions into disrepute during the 17th century . Just as the body resents the presence of germs and ragweed , so it rebels against the blood of another species . Proteins in human blood cling to the red cells of sheep blood , for example , first causing the alien corpuscles to clump together into dangerous clots and then destroying them entirely . Dr. Landsteiner 's great contribution was the discovery that even man-to-man transfusions are often followed by such reactions . Unless a patient receives whole blood of his own type , as determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood will react with the donor 's red cells . A tremendous amount of intricate laboratory work went into the discovery of blood groups , because the reasons why cells clump together or agglutinate are not simple . All blood serum contains one , another , both , or neither of two proteins , identified as " a " or " b . " Thus , there are four main types of blood serum ? " a , " " b , " " ab , " and " o . " Similarly , all bloodcells contain one , another , both , or neither of two different proteins , A and B , and there are four general cell types ? A , B , AB , and 0 . Dangerous transfusion reactions result only from the union of the patient 's serum proteins with those of the donor 's cells . A cells are clumped together by " a " serum , B cells by " b " serum , and AB cells by " a , " " b , " or " ab " serum . Persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clumping reaction , are the so-called universal donors , because no matter what type the patient 's serum , serious consequences can not take place . About 46 per cent of all Americans have blood of this type . On the other hand , three out of every 100 men and women have serum free of either " a " or " b " proteins and these are the universal recipients . When there is an emergency call , and a potential donor appears , doctors prick his finger with a needle to obtain a drop of his blood . This sample may be divided into two parts , one being mixed with " a " serum and the other with " b " serum . The two blobs are then examined carefully under the microscope . If there is clumping in both , the donor 's cells are of the AB group ; if no reaction is observed , the volunteer is a universal 0-group donor . Clumping in either the " a " or the " b " serum part means the donor 's cells are A or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typed by similar methods and if his and the donor 's blood are not antagonistic transfusion will be safe . These discoveries found ample application in the World War and blood transfusion was a comparatively safe procedure whenever donors were available and there was time to perform typing tests . Since such favorable conditions were frequently impossible in jammed hospitals , however , the frantic call for blood often remained unanswered . Among the physicians who tried to do something about it was Dr. 0 . H. Robinson , an American captain fighting with the British Expeditionary                     