@@493673

IT HAPPENS at least once to every commuter . Cyrus Fairweather misses the 5:31 and walks into the newsreel theatre in New York 's Grand Central Station to while away an hour before the next train . He also has a vague idea that he might catch up on what is happening around the world , but as he settles back in his seat , what does he see and hear for his forty cents ? Kettledrums ; a Voice of Doom ; grinning , bearded Greeks firing a cannon at what looks like a mountain . According to the commentator , aggression is being stopped as Time Marches On in Greece . There follows the Up-to-the-minute news . The battleship New Jersey is deactivated as granite-faced admirals salute and a boatswain 's mate dramatically turns Off the ship 's ventilation system ; Somewhere in the USA , a duck crosses Main Street ; A French wrestler , weight 276 , grapples with ' a Belgian with a long , black beard ; Secretary of the Treasury Snyder signs a check for $7.5 billion ; Girls in bathing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before solemn judges ; French girls in : French bathing suits coyly assume sidewise poses for the prudish American cameras , while American girls in ' American bathing suits put on skis and fall down in the snow . " The ski 's the limit , " cries the commentator , and Fairweather looks At his watch . His time is up , and he starts off for his train , his ears still buzzing from the assorted squawks and explosions and his eyes watering from the quick shifting of . scenes . As he emerges from the theatre , ' Fairweather is so little impressed by what he has seen that he immediately wonders what Mrs. F. is having for dinner . Like thousands of other Americans Fairweather thinks of newsreel theatres as convenient places to wait for trains , get opt of the rain , or cool off in air-conditioned comfort . The customer who really expects to see news in the newsreels is a na ? ve character . The average moviegoer is so accustomed to bathing beauties , monkeys , baseball games , politicians , etc. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to give him fifty minutes of significant current events . Since he raises no effective objection to the status quo , the newsreel producers are content to let things ride . The result of this apathy has been to perpetuate a newsreel format that has n't changed appreciably in the past twenty years . The same old subjects ' are given the same old treatment . In covering horse races , animals at the zoo , speeches , etc. , the photographic techniques used by five major newsreel companies ( 20th Century-Fox Movietone , Warner-Pathe , Paramount , Universal , Hearst-M-G-M News of the Day ) are as predictable as the days of the week . As for authenticity , some newsreels are almost as phony as the old staged photographs of the sinking of the ' Maine in 1898 , which were shown in the nickelodeons . However , to attack the newsreel on artistic grounds ; or as an agency for disseminating important news , is like hitting a man when he 's down . Ev'eu 14 the men who make them are far from proud of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , instead of plugging their product , they go into long ? explanations of why it is no better . Problem number one is money . None of the newsreel compapies makes more than a moderate return on its investment ; at times they show a loss , which must be absorbed by the parent company in Hollywood . Unlike newspapers , they have no advertising revenue , and the cost of taking pictures , developing negatives , making prints , etc. , is high . A second big problem is the difficulty of getting hold of enough spectacular or important news week after week . One harassed producer complains : " The Daily News ca n't always be bright with a good sex murder ; the Times ca n't always be bright with an international situation ; and so how in hell can you expect us to be bright every time some chump sits down in front of a camera and opens ' his mouth ? " Even if important mews stories broke every , day , limited , budgets would make adequate coverage impossible . Most of the companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they pay a few men a regular salary to obtain material , most of the work is done by stringers , who are paid small fees . This . reliance on half-time correspondents gets half-time results . In faraway places like China and Japan , the newsreels use a " pool " ar'rangement under which one cameraman works for several companies . This is a cheap way of getting film , but it discourages thorough and imaginative reporting . Another example of pooling is the non-competitive way in which representatives of the major newsreel companies often cover a single big assignment , such as a national convention . The cameramen travel in a tightly knit group , shoot the same stuff , and look , with a fishy eye at colleagues who attempt to get exclusive stories . A talk with a newsreel editor is NEW REPUBLIC roughly analogous to picking up an empty vase which you expected to be full ; it throws you slightly off balance . The editors , conscious of the shortcomings of their output , add criticism of their own to the general uproar . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is much too verbose , and hopes that American newsreels will learn to emulate the European films ' terse , reserved treatment . Fox Movietones Dan Daugherty , a red-headed newsreel veteran , faces criticism with equanimity . " We have made billions of mistakes , " he agrees , " but when we do a good job , nobody notices . For instance , we told ? the public about Hitler , Mussolini and the rest of their gang ? filmed thousands of feet of their speeches , parades , planes and guns ? but almost nobody believed us . What the hell ? You show some people the truth , and they close their eyes . But if you miss something , that 's different . " Two outstanding critics of the ' newsreels are Bosley Crowther of the New York Times and the New York Herald Tribune 's John Crosby . M. D. Clofine , editor of Hearst-M-G-M 's News of the Day , blames the term " newsreel " for many of their adverse comments . " What the critics do n't see is that the newsreel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As part of a theatre program it has two functions ? to inform and to amuse . Since the entertainment factor has to enter our calculations , we often use light subjects in preference to a ' significant ' piece of news that is pictorially dull . " Clofine also points out that ? the scope of the newsreel is limited by the requirements of the individual theatre exhibitor , who , after all , is in " business to make money . Since the main features are the most important revenue-producers on his program , he allots most of his budget to them ; the result is that when the exhibitor gets around to the newsreel he has very little left to spend . This simple economic fact explains why the newsreels are not as elaborate or as exhaustive as they might be . The producers can not afford it . Economic and technical difficulties may explain many of the newsreels ' weaknesses , but not their editorial shortcomings . Newsreel material about world affairs , for instance , follows a singularly conventional course and , in most cases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a possible exception ) . The films are saturated with antiCOrn.rnunist and pro-military propaganda . When Cardinal Spellman and President Truman spoke on St. Patrick 's Day , it was the anti-Communist portions of their addresses that were singled out for screening . Extensive shots of army maneuvers , divl ? g planes , smoking rockets and General MacArthur reviewing his troops in Japan are screened while sound tracks blare do-or-die college marching songs . On the home front , the newsreels frequently make no bones about be ing partisan . Labor conflicts are usually treated with ill-concealed bias . During the soft-coal strike last year , elaborate shots of abandoned mines and joking , idle miners invited moviegoers to ponder the destructive effects of the shutdown . The cameras did not go into the miners ' side of the story . The newsreels ' way of , treating ' the packinghouse workers ' strike was to give prominence to signs in butcher shops proclaiming the rising cost of meat . Occasionally , however , impartiality is shown . Telenews ' coverage of the Wall Street strike was fair to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting way . There is little doubt that US newsreels distort current political events . Yet these distortions would do little harm if it were not for the newsreels ' tendency to blunt the audience 's critical faculties . First , there is too much chatter . Newsreel audiences are spoonfed a constant stream of words , wisecracks and loaded phrases . These are spoken in overemphasized tones of serious , ness , despair , triumph or happiness that only the worst ham actor would dare to employ on the stage . Not only is it corny ; it is much too long . The comment in American newsreels takes up 80 percent of the scteening time , while many of the European reels restrict commentary to a third as much footage . Again , American newsreel sequences almost always alternate between disaster ( floods , ' fires ) and fun ( gorilla eats birthday cake ) . The emotions of the newsreel fan are made to bob up and down like a yo-yo , and the effect of this jerky , kaleidoscopic attack on his eyes and ears is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally emerges from ' the theatre , his memory is a hodgepodge of noises , faces , catastrophes and shifting backgrounds . ' At least one major newsreel company , Telenews , is showing that new techniques can be evolved . In its short existence , Telenews has emphasized the " trend " approach to significant news stories , featuring intelligent interpretation of the scenes it records . An excellent example of Telenews ' reporting bras its treatment of the Supreme Court.decision invalidating restrictive covenants . The sequence opened ' with shots of men picketing the White House in protest against Negro segregation in the Army . Then came footage contrasting white and Negro housing in such cities as New York and Washington , D. C. The narrator interviewed the Negro family which brought the case to the Supreme Court . The disputed portion of the covenant itself was enlarged on the screen , while a background voice slowly quoted that section of the Fourteenth Amendment which played a crucial part in the court decision , This was superb reporting ? thorough , convincing and original . Sloppiness , distortion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makers . They may play up or omit certain topics for political reasons , but it would be preposterous to assume that they select and manipulate their material with a view to stupefying their audience . They seem to be indolent rather than totalitarian-minded . There is no valid reason why US newsreel companies should not try to develop patterns that challenge the intellect instead of blunting it . The newsreel need not be as bad as it is . The eternal mixture of disasters and silly jokes is not unavoidable , and even sports events can be depicted in a less stereotyped way . But the most urgently needed in re-form is n structure . Commentary should be limited to essential supplementary information , while the pictures tell the actual story . The audience then would be in a position to digest material that now scarcely reaches its senses . 