@@431395

 | Many women suffer difficulties from menstruation or during the menopause . During their reproductive lives , their periods may be painful , irregular , scanty , or excessive . With the menopause , they sometimes have hot flushes , headaches , or other manifestations of ovarian change . An occasional menstrual ache or pain , an unusual period once in a while are of little consequence . Depression , irritability , an occasional hot flush during the menopause are merely nuisances that the sensible woman laughs off . But sometimes symptoms constitute a major problem . Modern science is finding ways to help regulate ovarian functions . The doctor can not create a perfect mechanism in the presence of abnormal tissue , just as a clockmaker can not make a fine Swiss watch from a cheap makeshift . But the doctor can improve conditions , eliminate most trials and disturbances , and help to put the ovaries in good working order . All this can be done with hormones . The two ovaries are composed of thousands of potential egg cells . Each month the pituitary gland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process that forms an egg by secreting hormones , which circulate in the bloodstream and stimulate ovarian secretion . A little cyst begins to form around an ovarian cell and grows until a yellowish globule is produced . This is the first half of the menstrual cycle , when estrogen , the follicular hormone , is developed . About the middle of the cycle , the egg cell ruptures and releases the ovum . This leaves a tiny depression , the corpus luteum , which is the source of progesterone , the luteinizing hormone . This hormone prepares the uterus for pregnancy . During the first part of the menstrual cycle , estrogen causes the lining of the uterus to grow , After ovulation ? that is , after the egg drops out of the ovary ? the lining growth is accelerated , and the glands become swollen and filled with mucus . Then , if conception occurs , the uterus is ready for the fertilized egg . If the egg is not fertilized , the upper part of the soft , swollen lining sloughs off and menstruation takes place . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in size until there is an actual cyst , which functions for two or three months . During this time , women in danger of miscarriage are given injections of progesterone , because their corpusluteum secretion is thought to be insufficient . The injections do not help if the trouble has any other cause . After three or four months , the placenta , or afterbirth , takes on the function of the corpusluteum cyst . Variations in the amount of hormone secretions @#  | may result in menstrual or menopause disturbances . Usually , women who develop severe menopause symptoms have a history of menstrual disturbances ? for example , abnormal bleeding . If a woman has abnormal bleeding , the gynecologist first tests her for organic trouble , such as fibroid or malignant tumors or polyps , which must have appropriate treatment . If he can rule these out , he investigates to see if the bleeding is caused by a high estrogen level or an ovarian insufficiency . In either case , the uterus lining may so build up that there is copious or continuous bleeding . Treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At New York Hospital , Cornell Medical Center , doctors report excellent results with a preparation , given orally , that has a progesterone action . The prescribed dosage is given for five to seven days , beginning on what would be the twenty-first day of a normal menstrual cycle . Menstruation starts from one to three days after the dosage is discontinued . Thus a normal twentyeight-day cycle is resumed . Some clinics use androgens , the male hormones . Some give thyroid . Others use repeated curettage , ' although this is losing favor . Naturally cases differ . For example , if a girl of sixteen has severe bleeding , the gynecologist may prescribe male hormones to halt the acute condition and progesterone for prolonged care . Hormone treatment also helps in various kinds of amenorrhea ? absence or decrease of menstrual bleeding . Some women never menstruate . Perhaps the uterus is undeveloped . Maybe the pituitary gland does not stimulate the ovary sufficiently to start the regular menstrual cycles , or the ovary ca n't respond to the stimulus . There are other reasons , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what doctors term " secondary sex characteristics . " The doctor may pre- scribe estrogen , to increase the body 's inadequate supply . He may prescribe large amounts over long periods . These girls may not ovulate and have children ; but their secondary sex characteristics may develop , and often they marry happily . Before the discovery of hormone treatments , most of these girls were doomed to grow up as miserable social misfits . Sometimes the menstrual flow ceases early in life . Such amenorrhea may result from too much or too little activity of the thyroid gland , or from lack of essential elements in the diet . Treatment for these cases is clear . Considerable emotional strain can cause amenorrhea . It was prevalent among Army nurses during the war . In such cases , hormones may produce bleeding , but they can not correct the basic disturbance . Sometimes there is no obvious reason for amenorrhea . Hormones are important to women with severe symptoms during the menopause , which is due , in part , to the aging of the ovaries and the gradual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through this period without symptoms . Others suffer excessive vasomotor disturbances ? hot flushes , with subsequent drenching sweats , dizziness , palpitation , and exhaustion ? and insomnia , weakness , digestive complaints , depression , irritability , and other physical or psychological trials . Doctors do not understand why lack of estrogen may cause these symptoms . But they have learned that estrogen injections give stability and relief . ( Also there are good preparations of both natural and synthetic hormones , which can be taken by mouth , when prescribed by the doctor . ) By means of the vaginal-smear technique developed at New York Hospital , the expert can determine , in a short time , the amount of ovarian function . With this knowledge , the doctor can give sufficient estrogen to raise  | the level to normal , and so rid his patient of most of her symptoms . This is known as the " replacement " treatment . Some women need full replacement ; others only half or even a quarter . The average dosage varies between about 2,000 and 4,000 rat units a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large doses of estrogen are likely to cause bleeding . The doctor may give interrupted treatment ? estrogen injections for three or four weeks , stopped for a week , then resumed . Some women who bleed when they are given even small quantities of estrogen are treated with a combination of estrogen and androgen . The disadvantage of androgen alone is that , to be effective , it usually must be given in fairly large doses , and the patient may become masculinized . The doctor does n't want any woman under his care to develop a suspicious shadow on her upper lip or have her naturally sweet voice deepen . So the condition must be serious to warrant use of large amounts of male hormone . The careful doctor is still reluctant to prescribe estrogen for women with family histories of cancer ; for there seems to be evidence that estrogen might contribute to the development of malignancies . A prominent hospital made a significant study , which showed that if factors that might predispose toward cancer were ! minimized ( for example , inflammatory lesions were corrected ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlled estrogen treatment did not seem to constitute a risk . There were fewer cases of cancer among the women treated than the doctors had anticipated . There is still some controversy on this point , however , and as androgen in large enough amounts also relieves menopause symptoms , gynecologists may give victims of cancer , even in early stages , male hormones instead of estrogen . OVARIAN hormones help in another way . Many women whose menstruation is normal feel definitely under par just before their periods . They are nervous and irritable , or they complain of headaches , the blues , or other symptoms . This occurs at the time the estrogen secretion is low . So the doctor may prescribe hormones . Some doctors use androgen ; some prefer progesterone ; others use ammonium chloride . - However , some clinics experienced in treating a large number of patients prescribe estrogen , believing this therapy gets the best results . At all events , if every month a woman is low and dispirited , worries nervously about trivialities , or is bothered by other complaints , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uses for hormones . We are only beginning to learn about them . Modern science already knows , however , how hormones may relieve or cure some of women 's common afflictions . For this we are thankful .                     