@@487867

THIS is written , the election is just three weeks away . If the people of the Far West voted to- morrow , Wendell Willkie would be beaten in practically every state between the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific . He might have an outside chance in Colorado . Certainly he would lose in Washington , Oregon , California , Idaho , Montana , Nevada , Utah , Wyoming , Arizona , and New Mexico . What factors are responsible for this ? What circumstances might possibly change the situation ? Can Willkie , at the eleventh hour , yet breach the fortifications which the New Deal has erected in the great open spaces ? Willkie 's tour of the West was a complete washout . It is no exaggeration to say that the Elliott Roosevelt episode probably brought him more votes . Turner Cat-ledge of the New York Times summed up the result mildly when in an interview at Portland he said , " Willkie seems to have failed to strike fire . " This failure to ignite enthusiasm may be traced directly to the candidate 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the San Francisco earthquake . He promised all things except eternal youth and perpetual motion . With one breath he extolled those two indomitable isolationists , Hiram Johnson and the late Senator Borah , and with the next urged greater aid to Britain and China . In the cattle country he denounced the purchase of Argentine beef , and at Treasure Island , in San Francisco harbor , he spoke glowingly for expanded trade . He generally began his speeches with a condemnation of New Deal spending and extravagance , and ended by promising bigger old-age pensions , continuation of relief , and the completion of Bonneville , Grand Coulee , and Shasta dams . At one wayside stop in California he seemed to feel so keenly the presence of the ghost of his Commonwealth and Southern connection that he got off this masterpiece : " When I was in private business I fought for the interests of those who employed me to the best of my ability , and if you elect me President , I 'll fight for the country as I have for business in the past . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt pledged himself to develop the Columbia River , was to have been Willkie 's most daring effort in the West . No other issue was so dangerous for him He had to meet it . A brief analysis may give the measure of his success . He started off with a rebuke to the President for doubling the national debt . Then he promised to complete the $394,000,000 Grand Coulee project , an undertaking which he had specifically criticized in 1937 . As if making a great concession , he said local communities could decide whether they preferred public or private distribution of power . ( This was a privilege he was a little late in conferring ; in 1902 , before Willkie was out of grade school , the people of Seattle voted to October 26 , 1940 build a power plant on the Cedar River . ) Willkie implied that the federal government should be neutral as between private companies and public agencies , but he aroused the greatest applause when he praised his running-mate , Senator McNary , whose neutrality in this controversy may be judged from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sponsored in Congress . This runs , " In order to insure that the facilities for the generation of electric energy at the Bonneville project shall be operated for the benefit of the general public , and particularly of domestic and rural consumers , the administrator shall at all times , in disposing of electric energy , give preference to public bodies and cooperatives . " In the five days immediately following Willkie 's talk , 1,257 new Republicans registered in Portland and 2,009 Democrats . A poll conducted by the Oregonian showed that the Republican candidate slipped three points . A similar poll taken in the San Francisco Bay region showed him dropping four points after he made his speech there on foreign affairs . The ineptness of the whole tour was incredible . Mass singing at the rally for Willkie in Portland was led by a florist whose shops are on the A. F. of L. unfair list . Attempts were constantly made to induce legitimate labor leaders to met the Willkie train , but they invariably failed Dave Beck of Seattle , Paul Gurske , president of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brost of the C. I. 0. , and practically all other union officials in this area are wearing Roosevelt buttons . The only opposition to the President in the ranks of labor is coming from Harry Bridges and others who follow the Communist Party line . A report now is current that John L. Lewis intends to oppose the reelection of the President . So far as the West is concerned , I am certain this would damage Lewis a good deal more than it would Roosevelt . It would align him with the allegedly Communist elements in his own unions , and it also would make it appear that , for the moment at least , he had the same political objective as the Associated Farmers and other labor-hating factions along the Pacific seaboard . I can not forget standing in the headquarters of the Miners ' Union in Butte in February and hearing men curse Lewis as a traitor to labor because of his attacks on the President . I am sure that for every lumberjack , miner , and longshoreman he manages to turn against the President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community of St. Johns , where many of Oregon 's sawmills and lumber yards are located , Willkie spoke of his fealty to the cause of labor . In the five following days 104 Republicans and 511 Democrats registered to vote in St. Johns . Yet in spite of all this the bulk of the press described his trip as a great triumphal journey and a conqueror 's progress . Only two large daily papers hereabouts  --  the Oregonian of Portland and the385 Seattle Post-Intelligencer , published by John Boettigerappear to be trying to give an objective account of the campaign . The small Coos Bay Times is the only daily giving Roosevelt unreserved editorial adherence . To date the Republican campaign in the Far West has been a colossal failure . With much slimmer finances Oscar Chapman , former Assistant Secretary of the Interior , has staged a notably more aggressive drive for the Democrats . Zeal for the Willkie cause has oozed away . Not even the popular Senator McNary seems to be able to counteract the poor showing Willkie himself has made . People now say they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dislike Roosevelt . The emphasis has shifted . " No Third Term " buttons have replaced Willkie insignia . After traveling 4,000 miles in eight Far Western states in recent weeks I am convinced that this region today is a Roosevelt fortress . Willkie might win narrowly in Colorado , where he spent his vacation on the plateau below Pike 's Peak , yet I doubt it . In the rodeo parade at Colorado Springs Willkie rode amid silence up Las Animas Street , where many of the railroad workers live . He got no cheers until the procession reached Pike 's Peak Avenue and the business district . Willkie himself has seemed to sense this situation . When his train stopped in the Washington lumber town of Kelso , he recognized that his listeners were not for him . " Study both sides before casting your ballot , " he said . " Do n't make up your mind until you hear every argument . " A Union Pacific stewardess said to me , " Most of the folks on the Challenger are for Roosevelt . Those on the Overland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tourist sleepers ; the Overland Limited is made up exclusively of standard Pullman cars . And on the Shasta route of the Southern Pacific a gray-haired conductor observed , " There are n't half a dozen men working on this division who do n't intend to vote for Roosevelt . " The evidence now is that the President has a fee-simple claim on the sixty-five electoral votes this side of the Continental Divide . 386 - There is but one issue which might reverse all these calculations , and that is the President 's foreign policy . Though the alliance between Tokyo and the Axis has jarred isolationist sentiment , it has not dispelled it . The fact can not be overlooked that a majority of the Senators from the Far West voted to restrict the service of the National Guard to the United States and its possessions . Five of the eight Senators from the Pacific Northwest opposed conscription . Senator McNary , Willkie 's running-mate , supported the amendment delaying the draft . Most of the prominent Western Senators in Mr. Roosevelt 's own party ? Wheeler of Montana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edwin Johnson and Adams of Colorado , Downey of California  --  are unyielding isolationists . Both Democratic and Republican politicians have told me that if Willkie had come out against the Burke-Wadsworth bill , the President would not be sure of a single Far Western state . The people of the West want cheap electric power , old-age pensions , good housing , soil and forest conservation , decent working conditions . But above all they want their country to keep out of war . If Willkie , by one of his sudden turnabouts , can present himself successfully as an outright peace candidate there is no predicting what might happen . He would be helped in such an effort should Hiram Johnson , as now seems likely , declare for him . Johnson was hot about Willkie 's strongly pro-British speech at San Francisco , but he was considerably more annoyed by the President 's jab at him The NATION just before the California primaries . Moreover , he is a close friend of McNary 's . There are indications that the Republicans in the West are getting ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. 0 . P. leaders say , " Willkie went down the line on an interventionist policy , and still Dorothy Thompson and Lippmann have given him the needles . Now let 's go after the Johnson-BorahWheeler faction . They 'll appreciate us more . " Already General Johnson is talking about Willkie as the peace candidate and Roosevelt as the war candidate . If this becomes the official Republican strategy , the New Deal 's apparently safe margin in the West may be imperiled . Only by crowding Roosevelt away from the rail on the peace question , will Willkie have any chance in a region which has been solidly New Deal in the last two national elections . Westerners have always been acutely conscious of the Japanese navy , and the political prospect could change overnight if the President appeared to be either too submissive or too bellicose . Many men and women in this part of the country believe the election should have been in the main a referendum on foreign policy . One of the shrewdest Republicans in the Northwest said to me not long ago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have worn better over the long pull . A ticket of Taft and McNary , running on a peace plank and promising strong defense but positively no foreign entanglements , would have been far stronger in the West than Willkie. "                     