@@492031

EVERYBODY knows that we underestimated Japan 's strategic position in the Pacific and overestimated our own . But few realize how close Japan is to the objective for which she has sacrificed and fought for seventy years . A few weeks after her first stabs at us in the Pacific she was already within sight of self-sufficiency in the essential resources and raw materials of war . Even more than raw materials , Japan had to have , to fight a long war , security of food supply . Her seizure of Manchuria in 1931 did not entirely safeguard her in that respect . But now , in addition to Manchuria and China , Japan commands Thailand and Indo-China , with their rich rice crops . Indo-China alone produces enough rice to feed both itself and Japan . Given Burma , Japan would control the greater part of the exportable rice crop of the world-one of the most powerful economic weapons imaginable . Through her seizure of Indo-China , the . Philippines , Thailand and parts of Malaya , Borneo and the Celebes , Japan has for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hemp , coal , iron , rubber , tin and many other essential metals . The loss of Northern Malaya deprives us of the source of three fourths of the tin and three fifths of the rubber used in the arsenal of democracy . In February , Japan still needed , chiefly , oil . Without it her military machine could be immobilized in a couple of years . But oil is a matter of life and death in such an absolute sense that she must use the last drop of blood she possesses to get it . If Japan could take Java , or Sumatra , or Burma , or even hold Borneo , she would have enough oil to fight us for a long time . Conceded adequate oil , the only remaining unknown factor would be the tempo with which Japan could exploit this and other captured raw materials of war , and convert them to military production on the scale required . What of maintaining communica- tions ? Some quarters still believe we could cut Japan 's life lines by air and naval war conducted from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the strategic points in the East Indies . Though her near sea lanes might possibly be made very insecure in that way , it is generally overlooked that Japan could still reach Southeastern Asia by land alone , all the way from her ferry head in Korea . At present Japan has an all-continental supply line from Keijo to Southern Malaya  --  via Manchuria , China , Indo-China and Thailand . It is an all-land route except for a gap in South China which no doubt could be closed if Japan felt justified in paying the price of its occupation . Later on , obviously , this line of communications could be extended to include Java or Sumatra . The Malacca Strait lying between Sumatra and Singapore is virtually an inland waterway which could be practically forbidden to hostile ships . Anticipating some such possibility a decade ago , during the loss of Manchuria , some observers held that Japan , having become a continental power , was no longer vulnerable to naval blockade . They maintained that Europe 's colonies in Asia could get security against her only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious after Japan occupied Eastern China , and still more so when she virtually replaced France as master of Indo-China in 1940 . Since 1931 and down to the present moment the British never faced the full logic of the central question posed by this extension of Japan 's power from the sea to the continent  --  that is , where and how to mobilize those superior land forces . We ourselves would never face it , because nobody was able to fight major land battles to hold our positions in the Western Pacific . Surely the answer to this problem in logistics years ago indicated ( 1 ) close military collaboration with Russia and China , the only two land powers in East Asia ; and/or ( 2 ) the most intensive development of native power inside the European colonies themselves . Britain sought for neither . As a result she is compelled today to draw largely upon her own inadequate man power and overseas war industry and shipping to support a faltering defense . In her strategy a big American expeditionary force becomes indispensable as the backbone of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not mature overnight . And now what is to contain Japan during many months while America builds the necessary causeway of ships , and the planes and tanks required ? The " thin red line of heroes , " the white burden bearers in the thousands , overwhelming well-armed Nipponese empire builders in the millions ? Maybe ; it is a long hope . But the facts and figures are against it . What land forces did the Allies actually have in that part of the world early in February ? We ourselves had the valiant remnant of an original combined armed force probably not exceeding 60,000 men in the Philippines . It is not difficult to calculate that probably no more than 20,000 of them were Americans . Their resistance has now been localized . Even if they survive on their small foothold in Bataan , they are immobilized until relief , which could only come as part of a major counteroffensive , arrives from abroad . In the Dutch East Indies the European population , combined with the " Indos , " or Eurasians , is scarcely 300,000 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brave and efficient , did not number much more than 100,000 trained and equipped men . The percentage of Europeans was not large . In Malaya and Burma the Allies possibly had as many as 200,000 troops , predominantly Indians . Perhaps , with recent reinforcements , three or four divisions were British and Australians and New Zealanders . Valorcus men and as good as any fighters on earth , but little better armed than the Japanese , and hence hardly able to compete with their vast numbers . Even if we could mass superior naval and air power on all Japan 's far-flung frontiers , would it be enough to overcome an enemy winning his battles on the land ? Against us the Japanese had five to six million men trained and ready for mobilization . The indications are that they must have activized , if not already deployed in battle areas , some 3,000,000 of these sacrifices to the Sun Goddess . Where are we going to find 3,000,000 , or even 1,000,000 , Occidental troops to keep Japan away from our last-ditch bases in the Orient  --  from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gunga Din T THE moment it is obvious that only America IA could supply the numbers needed . But the planes and the tanks , and , above all , the merchant and naval tonnage to take them there ? Today our transports have to creep across some 10,000 to 12 , - 000 miles of ocean to avoid attack from advance Japanese aircraft and naval bases . And the enemy 's tentacles are spreading in an arc aimed to force us out of the Southwestern Pacific entirely . We must face it  --  he might temporarily succeed . If you are handy with a pencil , you can calculate quite easily the enormous difficulties that face us in transporting as many as twenty divisions to the East Asiatic mainland . Evidence suggests that the hulk of our shipping space might be more efficiently used to carry , for the present , the modern weapons needed to equip Asia 's own man power . From ten to twenty or more // men in Asia can be armed in some instances with the material and shipping space required for one American . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salvation can be raised where they should have been organized long ago . In Asia itself ? among the billion Asiatics whose destiny is at stake more directly than our own . The evidence is , in short , that Gunga Din must be in there with something deadlier than a water bottle if the Nipponese are to be held . And with a fighting morale that grows out of conscious dedication to a cause other than personal service to the pukka sahib this time . Today Japan is in strategic occupation of new territories of about 650,000 square miles , with a population of some 50,000,000 . Add to that her own 70,000,000 , plus a couple of hundred million subjects in Manchuria and China , and she stands in military domination over more than 300,000,000 people . They inhabit a couple of million square miles of the earth . Much of this conquest is unconsolidated in the political , economic and military sense ; her war potential in the East is still inferior to that of the Allies . In contrast , the British Empire in the South Pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covers about 3,500,000 square miles . Omitting that altogether , and focusing on the Orient , the Allies still control land areas greater than the enemy . They still have at their disposal twice as much man power  --  including 250,000,000 Chinese in Free China . In these territories  --  in the East Indies and in India  --  are some of the richest resources in the world , far exceeding in value anything yet within Nippon 's grasp . Fully mobilized , that combination of human and material resources could alone win the war in Asia . But the fact is that only the merest beginning has been made toward mobilizing the resources , while the vast majority of the natives remain illiterate , unorganized , unconsulted and militarily untrained . Why ? And is there yet time to do anything about it ? The Dutch have been in control of the East Indian islands since before Commodore Perry opened a Pandora 's box by breaking Japan 's total isolation from the world . There are nearly as many people in those islands as there are in Japan , and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , with riches far beyond anything hidden in Japan 's crowded soil . Yet their industrial possibilities are scarcely touched , and one result is their present inability to defend themselves . In recent years the Dutch have realized the necessity for modernization , education of their subjects , and the development of a limited measure of self-government . However , only a small percentage of the people are trained to take part in their own defense . But it is India that is the center of the problem and the hope of Allied strategy in Asia . Formerly we Americans could take India , as the saying goes , or leave it alone . But whether we like it or not , India may become as much our problem as are the jurisdictional disputes of Messrs . Green and Murray . What happens or does not happen in India can cost us heavily . It may be considered bad cricket in some quarters to bring it up , but the moment we got into war the American people perforce assumed a share of responsibility for India , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crown of the King , " as Mr. Churchill describes it . Sooner or later we shall have to look this horse in the mouth  --  and most certainly so when our troops begin to fight for it . Here I am not interested in the morals or ethics of the independence question , but it is pertinent to show the political and economic limitations of Indian militarization . To begin , there are almost three times as many Indians as Americans , and India 's resources are in some respects better than ours . It has enormously rich iron reserves , second only to those of the United States , but Japan , which , together with Korea and Formosa , is only about one seventh the size of India , with extremely meager iron resources , produced before the war seven times as much steel . India 's water-power resources are now estimated to exceed those of the United States . She has developed less than 2 per cent of them . Again , India 11 has abundant reserves of coal , but produced only about one sixth as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such comparisons reflect social conditions , one measure of which is the state of mass education . British India is older than the United States , but 93 per cent of the Indian population is still illiterate . By contrast , illiteracy was cut down in the Philippines , during forty years of American rule , from 98 per cent to 45 per cent . Feudal inequality between the vast wealth and power of the richest princes and the misery and ignorance of the Indian people is a further reason for the present weakness instead of strength . No one has seen poverty till he has seen the Indian peasants , under either foreign rule or one of the 563 native princes who control about a third of the nation 's 1,800,000 square miles . The Problem of India OO UT of the amazing social , political and economic anachronism that is India , many of us expect the British to build an " arsenal of democracy " in the East . Certainly India 's industrialization is an inherent part of the historical logic of the whole war . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which far exceeds that of China and Japan combined , has been mobilized . Today India makes only about as much steel as Australia , and a little more than 1 per cent of our present production . General Motors and Ford maintain small assembly plants there . But India has no automotive manufacturing industry . The same applies to aviation . In 1941 there was only one airplane-assembly plant  --  installed by Americans . India can make its own small arms and ammunition , uniforms , saddles , tents , boots and other products of light industry . On a limited scale it even makes artillery , shells and bombs , speedboats , and armor plate for military uses . But in none of these is it self-sufficient against a major foe , and in virtually all the decisive modern arms it is dependent on imports from abroad . What of India 's trained man power ? It is most inadequate to meet blows to be expected from both east and west . There are nearly five times as many Indians as there are Germans , yet there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Nazis . If Britain could recruit Indians in the same ratio as Japan has mobilized her people , the latter would face an Indian army of 25,000,000 men . Before December seventh India had only about 1,000,000 troops . Even with the full and wholehearted co-operation of the Indian people , the British administration would have faced extraordinary handicaps in overcoming the stagnation which has left India so far behind her more advanced neighbors . There has not been that co-operation . It was lost in 1939 , when Britain arbitrarily declared India a belligerent at the outbreak of the European war . The Indian National Congress , the majority party in the Indian " assemblies , " vigorously opposed the action as arbitrary and later began " non-co-operation " against Britain . Two years of precious time had been lost when both Germany and Japan began to imperil India directly and at last impressed Delhi with the need for a further effort at reconciliation with Indian nationalism . Jawaharlal Nehru and many other prominent Indians were released from jail . Informal conversations were opened . The Congress now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indians will not otherwise help the Allies unless promised the right to determine their own future at the end of the war . A similar political stalemate developed in Burma , where its consequences are now being acutely felt . Since 1940 Burma has been under direct menace of Japanese guns in adjacent Indo-China , and only a few minutes distant from Japanese airfields . Yet some Burmese remained less enthusiastic about the war than many Indians , and did not eonsi der Britain 's declaration binding on themselves . Burmese nationalists never f ormally proclaimed non-co-operation , but they often utilized opportunities to obstruct Britain 's war effort . ( Continued on Page 55 ) The case of Premier U Saw revealed the poverty of Britain 's political position in Burma . This colorful rebel was a dacoit ? bandit  --  with a price on his head , when I first encountered him while covering the famous Tharrawaddy Uprising , which he helped to lead . Instead of executing him , as they did many of his comrades , the British pardoned him and tried to make him a loyal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But U Saw still led Burmese nationalism , even after he became premier of the hothouse cabinet . Recently he went to Britain to ask Mr. Churchill again about Burma 's chances for dominion status , in exchange for Burmese co-operation in fighting the Axis . Mr. Churchill put him off by suggesting they talk over the whole question after the war . He did not alter that qualification wherein Britain specifically excluded all colonial nations under her own rule ? " a different matter entirely " ? from the promises held forth by the Atlantic Charter to nations under Hitler . InAmerica , USawalso failed to persuade Mr. Roosevelt to intervene on Burma 's behalf . The beskirted premier openly indicated , before leaving this country , that he considered it against Burma 's own interest to help Britain . He said that Britain 's victory would mean the perpetuation of Asia 's vassalage . This line of reasoning must have led him to listen to Japanese overtures . His earlier contacts were well known . In Portugal , while returning to Burma , he apparently received definite proposals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no doubt a timely precaution . But U Saw had a big following among the Burmese . He may be a rascal , but his arrest is unfortunate at the moment and hardly likely to convincd Asiatics that any real Burmese sovereignty is at stake in the present battle . " It would seem , " said a young Indian nationalist to me the other day , " that in order to get independence , it is first necessary to be conquered by the Axis . Then our British friends would no doubt readily agree to Indian administration of India in the future . " Many Indians can not see why , since we guarantee the independence of Can- ? ada , Mexico and all South America , and the British can recognize the independence of Syria and China and promise liberation to countries like Belgium , Poland , Jugoslavia and Czechoslovakia , their own aspirations should be denied . It is not easy to answer them . Though India 's contribution to Britain 's survival has been small compared to its potential , it is great beyond comparison to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt , Libya , Abyssinia and the Near East would scarcely have been possible without Indian troops . Indians bulked large  --  though not large enough  --  in the defense of Singapore . In fact , India 's troops are , like our own , scattered all over the world . Such are roughly the conditions which keep the great rivers of India 's help dammed up to a mere trickle . Who is more to blame , Britons or Indians , is no longer the question to thoughtful men on either side . This article takes for granted that Americans are fully aware of Britain 's tremendous contribution to India 's development and welfare . Every sincere Indian patriot recognizes that , I believe , and also concedes the need for continued AngloIndian collaboration . But the imperative need to create a formula for that collaboration now , without another moment 's delay  --  that is what neither side seems to realize . That is what disturbs Americans . The complications , the accumulation of centuries of social degradation and backwardness of rulers as well as ruled sometimes seem insurmountable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of vision , the determination to do the impossible , which has solved no less staggering difficulties on the home front , has not been allowed to spill over upon India for more than a fleeting moment or two . It is a fact that India can be fully won to the Allied cause and to democracy . If Mr. Roosevelt can say we must produce 125,000 airplanes next year , Mr. Churchill can say to England , we must have the co-operation of the Indian people . And he can get it . The old arguments of empire have collapsed . The sanctity of British investments , or American investments ? What do a few hundred millions matter when we are throwing billions into the furnaces of war and millions of men are dying ? Not that it was ordained that the have-gots must lose their goods , if they moved fast enough . Surely part of the lesson we are getting today from Japan , and also from China , is that the alleged incompetence of the Asiatic to govern himself , or to defend himself , is precisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realizations are slow to dawn here , they penetrate in the Orient very rapidly indeed . Japan 's success , such as it may be , undoubtedly will be regarded by many as the redemption of pledges of her anti-white , pan-Asiatic propaganda  --  especially in Indonesia . Ethnologically , the Japs have closer ties there than with the Chinese . Promises of freedom and self-government  --  and " co-prosperity " ? have impressed some minor leaders among the various races of Burma , the Shan States , Thailand , Annam , Cambodia , Malaya , the East Indies  --  and even General . Aguinaldo . Others have been purchased . Enemy propaganda seeks to convince them that Chiang Kai-shek &; Co. are traitors to Asia because they fight Japan , who is trying to " liberate " the dark races . All those peoples have reasons for disliking the Chinese , as well as the white man , and Japanese have been working on such latent feelings for decades . The vast ma-jority of natives are ig-norant of Japan 's true character or conduct in China , and a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delusion of neutrality in the Sino-Japanese war , the white rulers of the East , until recently , made efforts to suppress reports unfavor-able to Japan . Indifferent to what went on inside the native cranium , they al-lowed their subjects to remain illiterate , politically unindoctrinated and milita-rily unprepared . But Japanese agents everywhere indefatigably cultivated their friendship and trust , and taught them to look to Japan as a big brother . Traveling from the Burma frontier down to Rangoon , I was amazed to discover that every temple of any im-portance had a Japanese monk or nov-ice in it . A whole sect of Buddhist monks , trained and organized by the Japanese gendarmery , for years spe-cialized in espionage . Its members set-tled in every Oriental country , where they cultivated sedition . This is but one of the ways in which Japanese pre-pared East Asia for the present trial of . strength against the colonies ruled by the white man . It is safe to say there is hardly a town of a thousand people anywhere in Southern Asia where a Japanese-organized fifth column is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all Asiatics when they invaded Indo-China , and white prestige suffered accordingly . Although they systematically looted and exploited the countryside , they had learned something in China and determined to utilize Frenchmen to do their dirty work . It was for this reason a political victory for Japan that the French rulers of Indo-China did not fight , but remained to form a puppet regime . This fact enabled the Japanese to accomplish a number of objectives in one operation . They forced the French to rob the natives and at the same time to disgorge themselves . They sought native good will by scrupulously paying for what they used  --  with " loans " squeezed from the French , who in turn were obliged to squeeze the natives till they wept . The Japanese even made Governor General Decoux , that professed believer in Axis collaboration , not only arrest his own countrymen but also patriotic Annamites and Chinese who opposed Japan . Thousands of them are kept in the Tainine concentration camp today . Then Japan nicely stage-managed the French-Thai war , so that France suffered military defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weaker nations of Asia . In all these ways the Vichy French completed for the Japanese their own economic , military , political and moral disarmament . Contrasts in the Pacific And now at last Frenchmen are rewarded for their services by being ordered to mobilize their remaining resources to help Japan in her great effort to smash the white empires in Asia . Thus ends Vichy 's effort to save Indo-China by collaboration . All of us  --  all the Allies  --  lost something in Indo-China too . We have lost elsewhere and we shall lose in the same way still more . Shanghai is gone  --  not rendered back to China at the free will of democracy , but taken from us forcibly by Asiatic power . So are all the other China treaty ports gone . So is extraterritoriality . Does anyone imagine that if Japan is driven from Hong Kong , the Chinese will give it back to the British ? In contrast , we may congratulate ourselves mildly that the Filipinos who stand gallantly side by side with us know what they are fighting for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because once a people forms a nation and experiences freedom and self-government , the memory can never be destroyed . The Filipinos in their commonwealth had self-government and knew that after 1945 they would be as free as ourselves . Under Japan they will quickly learn what they have lost . Brave men among them will never cease to struggle till they get it back  --  which , in good time , they will . Mr. Roosevelt 's promise to help restore that freedom is a beam of light in the right direction . But the beam could be broadened into a veritable flood . Evolution is the basic pattern of political as well as biological life , but there are moments in history when an event , the materials of which have been gathering for twenty or forty years , all at once attains a focus , and there occurs that elemental breaking of forces we call a revolution . We are living in such a moment . The old imperialism is in its death agonies and nothing can revive it . But we are reluctant to reconcile ourselves to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure in the East to contain the rich democratic energies of the colonial peoples before the old structure entirely collapses . Where East Meets East Unless Asia and we understand each other now , we may not only pay a greater price for victory but find ourselves involved in a different and still bloodier war when this one is over . China itself is one reason . Russia is another . The colonies are another . For Chinese see quite clearly , in the words of a Chungking spokesman , that : " The battle of the Southwest Pacific is a battle for the freedom of the Asiatic peoples . It is a battle to decide whether Chinese , Indians , Malays , Filipinos and other Asiatic peoples can have a future of free independent development . " Thus military necessity is clearly obliging the Allies to create conditions which , politically , the West still tries to ignore . Chinese troops entering Burma and Indo-China at Allied invitation today make speeches to their fellow Asiatics in just the words I have quoted . It is part of China 's three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-governing . It is now , moreover , absolutely necessary for the Chinese , seeking to enlist native help , to preach a doctrine of liberation and democracy , in order to refute Japanese accusations that they are mere " tools of white imperialists , " and to allay native fears of Chinese " imperialism . " From different starting points , Chinese and Japanese propaganda may arrive at the same claims . Each declares itself to be fighting a holy war to free the Asiatic from imperialism . That is exactly what will spread throughout Southern Asia as the war lengthens . All over this region are big Chinese communities , nearly 10,000000 in the aggregate . They often constitute the most advanced elements in the population . Eventually they will be drawn into the armed struggle . Already in Malaya the British , having overlooked the necessity for democratic organizations under their own leadership , are obliged to call upon the Chinese to conduct agitation , propaganda and mobilization . Even the Chinese Communists held in Singapore 's jails were released and given a position on the defense council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apocalypse , no less . And here a word of warning for sentimentalists . China 's own policy is , like that of every other nation , governed solely by self-interest , or what its leaders imagine to be self-interest . The Chinese are the world 's foremost realists . It is not to be presumed at all , therefore , that they will relinquish , gratuitously , whatever political prestige they acquire during the revolutionary changes indicated . Certainly we should right now send all possible aid to such Chinese troops as fight on any Allied front , including China 's home front . Our recent loan of half a billion dollars to China is a fine thing , even though now it can achieve but a fraction of the military results that might have been attained by its judicious use two or three years ago . But it would be highly inadvisable ? not to make the same kind of effort to subsidize and to train and arm the other Asiatic peoples to defend their own territory , wherever possible , and , along with that help , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic indoctrination . Sooner than most people suppose , the Western Allies may be compelled , for their own protection , to try to retain hegemony over the political life of Asia , by laying down in pretty precise terms a design for permanent cooperation within the present political unity of democratic commonwealths and United Nations . Eventually , Britain and the United States may have to take the lead in proclaiming a program of progressive emancipation of the colonies , giving universal reality to claims that this is a " revolutionary war for freedom . " Such a declaration would probably include : I. The promise of postwar plebiscites on commonwealth status or independence to India , Burma and even Java  --  with compulsory mass education , military training and self-government to begin immediately in a role of cooperation with the present governments ' program of total mobilization , led by Allied technicians , for anti-Fascist war . 2 . A comprehensive program of economic modernization , and compulsory education for rapid development of democratic self-government in the more backward colonies  --  Africa , and so on ? to begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be premised on the assurance of eventual freedom . 3 . The guaranty of independence to all nations conquered by Fascism in Asia , including not only China and the Philippines but also Korea , Indo-China , Malaya , Thailand and any more on the list when this appears , and the establishment of military co-operation with all anti-Japanese elements in those countries . Of course it is obvious there wo n't be any independence in the absolute sense for small nations after the war . There is a regrouping process going on , out of which may emerge several federations of states . Our own hope would seem to be to try to convert these groups from narrow empire patterns of rivalry into one system of voluntary co-operation among at least autonomous states . That is why it will become necessary for America to assert a political voice in the future of the colonial countries . All of which is quite a bill of goods . Yes , it is . But it 's likewise a mighty potential weapon , and one which , if it is utilized soon enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In it is wrapped up the meaning of this war , if it has a meaning for Asia . If it is formulated now , it can help to win the war . If such formulation is deferred , it will handicap us , and just the same we will have to accept it in the end , in another form , as the verdict of history accomplished in spite of us  --  and perhaps against us . The propaganda value of such an " emancipation proclamation " to Colonel Donovan 's department of political and psychological warfare  --  which at the moment has little to offer colonial Asia  --  is patent . Its direct military value can he appreciated only by a few people who understand the true character of this struggle , which in the East combines characteristics of both social and national revolution . With such a program , nationalist and democratic groups in every Asiatic country could be mobilized to hasten victory . Overnight , millions of fighters in both India and Burma , which are basically anti-Fascist , could become activized as allies . Conscription could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become possible to offer a decent political future to the 23,000,000 in Indo-China and line up Cambodian and Annamite revolutionaries there . With the full co-operation of the Indian people , India 's production of war goods could be increased manifold in a short period , and enable us to cut shipments to only the most essential modern weapons . Likewise India could now organize bases from which to maintain guerrilla warfare anywhere , even after a major Axis penetration . India  --  and Burma as long as it held  --  could then in truth become the ( Continued on Page 591 ( Continued from Page 57 ) arsenal of Eastern democracy . Accelerated industrialization could at the very least provide anti-Japanese fighters in Thailand , Indo-China , Malaya and elsewhere with small arms and explosives . Advanced elements in all the Asiatic races involved would for the first time become conscious of a role of importance in the war , and soon anti-Japanese armies would spring up all along the eastern side of Asia . Guerrilla warfare could be increased tenfold in intensity clear to Yalu River , into Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtually all important Japanese government offices , public works , communications and factories  --  and some of Japan 's key war industries are now in Korea . Years of persecution have been a hard school which has helped Koreans perfect an amazing underground system of espionage and revolutionary planning . Today we lack a frame of cooperation with the 25,000,000 Koreans , however , and benefit very little even from their revolutionary energy . Then there are about 100,000 guerrilla troops , Chinese with a sprinkling of Koreans , who have never ceased to resist Japanese occupation of Manchuria . With money and arms they could be doubled or quadrupled in a very short time . With aid from allies not afraid to back Asiatic independence movements , they could quickly revive Manchuria 's hope of liberation and turn that vast hinterland into a recruiting ground for guerrillas and a major scene of trouble which would divert thousands of enemy troops . Both Korea and Manchuria are easily accessible to the half million Chinese Red troops who for more than four years have held most of the North China countryside against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are poorly armed and equipped , and receive no pay from Chungking , nor any arms or even ammunition . A complete blockade is maintained against them by the generalissimo , who is jealous of their popularity with the peasants and their expanding power . However , we must soon become directly concerned in this quarrel , which so gravely affects the military efficiency of the total situation . Until co-operation is established between these two groups , effective large-scale counterattack in China , where it is desperately needed , is impracticable . Asiatic Attrition Another quite important group of allies now neglected could be mobilized among Japanese at home and abroad who are bitterly opposed to Japan 's present leaders and are prepared to make any sacrifices to overthrow them . They are a goodly number and will grow as the war lengthens . Our own military and government mentors are hardly aware of the existence of these people and of their significance . Again , we have few American officers with the necessary technical qualifications and political experience to organize resistance in Southeastern Asia . A few capable officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convince our Army of the importance of emphasizing special instruction of this kind . They have also insisted that , instead of buying everything from us with their credits , the Chinese should be advised to spread small-arms arsenals all over the country to back up guerrilla warfare . It is not too late now to undertake to make those areas self-sufficient in production of small arms . Four or five million irregulars could he equipped from Korea to Java  --  enough to keep Japan from exploiting her gains till we could mobilize superior weapons against her . We ought to be stressing the organization of cadres or commandos for just such work behind enemy lines . Instead we seem to be expecting to kill millions of Jap soldiers from the air  --  forgetting that in Asia this war will be won by people , by masses . By using the people of Asia , it would be possible to create on the grand scale those superior land forces needed to blockade Japan 's life line on the continent . Working together , such forces could deprive her of raw materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from exploiting her conquests . Perhaps in this way only could her vital food supplies be cut off  --  and Japan will not capitulate till she is starving . The Russian Position Total mobilization would make possible the most widespread sabotage and guerrilla attack , compel Japan to deploy maximum forces everywhere and exhaust herself in inconclusive combat on a scale that would dwarf guerrilla fighting in North China . People 's armies could effectively check Japan until , with three-dimensional superiority established , we could drive her main forces to their doom . But why all this liberation business , some may ask , when , if we could get a few good airdromes in Siberia for our bomber bases and a few good Russian armored divisions , we could finish off the Nips by short cut , right at home ? Why ? First , because it is obvious we have not got the bombers for those airdromes nor the fighters to defend them . Second , the Russians have n't got the armored divisions to spare . Third , even if both conditions existed , it is n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan . China neglected for years to mobilize her own resources , partly because she expected Russia to come along any moment and knock out Japan . We need not make the same mistake . From a strategic standpoint the Russians naturally could not remain indifferent to a Japanese triumph in the south , which would make Russo-Japanese war inevitable . But they expect Japan to bleed very profusely during this effort . Russia continues to have her own ideas and her own policy for Asia as well as for Europe . When she goes to war with Japan , it will be with mature plans for definite political objectives , regardless of who opens the attack . One of those objectives pursued as a means of quickly concluding the war must be to promote social revolution in Korea , Manchuria and Japan . Its leaders would be at least friendly to her . Nationalist revolutions might subsequently spread to other countries in East Asia . Russia is prepared to extend aid to such revolutions , depending on circumstances . Now is the time , therefore , when Soviet support should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question by inviting her to join in a declaration of the kind suggested . Her commitment would further strengthen the anti-Japanese political front in Asia . There was a time not so long ago when the proposals I have outlined must have sounded fantastic . Today they are military necessities . T ODAY 'S rush production schedules may obscure a fact vital to the welfare of American business . The future holds more than war . An inevitable readjustment to post-war conditions lies ahead . And farsighted business men know that they must prepare for these conditions now . S * w * One padlock maker had 6o% of all the padlock business in the United States before the last World War . As wartime orders came pouring in , he forgot the need for selling . He forgot to promote his well-known name , to tell his soles story in print . In time his customers forgot him . They forgot him in favor of a competitor who began promoting his business with booklets , folders , circulars , while the war was on , Let 's look ahead today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be , every going business will need friends . The business that keeps its friends now insures its future . The business that neglects its friends now runs the risk of being forgotten . Salesmanship and printed promotion are essential now to protect your business against the blackout of forgetfulness . This is made clear in a Wan-en book entitled " Business Presents Facts to Inform the Public , " offered without charge to executives . This book has been prepared to help business men start printed literature working for them as business insurance . W'rite for this book and read it . Then consult a good printer . He will be qualified to suggest the best way to use printing facilities to make printed literature effective . Among other things , a good printer will know that business literature can be printed to advantage on Warren 's Standard Printing Papers . Warren 's papers possess a receptivity for ink that is unique , and that makes for better reproduction of pictures in black and in colors . For the book , address S. D. Warren Company , 89 Broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 