@@475079

PUBLIC opinion has sensed the vital relationship between the war and the peace ; it recognizes that victory a one will not guarantee the fulfillment of the purposes of mankind . Victory is the first necessity , but only the first . A great deal is required beyond victory to assure a stable peace . The most important need is to recover a living faith in the institutions we are fighting to preserve . As defensive warfare will not bring victory , so a defensive attitude about our institutions will not bring peace . Every negative mood must be avoided ; our national program must he oriented about positive and fundamental ideas . The war brings many situations into liquidation . The tragic fruits of mistaken policy are revealed with naked clarity ; there is a sharpness to perspective upon the past that less dramatic moments lack ; it is a time when old objectives and familiar methods can be reassessed . Likewise during war new purposes can more readily be shaped . Now is the time to renew the bases of democratic government , to clarify and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the individual , to enlarge the opportunities for freedom . A " brave new world " however is not a requisite of peace ; indeed , blueprints of Utopia are much better described as evidences of irresponsibility and open the way to " realistic " reaction . We can bestreach the goal of peace by helping the brave old world abandon the sins that made it weak and recover the courage that made it heroic . Not by escapist dreams about the future , but by building upon the deep and firm foundations of the past , can we bring peace to the earth . This is not a work for the Elite alone ; it is not a task primarily for experts and specialists . Their contributions have an important place , but they are subsidiary . It is far more essential to estimate the moving tides which are the hopes of the plain men and women who have made America . The wisdom of the world is not always with the learned ; often it is to be found in the perceptive common sense of the man in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drudge ; he lives in a real world , but has ambitions for himself and even brighter ones for his children . Those insights and those hopes are not to be measured by his schooling ; literacy and good sense are far from synonymous ; on public matters the common man has many shrewd judgments . POSITIVE attitude requires a fundamen-tal reversal of strategy . For years business and government have been work-ing at cross purposes . Each has been dominated by negative ideas about the other . Their common stake has too often been forgotten in mutual recriminations . The common faith of all has been imperiled by their destructive frictions . Evidence that government has taken a defeatist position regarding our economy is overwhelming . Nothing has been more common than assertions that business has " failed " to provide full employment , that it has " lost " its democratic character , that it has gained its successes by " exploitation . " Projects of regulation and reform , subsidized competition of public agencies with private enterprise , promises of the extension of public ownership ? these and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious maladjustments in economic as in other phases of life no one can doubt , but political leaders with the defeatist point of view have seemed eager to abolish the economic system along with its maladjustments ; they seemed concerned not so much with improvement as with substitution . Thus during the past ten years political defeatism had particularly disastrous results for enterprise . Government maintained possession of the initiative and business waged a rear-guard action . Sometimes its retreat was not to a " prepared position . " There was a domestic war of attrition , and at the moment we entered the world war of attrition business had fewer assets , less favorable access to equity finance than in 1932 , and its labor relations had been needlessly bedeviled by partisan laws . The defeatism of the past decade surely provided no " physical fitness " program for our productive energies . The difficulty arose not so much from the substance of government action as from the tone and temper in which action was taken . Essential reforms were cast in a language so revolutionary , a tone so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overbearing as to give the impression that all business was , in the expressive language of the street , " in the doghouse . " The psychological effects ran beyond reform and constituted a political terrorism disruptive to economic progress . The war reveals the folly of governmental defeatism about business . Total war calls for industrial power and business efficiency fully as much as for fighting men and an aggressive spirit . It suddenly becomes clear that government needs business and needs it desperately . There can no longer be any doubt that harassment of business impedes the war effort . There is a fundamental community of interest ; if business can not function , government can not succeed . The spirit of vendetta between them is mutually destructive ; domestic peace is the only sensible course . If that is true amid the exigencies of war it will be just as true during the tensions of reconstruction . Demobilization is only partly military ; its more essential aspect is industrial remobilization . If there is to be any hope of satisfactory readjustment it will require the wholehearted co-operation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In its final report the Temporary National Economic Committee declared , " We reject as un-American and unrealistic the belief that the limits of economic achievements have been reached in the United States . " Moreover the Vice President has been speaking about production in the postwar world . That is a new emphasis . " Everywhere the common man must learn to increase his productivity so that he and his children can eventually pay to the world community all that they have received . . . . As they the masses of India , China , and Latin America become productive mechanics , their standard of living will double and treble . " Mr. Wallace recently described the " new democracy " as " supremely interested in raising the productivity , and therefore the standard of living . " It is heartening to have a high government officer recognize production rather than " buying power " as the key . Until the emphasis is shifted from having the federal treasury scatter artificial " buying power " to the creation of things men need depression will be forever with us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-sided . Political leaders were not alone at fault . Business , for its part , became disheartened about our politics to the point of raising doubts that democracy was the best form of political organization . It became a stock remark among business men that " you ca n't expect to beat Santa Claus " in an election . No statement could more fully express the defeatist point of view : It is utterly destructive of the democratic thesis to suggest that the mind and heart of man are governed solely by his pocketbook . In any event this defeatist attitude on the part of business , like the parallel defeatism of the politicians , has suddenly become an anachronism . We are at war . Nobody expects war to create wealth . Surely it was no vote for Santa Claus when we went to war as a united people . Nobody expects a soldier to make money ; yet we expect him to hazard his life . That ought to demonstrate the absurdity of economic determinism as the key to politics ? or life . Of course money has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plain facts of history stare us in the face ; spiritual values , love of home and love of country , patriotism and faith in ideals ( even mistaken ideals ) have often been both more dramatic and more powerful than economic interest . American unity regarding the war is much more than a mark of intelligence ; it is a triumph of character . For sacrifice replaces plenty ; hardship is accepted instead of comfort ; the things of the spirit are preferred to the pleasures of the moment . This is evidence that the American people have not lost their sensitiveness to concepts of justice and human dignity . There is a third aspect of defeatism which has distracted America . Politics and business met on common ground in a defeatist attitude toward the fundamental moral presuppositions upon which our democracy has been built . Both abandoned the idea of an absolute standard of morals ; both reduced conduct to an amorphous relativism ? elaborate words to describe moral confusion . This loss of faith in fixed ethical standards explains the other two aspects of defeatism . In every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When the state becomes too strong the exercise of power becomes an end in itself . Moral restraint disappears . It has gone to its logical extreme in the Axis : truth and falsehood are used alike to deceive ; promises are made to be broken ; negotiation for peace is a cloak for treacherous assault . That experience is not new to the world . It has appeared again and again in history . Machiavelli developed the explicit blueprint of power politics at the beginning of the sixteenth century . He said , for example , " One prince Fiihrerj . . . never preaches anything else but peace and good faith , and to both he is most hostile , and either , if he had kept it , would have deprived him of reputation and kingdom many a time . " If you accept the postulate that there is no absolute except power , Hitler is justified ; so also are Mussolini and the Japanese jingoes . Unless there is a moral absolute the totalitarians are right . If Machiavelli was correct in asserting that after conquest succeeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our nation was launched on the wrong basis . III N or in America alone , but even more elsewhere in the world , there has also been a conspicuous failure to believe that men are governed by reason , and a consequent unwillingness to depend upon discussion and common sense for the solution of the world 's problems . That has had evil consequences everywhere , but it has been particularly disastrous here . We find ourselves in the middle of an ideological war with our own ideology clouded and defensive . Our structure of ideas was built upon belief in reason and now we appear to have accepted , by inference , an interpretation of psychology which undermines reason , which regards it not as a great moving force but as a mere rationalization , explaining , or more likely obscuring , behavior that really arises from deep-seated drives . Reason , in this setting , becomes only the public apology for secret sin ? a device , at best , for explanation and , at worst , for obfuscation . That is the cynical technique of the totalitarians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intellectual miasma . For democracy is founded upon two fundamental postulates which , once compromised , leave it defenseless . The first is that reason governs mankind . Of course men are influenced by many emotions ? by desire , by greed , by love , by hate , The " drives " that have so befuddled modern thought are real enough . They have been recognized throughout human history as not only real but powerful . Democracy , however , is founded upon the assumption that ultimately ? not necessarily at a given moment but over the long pull ? man will do the reasonable thing . That is what Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes meant when he said " The ultimate good desired is . . . reached by free trade in ideas . . . . That at any rate is the theory of our Constitution . " Edmund Burke summed up the democratic process : " He that wrestles with us strengthens our nerves and sharpens our skill . " Because the retreat from reason is premised upon the notion that man is not to be trusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences . The second postulate of democracy , equally fundamental , is that the individual is of infinite worth ? so towering in the scale of values that he has rights even against the state . Democracy , that is to say , is based upon a moral absolute ? not the relative worth , not the financial worth , not the economic potential , but the spiritual worth of the individual human being . Walt Whitman , American to the core , phrased it with all the passionate intensity at his command : " In the center of all , and object of all , stands the Human Being , toward whose heroic and spiritual evolution poems and everything directly or indirectly tend , Old World or New . " The essence of the democratic process is the moral , intellectual , and social integer ? the individual ? living his life with a maximum of freedom and a minimum of external restraint , with the accent upon accommodation and consensus rather than plan or enforcement . Democracy , therefore , does not rest upon governmental forms or upon constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-reliance and self-discipline of the citizens ; its quality is the reflection of their cultural maturity . The fertility of the individual mind remains one of the mysteries of the universe . No philosopher or scientist has ever solved the riddle . Somewhere from out the void an idea which did not exist springs into the brain of man . In a really free society a man can put that idea on the market , intellectual or commercial ; if it is poor the loss is his ; if it is good he benefits , but the world benefits even more . It is precisely because the individual is a moral unit and a social integer that he is the political ultimate . Once that absolute is compromised into relativity it disappears entirely . There is no middle ground ; it is all or nothing . Once that absolute is lost , the foundation is withdrawn from our familiar economic system , as well as from the political structure within which alone an economic order based upon free enterprise is possible . By a process of erosion , any stage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a steady loss of faith in the individual . It has been boldly asserted " as historical fact that the era of individualism is closing and the era of collectivism is opening . " It has become a " liberal " dogma that the center of gravity has altered , and that even in America " we may detect a shift from preoccupation with the individual to concern for society as a whole . " Radicals go farther to assert that the war culminates a trend and " will mean the liquidation of the basic human value , of the ruling sense of man 's meaning to himself as an individual within the mystery of life , which has subsumed and shaped the modern era . " Indeed the phrase " rugged individualism " has been one of mockery these many years . This loss of faith in the only moral being in the universe , the individual man , is the final evidence of democratic defeatism . It is revealed in a thousand ways . It appears in fear of the machine , though the machine has brought the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been assumed that the mind which created the machine can not remain its master . Retreat from reason becomes , on that premise , a disastrous rout . But the machine does not dominate this age . Men and men 's ideas , men and men 's ambitions , passions , strengths , and weaknesses dominate this , as every other age . The monster which wreaked vengeance on Frankenstein was the product of Mrs. Shelley 's imagination , and the robot of R.U.R. never existed . The machine is never dominant ; man is in control unless terror or stupidity destroys his capacity to function rationally ? or to function at all . The same sort of defeatism has been revealed in our fear of want ? at a time when plenty surpasses the imagination of a few decades ago , and when famine , man 's his-. torical neighbor , is vanquished . It passes the boundaries of sanity when men stand in fear of the good earth 's bounty , damned with the epithet " surplus . " If ever there was danger that we should so emphasize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surely that danger is now completely reversed . The pendulum has swung too far . Only as a grand gesture of defeat will men creep into the arms of the state and seek refuge in its powerrather than in their own courage . The drift to statism has run its full course in Germany and Italy and Japan . If it has made them too powerful to be beaten we should stop fighting now and join their shabby " new order " and their jerry-built " co-prosperity sphere . " But if we are ready to sacrifice to overcome them we should certainly repudiate their basic postulate . There can be no gain in physical victory coupled with spiritual defeat ; that lesson we should have learned from the last war . Compromising our ideal during the past twenty years brought us disunity , class consciousness , economic strife , political bankruptcy , and finally war . As we overthrow the Axis we must reject its philosophy ? and all its pale imitators . Iv HE crisis of our time is moral . Japa- nese aggression in China , the conquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destruction of Czechoslovakia ? all these events posed moral even more than political questions . And the economic significance was less than either the moral or the political . The rape of power by dictators , the suppression of freedom , the capture of labor , the impressment of property ? all these manifestations of the last quarter century were evil . Their moral corruption was obvious . It is abundantly clear that the available moral force has been the inner perceptions of the common man and not the courage of political or intellectual leaders . It was the sophisticated leadership of Sir Samuel Hoare as British Foreign Secretary and Pierre Laval as French Premier that sacrificed Ethiopia . It was the outraged public opinion of the British and French people that retired them both from office , reduced Hoare from a prospective prime minister to an obscure politician , and left Laval without office until he was fain to accept it at the hands of a brutal conqueror . In both Britain and America , it has become in the past ten years a cliche in many intellectual circles that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the defense of democracy . .. is dead and barren , " and that democracy " has lost belief in itself and become an inert instead of a dynamic force in world affairs . " One of the British " liberal " leaders most influential in American thought , Harold J. Laski , recently wrote : " It was possible to believe in the permanence of the democratic ideal in the brief hour of its triumph in 1918 . Since then events have increasingly proved that it was unsuited to the conditions of our age . " Whenever I meet this defeatist spirit touching democracy there comes inescapably to my mind a conversation with a Norwegian gardener in the Hardanger district in the summer of 1939 . With a primitive kind of scraper he was digging grass out of the gravel path of a little garden in front of our hotel at the end of a calm and beautiful fjord . His formal schooling had consisted of very little . He had learned English by listening to the radio . In terms of money , in terms of opportunity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in terms of any of the material standards which we so commonly accept ? he would indubitably be damned with those glib hypnotic words , " one of the underprivileged . " But in his comments there was sanity , a lucid and penetrating simplicity ; there was wisdom . Perhaps he was one of those described by Leland Stowe as " too civilized " effectively to resist the German invader . Certainly he was not equipped for blitzkrieg . But surely also , when the hardships and horrors of occupation are over , he will be the one , if any , to defeat the gloomy prophecies of social and moral and intellectual disintegration . He will help maintain the fabric of the world . He will he lost neither in cynicism nor in utopian schemes of revolution . Never having misinterpreted life as a joy ride or a world 's fair , never having fled from reality , he will not have lost his bearings in a sea of trouble . And when , in the course of time , the democratic process can reassert itself in his native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantee . The American White Paper : the Story of American Diplomacy and the Second World War was largely a public record made available for private profit . Reading it with a mounting sense of indignation , I learned how one of our " policy makers " . recorded his " feeling of seeing a civilization breaking , of seeing it dying before its actual death . " The magnificent arrogance of this banality was the fruit of overemphasis upon knowledge and intellectual power , and a lack of perspective ? knowledge without wisdom . I suspect that Norwegian gardener with his earthy wisdom sees the realities more clearly ; I doubt he would be so ignorantly despairing as to say , " We are ending our death watch over Europe . " Perhaps he never took freedom so much for granted , and is more patient to achieve its fulfillment . The defeatist assumption that democratic competence is impossible for the millions is not borne out by experience . Many a Yankee farmer has the same qualities of shrewdness , tolerance , common sense , and wisdom that characterized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and women can not be gaged by economic opportunities , by years in school , or by any other formal and pseudo-scientific measurements . Indeed , these often blind us to the profound common sense which is the characteristic heritage of the man in the street . It was the French intellectual class which proved to be defeatist about the Third Republic , not the common people . If ever that nation is to rise again to its proper post of dignity and leadership in the world , it will not be through shuffling offices among the shoddy politicians or even through the glamour of a military leader . Its regeneration will come from the steadiness and the love of country ofthe peasants , about whom Captain Andre Chanson wrote so movingly in his diary of four months at the front fighting for his beloved France " with her peasant 's stride ? reasonable and balanced . " That self-reliant and stable element will be the real foundation of France 's return to greatness . The Yugoslav who lost his life in the guerrilla warfare against the Germans achieved a moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a letter to his unborn son : " The spirit of wonder and adventure , the token of immortality , will be given you as a child . May you keep it forever , with that in your heart which always seeks the gold beyond the rainbow , the pastures beyond the desert , the dawn beyond the sea , the light beyond the dark . May you seek always and strive always in good faith and high courage , in this world where men grow so tired . . .. Keep your love of life , but throw away your fear of death . Life must be loved or it is lost ; but it should never be loved too well . . . . Keep your wonder at great and noble things like sunlight and thunder , the rain and the stars , the wind and the sea , the growth of trees and the return of harvests , and the greatness of heroes . Keep your heart hungry for new knowledge ; keep your hatred of a lie ; and keep your power of indignation . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not overwhelmed by the complexities of modern civilization , he was not confused by the mechanisms of the economic system , he was not blinded by the technicalities which loom so large in the minds of the experts . The picture he drew was in far better perspective than that of any of the tiresome planners who would regulate us into an anthill . Those who would substitute expertism for democracy should be humbled at the thought of the greatness of the common man whose wisdom , in their intellectual arrogance , they have so stupidly disdained . The Cockney with his thumbs up in the midst of the blitz revealed a moral stamina , a self-confidence which ought to show that his sense of values was sounder than that of those learned appeasers and those sophisticated leaders who brought disaster upon the world by failure to pay the price of peace ; though it was infinitely less than the cost of war . No wonder the most perceptive democrat in American history , Abraham Lincoln , could exclaim : " Why should there not be a patient confidence in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or equal hope in the world ? " The call of our time is for a renewal and refreshment of that faith . V as is a program . Root out of American life every manifestation of the retreat from reason . Make the common sense and the common honesty of the common man our common reliance . Revive faith in the individual as the key to values , recognizing that man was created in the image of God ; it is so written in the very first chapter of the very first book of the Bible . All the classical apologists acknowledge that as the foundation of freedom . Jefferson , in the Declaration of Independence , proclaimed that " all men are created equal , " " they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights . " Neither in Scripture nor in the writings of any great political thinker is it written that society or the state has divine attributes . Establish the democratic process as the guide to action . Repudiate administrative management ; insist upon government by the people as well as government for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and repel every suggestion that safety is more important . Stop the alternate coddling and sacrifice of youth ; open to them avenues of opportunity for experience and adventure . Eschew privilege , banish privilege , accepting fur yourselves and offering to others success or failure as talents and industry warrant . The problem of abolishing want is not a problem in division , as the politicians so often aver ; it is a problem in multiplication . Conquer poverty by the only credible method , by production upon a basis so efficient , upon a range so vast , upon a scale so magnificent that the real wealth of the world flows to the common man . We have been living in a world where , by a kind of double talk , the vocabulary of liberalism has been stolen by the real reactionaries . Only in a world where values have become topsy-turvy would it be possible for Hitler to describe tyranny as a " new order . " or for bureaucracy to masquerade in the habiliments of liberalism , or for the planned economy to make a pretense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of business by administrative regulation , manipulation of the economy for political purposes ? these are stark reaction . Not all the cascades of beautiful words about " new social goals , " " bold social engineering , " " security from the cradle to the grave " can wash away that ineradicable fact . Bureaucracy is intrinsically reactionary . It gets its start as " reform , " but its structure and method are so clumsy that it becomes reactionary in spite of itself ? not at once , but when its technique bogs its zeal . Bureaucracy is founded upon an antidemocratic principle . We can set it down as a general rule that if a policy is based upon doubts of the capacity of the citizenry to understand and control it , its operation is likely to prevent that practical education in public affairs on the part of the citizens by which alone democracy can survive . There is an acid test , an infallible test of a reactionary . He is the man who plans to return the citizen living under self-discipline , freedom , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the regimentations of the planner , to the grip of the state . He is the man who rejects the dictum of Justice Brandeis : " The makers of the Constitution . . . sought to protect Americans in their beliefs , their thoughts , their emotions and sensations . They conferred , as against the Government , the right to be let alone ? the most comprehensive of rights and the right most valued by civilized men . " Having fought the long battle to unshackle himself from complete social control through the utter dominance of the clan , having worked himself free from his obligations to his feudal lord and broken his bondage to the land , his trade , or his guild , having overthrown the tyranny of the " grand monarque , " having broken the power of the old bureaucracy , man achieved freedom . He emerged into that state where even a crusty Federalist like John Adams would say : " Let us see delineated before us the true map of man . Let us hear the dignity of his nature , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Now , in the name of liberalism , in the name of reform , in the name of freedom from want , there are those who would return him to that subjection front which he has with such pain and difficulty escaped . That is black reaction . To call upon man to reassert his individual dignity , to meet the hazards of freedom manfully , to suffer without complaint in the interests of liberty ? that is historically and intrinsically the radical program . The decisions of arms are transient ; it is the wills of men we must trust , for the wills of men are stronger than steel and the hearts of men are stouter than weapons . Woodrow Wilson 's words will be true in the future as in the past : " The best form of efficiency is the spontaneous co-operation of a free people . " This is no time for timidity ; danger calls for boldness and for accepting responsibility . There is a cost of war more terrible than taxation . There is a cost of war much more dreadful than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women have already died ? and the end is not yet ; American casualties are just beginning . A hundred million people are refugees from their own homes . Those tragic costs can be recompensed only by a new birth of freedom . Once before , in easier times , this opportunity was ours . A youthful poet , before he died in battle , flung the challenge : Faith was broken , the torch extinguished , and a new generation needlessly pays the awful price . If this time we break faith with those who die , we will not have another chance , and we shall not deserve it .                     