@@494210

Attrition in spite of the ousting of General Rommel 's forces from El Agheila by the British Eighth Army , the continued reports of Russian advances and the extending list of minor successes in the South Pacific , it may be that we are in for a war of attrition for weeks or per-paps even months ahead , rather than for critical and mashing victories . The Germans in Africa are likely to consolidate their forces rather than allowing them to be defeated in. detail . Though the American army won what appeared At first to be weeks of time by the negotiations with parlan which brought the French troops to our side , it now wait for its schedule to catch up in order to accumulate enough strength to push the Axis out , Tunisia . And Hitler can concentrate *additional power there as well as we , at least until the route from icily can definitely be blocked . It is probable that from the beginning the Allied military command expected a fairly long struggle . The Russians in turn seem to have been for weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they have surrounded in front of Stalingrad , while the surrounded army keeps on fighting back . It must be remembered that surrounded Russian forces in the days when the Germans were advancing refused to surrender and did great damage before they could be mopped up ; indeed , many of them eventually cut their way out . A big and well supplied army is not easily van- " nished , even if its communications are cut . And the advances west of Moscow are by no means decisive . In the Solomons and New Guinea we are holding , ' flaking slow headway , meanwhile trading blows Or with the enemy . Here the attrition is most dear ? the true significance of the action is that we are destroying our opponent 's men , ships and weapons far more rapidly than he destroys ours , even while we wait for our superior produttive powers to count decisively . We hope the same will be true in the air over Tunis and on the Russian front . The Meaning of Hitler 's Purge The shift in Hitler 's Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the expert in terror warfare against civilian populations , has been widely misinterpreted and misunderstood . Zeitzler is one of Hitler 's upstarts , closely related to the circle around Himmler , chief of the Gestapo . He has gained special fame through his terror campaign against the peoples of the Balkans . His appointment to supreme command means that mass terror will become a regular feature of Hitler 's military campaign in western Europe also . The " collaborationists " will have to choose between helping to organize this terror or being wiped out . Hitler 's special terror army will be greatly extended . The change implies the expectation of a protracted war in which Hider hopes to triumph , at least to the extent of completely destroying Europe . The answer to this new political warfare has not yet been found . France Goes Hungry France is now surrounded by a wall of silence , and we hear nothing but scattered reports of what is happening there . We know , however , that dozens of liberal statesmen have been arrested , including former Premier Edouard Herriot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never forgiven for the mild sanctions imposed when they invaded Ethiopia . Generals Weygand , Gamelin and Doyen are thought to be prisoners in Germany ; and several prominent writers are in danger of being held and executed as hostages . Men in concentration camps now have to pay board for the privilege of being starved and beaten . It is reported that all the escaped prisoners of war are being rearrested , for return to Germany . In a letter smuggled out from Paris , a doctor reports that the average diet of his patients is 1,200 calories a day , about two-fifths of what they ate before the war . One result is an increase of so percent in the death rate from tuberculosis . Sulfanilamide and insulin are among the drugs he is now unable to procure . Another smuggled letter reports that paper money is more plentiful than any of the products for which it used to be exchanged . There has been a mad rush to buy pictures , furniture , books , rare postage stamps , real estate , anything that can be legally sold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where it costs approximately six times the legal price . Farmers complain that the lack of horses , machinery and fertilizer has cut their yields in half . The closing of the supply lines from North Africa has made the situation much worse than before . Although the Germans seized at least three-fourths of these imports , part of them stayed in France ; and without that little store of wheat and mutton the French are facing a winter of absolute famine . For the United Nations , the moral is that we must redouble our efforts to liberate Europe , as Varian Fry points out in this issue , before its best men have been executed and its general population has been decimated by hunger . The Case of The Militant Under cover of the Espionage Act , the administration appears to be moving toward a general attack on certain organs of the extreme Left which have been especially critical of the war . The Militant is the weekly organ of the Socialist Workers ' Party , followers of Leon Trotsky . Last month the Post Office Department declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was given , for Post Office rules require hearings only when second-class mailing privileges are permanently revoked . Yet all subsequent issues of The Militant but one have been similarly banned . Last week the Post Office Department notified The Fourth International , monthly magazine of the same group , that its December issue had been ordered withheld from the mails . Again no reason was given . Seeing in the bans a serious threat to one of the Four Freedoms , the American Civil Liberties Union telegraphed the Post Office Department requesting explanations and a hearing . In reply , a Department spokesman admitted to a representative of the Union that there was no connection between the publications in question and enemy propaganda but stated that the government was fearful of the effect on the morale of soldiers and civilians of revolutionary doctrine . We disagree violently with many of the views of the Socialist Workers ' Party , but we find this attempt to silence it an alarming development . The step from suppression of The Militant and The Fourth International to suppression of pacifists , Quakers , Jehovah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a difficult one for the mind of a rigid bureaucrat to encompass . For once the principle of arbitrary suppression has been granted , the right of free speech is lost . Journals representing enemy influence should of course be suppressed , but only through due process of law . A Threat or a Promise ? The threat of Southern Conservatives in Congress to withdraw from the Democratic Party in order to join hands with the Republicans in fighting the New Deal is almost too good to be true . We can imagine no event that would bring more fresh air and hope into American politics . Northern majorities who want social advance have often been frustrated because in order to seek it they have had to vote Democratic , and then have found the Democratic Party unable to move , except in times of crisis , because of the leaden weight of the Southern Democratic reactionaries who have so much influence in Congress . If a Democratic victory in a presidential election could defeat these obstructionists as well , we should be fortunate indeed . There have been many unsuccessful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for those who are progressively inclined . It would be far simpler and easier if the conservative Southern leaders would enlist under their true banner . Then , by an exchange of prisoners , so to speak , we could have a two-party system that means something . Trouble in Puerto Rico Filipo de Hostos , president of the Puerto Rican Chamber of Commerce , appeared last week before United States Senator Dennis Chavez 's subcommittee investigating the Puerto Rican situation , to blame the administration for starving the Puerto Rican population by " rejecting and ignoring " the cooperation of Puerto Rican merchants . He said in effect that regardless of shipping shortages and regardless of the consequences , he and his fellow business men demanded that our exports to Puerto Rico flow at the same speed in the exact manner in which they flowed in peacetime . Certainly the 30,00o tons of shipping space per month now allocated to Puerto Rico is not enough for her needs . Governor Tugwell has strongly recommended that the figure be increased to at least 55,000 tons per month as soon as possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongly on this point , but naturally they disagree on the manner in which the over-all tonnage is to be allocated . The Chamber of Commerce wants allocation on a businessas-usual basis , designed to produce maximum profit for the importer and the wholesaler . Tugwell wants allocation of tonnage on the basis of actual minimum food needs for the island , subordinating all question of commercial preference to the general good of the population- Fortunately Senator Chavez refused to allow politics to be injected into hearings of his investigation of the Puerto Rican economic situation . It is to be hoped that the House Committee on Territories , which has not been so quick to see the trap set for it , will follow Chavez 's lead . Kaiser 's Challenge to Medicine Henry J. Kaiser 's endeavors , against the opposition of organized medicine , to make complete medical care available to his workers and their families in his huge Democratic Absolutism We did not understand Mayor LaGuardia when months ago he stated vehemently that public employees have no right to strike . That is a dangerous principle when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many others are as essential to public welfare , though they are paid by private employers . Carried to its logical conclusion , it would create a totalitarian state . Still less do we understand his stubborn refusal , along with that of several other mayors , to allow disputes between the city and its employees to be decided by the National War Labor Board . Certainly strikes of public employees ought to be avoided , especially in war , but if they are to be avoided , is that not all the more reason to welcome mediation and arbitration , especially by the body to which is entrusted national policy in the matter ? First to say employees can not strike , and then to say that they must accept whatever the employer may see fit to offer , is to adopt the most reactionary policy of the most absolutist employer . The fact that this attitude is adopted by a government does not make it any better , even if the government is elected . Indeed , it makes it worse . The character of a government is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than by its forms . In this respect the Mayor is acting like any dictator . Equal Pay for Women The War Labor Board has taken an important step toward equality of opportunity for women . It has issued an order saying that women 's wages may be increased to make them equal to those of men for the same work , without violating the general order which forbids increases without special permission . After all these years , equal pay for women is still the exception rather than the rule ( workers at a plant of the Aluminum Company of America this week planned a strike to obtain it ) . Too often it is contended that women can be hired for less , either because there are more of them available when nrn go off to war , or because their earnings are regarded as additions to family budgets already maintained by men , and they are therefore willing to take less . But what about single women , or wives whose husbands are fighting , or widows ? If it be argued that unmarried women usually live with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not , especially when they have to move to the vicinity of war jobs , and second , that many single men live with their families also . In time of full employment , the contention that women can be hired for less soon ceases to be true ; in time of slack employment , lower wages for women create dangerous competition for men who might do the same jobs , and thus constitute an indirect method of lowering all wages . It is high time to regard men and women as separate individuals who are entitled to receive independent and equal economic treatment , either in work or in paying taxes . Whether they marry , and what they choose to do with their earnings , is nobody 's business but their own . Mr. Biddle 's Report The FBI 's spectacularly good record in preventing sabotage and apprehending Nazi spies naturally drew the headlines in the published summaries of the annual report of the Department of Justice , but the achievements of Mr. Biddle 's department deserve commendation in other particulars . The job of silencing the seventy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Special War Policies Unit which has devoted itself to foreign-language propaganda and to the framing of war legislation , the work of the Alien Enemy Control Unit , the Anti-Trust Division , the Lands Division , which has acquired about 12,000,000 acres in the past year for military purposes , and that of the Alien Property Unit has on the whole been vigorous and intelligent . The Department is especially to be congratulated for the gond sense with which it has helped to enforce the Selective Service Act . Mr. Biddle has taken the position that the purpose of the act is to get men into service , not to punish them for negligence and minor infractions , and has settled the great majority of offenses without court proceedings . It is pleasant to note that the raids and round-ups of " draft-dodgers " and the hysterical brutalities against conscientious objectors have thus far been absent . The Laski Thesis Men learn ? but slowly . It is the fashion now , among former isolationists , among conservatives , in the columns of Tory commentators , in such periodicals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assuredly in favor of a political arrangement for a post-war association of nations to keep the peace , and most contemptuously against " idealistic " economic arrangements which would in fact alone make such a political arrangement workable . In short , such people are now prepared to 3ccept Wilson 's League of Nations . However impolite it may be to press the issue , this question must be discussed now and the terrible consequences of such short-sightedness made plain now . " Victory " does not mean merely crushing Hitler . It means the removal of the causes which gave rise to Hiderism . For the United States and Great Britain it means participating in an organization which will increase the standard of life in backward areas , in order to assure ourselves an expanding economy . And a planned world economy means a domestic economy planned for consumption . The " controversial " questions which that idea raises must be tackled now . No one has been more courageous , or more farsighted , in insisting on this truth than the British economist Harold J. Laski , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . He has repeated his thesis again in the December issue of Threshold , the magazine published by the International Student Service . It is appropriate that it should be welcomed there . Youth finds little inspiration in the thought of the Third World War , which a static conception of victory will inexorably produce . 