@@485506

THE explosion in the Chamber of Deputies in Paris is another of the acts of the war on society in which the lowest grade of the socialists are engaged . For it must be remembered that there is no distinction worth mention between the anarchists and the Continental socialists It is true that the anarchists , properly so called , profess not to believe in the necessity of any government whatever . But- the number who hold this opinion sincerely is- probably very small indeed The great majority of anarchists are simply socialists who think they can hasten the socialist millennium by violent means  --  that is , by frightening the bougeoisie with bombs ; and the socialist millennium consists in the possession by " the state " of all the instruments of production , and the constant supply of employment and comfortable subsistence to everybody . The Paris Temps recently pointed out , in proof of this , that none of the socialist writers or orators in France ever pass out-and-out condemnation on bomb-throwing . They call it , at most , a mistake , not because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public against the socialist cause The anarchists have good ieason to slaughter their enemies , but they are unwise in doing it We fear we must be prepared for many more outrages of the same sort as long as the socialist craze lasts , and it will probably not die out without the trial of experiments which will do serious injury to our civilization . It is gaining ground in nearly every civilized country , and it can not gain ground without calling into existence-a large fringe of desperate and broken men who used to be considered , and to consider themselves , criminals or pariahs , but who now assume the rank and functions of the apostles of the new gospel The examination of several anarchists in France shows how easy it is nowadays for a half-crazy fellow out of work to look on himself as a martyr in a great cause , and eveiy man with a good coat on his back as one of his persecutors . The causes of the spread of socialism are many and various . The chief , doubtless , are the extension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast bodies of poor and really ignorant people , the increased facilities of communication between the working-men of different countries , and the growing force of the principle of equality , which lies at the bottom of all democracy , and which , as Tocqueville pointed out in 1851 , after levelling all other distinctions , is beginning to rage against distinctions based on property Socialist opinions , like  - -  religious opinions , of course , take their tone and temper very much from the medium through which they pass Among the philanthropists and ethical philosophers they make a mild form of human brotherhood , a sort of sublimated Christianity ; but , down among the lower class of untaught workers , they become as fierce a fanaticism as ever offered an infidel the choice between . the Koran and the sword . But no analysis of the causes of the movement would be either complete or accurate which did not give a high place among- them to the talk of the clergy , of the new political economists , and of the philanthropic public generally , on social topics The behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recalls irresistibly the way the French aristocracy before the Revolution played with the new ideas which were before long to cut their throats and confiscate their property . The clergy are almost everywhere seeking to retain their hold on the masses by taking up sympathy with the poor and intercourse with them as a sort of religious duty , and in doing so flatter them with preposterous accounts of what the community can and ought to do to make amends for " pangs of nature , sins of will , defects of doubt , and taints of blood . " Still more helpful to the socialists are the labors of the new school of political economists The outgivings of these gentlemen are all treated in the socialist camp as confessions of guilt and proposals to surrender on the part of the " capitalistic " class and the well-to-do world generally . What name to give to their political economy it would be hard to say . The older political economy , founded by Adam Smith and extended by Ricardo and others , confined itself strictly to describing the manner in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade and commerce One can easily see here the possibilities of a genuine science All that ' these economists had to say to the legislature was , " If you do so and so , such and such things will happen , the explanation of this and that phenomenon which puzzles you is this and this . " To the new school this modest role is mere foolishness . Each professor is an econo mist , legislator , and preacher of righteousness all in one He can not write about value without getting hold of a " germ of ethical implication , " or about cost without " taking up a concept into his ethi-. cal consciousness . " One of their most distinguished text-writers , Prof. - 3/larsh all , lays itdown that " the inquiry whether poverty is necessary " is " what gives its highest interest to economic science , " and of course " economic science " decides with Dr McGlynn that poverty is not necessary , that different social arrangements would banish it , no matter what demand the human race made on theproduce of the earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the process of earning a living . The same authority says that political economy " is , on its more important side , the study of man , " which makes it include almost everything which can in the slightest degree affect the condition of the race , and makes its professors the equals at least of Conate 's corpl of philosophers Hence , as might be expected , " school " succeeds " school , " each trying to outdo the other in inventing new distinctions about value , and cost of production , and rent , and the pains of labor , but all prothising the workingmen , and the ' poor generally , a glorious future  --  when " the state " really takes their case in hand . With real men of science this new political economy is falling into the contempt which long ago overtook theology and metaphysics , that is , they set it down as merely a collection of the opinions of all sorts of people , who can not be called to account , and whose predictions there is no means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very-different reception It satisfies then that they are right in believing that society has for long ages been cheating and oppressing them , that the existing social organization is vicious and tyrannical , and that it is the duty of " the state " to take care of them When professors in colleges , sprung from the capitalistic class and armed with all the learning of the Egyptians , talk in this ? way , all further discussion. : seems unnecessary It only remains to get possession of the government in order to banish poverty , and any means which seems likely to frighten the well-to-do into capitulation seems lawful . The mischief these various bodies do among the laboring class is worked main-1y by spreading false ideas of the state and false ideas of human nature . For their talk about " the state " there is no excuse They know well that the state can not be in our time any abler , wiser , or more honest than the majority of the people who compose it , and would certainly be less so , and that any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the property of the community would simply be a sink of corruption , of which decent people would soon rid themselves by force of arms . Fancy Gilroy and Croker in possession of the " instruments of produc. tion " in New York city , and Flower , Hill , and " " Sheehan in the State at large , how long would the working classes escape " precariousness of em-. employment , of livelihood , of support for old age , and of freedom from employers ' dictation , " which one of the economical philosophers sets down among the crying evils of our time ? Even . if we escaped such worthies as these , where would the State get the talent and honesty necessary for any such a vast schema of administration ? Everybody knows that the working class does not contain it , any more than the middle class , in any country in the world . Venal and lazy leaders abound among the working classes , and - there Dec. 14 , 1893 The Nation . 3 is hardly a corporation in the world today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ folly or dishonesty of its managers The regime of individualism and competition undoubtedly has its evils , but they are trifles compared to the probable evils of state socialism , and they diminish in proportion to the improvement of individuals in character and intelligence , and in no other way can or will diminish The false ideas of human nature which the economists diffuse consist in their ignoring the gravest fact in the history of the race , the desire of man to live on his fellow-man , in a greater or less degree  --  that is , to impose on some one else the cares , the labor , and burdens of life which properly belong to him only It is this trait of human nature which has made government , laws , military discipline , philosophy , and religion necessary all the world over Our whole civilization is based on a recognition of it If : the lazy , the selfish , the shirks , and the incompetent were allowed to have their way , it would not last two years . It is only the elite of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even people who would not steal for worlds are quite capable of letting other people do their work and bear their burdens . What keeps humanity at all up to the mark is the embodiment in the jurisprudence and philosophy of every civilized people of the apostolic precept that the man who will not work shall not eat In other words , the fear of poverty is one of the greatest supports of our morality . WHAT IS THE REMEDY ? The affair may now be said to have passed out of the President 's hands into those of Congress Congress has now to act in the matter It can do one of three things  --  recognize the provisional government as the permanent and lawful government of the country , and leavit to take care of itself ; give President Dole notice to quit and restore the Queen , or , take the vote of the registered electors as to the kind of government they will have and recognize and protect that Now the country is waiting to hear which of these policies Congress will adopt . As yet we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regards the first , it will be observed that it would , if adopted , be an avowal that we had no remedy for the wrongdoing of one of our agents in a foreign country , that no matter how much his conduct might be condemned by his superiors , we had no choice but to accept the consequences of it There is no doubt that the situation is one of great difficulty We can . recall no case like Stevens 's except the dethronement of King Kaniehameha by Lord George Paulet But Paulet did not set up a government of his own , and lie was promptly disavowed by his admiral There have been cases , too , where a foreign minister has connived at and encouraged revolution in the country to which he is accredited , but no case that we know of where he has himself made the revolution  --  that is , no case in - which the revolution could not have succeeded without his aid In this absence of precedent Congress will have to make one for itself , and it will be not only a contribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service It can hardly be that the Congress of a Christian nation will confess that it has no remedy for the wrongdoing of its own agents . The law of nature ought to be drawn on here by some of our jurists as it was in the case of the seals As regards the second , the objection is made that it would be " declaring war " on President Dole , who is , according to one theory , a lawful government m good and regular standing But it is to be observed that Dole does not claim this character for himself He is , according to his own showing , only a provisional president pending the annexation of his country to the United States . Now , should Congress refuse to annex , would not the refusal operate as the service on Dole of a notice to quit ? It seems to us that when his annexation scheme fails , he is functus officio , and ought to retire , and it would then be our duty to , keep order until the Queen returned to possession . Anyhow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything more serious than writing him a- note , and-it is confusing counsel to talk or think of him as a national belligerent . About the restoration of the Queen we express no opinion . It is , however , to be observed that she has never been heard in her own defence , that extraordinary pains were taken to prevent her being heard , and that her character is now being blackened all over the country on mere ruthor The very same people who are maintaming that Dole is entitled to all the rights , privileges , and immunities of a lawful government in the forum oP international law , are loudly proclaiming the right of the United States to dethrone queens for immorality But both positions can not be sound If we have a right to depose the Queen for unchastity , we surely have the right to kick Dole out for illegality . Let us add that stories about immorality coming from missionaries and from enemies about either man or woman should be received with great caution . It is a matter on which missionaries and clergymen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the evidence in Blount 's report that no white ladies in Honolulu refused the Queen 's invitations to the palace , and all were glad to get them The third policy , the taking of a popular vote , we should have said a year ago , was the truly American policy , and the one which Congress , in circumstances like these , would be pretty sure to adopt We supposed , a year ago , that the policy of allowing a handful of white traders to set up a government without consulting the main body of the people , anywhere within the radius of United States influence , would be strongly condemned by both parties , and especially by the Republican party . And , above all , we never expected to see the Republican party arrayed against a popular vote on account of the color of the bulk of the - voters , seeing that it was it which embodied in our own Constitution that famous clause which says that the right to vote " shall not be denied or abridged by the United States , or any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous condition of servitude " AN ABANDONED POSITION . BY an act of Congress , approved July 27 , 1868 , it was declared that " the right of expatriation is a natural and inherent right of all people , indispensable to the enjoyment of the rights of life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness , " and that " any declaration , instruction , opinion , order , or decision of any officer of this government which denies , restricts , impairs , or questions the right of expatriation , is . inconsistent with the fundamental principles of the republic " These declarations , which were foreshadowed in. the fifteenth section of the Free- Soil platform of 1852 , were-worked into the revised statutes . They mark the first formal and complete adoption by the Government of the United States of the principle ( af voluntary expatriation. 444 The Nation . Vol. 57 , No. 1485 Prior to their prpmulgation , differences of opinion had been disclosed in the expressions of our secretaries of state as to how far it was permissible to intervene in behalf of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original country , if he voluntarily returned to it ; and in several well-known cases our courts , following the doctrine of the English common law , had held that natural alreglance could not be shaken off without the consent of the sovereign . With one vociferous breath the act of 1868 swept all these doubts and differences away Since expatriation was a natural and inherent right of all people , the naturalized citizen should ( the act proceeded to declare ) be entitled to receive the same protection as the native citizen , every- where and under all circumstances The country of his origin , if he saw fit to return to it , could no longer claim his allegiance , but must accord to him the same rights and immunities as belonged to the native citizen of the United States . Such was the position expressly assumed by the United States in the act in question , though no attempt has been made to impress it by other means than argument on governments like Italy and Russia , which do not recognize the right of their subjects to expatriate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act of 1868 originated were somewhat ridiculous , but it is not necessary now to narrate them . Nevertheless , that year was a notable one in the history of expatriation . Prior to the passage of the act , naturalization treaties were concluded by George Bancroft with various German states , including the North German confederation , and negotiations for similar treaties with other powers were begun But of all the treaties of the year , the most remarkable in its declarations- respecting expatriation was that with China , commonly known as the Burlingame treaty . According to the terms of her penal code , China had apparently treated the renunciation of her allegiance as a capital offence By article 5 of the Burlingame treaty it was declared , in the very substance of the act of Congress : " The United States of America and the Emperor of China cordially recognize the inherent and inalienable right of man to change his home and allegiance . " This declaration was absolutely unqualified , going in this respect beyond the stipulations of any other treaty . - The right of expatriation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and allegiance " It comprehends both emigration and naturalization It necessarily ' involves the right to leave one country and enter another , and the right to transfer allegiance from the former to the latter . It belongs equally to all races , and to-men of all occupations not criminal or injurious to society . It is , as the Burlingame treaty declares , a " right of man , " or , as the act of Congress expresses it , a " right of all pebple . " Hence any law or rule of governmental action that abridges this " right of man , : ' or " right of all people , " to make a voluntary choice of home and allegiance , necessarily denies , restricts , and impairs the right of expatriation If it be true that the right of expatriation is a , natural and inherent right , it is not possible to deny to one government the power to forbid emigration and renunciation of allegiance , and to concede to another government the power to forbid migration and the acquisition of allegiance . The two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a natural and inherent right , ' of the man as distinguished from the citizen , is as clearly denied and discredited by the government that refuses admission and naturalization to the foreigner , as by the government that refuses emigration and renunciation of allegiance to the subject . While the truth of these propositions should seem to ' be self-evident , it does not appear to have been appreciated in the United States . In the correspondence of the Department of State even during the last ten years constant references may be found to the act of 1868 as a valid and subsisting law , binding in the full extent of its declarations on all officers of the Government In reality it may easily be shown that , as the result of positive legislation which has been sustained by the decisions of our courts , the position we assumed in 1868 has been abandoned , and that the act of that year can no longer be considered as in force . In 1875 Congress passed an act forbidding the immigration of persons under contract to labor . The right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to labor , and is fundamental It lies at the foundation of all organized society The act of 1875 was designed to exclude not only immigrants who were not in themselves desirable , but also those who , in the exercise of the " natural and inherent right " to labor , might become competitors of laborers already here . It was an abridgment , for certain local purposes , of the paramount right of the individual to expatriate himself . But it was three years later that our repudiation of the declarations of 1868 , and perhaps their insincerity also , began to be demonstrated directly and comprehensively . In 1878 a Chinaman named Ah Yup presented a petition to Judge Sawyer , in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of California , praying to be admitted to citizenship His petition was denied , because an examination of our statutes disclosed the fact that . they authorized the naturalization only of " white persons " and of persons of the Afri can race  --  the extremes of color  --  and thus excluded all races of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Mongolian yellow . It further appeared that this state of the law was not the result of accident , but of design , and that the sweeping denial of change of allegiance , so far as we were able to deny it , to a large part of the people of the globe , was deliberately inserted only two years after the blast of 1868 ' Nor did we stop here As some of our courts , either from ignorance of the law or from color blindness , did not observe the limitations of the statute , which still exist , Congress in 1882 enacted that no Chinese person should be naturalized , and thus specifically excluded that race from the enjoyment in the United States of the right of expatriation  --  that " natural and inherent right of all people . " Having denied- the right of expatriation in respect to change of allegiance , by refusing citizenship to races neither white nor black , and to Chinese in particular , we have as completely denied it in its other aspect  --  that of change of home Omitting from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole course of our legislation in respect to the Chinese since 1880 , including statutes passed in accordance with treaties as well as those enacted in violation of them , has involved an absolute denial of the right of expatriation as promulgated in the act of 1868 . Adopting the disposition and ability to work with the hands as the rule of our proscription , we have not only forbidden Chinese laborers to come to us , but we have asked their Government to cooperate with us in keeping them at home As it appears that the act of 1868 was long ago implicitly repealed by inconsistent legislation , and as its principles are daily repudiated by us in practice , ought not our Government , in a spirit of fairness and of decent self-respect , to cease to hold it up as a reproof and a threat to other powers ? THE ACTUAL ' COLLEGE YEAR . ONE of the first lessons forced home upon the student of government and - social institutions is the need of going behind written constitutions and declarations to arrive at actual practice The Constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any foreigner who should undertake to derive from it the real place and functions of Presidential electors . Churches have their formal charters and laws , their provisions for worship and administration , yet how much of the vital life of a modern church is not written down in any of these formularies I Nowhere can one find described in ecclesiastical canons the sewing societies and receptions and Dec. 14 , 1 893 - The Nation . 5 sociables and amateur theatricals and young people 's meetings and excursions and picnics and ChrtStmas festivals which make up so large a part of the actual life of a church at the present . It is necessary to go back of anything . you can find put down in books and get at the real mental attitude of real church people , before you can understand how much of the attraction of the church for them lies in such things as have been mentioned . The same principle holds of the life of a college You will not find it , or , at least , can not be at all sure you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of trustees or examining boards There you may indeed get the theory , but the practice you must look for in the ideas and ideals of the young men actually in the college or looking forward to being in it The undergraduate college paper is a far better witness to summon than the college Catalogue The staple talk of college students in their rooms and in public places and at their homes , the pictures they hang on their walls , the ambitions with which boys in preparatory schools anticipate entrance upon their college course , the real heroes of college life , the predominant interests which student ' correspondents of newspapers show they think the public most associate with colleges  --  all these sorts of evidence are of far greater weight in settling the real order of importance of the various phenomena of college life than any catalogue or report that was ever printed . Now what , we ask , would any unprejudiced inquirer , making use of those classes of evidence , conclude to be the greater , and what the lesser , events in the modern college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would find athletic days to be the great and high-days of the year , and that the average college student of the present day would graduate the attractions of his scholastic year something as follows : ( 1 ) Football , ( 2 ) baseball , ( 3 ) track athletics , ( 4 ) rowing , ( 3 ) tennis , ( 6 ) secret societies , ( 7 ) junior exhibition , ( 8 ) class-day , ( 9 ) library and reading-room , ( 10 ) " getting through " and taking his degree , ( 11 ) possibility of coming back as graduate " coach " to one of the teams The public has now a pretty fair inkling of the predominance of athletics in colleges , but a full perception of , the truth can be had only by one actually on the inside . What the public sees is the few great spectacular games , but it knows little or nothing of the long preparation for them going on through months , or of the absorption of undergraduate attention in them both before and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for two months past , and everybody has seen how impossible it was for the members of the principal teams to give thought to anything but the game . We have perfectly authentic evidence that one Yale player , from the opening of the term late in September up to Thanksgiving , could give no more than an hour a day to his studies , after attending to his main duty of training and practising . And it should be understood that this thing is no longer confined to the fall months Capt . Waters had the brilliant idea of starting the Harvard team training last June , and he had the men at Bar Harbor and Sorrento and elsewhere Of course , Capt . Huikey and C apt Trenchard could not see themselves handicapped in that way , and they , too , called their men to various retired places and put them at work at intervals through the summer . Logically , there is no room for stopping at any time , and , if the thing keeps on , the team will not go " out of training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thanksgiving game to make a new start for glory Even without , this the college in winter is a vast camp of men " in training " for something The crew are hard at work at the weights and on the " tank " The candidates for the nine are to be seen at all hours in the " cage " The aspirants for the Mott Haven games are getting up their wind and their muscle night and day . It is actually a fact that a student who is not " in training " for some athletic contest , unless plainly disabled physically , feels called upon to make an apology for proposing to do nothing for the honor of his class or college Before any objector charges this account with exaggeration , let him note-that we predicate it only of the average student We-know that there are many exceptions , and that the professors and writers and successful professional men of the future are in college for study just as their fathers were before them But we also know that the scholastic ideal now gives the first place to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present , in college and out , is the college athlete . We do not know , but we fear , that college faculties are not acting up to their convictions in the matter of regulating athletics  --  that they make the rivalry of colleges an excuse for not doing what they really believe ought to be done What is certain is , that , against their convictions or with them , the historic and rational idea of an educational institution has been turned upside down                     