@@494185

Anything Goes THERE IS TODAY practically no limit to what the movies ca n't do , but there is a very real and narrow limit to what they actually manage to do . Take the book " H. M. Pulham , Esq . " It is n't that the movie people are thinking of whatever subtleties the book may have had , or are willing to give much thought to realizing them on the screen . No , the book will make a picture because it made a splash of sell ? ing , and because they are hard up for screen material , and because if the material is as original as they are always hollering for material to be , it is too risky unless it has been given a tryout in some other field . " H. M. Pulham , Esq. , " does n't make much of a movie piece , for in spite of the care for story outline , nothing orig ? inal or different comes across . It is the story of a man who never quite knew which of two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeps you awake for two solid hours , you are not likely to care if he ever gets his eyes shut . A Boston family is mentioned and the man is shown getting older and wear ? ing a derby hat . Otherwise , it is a study of nothing more than Robert Young deciding which horn of the dilemma he would rather sit on . Robert Young and Hedy Lamarr ( each of them playing a straight part well ) , the set and solid Charles Coburn , Van Heflin and Fay Holden . They do what is required of them , and so does the story under the direction of King Vidor , who also participated in its adaptation . H. M. Pulham was pretty fly for Boston and starts the picture working in a New York advertising office , where he falls in love with a girl copywriter from Iowa out of Vienna . When the girl visits his New England home she ca n't stick it , and when his father dies he becomes quite naturally the man of the family . He marries respectably and while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl retains exactly the same face , figure and accent . Some of this is shown in flash ? back . Some of it is not shown in flashback . But the ending is vague however they tell it : he does n't love the girl lie 's loved , but he loves his wife whom he apparently does n't love , and the moral is apparently that if you live in Boston it 's an open and shut case of living in Boston . It is a true enough moral , but some have lived to escape from it , and it has n't made good fiction since James and Hawthorne fled abroad ? if it did even at the time . In other words , a book may recreate a period or sharpen its occasional matters to a main point . But a picture-maker hunting merely for a guaranteed story will lose all the im ? portance unless he has a feeling for it , and wind up telling a story with less meaning than amiable confusion . Vidor has made some turkeys . He has also made some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was laid in this same New England , much nearer to the heart and understanding , much fuller in its appreciation of people because it was the perhaps more obvious theme of poor people , and how they lived because they were born , and had to He should n't be turned loose , and nobody should be turned loose ( except possibly the Marx brothers ) on the subtle hierarchy of Back Bay . Whether the book was successful or whether the pic ? ture will be , the actual result in picture terms is another triangle so old and worn that you ca n't find an acute or even right angle in the three . OTIS FERGUSON It is n't very often that two pictures beg to be reviewed together but " Appointment for Love " ( Universal ) and " You Belong to Me " ( Columbia ) do just that . Both have lady doctors who marry ordinary , i.e. , non-medical , hus ? bands , both have wedding nights with the wife called away to attend a patient , and both use many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boyer surprisingly shows a nice feel for comedy and Margaret Sullavan could recite the multiplication tables and make audiences like it . Rita Johnson , Eugene Pallette and Reginald Denny also help to make it seem funnier than it is . But except for three or four bright moments , the story stretches out interminably and finally ends , not from any real need of resolution of plot problems , ? but because the allotted hour and fifty min ? utes have been used up . Chief credit for making " You Belong to Me " the better comedy of the two goes to Henry Fonda ? his frustrated husband is a honey . Then , too , the story by Dalton Trumbo has some teeth in it and , as directed by Wesley Ruggles , runs along fast even when it is n't going anywhere . In gen ? eral , though , these coy bedroom farces legalized by a wedding ring are neither novel nor funny . Better than these two for sheer entertainment is " Inter ? national Squadron " ( Warner Brothers , directed by Louis Seiler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exciting scenes of bombed London and aerial fighting than " A Yank in the RAF , " with all its publicity . There is a story of sorts with , Ronald Reagan as the irresponsible young American who joins the RAF and grows up fast . It 's not an out ? standing picture , but it has pace , excitement and contem ? porary interest . M. B. Records : These for a Starter ACCORDING TO THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE , peo ple are still buying phonographs and radio-phono ? graphs in rather large numbers , increased prices , taxes and national defense notwithstanding . In fact a minor boom is now in full swing , prompted partly , perhaps , by the implied threat of a future curtailment of consumer purchases , and partly by a feeling among those who have been waiting for frequency modulation to get started that if they are going to buy at all they had better do it now . So phonographs are being bought and people with phono ? graphs are going to buy records . And records are not quite so simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any edition . But with recorded music there are at least three intermediaries between the composer and you ? the per formers , the recording engineers and the firm that prints them clear or wavery , on good surfaces or bad . The hall or studio in which the performance was recorded , the state of your own needles , pickups and speakers are also important . A bad flaw in any one of these items can spoil a record completely . To start from scratch and pick out a small basic collection from the whole broad field of recorded music is quite a chore for anyone ? particularly if you are n't quite clear on what you want . With this in mind I 'm going to make a few suggestions about a basic collection . And with my fingers crossed , knowing that it is a presumptuous and reckless thing to do , that everyone has his favorites and that no two 