@@475689

IN RECENT years no area of the country has been the cause of so much political irritation to so many people as the South . Socialists damn the South because there are so few socialists south of the Mason-Dixon line . Labor sympathizers are exasperated because the South 's congressmen do not vote for the measures of organized labor in as large numbers as the representatives from Cleveland , Detroit , Pittsburgh , and New York . New Dealers rail because the South does not move to the left fast enough . Northern Democrats resent the fact that Southerners in Congress too frequently kick over the party traces and defy party leadership . Republicans are disgusted because Southern conservatives do not do what Republicans regard as the honest and logical thing to do ? join the Republican party . And all groups , even the conservative Republicans , unite in anathematizing the South as the seedbed of American fascism . Thus a political myth has grown up ? a myth which has it that the South is completely and consistently conservative , conservative in its own uniquely cussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a long time , but this popular stereotype of an all-conservative South is of relatively recent origin . It dates from the latter days of the New Deal when many Southern congressmen rebelledagainst New Deal measures and made a working alliance with Republicans . Even the Bourbon South of the 1870 's and 1880 's never caused such a myth to develop in Northern minds , because Tilden and Cleveland were in general conservative enough to suit Bourbon tastes , and hence the Bourbons in Congress never found it necessary to revolt against their own party . Moreover , when the Southern revolt against Cleveland did come in 1896 , it was a radical and not a conservative revolt . The time was when Northern publicists depicted the South in an entirely different light . Then they popularized the myth of a radical South , radical in its own uniquely cussed way . Throughout a large part of American history conservative Northern publicists held before their Northern readers the bogey of a Southern Hotspur , firebrand , Yahoo , and whirling dervish ready to pull down the pillars of respectable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jacobins who would bring to America the horrors of the French Revolution . Jackson and his Southern followers were painted as slam-bang agrarians who would bring mob rule and mud-sill dictatorship . In the days of the Populists , Northern editors were disposed to see even more danger in a Tom Watson from Georgia or a " Cyclone " Davis from Texas than in a General Weaver from Iowa or a " Whiskers " Peffer from Kansas . The development of the recent myth of a united conservative South may well be illustrated in the writings of William Allen White , who made himself a kind of common denominator of middle-class American opinion . Around 1940 , when White was writing his autobiography , he had come under the spell of the current stereotype then being developed . Over and over again he speaks in his autobiography of the conservative South . He reads back into the 1890 's and the early decades of the twentieth century this myth of Southern political conservatism . By 1940 , White apparently had forgotten that back in the 1890 's , when he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Kansas " and lambasting the radicalism of Mary Elizabeth Lease and Socldess Jerry Simpson , he was at the same time lambasting the radicalism of Ben Tillman and the Southern Silverites . He had forgotten , too , that when he sat as an ardent Wilson fan in the Baltimore convention of 1912 , it was the steadfast Wilson delegations from North Carolina , South Carolina , and Texas , and the work of McAdoo , House , Burleson , and Daniels ? Southerners all ? that made possible Wilson 's nomination for President . II T HE truth is that the South , like every other region with a long-standing tradition of popular government , divides politically into every degree of articulate political consciousness from left to right . There are mossbacks and progressives , conservatives and liberals , reactionaries and leftists in the South , just as there are such divisions elsewhere . If economic determinism in politics works at all in this world , it works in the South about as much as it does elsewhere . This should , of course , be obvious to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who can give a glib explanation of politics in terms of economics everywhere on earth except in the South of the United States and whona ? vely believe that economic determinism abruptly stops at the Mason-Dixon line is truly amazing . There is undeniably a conservative tradition in the politics of the South . There were the conservative Federalists of the days of Washington , Marshall , and the Pinckneys . There were the Whigs of the days of John Tyler , Robert Toombs , Alexander H. Stephens , and Judah P. Benjamin . There were the Bourbon Democrats of the days of Wade Hampton , John B. Gordon . L. Q. C. Lamar , and Augustus H. Garland . And in recent times there have been conservative Democrats like Harry Byrd , Carter Glass , Walter George , Eugene Cox , and Martin Dies . Nor is the alliance of Southern conservatives with Northern conservatives anything new . The Pinckneys were in alliance with Alexander Hamilton ; John Marshall was in alliance with John Adams . The Southern Whigs were in alliance with the Northern Whigs ; " the lords @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lords of the loom . " The Southern Bourbons of the 1870 's and 1880 's were in covert alliance with the conservative Republicans , particularly on railroad , financial , and monetary issues . And today the Southern conservative Democrats are in alliance , sometimes overt and sometimes covert , with the Northern conservative Republicans ? a Bourbon-Yankee alliance hallowed in the name of " Southern rights " and " white supremacy . " But there is a Southern liberal tradition , too ? and historically the liberal tradition generally has been stronger than the conservative . There was the ' Jeffersonian South and the Jacksonian South . There were the Southern Independents of the 1880 's and the Southern Populists of the 1890 's . There was the Bryanite South of the turn of the century . There was the Wilson South and the Roosevelt South . Without the South ? Bryan could not have held sway in the Democratic party for a quarter of a century and transformed it from Cleveland conservatism to modern progressivism . Without Bryan and without the South there would have been no Woodrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franklin D. Roosevelt at Chicago in 1932 . Indeed , if the administrations of Wilson and Roosevelt are conceived ( and , I think , correctly so ) as those which have done the most to bring a kind of social and indus . trial democracy to the United States , then the South must be thought of ? both in the Democratic conventions which produced their nominations and in their subsequent elections ? as serving in an effective alliance with the Northern liberals . It constituted a bloc of the Popular Front ; indeed the most important bloc , although the least respected and most maligned . Southern liberalism , of course , has been mainly agrarian . But this has not prevented Southern liberals from allying themselves with Northern commercial and industrial liberals . Jefferson was in alliance with Tammany . Southern Jacksonians were in alliance with the LocoFocos and other workingmen 's parties of the Northeast . And in recent times Josephus Daniels has been in alliance with Samuel Gompers , and Southern New Dealers in alliance with John L. Lewis and Philip Murray . Today the spearhead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come more and more to be industrial , urban , proletarian . The transition from agrarian to industrial liberalism is admittedly difficult in the South , but it is gradually being made . That transition comes much more easily because the same political party ? the Democratic ? which was the vehicle of liberalism when that movement was primarily agrarian is now the vehicle of liberalism when it has become primarily industrial . Large areas of the South today are being industrialized in an atmosphere of social and economic democracy unknown in the days when the Northeast first got its industry ? and in saying this , I do not mean to gloss over Southern shortcomings and differentials in industrial relations . Moreover , there has always existed in the South an underlying skepticism about the sweetness and light of industrial capitalism . In spite of Henry W. Grady and his disciples , the myth of omnipotent and benevolent industrialism has never taken hold in the South as it has in other sections . Men in the South spoke of " the full dinner pail " with tongue in cheek . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have to unlearn at all because they never believed it in the first place . The South , then , divides politically just as other areas of the country do . The fact that a good many of these divisions take place inside a single political party does not make them any the less real . There is even a kind of sectional division within the South which reflects itself in politics . Even before the Civil War , the hillbilly upcountry , composed of white counties inhabited by small freehold farmers , was politically opposed to the aristocratic planter counties in the Black Belt . Professor H. C. Nixon of Vanderbilt University emphasizes this sectional division within the South , and points out that even in recent times the majority of Southern political liberals have come from this Piedmont upcountry ? for instance , Estes Kefauver , Robert Ramspeck , Helen Man-kin , Luther Patrick , Ellis Arnall , " Big Jim " Folsom , John Sparkman , Hugo Black . There is a basic truth here , and yet we should beware of exaggerating it . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree come from all parts of the South . After all , Tom Watson in his fiery Populist days was elected from one of the old Whig planter districts ? the Augusta district of Georgia ? in the very area where conservatives like Bob Toombs and " Little Alec " Stephens first rose to power . And today such fighting liberals as Lister Hill and Claude Pepper hail from the deep South . How , then , can we explain the large number of conservative Southern votes in Congress during the past few years ? Largely by the fact that the country has moved away from the New Deal ? and when the country moves , the South does , too . When the country moves toward liberalism , so does the South ; when it moves back to conservatism , so does the South . In the South , however , the return to conservatism is expressed within the Democratic party , while in the rest of the country it is expressed largely by an increase in the strength of the Republican party . When the country is in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it but help spearhead it . They voted overwhelmingly for the leading measures of Wilson 's New Freedom , which made the first four years of his administration notable for constructive liberal legislation . This goes not only for such measures as the Federal Reserve Act , the Clayton Act , the Federal Trade Commission , and the Rural Credits Act , but also for such labor legislation as the Adamson Act of 1916 . This law , which established the eight-hour day for railway labor plus time-and-one-half for overtime , was by all odds the outstanding example of union labor legislation in the Wilson Administration . A large majority of Southerners in both the houses voted for it ; only two Southern Senators voted against it . After 1918 , as the country moved back to conservatism , so did the South . For instance , a large number of Southern Representatives and seven Southern Senators voted for the Transportation Act of 1920 , which returned the railroads to private management and contained certain provisions very unpopular with organized labor . As the reaction in the country deepened , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Congress became more conservative . Republicans like John W. Harreld , Richard P. Ernst , and Frederick Sackett were sent to the Senate from the upper South . In 1920 , Tom Watson ? by that time thoroughly reactionary and allied with Jew-baiters , Negrophobes , and Kluxers ? was sent to the Senate by a heavy majority of Georgia voters . Again , Southern members of Congress voted overwhelmingly for New Deal measures when the New Deal was in its constructive phase and popular in the country . It was a little group of Southern Representatives who in the first year of the New Deal stood out for the federal guarantee of bank deposits . The Southern delegations were overwhelmingly in favor of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933 and only two Southern Senators , Glass and Bailey , voted against that measure . When the Social Security Act came up for final passage , only seven Southern Representatives voted against it ; not a single Southern Senator did . The South even supported the Wagner Act , and supported it decisively . On final passage there was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineteen Southern Senators announced themselves in favor of the measure and only two , Byrd and Bailey , voted against it . By 1938 , considerable opposition was developing to the New Deal inside Southern delegations , but even the Wages and Hours Law of that year commanded large Southern support . Indeed , it was the smashing victory of Claude Pepper in the Florida primary early in May of that year ? a primary in which the Wages and Hours Bill was a leading issue ? which stirred Congress to resurrect the bill and vote on it . After 1940 , with the war and the domestic swing to conservatism , Southern votes in Congress became increasingly conservative . However , this time the Southern swing to conservatism , as reflected in Congressional votes , appeared more decided than in the last year of the Wilson administration and the early 1920 's . This was due in part to the fact that so many of the tests of liberal voting involved labor measures ? and labor had moved much faster and farther to the left in New Deal days than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without an organized labor movement , and many of the industrial-minded fear that the imposition of too many national standards will rob the South of certain of its presumed competitive advantages in attracting new industry . How conservative is the South today ? The recent Congressional elections show a trend to conservatism , but the trend is not decisive . There were distinct liberal victories , notably in Alabama , where John Sparkman was sent to the Senate and " Big Jim " Folsom , with CIO support , was elected Governor . Just how conservative have been the votes of the Southern delegations in Congress during the past few years ? In its issue of September 23 , 1946 , the New Republic tabulated what it considered the progressive and conservative votes of members of the Senate on fourteen measures during 1945 and 1946 , and did the same thing for the House of Representatives on fifteen leading measures . Whether or not one is willing to accept the New Republic 's standards of liberalism , the box score is at least illuminating . On the basis of this tabulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California ? but it is more progressive than the states with which it should more reasonably be compared , the agricultural and only partially industrialized states of the Middle West . The House votes , for example , show that Kentucky , Tennessee , and North Carolina all have a more progressive record than Indiana . Alabama has a more progressive record than Minnesota , Louisiana a more progressive record than Iowa . Arkansas , with seven Representatives , more than doubles the progressive vote of Iowa , with eight Representatives . Even reputedly reactionary South Carolina has thirty-two progressive votes , while Kansas , with the same number of Representatives , has only fourteen . And Georgia , with ten Representatives , has forty-one progressive votes , while Kansas and Nebraska combined , also with ten Representatives , have only seventeen progressive votes . The record in the Senate is somewhat the same . In spite of the historical record which puts the South on the side of Bryan , Wilson , and Roosevelt , and in spite of concrete evidence such as the votes just analyzed , the stereotype @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular mind and even in the minds of most editors , publicists , and radio commentators , the Middle West would be . rated more politically progressive than the South , although in fact that notion can bear neither historical nor contemporary analysis . In spite of such solid conservatives as Harry S. New , James E. Watson , Ray Willis , and Homer Capehart , Indiana still remains ? in popular legend ? the Indiana of Albert J. Beveridge and Eugene Debs . In spite of its Charley Curtises and its Clyde Reeds , Kansas is better remembered for Henry J. Allen and William Allen White . In spite of currently conservative voting records , Nebraska is still thought of in terms of George Norris , Iowa in terms of the Wallaces , and Minnesota in terms of Floyd B. Olsen . But what happens in the South ? In spite of its progressive record , people think of poor Cracker Georgia , Negro-hating Alabama , bedeviled South Carolina , and benighted Arkansas ! Thus runs the political stereotype : Around Harlem and Manhattan Center and Union Square , young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although the Midwest -- almost never criticized ? has in fact done less than the Southern states to bring us such social democracy as we have . WHY this stereotype of a completely and consistently conservative South ? What caused it to develop in the public mind ? First , the South is traditionally Democratic , and is measured in the public mind by the liberalism of the national Democratic party . In its tabulations of Congressional votes , for example , the New Republic made a separate box score of Southern Democrats and thus called attention to the relatively conservative record of Southerners and the relatively liberal record of the party outside the South . Southern Democrats are expected to be as liberal as Eastern and Northern Democrats . When they are not , the whole South is damned as being uniquely and cussedly conservative . When a Southern Senator or Representative votes conservative he usually has to bolt his party and vote with the Republicans . That insurgency is news and is played up in the press . When big business interests contribute to the campaign funds of Southern conservatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public is accustomed to such contributions being made to Republicans , but not to Democrats . It is not news when Eastern money is contributed to elect a reactionary Northern Republican ; it is news when Eastern money is contributed to elect a reactionary Southern Democrat . The public mind seems never able to accustom itself to what should be a commonplace : that when the country turns to conservatism , that conservatism reflects itself in the South within the Democratic party , but in the rest of the country by a swing to the Republicans . During such a trend , it is considered normal for the North to go conservative Republican , but abnormal for the South to go conservative Democrat . So when the South does edge over to the right within its own party , Northern liberals shake their heads over the incorrigible conservatism of the South . Second , since the South is held up to the yardstick of the national Democratic party , people tend to compare the South with the states where the Democrats are strongest ? that is , with the great urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , Pittsburgh , Cleveland , Chicago , and Los Angeles . Thus the South is unfairly and unreasonably compared with the areas which are not similar in economic and social background , rather than with the rural and semi-industrial areas of the Middle West . Third , labor unions are less advanced in the South than elsewhere , and the Negro still has an inferior status . Even Southerners who are liberal on economic matters are frequently conservative on racial ones . The South has obviously obstructed just federal measures to lessen racial discrimination . Northern liberals tie these facts to the current and temporary trend toward political conservatism , and conclude that all of them make up a fundamental pattern . ( Of course , the argument can be reversed . It can , with much reason , be maintained that if the South has been able to make a fairly good liberal record , in spite of its racial discriminations , its white primaries , its poll taxes , its county unit systems , its flagrant gerrymanders in favor of small rural counties , and its immature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impressive in the future as these handicaps are gradually overcome ? as they surely will be . ) Fourth , the Southern temperament is mercurial and volatile , and conservatism in the South takes on a more picturesque and primitive aspect than it does elsewhere . In the Middle West conservatism is flat , uninteresting , conventional ; it expresses itself in staid Rotary luncheons , Chamber of Commerce dinners , women 's club forums , and church suppers . In the South , on the other hand , conservatism is often evangelistic and gasconading ; it frequently expresses itself in hyperbolic denunciations , apocalyptic visions , waving sombreros , stormy petrels like " the wild man from Sugar Creek , " and hillbilly bands . No wonder such shenanigans impress themselves on the popular mind . VI T ODAY , as in the past , the South is divided politically ; that division expresses itself in various political groupings . First , there is the left wing ? those who go about as far to the left as the left-wing New Dealers of the North and who favor federal centralization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems . This group is made up of the Southern Conference for Human Welfare , the Southern branch of the CIO , the Southern branch of the Political Action Committee , old friends and beneficiaries of the Farm Security Administration , and the most aggressive friends of organized labor . Many intelligent and courageous Southerners belong to this left wing , and some of them have aristocratic lineages that go way back into Virginia and Carolina colonial history . In national politics this group was at one time represented by Hugo Black ; today it is represented by Claude Pepper . Second . there are those who clearly recognize the reasons for federal centralization today but who feel somewhat uncomfortable about this trend . They would like to see a decentralization of industry , in order to arrest the movement toward centralization in government . Former Governor Ellis Arnall is an example of this school of thought . If industrial decentralization turns out to be impossible on any appreciable scale , or if it turns out to be mere geographical decentralization and not economic or managerial decentralization , then this group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on many specific issues , this group is in fact indistinguishable from the first . Third , there are the old agrarian liberals who for years have been fighting the battles of the Democratic party . As the Democrats have gradually evolved from a party of agrarian liberalism to a party of industrial liberalism , these men have recognized the altered conditions which have forced the change , and have accommodated themselves to it . Josephus Daniels and many other old Wilsonites are representative of this large group . Fourth , there are the ? Southern demagogues , " who claim to represent the piney-wood folk , the small farmers , the tenants , the sharecroppers . They speak the language of the poor white . They share his prejudices and often exploit them . When they go to Congress they usually vote against " Wall Street . " They often vote liberal on economic measures . These are the heirs of Toni Watson in his Populist days , of Ben Tillman , of James K. Vardaman , yes , even of Huey Long . Poor old Bilbo , when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this group . Bilbo 's voting record during his first term in the Senate was almost straight New Deal ; a distinguished liberal much respected in the North once declared that he would rather have had Bilbo 's voting record during Bilbo 's first term than that of any other man in Congress . From the point of view of an integrated liberalism , leaders of this group are not dependable ; frequently in Southern history they have catapulted from one extreme to the other . Fifth , there are the conservatives ? the conventional , orthodox , and respectable conservatives ? like the late Josiah Bailey , Harry Byrd , Walter George . These men are not apt to exploit racial or religious prejudices . They do not play the demagogue . They are gentlemen . They are at home with business executives , bank presidents , and corporation directors . There is little to distinguish their voting records from the voting records of conservative Republicans from the North . Sixth , there are the unconventional and the unorthodox conservatives , the roughnecks with a strong rural appeal . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? like the Tillmans , Vardamans , and Longs ? speak the language of the poor whites and often exploit their racial and religious prejudices . But they are " the stormy petrels " of conservatism , doing little or nothing for the people towham they appeal and using popular slogans to serve reactionary interests . They make conservatism colorful ; they dish up the conservative program with a profusion of red galluses , ten-gallon hats , and the plaintive music of hillbilly bands . The Talmadges of Georgia and Lee O'Daniel of Texas are representative of this group . These groups , of course , are not sharply differentiated , and there is considerable overlapping but anyone with a discern-ing political eye may see examples of each of them in Southern Congressional delegations , in Southern state capitols , in courthouses , in city halls , and in the generality of the Southern population . HE South will remain in the Democratic party , and these political divi- sions will continue to express themselves within the Democratic party . The South will remain Democratic for a number of reasons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the enormous prestige of the Democratic label . Another is the fact that the South has more poor folks than any other section ? and most Southerners are convinced that the Democratic party is the place where poor folks belong . Still another is the chilly reception accorded Southerners by the Republican party . When in power , it grants the South few specific favors ; to the chagrin of John Temple Graves , II , the increasingly conservative Birmingham columnist , the present Republican leaders seem to have little intention of reversing their traditional policy of indifference toward the South . Indeed , Northern Republicans are rather contemptuous of Southerners , even of conservative Southerners . For instance , in 1946 , at the very time conservative Southerners and Republicans were in working alliance in Congress , Republican leaders such as William E. Jenner , the Republican Senatorial candidate in Indiana , were ridiculing their Southern allies as Claghorns . When the political tide turns and the country again swings to liberalism , it is a safe bet that the first four of the Southern political groups will converge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presidential nomination just as in 1932 the Hugo Blacks , the Josephus DanieIses , and the Huey Longs got behind Roosevelt at Chicago . And should that Democratic nominee be elected , it is also a safe bet that an overwhelming majority of Southerners in Congress will vote to enact his liberal program in its constructive years , just as Southern delegations voted overwhelmingly for Wilson 's New Freedom and Roosevelt 's New Deal . These are considerations which might well be pondered by those Northern left-wingers who appear to be contemplating secession from the Democratic fold and the organization of a third party .                     