@@470928

ALTHOUGH the pundits in this country who discourse on Latin-American affairs disagree on many points , probably most of them would agree that the problem of the clash of ideologies in Latin America is one of the most important and least understood aspects of inter-American relations . We have tended to regard Latin America as the scene of a simple struggle between the forces of democracy and those of totalitarianism . In observing this struggle from afar we have placed great emphasis on the utterances of the Latin-American leaders . When Colonel Batista of Cuba , or President Ubico of Guatemala , or President Aguirre of Chile has declared for hemisphere defense and democracy we have eagerly taken note . And we have been correspondingly concerned when President Vargas of Brazil seemed to move toward fascism in 1937 , even though he hastened to explain that his regime was a special brand of democracy he had designed to meet particular Brazilian conditions . Sd urgent and so continental did the issue appear to the Foreign Ministers assembled at Havana in 1939 that they agreed to recommend to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Americas the spread of doctrines that tend to place in jeopardy the common Inter-American democratic ideal . " Declarations for democracy are heartening of course , but up to now we have pretty thoroughly neglected to ask thefundamentally important question : What is the character of the soil in Latin America in which foreign ideologies ? of whatever sort ? must take root if they are to have force and meaning ? For the struggle between the two great conflicting ideas of our time is conditioned , in Latin America as everywhere else , by the existing social structure and the predispositions of men 's minds . We need to know what ideas in Latin America already exist and stand ready to accept , reject , or modify the invading philosophies . We need to know what groups there will naturally offer congenial ground to democracy or totalitarianism , and why . And we must try to discover how we , who are committed to practicing democracy and encouraging its growth in the Americas , can associate ourselves with those elements which offer the most hope for the eventual triumph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find several vociferous groups in Latin America as well as in this country which cherish mutually exclusive points of view . There are the Pan-American optimists . For them every recommendation of a Pan-American congress has the force of law , and they appear to believe that President Roosevelt 's Good Neighbor policy is about to raise up in Latin America a solid phalanx of democratic nations united on a sincere and steadfast anti-totalitarian policy . Then there are the pessimists who claim that true democracies do not exist now in Latin America and probably never will . They mention poverty , disease , illiteracy , and geographical obstacles . As one Central American has put it : " Neither liberty nor democracy has ever existed or been practiced in the Latin-American countries . . . . To speak of democracy , of liberty , is an irony , and a bloody and disgraceful irony . " A third and even more extreme position is taken by a cynical Latin-American friend of mine who maintains that Latin America not only has no real democracy but has no original ideas of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every ideological wind that blows . Even when his fellow-citizens adopt a foreign idea , he charges they do so ignorantly without trying to relate it to the needs and possibilities of their own country . He illustrates his view with several stories . One concerns the removal in 1808 of the Portuguese court to Brazil , to avoid capture by Napoleon 's armies . The ladies of Brazil , fluttered by the prospect of royalty at close range , hurried to the port to watch them disembark . To their astonishment , the high-born ladies of Portugal stepped ashore with their hair cut short . What a charming new coiffure , murmured the Brazilians , and hurried home to duplicate the effect , not knowing that the Portuguese ladies had taken this desperate measure to rid themselves of the lice which infested the ancient boats that had brought them from Lisbon . He cited the more recent example of the Mexican Minister of Education a generation ago who believed that the basic problem of Mexico was to convey Greek thought to the Indians , and to this end devoted much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translation and distribution of Plato 's Republic and Aristotle 's Here , declared my friend , we have excellent examples of the ways of Latin Americans . " They adopt foreign ideas without understanding them and without reference to conditions in their own countries . The Latin-American counterparts of the cultural and ideological movements from overseas have been grotesque falsifications without vitality or any creative force whatsoever . We have been El Continente Refiejo ? The Reflecting Continent ? which has deformed the image projected from afar . " Generalizations such as these must of course be taken with Mark Twain 's barrel of salt . Because of our incorrigible habit of generalizing about the continent as a whole , we have been guilty of both over-optimism and over-pessimism . The fact is that the diversity among the twenty Latin-American republics is such that almost any sweeping statement about the continent as a whole , particularly about its " spirit , " is bound to be untrue because it ignores the profound differences among the twenty republics . Yet it is arguable that certain large social and economic classes exist generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conservative land-owning society , the cultural fusionists , and the urban industrial society . The proportionate importance of these three groups varies from country to country , but all are found in each country . And one begins to find in an examination of the interests and outlooks of these several groups an answer to the important question : What soil does Latin America offer for the growth of democracy ? what for totalitarianism ? II The conservative landholders trace their fortunes back to the sixteenth century when conquistadores were granted huge tracts of land as a reward for their services in the New World to the kings of Spain and Portugal . They believe in a strong Catholic church , a semi-feudal government and society , and are loath to encourage such " dangerous " movements as mass education and trade unionism . In countries where Indians form a large part of the population no effort is made by this group to incorporate the Indians into the body politic . One of the best descriptions of this class is to be found in the brilliant opening chapter of George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entitled " Master and Man . " Professor McBride describes the owner of a Chilean estate and his worker as follows : These two men represent the sharply differentiated classes into which Chilean society has been divided for several centuries . Until recent years there were no others . There was a landholding aristocracy , well educated , far-traveled , highly cultured , in full control of the national life ; and quite apart from them a lower class , often spoken of with mixed disdain and affection as the " rotos " ( ragged ones ) , constituting the fixed tenantry of the rural estates . The landowner has commanded , a landless people has obeyed . A man 's status has been determined by whether or not he owned an hacienda or , at least , by whether he belonged to a landholding family . Position in life , occupation , opportunity depended mainly on this . Possession of ability , attainment in education , achievement in any line , even acquisition of wealth has meant less than being born into a circle that monopolized the land resources of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the social organization of Old Spain ; a twentieth century people still preserving a feudal society ; a republic based on the equality of man , yet with a blue-blood aristocracy and a servile class as distinctly separated as in any of the monarchies of the OM World . This social structure exists to some degree in every country . In Mexico , as everyone knows , much land has already been distributed to the Indians , but even there great estates are still to be found . In Guatemala , where there has been no demand for land by the submerged classes , there is an extraordinary concentration of landholding in a few hands . In this distinctively agricultural country less than ten per cent of the population has land and there is no solicitude on the part of the government to improve the lot of the landless . Naturally enough the large landowners do nothing to encourage the Indians to occupy the public land in Guatemala still available to buyers ; for they feel that if a thoroughgoing distribution of this land were effected their cheap labor might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undermined . Brazil has her great coffee estates on which live the colonos or laborers fixed to the soil in somewhat the same fashion as feudal serfs were bound to their lord 's glebe in medieval Europe . It is only when one passes beyond the area of the excellent terra roxa or rich , red soil of Sao Paulo and pushes out to the frontier that individual colonists may be found hewing out their own destiny amidst primitive conditions . Chile , despite her Popular Front government , has distributed no land , and Argentina , Peru ? indeed practically all countries in Latin America ? still have a top-heavy economic , social , and political structure because of this pyramiding of land in the hands of a few . In the countries where the Indian population is numerous this agrarian feudalism has created a gulf between the governing class and the people so deep that some Latin-American sociologists assert that Lima society , for example , is as far removed from the native population of Andean Peru as a New York banker is from a Mexican Indian . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these landless and depressed , therefore restless and potentially dangerous groups , to be transformed into responsible citizens land must be found for them . That such action is expropriation and violates the basic principle of private property rights is one of the firmest convictions of the conservative groups . Naturally these feudal lords never favored homesteading laws and ? because of the possibility of bloody revolt ? in some countries face the alternatives of surrendering part of their lands voluntarily and without compensation or of losing them entirely . Whenever the number of landowners increases it is natural to suppose that the movement toward a democratic structure of government will be quickened . The totalitarian doctrines may be expected to find most of their adherents and sympathizers within this landowning society as now constituted . It is to Germany 's economic interest to aid in maintaining the old semi-feudal social and economic situation , inasmuch as Germany needs raw materials and a market for her manufactured goods . Just as Philip II in the second half of the sixteenth century opposed the growth of the textile industry in Peru and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany probably attempt to foster an agrarian society dominated by feudal aristocrats sympathetic to at least some of their ideas . In Colombia , therefore , where the conservatives are political " outs , " it would not be surprising for them to flirt and perhaps intrigue with Nazi elements . How far even the conservative groups would go toward accepting the whole of totalitarian doctrine is another question . Most of them are devout Catholics and can not really approve of a pagan Germany . But anti-Semitism would be relatively easy for them to adopt as would be the idea that a chosen group such as themselves should continue to rule the rest of the people . Many of these conservative landholders arc personally charming people of cosmopolitan education , but in countries such as Mexico where their influence is on the wane they dream of the past which could be restored and kept in being only by a dictatorship , and in other countries they might be willing to adopt totalitarian forms to maintain themselves in power . Of course not all large landowners are blind and uncompromising defenders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some years ago was run according to an intelligent , albeit paternalistic , regime , which included even a coeducational school . Some thirty years ago when the owner first suggested the idea his workers strongly protested against allowing their sons and daughters to attend the same school during the " electric years . " But the owner persuaded them to appoint a parents ' committee to supervise the school during the first few months and practically all the parents became enthusiastic supporters of the new and revolutionary system of education . Such far-seeing plantationowners are in a minority ; certainly few have been sympathetic to the declaration by the Peruvian thinker , Jose Carlos Mariategui : " We are not content with revising the rights of the Indian , his culture , his progress , his appreciation or his place in heaven . We begin by indicating his right to the land . " These conservatives find little to commend in our " unbridled democracy " as they call it and become even more purple-faced when discussing the New Deal than our own most reactionary business men . A typical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he found General Franco just a little too leftish to suit him . Such a group , therefore , is but a slender reed for democracy to lean upon , and totalitarian ideology would find there a warmer welcome . III The second group , the cultural fusionists , has a spiritual rather than an economic basis . It is made up of poets and philosophers , drawn from various economic levels ? the novelists , journalists , professors , anthropologists , and some government officials ? who believe that their America must develop an individual , autochthonous culture based upon the proposition that all the races in each country must be fused into an integrated national body politic . The problem revolves round their attitude toward the Indians and mixed races and , as in the case of the great landed estates , has its roots in the conquest . The Spaniards who overran America in the sixteenth century solemnly disputed whether the natives were rational beings , barbarians , or a sort of soulless intermediate species between men and beasts . Each of these views found adherents and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the historian . Bart ? 101116 de Las Casas , the " Apostle of the Indians , " composed a magisterial treatise to prove that the Indians were eminently rational beings , and in fact fulfilled every one of Aristotle 's requisites for the good life . The din of this controversy even reached the ears of Pope Paul III , who promulgated in 1537 the famous bull Sublimis Deus which proclaimed that the natives were indeed human beings whose souls must be won for the Church and whose property and lives could not be rightfully commandeered by the Spaniards . So hotly did the dispute continue that Charles V finally ordered a social and political experiment to be performed to discover whether Indians could live like Christians . A control village was actually set up for this purpose in Cuba about 1531 . This first social experiment in the New World failed , much to the delight of the " dirty dog " school of thought , which was ever afterward steadfastly opposed by the " noble savage " group . Throughout the three centuries of colonial life the Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confined to hewing wood and carrying water for his Spanish masters , who in general used him without much reference to that soul . It is suggestive of the approach of that time that the prize winner in an essay contest , held about 1800 , to determine means of humanizing Indians in Guatemala , offered the sublimely simple proposal that they be made to wear Spanish pants and boots . The Indians entered the political arena again in the Spanish-American revolutions of the early nineteenth century , serving mostly as cannon fodder but winning their freedom on paper . Francisco de Miranda , one of the early revolutionary leaders , in his eloquent appeal to the inhabitants of Venezuela , referred to the Indians and mestizos as " Citizens " and one of the first decrees of General San Martin stated : " Henceforward the indigenous inhabitants of Peru shall not be called Indians , but Peruvians . " During the remainder of the century little change resulted in the lives of the Indians , but since 1900 a more fundamental program based upon this earlier philosophy has been embarked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fusionist view insist that the re-evaluation of the Indian is an indispensable condition for the existence of a real nation . They feel that their democratic constitutions will be a legal fiction while the Indians and other races are not incorporated into the life of the nation . A recent illustration of this truth occurred during the Chaco War when the Bolivian Indians , who had been herded to the front by the dominant whites , sometimes threw away their rifles while the thoroughly assimilated Paraguayans fought bravely to the last . As Mois6s Saenz , present Mexican Ambassador to Peru , has written : There must be cultural integration . A mestizo body must have a mestizo soul . Trying to apply the Nordic standard of the white man is both unjust and futile . Let our civilization bravely accept the basic fact of our Indo-Iberic mixture , let our Indians have a voice and we may create a new world . What do these racial theories have to do with totalitarianism versus democracy in Latin America ? A good deal . One essential part of the Nazi doctrine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mixed races , for Negroes , Indians , and all who are considered not pure-blooded Nordics . Some Germans appear to realize this obstacle to winning adherents in Latin America ; for Indian Commissioner John Collier believes that it was to attract Indians in the Americas to totalitarianism that a German court in a test case recently pronounced a Sioux Indian an Aryan , therefore eligible to German citizenship . Even this violence to anthropological fact does not wholly solve the problem , for some prominent personalities are only part Indian and thus , according to the Nazi party line , a part of that inferior scum , the mixed races . Although Nazi agents may attempt to play down this phase of Nazi thought , Latin Americans are well aware of it , and the presence in every Latin-American country of refugees from Hitler 's regime is a constant reminder of this idea so alien to the cultural fusionists . The leaders of this group recognize the menace of the Nazi doctrine and have called upon their followers to stand firm against it . The Apristas , a revolutionary party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort of foreign imperialism , including our own , are now strongly in favor of President Roosevelt 's antitotalitarian policy . Their leader , Rail Haya de la Torre , still under surveillance in Peru , has recently declared that the totalitarian racial ideas are much more dangerous than our economic imperialism . Whereas there is reason to hope , he writes , that the economic differences between the United States and Latin America may eventually be resolved , the Nazi regime with its disdain for mixed races is a graver and more permanent menace . Haya de la Torre has published articles on this subject in Mexican and Chilean newspapers as well , taking occasion to point out that the feudal aristocracies in Latin America have always scorned the Negro , the Indian , and mixed races . Even though the Aprista movement may be numerically small , when their leaders enthusiastically approve of any part of the policy of the " Colossus of the North " ? that is news ! Other Peruvians , such as the more conservative Professor Victor Andr6s Belaiinde , support the Apristas in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is bound up with the fact of their mixed races . The Argentine writer Ricardo Rojas exults iu the sense of brotherhood among all races which have found asylum in his beloved Argentina . Brazil , where there exists a large Negro population , as well as some Indians and many European immigrants , has throughout its history prided itself upon its lack of racial prejudice and upon the fact that all kinds and conditions of men have been accepted there . Brazilian intellectuals are alive to the importance of this unifying concept to their national life , and such a tract as Archibald MacLeish 's The Irresponsibles , which charged our intellectuals with indifference towardthe basic issue of our day , the choice between the freedom or enslavement of the human mind , could never be leveled at them . In 1933 , shortly after Hitler rose to power , a manifesto was printed in Rio made up of contributions by some thirty-four Brazilian intellectuals , among them such distinguished figures as Afranio Peixoto of Rio and Plinio Barret ? of Sio Paulo , entitled Per que Ser AntiSemita ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and virtual enslavement of the Jews was not only explicitly condemned but the opportunity was taken to reaffirm the writers ' belief in the soundness of Brazilian racial doctrine and practice . It was , they said , " the clamor of a group of enlightened Brazilian consciences against the action of backward barbarians " and the following statement is typical : Always have we been in the past , we are to-day and we believe that we will always be resistant to those ignoble fools who attempt to divide mankind into pure families and impure families , into superior castes and degraded castes , into semi-divine groups and semi-animal groups . in practice all of us in Brazil follow this sound and kindly philosophy which makes all peoples brothers ? disunited brothers , imperfect brothers , some tall brothers and some short brothers , some white brothers and some black brothers ? but , at last , all brothers . Some peoples may be more intelligent than ours ? or more warlike , more ancient or more expert , more beautiful , stronger , or more ferocious than we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any sky has ever understood better the old and well founded and beautiful truth of human equality on the face of the earth . These principles have been put into practice and are not mere " literary talk . " Under the Brazilian monarchical regime of the nineteenth century any Brazilian ? no matter what his origin , race , or color ? could become Prime Minister and lead the country . Mulattoes and Negroes such as Reboucas and Saldanha Marinho , though of humble birth , were prominent in political life . It was perfectly natural for Brazilians to see Nilo Pecanha , a Mulatto of very humble origin follow , as Minister of Foreign Affairs , Lauro Muller , the blue-eyed and purely Aryan son of a poor German colonist of Santa Catarina in southern Brazil . And even under the pressure of events of the past eight years , the Brazilian intellectuals have held fast to this conviction , exemplified particularly well by Gilberto Freyre , Brazilian sociologist and historian . Freyre delivered a lecture in Pernambuco last June on the occasion of the celebration of the eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that the Portuguese-Brazilian unique contribution to the world was a social framework which permitted and encouraged a free intercommunication of cuitures and a thoroughgoing mixture of races . Against any outside influence which would threaten this structure Freyre would fight , and his lecture was a passionate affirmation of this culture . He considers it a duty to oppose all racial imperialism which might prevent Brazil and Portugal from carrying on their vast experiment in ethnical and social democratization . Freyre no more approves Nazi Aryanism than he does the " greaser " baiting and Jim Crowism that goes on in the United States . It is incidentally instructive to note that even the Brazilian Integralista party , which was believed to have had German and Italian ideological connections , did not lift its voice against those who favor the incorporation of all race elements into the Brazilian state , a fact which suggests the strength of that idea . Totalitarian doctrines , particularly Nazi racial ideas , can expect only opposition from the Latin-American cultural fusionists and what is important , this group is more nobly nationalistic than any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismiss their possible political influence with a shrug , it must be remembered that their writers are highly esteemed , more so than in the United States , and often attain high political posts . Bartolome Mitre , an outstanding nineteenth-century Argentine historian , also served his country as a general and finally became president . How few of our historians have also been generals And poets are especially honored in Latin America . When Amado Nervo of Mexico died in Montevideo , Argentina and Uruguay each sent a battleship to escort his body home and a Cuban warship later joined the procession into Vera Cruz . When the Nicaraguan poet , Ruben Dario traveled through the Spanish-American countries his journey was like a royal progress . Guillermo Valencia , one of Colombia 's greatest poets and intellectuals to-day , twice ran for the presidency , and it was not considered strange that a writer of verse should seek the highest political position in his country . These writers , then , constitute an important and articulate group which wields a great and at times decisive influence in public affairs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be able to flood Spanish America with totalitarian doctrine , because of their common language and cultural heritage , let it be said at once that the Spanish-American republics are strongly individual nations not likely to follow blindly the lead of their mother country for that reason alone . A rough analogy may be found in our relation to England and the war . During all the discussion of the Lend-Lease Bill Administration forces were wise enough to emphasize its urgent defense nature and omitted all references to Shakespeare and to blood being thicker than water . Just so the " Council of Hispanism " recently set up in Madrid will not greatly influence Spanish America unless these countries find in its program measures of compelling national interest , and the Council may do more harm than good to the totalitarian cause if it unduly harps on the common language and culture theme . During the nineteenth-century revolutions when the colonies threw off the Spanish yoke there was a good deal of twisting of the Spanish lion 's tail , and this form of exercise is still widely indulged in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stepmother , rather than the true mother , of Spanish America . " A somewhat similar situation obtains in Brazil with respect to Portugal . The present political significance of the cultural fusionists thus becomes clear . An essential part of their credo is that a new culture based upon a mixture of races and peoples is coming into being in the New World , which must not be halted by any influence from abroad . As the Liberator Sirn6n Bolivar declared about 1820 , Spanish Americans are neither Europeans nor Indians , though descended from them . Jos6 Marti , the Cuban patriot ; Domingo F. Sarmiento , the Argentine educator ; and Andr6s Bello , the Venezuelan scholar ? indeed all the clearest and most influential voices of the poets and philosophers of Latin America ? have exalted the American qualities of their cultures and have felt themselves a part of a new world and not merely overseas Spaniards or Portuguese . Jorge Basadre , important Peruvian historian and present librarian of the ancient University of San Marcos in Lima , has summed up movingly the case for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin America would surely subscribe to for his own country : We must always welcome all persons who come in good faith to collaborate with us in our national development ; we must always steadfastly oppose anyone , whoever it may be , who attempts to divide us , to exploit us , or to dominate us . A great battle is in progress in Latin America . Rival European , North American , and Asiatic interests struggle fiercely for our markets , our raw materials , and our spiritual direction . In face of this chaos , what attitude shall we Peruvians adopt ? What must guide us is love for Peru , concern for the needs of Peru , and defense of the interests of Peru . IV According to an old Spanish proverb " la maquina ni entiende ni habla espafiol " ? the machine neither understands nor speaks Spanish . But in Buenos Aires , Santiago , Medellin , Monterrey , and other Latin-American cities the machinenow speaks Spanish without stuttering . And in Sio Paulo , Brazil , the machine speaks Portuguese very rapidly indeed ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the larger Latin-American countries . And it is in this newly created urban industrial society that I believe we may expect to and eventually some of the most stalwart defenders of our " common inter-American democratic ideal . " The handicaps to any rapid or widespread industrialization are obvious and arise from a shortage of coal , capital , and workable iron deposits , and limited domestic market . But experts such as George Wythe of the Department of Commerce emphasize the possibility of a new type of industrialization based upon new technology and the uses of new power resources , such as fuel oil and hydroelectric power . The great Cubatdo plant near sao Paulo now boasts the eighth largest hydroelectric generating capacity in the world , and may become third when additions now in progress are completed . There is plenty of reserve elsewhere too ; for the World Power Conference has estimated that Latin America possesses fifteen per cent of the world 's total water power resources . The hydroelectric power potential of South America alone is considered greater than that of all Europe and about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortunate that great amounts of capital are not now available , for unhealthy mushroom growth will thus be avoided . Many of the textile mills , breweries , shoe factories , cigarette factories , and flour mills now in operation grew out of small nest eggs which accumulated in Latin America or were brought there by immigrants . " Count " Francisco Matarazzo , the leading industrialist of Sao Paulo and perhaps of all South America , left Italy as an immigrant . Up to his death in 1937 at the age of eighty-odd he actively directed the numerous factories , banks , steamship lines , and trading organizations which he had established and developed . Refugees to-day from Vienna , Antwerp , Rotterdam , and Paris are bringing their hoarded capital to start industries afresh in the New World . Both Argentina and Brazil are reported to have received more than $25,000,000 in this way since the outbreak of the war , and the effects of this transfer are already apparent . One of the largest of the new industrial projects thus made possible is a great tannery which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Nazi invasion . They hope to supply both the local market and old customers of long standing in this country . Another Belgian refugee has just reestablished himself in the diamond-cutting business in Rio de Janeiro , and a long-established Belgian-controlled iron works in Brazil is being expanded now with refugee capital . It is also expected that capital for similar enterprises will be provided in judicious quantities by our Export-Import Bank ; witness the $20,000,000 loan to Brazil for a steel mill . Some local capital stands ready now to be ventured in respectable amounts . Klabin Industries , one of Brazil 's most powerful companies with extensive timber holdings in Parana state , has recently completed arrangements to establish a pulp and paper mill there , entirely with Brazilian capital . The mill will cost $4,500,000 and will produce 120 tons of newsprint per day , or enough to provide approximately 70 per cent of the country 's newsprint requirements . The necessary machinery and the 18,000 horsepower hydroelectric plant are being purchased in the United States and Canada . A labor supply to man these factories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being trained . Representatives of one of our great firms with branches all over the world have stated that the average Mexican and Argentinian is quite the equal in mechanical ability of the average European . Likewise technical education among Latin Americans has been considerably developed since the World War , despite thewidespread belief among certain classes there that a man demeans himself if he works with his hands . In Chile , for example , an excellent technical school , the Santa Marfa University , was set up about nine years ago , made possible by the fortune bequeathed by a wealthy Chilean . In a society where the private giving of money for public purposes is a rare occurrence , the donation of this technical school to Chile by a Chilean is in itself an indication that fresh winds are blowing there . But what connection do factories in Latin America have with democracy there ? A very close one . For industrialization will tend to raise the standard of living of the people , and unless this is done democracy can hardly be achieved . In Guatemala @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $32 per year scarcely provides good soil for the growth of popular government . The illiterate and desperately poor masses , almost untouched by government activities , know little concerning those in control and care less . Can many of the 45 million Brazilians , whose average annual consumption of manufactured goods is $12 , give much thought to the issue of totalitarianism versus democracy ? It is significant that it is in industrially advanced Argentina , the greatest per capita productive power , that the will of the people is becoming increasingly important . The Brazilian sociologist Josue de Castro has made clear what low purchasing power means in the daily lives of his people . His recent investigation of the budgets of 500 families in Pernambuco reveals that of the average daily wage of 20 cents earned by the head of each household , 70 per cent goes for food . These families rarely buy fresh meat or milk and are forced to subsist on a heavy and unbalanced diet of rice and beans . The total milk consumption of these 500 families , with a total of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day . Some foreign companies find it necessary to provide their workmen with a free lunch to insure efficient work during the afternoon . Another index of the standard of living in this vast and potentially wealthy country may be found in the government report that of 544 cities of over 2,000 population recently surveyed , only 200 had water and sewerage systems . Such facts as these give point to the complaint voiced by the Brazilian economists Raul Bopp and Danton Jobim in their exceedingly frank survey of Brazil 's economic situation , Sol e Banana : We have alive and writing 11,300 poets , absorbed in their literary excitements , far removed from practical questions . In addition we have in Brazil 8,500 students absorbing law , and less than 200 students of chemistry . Brazil must modify her educational system to produce the technicians she needs . To those who fear that the industrialization of Latin America may result in a diminution of the volume of our exports to those countries , it is perhaps sufficient to point out that our largest export trade has been with those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new steel mill being erected in Brazil with United States money will help to develop Brazilian industry by furnishing cheaper steel , an inevitable result will be an improvement in Brazilian living standards and an expanded market for our products . The autarchical conditions existing in the predominantly agricultural zones of Brazil which produce most of the few products needed for local consumption reduce extraordinarily the purchasing power of more than two-thirds of the 45,000,000 inhabitants of Brazil . Brazilians are wont to cite the figures from the League of Nations industrial index that only Soviet Russia since 1929 has had a greater proportionate industrial increase than Brazil . It is well to emphasize the rate of increase rather than present accomplishments . For in 1937 the total value of the manufactures of Argentina , which is the most industrialized country in Latin America , with over 13 million inhabitants and the thirdlargest city in the Western hemisphere , was less than that of the city of Philadelphia . And the total annual industrial production of Brazil amounts to only five hundred million dollars . It is of course open to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than conservative landowners . Certainly Fritz Thyssen and other German industrialists helped to hoist Hitler into the saddle . It is not from the industrial leaders that we may expect support for the democratic way of life , but from the middle and working classes which industrialism will produce . For workers released from the grip of the agrarian feudal regime who have escaped into the cities will swell the trades unions , already 1,800,000 strong , which are on the whole pro-democratic . Eventually and inevitably these organized workers will feel the strength of their numbers and will play an increasingly important part in national affairs . Incidentally , gifted individuals will be quick to seize the opportunities offered by the cities to develop themselves in the arts and professions . Thus the various national cultures will be enriched by a greater range of talents . It is , therefore , this growing industrial society which provides a suitable soil for the growth of democracy and which is a natural enemy , both of totalitarian ideas and totalitarian economic practices . For one of the weakest points of Germany 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unstressed fact that it is to Germany 's interest to maintain Latin America in a semi-feudal social and economic condition , the various countries serving as essentially colonial economic dependencies of the industrial Reich and a possible Reich-dominated Europe . V Granting this possible development , what can we do to aid an emerging industrial society ? Should we not begin by recognizing the truth that the stability of Latin America and of our relations with it are bound up with the future of the plain people there ? Certainly this view is winning important adherents . Louis C. Rabaut , the shrewd Michigan Congressman who presides over the Appropriations Committee which listened to the State Department 's plea this year for more funds to implement the cultural-relations program with Latin America , asked one searching question on every project presented : How is this proposed activity going to reach the masses in Latin America ? And Vice-President Henry A. Wallace returned from the inauguration of President Avila Camacho in Mexico City convinced that the United States must sound an earthier note toward Latin America . There is need of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Bogota that the representatives of Nelson Rockefeller who , as Coordinator of Commercial and Cultural Relations between the American Republics , has despatched various expeditions southward for various purposes , were described in the local newspapers as the " Misi6n de los Milionarios . " Some groups here have charged , according to the Institute for Propaganda Analysis , that Mr. Rockefeller has surrounded himself with conservatives ; that none of his aides " is acquainted with the labor and progressive movements in Latin America , that none of them sympathizes with these movements . " The Division of Cultural Relations of the State Department , which has thus far concentrated its efforts on the intellectual classes , probably was wise to make this decision . For there is and will continue to be need to convince the Latin-American intellectuals , who wield immense influence , that we have , besides great national wealth , a respectable national culture . In the future , however , a new orientation toward the people as a whole , including the rising industrial classes , will be needed . A declaration of policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It must be understood too that some things are not possible . We can not , for example , eat our way to an All-American economic victory as Miss Dorothy Thompson seems to believe . She suggests that we should open our gates to a vast new immigration from Europe which would stimulate the industrialization of this country and thereby provide enlarged markets for Latin-American produce . Would it not be simpler for the immigration to flow to Latin America directly ? Even if we were to buy more hemisphere products , would it not be impolitic to so dominate their markets that we should in effect perpetuate the very colonial economy from which they are attempting to free themselves ? In the industrialization of Latin America , however , the United States has a great role to play . As Roberto Simonsen , one of the foremost industrialists and economists of Sao Paulo , has pointed out , Latin America needs machinery rather than articles for immediate consumption . In other words she needs our technics , and it is precisely in this field that we are competent to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin America is such a relatively recent development , for manufacturers to-day can take advantage of the latest technological developments without having to scrap expensive equipment . Along the way certain prejudices will have to be overcome and new points of view established . In the days of the Industrial Revolution the industrial nations severely punished , sometimes by death , their technical workers who emigrated to teach abroad the organization of industries like those at home . The eighteenth-century " Enlightened Despot " Pombal encountered great difficulties in founding industries in Portugal because it was virtually impossible to import technicians . To-day the problem is reversed . The tide of nationalism is running so high in some Latin-American countries that few foreign technicians are allowed to enter . Naturally this slows up industrialization . To-day there is a double necessity for Latin Americans to recognize their own need for technicians in both large and small industries and for us to supply the men who can fill this need . Another step to foster industrial development is now being taken by the trade tour for " industrial exploration " of South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ March 17th . The tour is sponsored by the National Research Council , and one of its objectives is to investigate ways to link our industrial technics with the raw materials produced there . This tour ought to be matched by a trip here by Latin-American industrialists . Perhaps even more important would be a large-scale program of training a considerable number of young Latin Americans in our banks , factories , hospitals , and technical schools . Here we could well afford to emulate the carefully planned industrial fellowship program of the American-Scandinavian Foundation , which since 1912 has kept a steady flow of capable young men and women coming to this country with the assistance of our industrial , medical , and financial institutions . A similar group for Latin America would provide a solid technical basis for industrial development there and would ensure , if our government and industry co-operate , a constant flow of modern technics southward . VI To return to our original question : Does Latin America provide soil for totalitarianism or for democracy ? The answer is plain ? for both . The conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be expected to defend or advance democracy , although in those countries where redistribution of the land is being made this society can not avoid a slow development away from its present reactionary character . The middle and laboring class is , in Latin America as else-where , the class in which the natural defenders of democracy will be found . As industrialization increases the potentialities and powers of this class will grow also . This lies principally in the future . But what of the masses in Latin America to-day ? Have the cultural fusionists impressed them enough so that they recognize the menace to their way of life inherent in a Hitler vistory ? Will they understand and appreciate our policy if we try to reach them with our cultural , economic , and political program ? It is difficult to say . But some indication of the discernment of which plain people are capable ? even illiterates from the lowest economic class ? may be seen in the letter I have just received from a Brazilian friend who writes : I have seen groups of humble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or having read to them the latest war despatches and rejoicing when a British victory is posted or a German defeat announced . Once I asked one of them why He replied that the German government was unfriendly to colored people and wanted only whites to dominate , a situation which he felt a Brazilian could never tolerate . I am certain that these Brazilian workers like individual Germans and Italians , who have often married Mulattoes , better than individual Englishmen or North Americans whom they have known usually as their superiors in the always unpopular gas and electric companies . But they understand vaguely that the Nazi principles are contrary to the traditions and democratic aspirations of the Brazilian people and would thwart the movement , always increasing , toward equality of opportunity for the social and economic advancement of men of all races and all colors . Whether or not the plain people in all parts of Latin America know as well as these humble Brazilian laborers where their best interests lie , we do not know . Education , material well-being , responsible citizenship , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes ? are bound up with the eventual increase of democratic realities in Latin America . This nation 's job is to formulate and pursue without deviation a national policy bent on insuring that increase .                     