@@470877

ovr , T is news to-day . For many gen-erations of Americans it was a Biblical place name ; for later generations , a name on travel circulars and cruise advertisements , a name made glamorous by pictures of the Pyramids and Sphinx , with sheiks and their camels in the foreground . But little information was given of anything so unpicturesque as the modern life of the country , its government and place in the comity of nations . To-day Egypt and its Suez Canal constitute one of the two main objectives of the Axis war machine , and their fate will be a determining factor in the future of the world ; yet modern Egypt is still so unknown and seemingly remote that many intelligent Americans are still asking , " To whom does Egypt belong ? " Egypt is an independent country , her form of government a constitutional monarchy , with a Constitution based largely on that of Belgium . The Parliament consists of two houses , a Chamber of Deputies elected by universal male suffrage , and a Senate three-fifths elected and two-fifths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leader of the majority party . Since the outbreak of the War there has been a coalition government , but a coalition in which , at present , the leaders of the two largest parties are not taking part . The young King , Farouk I , wields actually more power than is given to him by the Constitution . From the moment of his accession he won personal popularity by his youth , good looks , and religious devotion , which has given him the name of Farouk the Pious . He is a direct descendant of Mohamet All the Great , that able and adventurous Albanian soldier who went to Egypt in the Turkish Army , seized the country , and became its ruler , owing a nominal allegiance to Turkey . His family have ruled ever since , but the allegiance to Turkey was ended in 1914 . During the years of the World War a British Protectorate was proclaimed , and a new ruler of the same family installed on the throne . In 1922 the Protectorate was ended and Fuad , the father of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt remained in the British sphere of influence , but a series of treaties were concluded in the period from 1922-1936 which gave Egypt more and more independence . Complete independence was achieved in 1936 , when a treaty of alliance was concluded between the two countries . Egypt entered the League of Nations in 1937 . By the Treaty of 1936 an alliance was concluded for twenty years . Great Britain 's special interest in the defense of the Suez Canal was recognized , and the responsibility was left to British forces until the Egyptian Government was able to undertake the defense itself . Egypt itself was to defend Egyptian territory only , and the Egyptian armed forces were to be used in Egypt only . This condition was invoked by Egypt when it refused to send troops to serve in France in the winter of 1939-40 . The position of Egypt since the outbreak of hostilities has aroused much curiosity . The Government broke off diplomatic relations with Germany immediately and proclaimed a state of siege . German citizens were interned and German property put in the hands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Italy entered the war on June 10th . Why did Egypt not declare war actually ? The reason for the non-declaration of war on Germany was that Germany seemed very remote to the realistic Egyptian politicians , and the issues of the first period did not seem to touch Egypt . But the invasions of small nations in the spring brought out the real issues of the conflict and when Italy entered , the war could no longer be considered remote . Yet again Egypt did not declare war . The delay ? and it most likely is only a delay ? is caused by a number of factors . Italian influence has been strong , particularly in the cities . There are some seventy thousand Italians resident in Egypt , the majority prosperous . All the big builders and contractors are Italian , and many of the bankers and merchants . The banking firm of the Mosseri family , for example , has an interest in almost every large business in the country and holds mortgages on a great deal of land . The Italians in Egypt speak Arabic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These Italians , long resident in Egypt ( some of the important families have been there one hundred and fifty years ) and clinging to their Italian nationality , form a fifth column . A fifth column , moreover , organized and led by Italians sent from Italy for that purpose ; in many cases they are attached to the legation and consulates , in other cases they are ostensibly there for commercial reasons . The non-diplomatic leaders were for the most part interned when Italy entered the war , but the Italian Minister asked for special permission to leave the country for seventy Italians who had no official status , and whom he took with him onhis special train . The Italian Government maintained Italian schools in every city and large town , schools to which any Egyptian student could go free . Parties of such students were often given free trips to Italy in the summer vacation . This influence , however , has been countered by that of the Egyptians who studied in English universities . ( More than half of these students have married British women , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egyptian students abroad have married citizens of the countries they studied in ; this custom has brought a number of foreign ideas into Egyptian home life . It has also tended to cause a shortage of husbands for Egyptian girls of the same class , and has produced a good deal of feminine discontent . ) The Italian diplomatic representatives in Egypt have always been carefully selected , selected not only for their ability and charm of manner , but also for the beauty of their wives . To insure the enhancement of this beauty by art , the government has always paid , and paid generously , for their toilettes . It may be noted here that the concession by Egypt of a large strip of the western desert to Italy some years ago was made at a time when the wife of the Italian Minister was considered the most beautiful and the best-dressed woman in Cairo . The Italian Government has also been generous in other ways . Isotto Fraschinis and other Italian cars were often made available to influential Egyptians at a nominal price ; decorations were given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not wear the Crown of Italy who was conspicuous at official functions . There has never been any diplomatic standoffishness about the Italian Legation , and its officials have joined every club and society available . Its nonofficial representatives have also been good mixers . The leader of the fifth column was a rotund , genial man , a great admirer of the ladies , a lover of the good things of life , and a leading member of the Rotary Club and other business men 's organizations . His parties were famous for their merry if somewhat boisterous atmosphere and were very popular . He was universally regarded as a good sport , not intellectual but such good fun . The police , however , discovered he was a most capable organizer and efficient secret agent . Italian tourist propaganda was highly developed . Egyptians were given preferential treatment not only on steamship lines and railroads but at all Italian resorts . Prominent Egyptians were given de luxe accommodations at nominal cost , and were often invited to attend conferences and festivals as guests of the Italian Government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egyptians went to German spas for their annual cures and were treated with great consideration . Hitler always invited a number of political leaders and distinguished lawyers to the Nuremberg Conference as his personal guests . II Another factor is the King 's sympathies . His father before coming to the throne spent many years as an exile in Italy , where he was well received by the Italian Royal Family and became an officer of the Italian Army . His love of Italy remained after he became King and he surrounded himself with Italians . The palace architect and engineer , a Signor Verrucci , exerted enormous influence , and was suspected of being the medium for secret communications . He remained at the palace after King Fuad 's death and did not leave Egypt until last June . Reports have been published in America that King Farouk was educated in Italy . This is not true . He was educated by private tutors selected from the teachers of the Egyptian Ministry of Education . The year before his father 's death the British Government urged that he be sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he went to England accompanied by a largestaff . He spent about seven months there and was then recalled by his father 's death . The influences of his childhood , however , have certainly given him at least a kindly feeling for Italy . It is probable also that he has received assurances as to his throne . At the time of his accession there were negotiations for a Treaty of Friendship between Egypt and Italy . These were broken off when the Prime Minister , Ali Maher Pasha , left office . Maher Pasha was then appointed Head of the King 's Household . He became Prime Minister again in the summer of 1939 and negotiations were reopened for the treaty with Italy . He left office after Italy entered the war , because he was considered by both the British and the majority of Egyptians too subservient to the King 's wishes . He was replaced by Hassan Sabry Pasha , less able , but a friend of Britain . Ali Maher Pasha was for many years the leader of the Ittehad or King 's party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as with the present King . He is very intelligent , honest , constructive , and energetic . As Prime Minister he worked eighteen hours a day . He not only works hard himself but makes his subordinates work at top speed . He possesses marked executive capacity , and a large number of important administrative changes and reforms were carried out during his regime . He strengthened Egyptian relations with the Arab states and negotiated a treaty with Saudi Arabia which ended a long and bitter feud between that country and Egypt . He has long been influential in Pan-Islamic movements . When he was Prime Minister he sent a number of teachers and administrators from the Egyptian schools to Trans-Jordan and Iraq , he instituted scholarships for students from those countries in Egypt , and arranged conferences in Cairo on law , medicine , music , and a number of other subjects which were attended by the leaders of all the Arab states . His work in this field is probably closely connected with the King 's ambition to become Calif . In addition to these activities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoy life , and to woo a young and beautiful wife . He is a man of strong character , and has the courage of his convictions . His weakness lies in his inability to accept criticism or to take advice . He is absolutely loyal to the King and considers the King 's interests and Egypt 's to be the same . His brother , Ahmed Maher Pasha , is President of the Chamber of Deputies , and also a leader of the Saad party . He is as much a liberal as his brother is a conservative . He was closely associated with the Wafdist party for many years and was a bitter opponent of both British and palace influence . He fought violently for Egyptian independence in 1922 . In 1937-38 Ahmed Maher Pasha , Mostafa Nokrashy Pasha , and a number of other Nationalist leaders disagreed with Nahas Pasha on Wafdist policy and formed a new party , the Saad , named after Saad Zaghloul Pasha , the George Washington of Egypt . The Saad leaders joined the coalition government and remained in the Cabinet until July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay in declaring war on Italy . These men who fought England so long and so vigorously , who were exiled , imprisoned , and , in the case of Nokrashy Pasha , sentenced to death , are to-day the strongest advocates of Egypt 's fulfilling completely her alliance with Britain and fighting by her side . Sabry Pasha was an experienced politician , a former Minister of War , and of Finance , and Egyptian Ambassador in London . He was also a close personal friend of Sir Miles Lampson . Unfortunately , he was very tactless and irascible , and made so many enemies that the coalition government lost strength under his leadership . He died recently while reading the speech from the throne at the opening of Parliament . The Minister of War also died a few weeks ago while on an inspection tour . These deaths show the strain under which the Cabinet has been laboring . The new Prime Minister is Hussein Sirry Pasha , an internationally famous engineer and the greatest authority on irrigation in Egypt . He was Undersecretary of the Ministry of Public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister , and has also served as Minister of Finance . His father was an equally great engineer , and was Minister of Public Works in every Cabinet for many years . He was the principal designer of the present irrigation system of Egypt . Hussein Sirry Pasha is a man of great intelligence , but of violent temper and ruthless disposition , and has never brooked interference by anyone . His honesty in an office which offered great opportunity for graft and his outstanding ability always put him in a strong position , and while he is not personally liked , he is respected by everyone in Egypt . His wife is the aunt of the Queen of Egypt . This relationship has brought him into close contact with the King , and it is said that he is the only man who has dared to lecture the King on his responsibilities and to reprimand him . Sirry Pasha has always been respected by the British and has always been on good terms with them . He is one of the founders of the Anglo-Egyptian Union and is a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about a rapprochement between the King and Britain . One of his first acts has been to protest to Italy against the bombing of Egyptian territory , an indication that he will pursue a strong foreign policy . Under his leadership Egypt may soon enter the war . Another important factor in the attitude of the government was the refusal of the Wafdist party to join the government . The Wafd or Nationalist party , which led the struggle for complete independence from Great Britain , was until recently the largest and most influential party in the country . It is so no longer , as a number of its leaders resigned and formed a new party , the Saad ; but it still has influence , and undoubtedly the government has hesitated to declare war without its support . It can not be considered pro-Italian , and is in opposition to the King 's influence in politics . Its refusal to take part in the coalition is due in part to its original policy of opposition to Britain , but still more to the personal dislike of its leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the present government . III Thus far the attack has been in the desert . The average Egyptian is indifferent to the vast deserts which form the largest section of his country . He thinks only of the Nile Valley and Delta , small in area but with fabulously rich soil , whence he draws his living and where he builds his cities . The Nile Valley is enormously long but narrow . It is less than half a mile wide at the extreme end of upper Egypt where great cliffs come almost to the water 's edge . This tortured , twisted landscape looks as if an angry god had crumpled these rocks in his fist and hurled them down . At Assuan even the river itself is full of black basalt rocks over which the waters of the first cataract tumble riotously . The huge Assuan Dam was built above the cataract , and back of the dam a beautiful , peaceful lake was formed , its waters surrounded by the granite hills , from which the great obelisks of ancient Egypt were cut . The valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maximum width of about sixteen miles . This valley , its soil enriched by the silt the river has brought from Abyssinia and the Sudan for thousands of years , produces not only sufficient food for Egypt 's sixteen million people , but also a surplus for export . The land gives four crops a year : three crops of cereals , beans and other foodstuffs , and one of cotton , which is considered the money crop . Egypt grows also fine vegetables and delicious fruit : oranges , grapefruit , limes , mangoes , melons , and strawberries . Be-fore the war these products of Egypt 's sunshine went to England and central Europe to enliven the dull winter menus . Egypt raises also the meat , eggs , and poultry consumed in the country , and turkeys , ducks , squabs , and quails are commonplace articles of diet the year round ? commonplace , that is , for everyone but the Fellahin who raise them but are too poor to be able to eat them . The government has hoped by its delay in declaring war to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially Cairo , from destruction . The vernacular name for Cairo , Masr , is also the name for Egypt , and the city represents everything dear to the Egyptian . The government itself is highly centralized , and everything from railroads to irrigation , public security to education , is controlled from the Ministries in Cairo . Cairo is also the seat of the Azhar University ( the oldest existing university in the world ; it will soon celebrate its thousandth anniversary ) , the center of Moslem learning and home of the religious leaders of Islam . Students come to the Azhar not only from the Arab states , but also from the Balkans , the Moslem districts of the U.S.S.R. , India , Malaya , China , and the Philippine Islands . Although Islam has no hierarchy , the Sheik of Al Azhar always has in the Moslem world almost the same prestige that the Pope has in the Roman Catholic world . He is the ultimate authority on all questions of doctrine and of Moslem law . Another important consideration has been the water of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its sole source of water . Since the Italian occupation of Abyssinia there has been the possibility of Italy 's diverting the waters of Lake Tsana , which flow into the Blue Nile , thus causing the annual flood of the river which produces the enormous quantities of water necessary for the Egyptian irrigation system . That this diversion has not occurred is probably due to the enormous engineering difficulties , rather than to Italian kindness of heart . These flood waters are taken care of by a series of huge dams on the river , and the possible bombardment of these dams forms a great danger . Not only would agriculture be ruined by the resultant flood and subsequent drought , but the water supply of both countryside and cities would be affected ; and as none of it has a drainage system capable of carrying off such enormous masses of water , epidemics would very likely ensue . However , the Royal Air Force raids on northern Italy have shown how difficult it is to destroy dams of this kind , so this danger may have been exaggerated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty in obtaining reserve supplies of material . Such stores have to be bought from England , and the orders for the English forces have been given priority . It must be added that a good deal of the delay has also been caused , first , by the belief of many officials early in the war that Italy would not actually enter hostilities but would be content with her status as a nuisance in the Mediterranean , and second by an unfortunate situation in the Ministry of War , similar to one which existed in the War Department in Washington for so long . In Egypt the Minister of War , the Undersecretary , and the Chief of Staff of the Army were at loggerheads all during the winter . Third , there was the Eastern tendency of never doing to-. day what can be put off until to-morrow , and the endless red tape of bureaucratic government . Surprise has been expressed in many quarters that Great Britain has acquiesced in Egypt 's policy of not declaring war . Again there are several reasons . Every facility in bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British forces . Second , the present policy has permitted normal agriculture , and all the British forces in Egypt can be fed , if necessary , by the country 's products . Third , there is Egypt 's position as leader of Islam . Not only is Cairo a cultural and religious center for the Arabic-speaking world , but also for the Moslems of India and Malaya . The good will of these peoples , so ardently wooed by the Axis Powers , is very important to the British Empire . Thus the British authorities do not wish to give the impression of coercing Egypt . The advantages gained would be more than offset by the resulting Islamic unrest . What additional strength could Egypt give to the British forces there ? The Army is small but well trained , it is fully mechanized and well equipped . It was limited for many years to about 16,000 men , it was increased after 1936 , and now has about 37,000 . It has reserves to draw from as there is limited compulsory service . Students and graduates of the higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the winter of 1939-40 , which should be useful in home defense . At the time of its formation it was announced that it would have a strength of 200,000 men . It is impossible to obtain accurate figures as to how many men are in training now . The requirements for the regular Army are strict , and the Egyptian soldier is a good specimen physically , intelligent , brave , with an intense love for his country . These soldiers , while they are largely drawn from the same class ? agricultural workers ? come from all parts of the country and vary from the white-skinned Egyptian of the coast to the black-skinned Nubian . There is no color discrimination of any sort . They look very smart in khaki with the red tarboosh on their heads . In the desert a khaki cover with a visor and neckflap is put over the tarboosh to protect them from the sun . The Egyptian troops , especially the Nubians and Sudanese , have shown an amazing aptitude for mechanized warfare . The taxi drivers of the big cities rushed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at the maximum speed . In addition to the infantry and mechanized units , there is the camel corps , whose function normally is to patrol the desert and maintain order there . They have played an important part in the suppression of smuggling , particularly of narcotics . They also search for persons lost in the desert , and numbers of tourists and sportsmen owe their lives to the camel corps ' skill in tracking . They are mounted on the finest and speediest camels , as obedient as the best-trained horses . These camels have been known to attain a speed of forty miles an hour . The men are dressed in olive-drab tunics and shorts with turbans of the same color . They carry rifles and lances . The parade of this corps with pennants fluttering from the lances , and the camels stepping to music , in perfect formation , is a most picturesque sight . The King 's guard arc picked for their intelligence and fine physique . They are resplendent in uniforms of royal blue and scarlet with much gold braid , and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black horses , the others on pure white Arabs . In the spring of 1940 the Bedouin of the desert were armed by the government . The officers of the Army are trained in the Military School in Cairo , where they go after taking the Egyptian Government baccalaureate . There is no officer caste . Until the last war most of the officers were Turkish , but to-day they are Egyptians drawn from all sections of the country . A British Military Mission arrived in Egypt in 1937 . There has been since friendly and close collaboration with the Ministry of War . A number of the older officers formerly were in the Turkish army before the definite separation of the two countries , and are veterans of the Italo-Tripoli War , and thus are very familiar with the terrain of the Libyan desert . A Cadet Training Corps was inaugurated in the boys ' high schools in 1939 where it received full support from the headmasters and teachers . The government possesses few planes , but there are a number of pilots avail-able . Flying is the most popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operates air services all over the country . There are also a number of amateur owners with many flying hours to their credit . Sea power is limited to an efficient coast guard service . Two Egyptian shipping lines operate in the Mediterranean in peacetime . A number of these ships are now chartered by Britain . One ship , the Nil , still operated by the Egyptian owners , arrived in New York the end of October , after an adventurous eight-weeks trip round the Cape . She undoubtedly brought a cargo of Egyptian cotton and returned with equipment for the British and Egyptian armies . It is to be hoped that modern planes were part of her cargo . The Egyptian railroads are efficient and a new series of military roads were built across the country between 1936 and 1940 . No roads were built in the western desert between Mersa Matruh and the Libyan frontier . The Italians , after their advance in September , constructed a rough road between Libya and Sidi Barrani . The British control both a good desert road and railway line between Mersa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war will make a number of soldiers available in Egypt as there are about one hundred thousand Greeks resident in Egypt . IV The attitude of the Egyptian people now toward Britain is interesting . The bulk of the people sympathize with Great Britain and hope for a British victory . The Egyptian is good-humored , intelligent , religious , and capable of hard work , but he dislikes responsibility ; he has a natural talent for intrigue , and prefers the complex and devious method to the simple and straightforward . His two principal interests are the land and politics . That land which has produced so bountifully for five thousand years or more seems to him the one certainty , the sole source of wealth and security . He distrusts business of all sorts . Only a small proportion of Egyptians have entered the business world . The group of enterprises controlled by the Misr Bank , which include banking , shipping , commercial aviation , and manufacturing , show that the Egyptian is capable of succeeding in business ; but in general enterprises of this nature have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country . To everyone from the Fellah who works , together with all his family , in the fields without stopping from before sunrise until darkness drives him back to his mud-brick village , to the government official who saves every penny of his pay to buy another acre , land represents the most precious and desirable possession . The Egyptian 's second absorbing passion is for politics . In the luxurious clubs of the great landowners and higher officials , in the caffs of the middle classes , and curbstone gatherings of the poor , it is the topic of conversation . The illiterate gather round one who is fortunate enough to be able to read , and listen eagerly to every item of political news , and discuss it vigorously afterward . Every caf ? supplies newspapers for the use of its guests and the habitu ? s usually read four or five papers daily . The radio has brought red-hot news from the capital to the most remote village of the country , where the Fellahin gather at night in the one caf ? or squat before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the light of a kerosene lamp , to hear the broadcast and discuss the wisdom of the latest decisions of the Council of Ministers . A native shrewdness and mental realism , the result of having had to face the hardest kind of life from earliest infancy , give a pungent flavor to these discussions . In a country of universal male suffrage where three-quarters of the people are peasants this village opinion is indeed important . It may be noted that very seldom has a political party stayed in power more than a year , and that a change of governments usually occurs in summer when tempers rise withthe thermometer . These people , so Iong under foreign masters , value their present freedom , their right to vote , their free speech , their free press . The Arabic press in Egypt is very able ; its influence is so large , its news service so good that Marshal Petain 's government has forbidden its entry into Syria , and it has long been forbidden in the Arabic-speaking lands controlled by Italy . The Fellahin also remember the fate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of Italian colonists . The element in the country which had been reached by Axis propaganda were the students . Anxious to bring about changes and so-called reforms , they were impatient of delay , and admired the swift material results achieved by the Dictators . For a time a good deal of student oratory was poured forth in praise of totalitarian government . Colored-shirt movements were started , and were suppressed by the government only after a number of conflicts between the students and the police . The fate of the small countries of Europe in May , however , shocked most of the students into a more rational frame of mind . In general the people realize the issues at stake , and the bitter anti-British feeling has been replaced by a friendly one . The same people who fought fiercely for freedom with sticks , stones , rifles , and dynamite to-day cheer the British leaders and applaud the British soldiers . The most popular , incidentally , are the New Zealanders who quickly made friends and won liking by their cheeriness and Jack of side . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the soldiers from " down under " have taken a great liking to these carriages with their old horses and ancient drivers , who are often oriental Sam Wellers , with sharp wit and salty speech . Six or seven New Zealanders will crowd into a carriage built for two , with some on the steps , a couple on the box with the driver , and occasionally one mounted on a horse post-boy fashion , and drive through the city singing . Races are often organized , and four or five gharries will careen through the streets scattering pedestrians and causing traffic chaos in streets crowded with automobiles , army lorries , donkeys , and camels . The street hawkers with their trays of oriental jewelry and antiques made the week before in Luxor have also established good relations with the New Zealanders , and the New Zealand greeting , Kia Ora , has become a Cairo street cry . New signs show that the caf ? s too have found friends , and the " Orientales " and " Splendides " of peacetime have become " New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered Shepherd 's Hotel and the Continental , and the lounges once filled with royalty , celebrities , and international society now echo their determined steps and cheery but loud voices . Cairo was shown the new democracy of Britain when New Zealand privates stood in Shepherd 's bar next to officers of crack regiments like the 11th Hussars . The Rhodesians startled Cairo with their masculine pulchritude and strength . One small newsboy gazed with awe at their muscles and really magnificent shoulders and then cried out , " Allah , they must have been brought up with the lions and tigers and have wrestled with them . " A complete change in policy and attitude on the part of the British has helped enormously to establish good relations between the two nations . The policy of the British Government since 1936 has been to leave all Egyptian affairs entirely to the government of the country , and where British interests were at stake to achieve their ends by friendly negotiation . The British Government has been and is most ably represented by Sir Miles Lampson , first British Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the liking of Egyptian leaders and gained many concessions from them . A new British-Egyptian social life has developed . Many individuals of the two nations have been friends in the past , and there has always been a certain amount of entertainment exchanged ; but now effort is being made to extend these friendly relations over the whole country . An Anglo-Egyptian Union has been formed with a large membership . It has a very pleasant clubhouse in Cairo , and an extensive program of lectures , excursions , and social gatherings . Since 1936 the British Council , under the presidency of Lord Lloyd , has opened a number of English schools for English and Egyptian children , institutes for adult education , and libraries . Contrary to the prophecies of many foreigners , Egyptian morale was excellent both during the winter of 1939-40 and after Italy entered the war . The Egyptian is not naturally law-abiding and detests restrictions on his personal freedom ; but blackouts were scrupulously kept , and Voluntary Air Raid Precaution workers performed their duties zealously . It was not possible to provide many shelters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very shallow , as it is not possible to dig below two meters . Sufficient sacking to make the large number of sand bags necessary for the protection of buildings could not be procured from India , and in June there were gas masks for only about half the population , because of difficulty in obtaining them . Even so there was no panic the evening Italy 's declaration was known . It was believed then by both the British and Egyptians that if Italy did enter the war she would loose an immediate attack on Egypt , particularly from the air . Yet the people of Cairo went on sitting at caf ? s , dined , and danced , and went to the cinema as usual . There was , it is true , a feeling of tension ; there was a complete blackout , for some hours all power was turned off by the electric company ; but there was not one cry of alarm to be heard . Nor was there any disorder . Italians were present at the hotels and restaurants . At one large , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candlelight . There were calls from one table of Italians to another , " What , you have not been arrested yet ? " Italian and Egyptian acquaintances greeted one another amiably . British officers placidly ate their dinners . The Greeks present were contemptuous , their opinion summed up by one of them who said , " Italians are fools , they never use their heads . " The Italian agitators were quietly rounded up by the police about two o'clock in the morning and taken to internment camps . Other Italians were left at liberty under police surveillance . There were no demonstrations of any sort . A police cordon was thrown around the Italian Legation , but there was no need for it . There were many searchlights in the sky that night , British fighter-planes soared overhead , the police wore tin hats and carried gas masks and rifles , British army trucks packed with soldiers rumbled through the streets on their way to desert posts , barbed wire was put across certain streets , and some barricades were erected near the Army headquarters and vital ministries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a tribute both to the police and the people that no crimes have been committed at any time during the blackouts . Egypt has long been a most tolerant land , where people of every nationality and belief have been able to live according to their wishes and customs , without interference by Egyptians . Their tolerance was proved to the utmost that night of crisis . V Aside from its importance as a battlefield , the fate of Egypt is interesting to Americans because Egypt has become an important market and distributing center for American goods . American automobiles have a large sale ; about three-quarters of all the cars and trucks used are American . In addition , General Motors has at Alexandria an assembly plant and its head office for sales in the Near and Middle East . American agricultural machinery and tractors havedeveloped a good market . American canned goods , medicines , toilet articles , clothing of all sorts , and motion pictures have a big sale . An American steamship line operated profitably between New York and Alexandria . It has now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department embargo . The largest investment of all is that of the oil companies . Egypt has been a distributing center and the site of the head sales offices of the Socony-Vacuum Co. and the Texas Co. for an extensive district including Palestine , Syria , Iraq , Iran , Greece , and Turkey . In 1938 American companies began drilling . The Standard Oil of California in conjunction with the Texas Oil Company , and the Standard Oil of New Jersey , brought out numbers of geologists , drillers , and other experts and their equipment and began sinking wells . Enormous sums of money and great effort were expended , but the war forced them to stop work before any profit was obtained . Egypt was the scene of Moses ' miracles , and to-day another miracle may occur there , the decisive battle for Western civilization ; for British staff officers have repeatedly said that in their opinion Egypt would be ultimately the main battlefield of this war . Ironside 's summing up was that Egypt offered ideal conditions , good bases , and plenty of space to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Rumania , and Italy attempted the invasion of Greece . It is still too early to estimate the ultimate effect of the Greek campaign on the situation in the Middle East , but it seems probable that this campaign has not changed the locale of the main battlefield , but only the time when the battle will take place . It is probable also that the leading role in the attack on Egypt will now be taken by Germany . Italy may be able to rally and eventually overwhelm Greece by immensely superior man power , but even so , it now seems that it will be absolutely impossible for her to dislodge the British from Crete . As long as Britain is based there it will not he possible for Italy to reinforce her army in Libya or supply it adequately . Libya is not a fertile country ; in the best years the Italian colonists wring only a sparse living from its soil , and the army has always had to be fed , watered , and equipped from Italy . The British Navy and Air Force with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this supply line so much that Graziani , a veteran of desert warfare , tough and capable , was unable to advance much beyond the frontier . While the wells of Sollum and Sidi Barrani contained enough water for his advance force , there was not sufficient for his whole army . There are no wells between the Sollum , Sidi Bar-rani area , and Mersa Matruh , which is strongly held by the British . It is not possible to obtain any food supplies in the desert . Based on Crete , the British forces should be able to cut this supply line still . more and to immobilize the Italian air and naval units at Rhodes and Leros . The success of the Greek Army in Albania and the success of the British in Egypt have given the latter release from immediate danger , and the British a chance to take the offensive in the western desert . Even if the British defeat the Italians completely , the strategic importance of Egypt and the Suez Canal would remain unchanged . Their possession must remain a goal of the Axis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is probable that the Germans will undertake a Middle East campaign . Since the transport of large bodies of troops across the Mediterranean has been made impossible by the British possession of Crete , the increased British naval and air forces in that sea , and the weakening of the Italian fleet at Taranto , the Germans will have to move overland . It is absolutely impossible now to estimate the difficulty of this move or the length of time it would take . If the magnificent Greek resistance hasbroken the magic spell of Axis invulnerability , if Yugoslavia and Turkey decide to resist aggression , the German Army will have a major battle to fight before undertaking the march to the oil fields of Iraq and the waters of Suez . It would have , anyway , immense difficulties of terrain to overcome and would have to maintain a very long line of communications . The attitude of the French authorities in Syria and of the large and well-equipped French Army there to such a German advance is not known ; but judging from the past and present actions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would resist . Free passage through Syria would bring the German Army to Palestine and would probably transfer the main Middle Eastern battlefield from the western to the eastern deserts of Egypt . This great desert of Sinai is even more inhospitable than is the western desert . Sinai is almost completely dry and has steep , rocky ridges which would make the passage of mechanized troops difficult . There is , however , a new asphalt road across this desert . For the defense of this area the British have a large body of Australian troops in Palestine , considerable forces along the Canal itself , good air bases , and the fleet based on Port Said and Suez . The new roads built by the Egyptian Government will enable the British to rush troops to the Canal Zone from other parts of Egypt . There have been so many surprises to date in this war that all predictions are hazardous ; but from the information now available it seems probable that if Britain can hold out at home it will be possible for her to defend successfully Egypt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The pagan creed of Nazism may thus receive its mortal blow in that part of the world which gave birth to three religions , Christianity , Judaism , and Islam . out of your ears you shake your head and it 's business as usual . ' " The English are either very stupid or very brave ; and Reynolds says they are very brave . They have the old reputation of " muddling through , " but perhaps they do n't muddle so much , after all . Time may prove Neville Chamberlain a far-sighted man in not precipitating war at Munich ; certainly the British could not have conjured out of a hat the anti-aircraft guns necessary to protect London in September of 1938 . As for British plane production , it actually benefited because it started late . If the older British models had been " frozen " and put into mass production when the Germans were standardizing the Messerschmitt , there would have been no Hurricanes and Spitfires in quantity last summer . And if the British had not had fighter planes of these superior makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Dunkirk in June as the French Moranes were knocked out over Flanders in May . There is a lesson for Americans in these two books . Whenever I visit Washington these days I shudder to think of America at war : both sides in the current **28;1803;TOOLONG fight are already becoming unbearably and stupidly ugly . But in England they are teaching the world a lot about standing up to foreign bullies without succumbing to terrorists of the home-grown variety . Quentin Reynolds tells us how Percy Cudlipp , editor of the Daily Herald , blasted Duff Cooper 's undercover men out of existence with a phrase , " Cooper 's Snoopers . " In England few people have any use for Communism ; yet the same Communist-despising people praise the work of Communist Claude Cockburn in conducting successful agitation for better air-raid shelters . Somehow this bone-deep concern for civil liberty makes our own American brand seem rhetorical and shallow by comparison . " A man is a fool to write ' think ' pieces these days . " Yes , even on their own showing , both Reynolds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's own " think " piece consists of the theory that Hitler and Goering could have had London after September fifteenth if they had had the nerve and the resources to lose 200 planes a day for the next five days . I 've tried this theory on a number of correspondents returning from London , and all of them have looked blank . They admit that the problem of getting fromstreet to street was becoming extremely difficult in mid-September , but even with a great deal more of intensive night-and-day raiding they insist that London could have been evacuated of women and children and the factory workers could have carried on . As for Reynolds 's " thinking , " it concerns Dunkirk . He considers it a mystery that the whole force of the Luftwaffe was n't hurled at the British on the beaches until the gallant expeditionary army was all wiped out . But if Reynolds will look at the map he will see that the then available German plane bases were much further away from Dunkirk than were the English fighter plane bases in Kent . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bases . ) The British were able to battle the Luftwaffe to a standstill above Dunkirk for the simple reason that they could use a plane three times to the Germans ' one . For a similar reason Germany , with bases in France and Flanders , can now get twice as much use out of a single bombing plane as the English who have to send their bombers on expeditions of much longer range . Mere parity in numbers of bombers wo n't necessarily enable the British to achieve damage-parity in their attacks on German industry . For real attack-parity , one would guess that England must have either double the number of German bombers or else continental bases that are much closer to the German borders . All of which should illuminate the contention that England will be doing pretty well for herself if she manages to get a stalemate . However , on Ingersoll 's evidence , a stalemate can be had . For Ingersoll speaks of the " dread British night fighter that is striking down two to live enemy bombers a night from 20,000 feet in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is n't hooey ; I 've had it explained to me " off the record " by airmen . ) As the British develop more and more of these night fighters , and as they learn to " canalize " the German raiders into ambush pockets by judicious use of anti-aircraft guns , night bombing should become almost as dangerous as day raiding . In which case wars between nations of more or less equal industrial capacity and technological ingenuity will no longer be settled by air blilzes . Knowing this , and knowing that U. S. production will become effective sometime late in 1941 , the Germans will probably try for victory this spring . But if they fail to win ? and on Reynolds 's and Ingersoll 's evidence they will fail ? what is to                     