@@475147

As statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company , Dr. Dublin has at his disposal the mortality data on thirty million Americans and Canadians and this enables him to estimate the national health record with some precision long before the national statistics are compiled . His statements covering 1943 are therefore not only authoritative but , in a sense , a news-beat . His analysis of foreign health conditions is based on the best available sources of information , carefully weighed for their credibility. ? The Editors tna civilian health is a fighting weapon , just as surely as are tanks and planes . In this our third year of war the nation is highly dependent upon that weapon . Conditions have arisen which might menace our American health seriously . Millions of our people have moved to war-production centers and are living under crowded and difficult condi-tions . Homes have been broken up as their members have left to join the armed forces . Thousands of women and older persons not used to production pressure have for the first time entered industry and are working in high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours . Homes and factories have suffered from fuel shortages . Doctors , nurses , and hos-pital attendants in large numbers have been called to the colors , leaving often only a skeleton group to carry on local medical services which the war has made more exacting than ever . Under such difficult circumstances , how well has our national health been maintained ? And how have war conditions affected the health of our allies , and of our enemies , most of whom have been under intense pressure much longer than we ? So far as the United States is concerned the picture is extraordinarily good . The sum total of our vital statistics , of medical reports , and of factory records shows that the health of our civilian population is continuing month after month at a highly satisfactory level . The death rate in 1942 ( 10.4 per thousand ) was the lowest in our history . In 1943 the rate was a little higher , but the rise was not serious ; we have achieved a mortality rate as good as that in some of the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harder and longer , and with all types of medical facilities reduced , there could be no better indication of the continued vigor of our people . It might be supposed that the unaccustomed war strains on the population would bring increased illness in their wake . It is in wartime that some of the world 's most devastating epidemics have taken place . Twenty-five years ago , in the closing months of the First World War , the worst influenza pandemic of all time added its toll of death to that of the battlefields . Its ravages proved much more serious than the battle casualties . In our own country it caused well over 500,000 deaths , in contrast to our loss of 53,000 men from enemy action . I was in Rome in October , 1918 , in connection with a Red Cross mission , and can well remember how each day so many died from influenza that it was impossible to recruit enough able-bodied men to bury the dead individually . War has rightly been called the best friend of disease . It is gratifying therefore to record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a longer time than in the First World War , we have as yet experienced no severe epidemic , although as these lines are being written the spread of colds and grippe is causing some concern . Last year , it is true , we did have a minor flurry of cerebrospinal meningitis . This is a disease which flares up in wartime in army camps and navy training stations and then spreads widely to the civilian population . Nowhere are the extraordinary advances which medicine has made in the past generation better exemplified than in the control of this infection . During the First World War it killed 35 to 40 out of every 100 American soldiers and sailors who were stricken . To-day , thanks to the sulfa drugs , less than 4 out of 100 soldiers who acquire the disease succumb to it . Our whole civilian population has also been greatly benefited by the drugs . Sulfa therapy has revolutionized the treatment of meningitis and reduced the frequency of its complications . These miracle-working sulfa drugs have opened up new vistas of life conservation in other fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treatment of many of the streptococcal infections and of the pneumonias due to bacteria . Only ten years ago one out of every four people who contracted pneumonia died of it within the past five years the introduction of the sulfa drugs has cut its death rate by half . The sulfa drugs are to be credited also in some degree with the present all-time low death rate from appendicitis . This disease formerly took a high toll among young people ? the very group upon whom falls the chief burden of fighting to-day . War conditions have always provided fertile soil for the spread of tuberculosis . During the four years of the First World War , for example , the remarkable gains of the previous decades were wiped out in many of the warring countries . We too suffered a setback in our control of tuberculosis . In this war the figures present a heartening contrast , for we have so far come through virtually unscathed . In 1943 ? our second war year ? the death rate from tuberculosis scored a new low , about 42 per 100,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the previous minimum . Only in areas such as the Pacific Coast , where shortages in housing and medical facilities are most critical , has the death rate from tuberculosis risen perceptibly . We have therefore more than held our hard-won gains thus far . The continuing downward trend of the disease is now bringing it to the point where one can foresee its virtual elimination from the life of our people . Meanwhile the birth rate of the country has increased , temporarily at least . Over three million babies were born in 1943 , more than in any previous year of our history . And this new generation of Americans is getting off to a good start in life : in spite of the addition of millions of mothers to our work forces , the Iow infant mortality rates which have prevailed in recent years are being generally maintained . Our young people have also been extraordinarily safeguarded , so that American children still remain about the healthiest in the world . The control which has been gained over the communicable diseases of childhood has continued unabated . Diphtheria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Measles , whooping cough , and scarlet fever are no longer serious causes of child mortality . Modern health departments have apparently been able to continue successfully their work of checking these childhood diseases as well as those due to defective sanitation , such as typhoid fever , streptococcal throat infections , etc . In addition they have conducted effective personal hygiene and nutrition campaigns which have helped to build up child health to a high level . One of the surprises of the war years has paid to expanding our social security laws and to providing medical service on prepayment plans for the great mass of our people . The physicians who return from war duty will likewise be familiar with new techniques and remedies . They will have at their disposal powerful curative drugs which will be made increasingly available for public use . Thus penicillin , which for certain conditions has proved even more efficacious than the sulfa drugs , will come into daily medical use . It is safe to say that when this and other ne.w substances are produced in quantity and their qualities are recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relegated to the limbo now occupied by such former scourges of the Western wcrld as smallpox , typhoid fever , cholera , and yellow fever . Postwar medic-al care will be better also because of wartime developments in the use of blood plasma , and in surgery and anesthesia . On the public health front , moreover , there will be an equal readiness to go forward , with the United States Public Health Service keen to take leadership in guiding the national movement . But before we can afford to be complacent about our national health there will be many problems to be solved . For one thing , there will be hundreds of thousands of men returning from the tropics bringing back with them a Pandora 's box of diseases which at present are either nonexistent or of minor consequence in our country . Malaria will again become a disease of national importance . We shall be compelled to carry out an extensive program of curing the veterans and preventing the spread of their tropical infections to the civilian population . The campaign against tuberculosis will undoubtedly be intensified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must concentrate on our Negro , Indian , and Mexican populations , where the disease is still rampant . We shall have learned enough about the control of the venereal diseases to continue the excellent work launched by the military agencies . The national nutrition campaign should continue in full swing . Our postwar health program will be vitally concerned with the large measureof disability from the diseases of middle life and old age . These present extraordinary opportunities for research as well as for improved therapeutic measures . We have scarcely touched this field . Cancer presents an enormous challenge . In the field of heart disease and the degenerative conditions there is likewise much to be done . Already basic research has shown some of the causes involved in the premature breakdown of the physical system . Isolated experiments are showing us how to treat some of these diseases to prevent deterioration and to restore individuals to working condition . All of this is in the offing and gives promise of health achievement for the nation not dreamed of by those who conceived the public health program a generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who are so close to the actual theater of war , are also enjoying good health conditions . Not long ago England 's mortality trends gave cause for alarm . Now , after four years of fighting , her death rate is back to prewar levels , while her birth rate has increased to the highest point since 1928 . Child health has shown great improvement over the dark days of 1940-1941 , and both infant and child mortality figures are now at the lowest levels in the country 's history . All this is in striking contrast with conditions in the First World War , when the health situation in England showed gradual and serious deterioration . The recent trend of tuberculosis is another indication of Britain 's sound status . In the first and second years of the conflict , food restrictions , longer hours of work , evacuations , crowding in bomb shelters , severe winter weather , and the return to their homes of many tuberculous patients under sanatorium treatment , all contributed to a substantial increase in the number of tuberculosis deaths in England . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trend , and by last year mortality from the disease had dropped to the prewar level . Women and children , among whom the rise in tuberculosis early in the war was greatest , have now shown definite improvement in this regard . The tough-fibered British have apparently benefited from their strict system of food control . Wartime rationing and the planned feeding of large numbers of children in schools and of workers in factories have produced a people better nourished than ever before . It is a striking fact that English children are showing a better rate of growth than those of the past generation . The average English twelve-year-old today is more than two inches taller and about a dozen pounds heavier than his parents were at the same age . Thus England , though in her fifth year of fighting , has like us a major asset in the state of her national health . In England too the prospect for the months ahead is good , especially since her problem of food supply has been largely solved through the breaking of the submarine blockade . The only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in early November and still continues at the time of this writing . In contrast with the favorable conditions here and in Great Britain , the civilian health picture in the belligerent and occupied countries on the European continent is dark indeed . No one knows just how bad the situation is , because the collection of vital statistics has been sharply curtailed , along with the breakdown of health services generally . In some cases all we can go on are the reports of more or less competent observers . Germany has suffered less than her satellites and the countries she has occupied . The Nazis have made good their threat that the Germans would be the last to go hungry ; they have seized food , medical supplies , clothing , and fuel from all over the Continent . Even so , there is evidence of serious deterioration in the health of German civilians , at least of those residing in cities . A marked rise in urban death rates occurred in 1942 , particularly among infants , young children , and adolescents . Infant mortality has increased significantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decline to a record low for England and Wales in the same period . The German birth rate has fallen sharply and may in fact now be approaching the lowest levels recorded in the First World War . The recent intensive bombings of German cities have probably greatly accelerated the unfavorable trends in the German health situation , and have served also to undermine the morale of the people , itself a factor in health . Not only have unknown thousands been killed outright , but the number of injured has added greatly to the burden on the already overtaxed medical facilities . In addition , municipal health and sanitary services have , in part at least , been disrupted , while the largescale destruction of houses has caused increased overcrowding with its attendant dangers . It is significant that cases of typhus , which were extremely rare in prewar Germany , were by 1943 numbered in the thousands . Present conditions in German cities render their inhabitants more susceptible than ever to the spread of this and other epidemic diseases as the war proceeds . Competent medical observers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ration is now far below subsistence level and is progressively getting worse . In France general health conditions have been much worse than in Germany . The vitality of the French people has undoubtedly been seriously undermined through semi-famine conditions , aggravated by the lack of clothing , shelter , and fuel . The fact that soap is almost impossible to secure makes sanitation more difficult and accelerates the spread of disease . Even in 1940 , food rations in Paris were well below the amount needed for maintenance of health and strength , and the food situation has certainly not improved . The diet of Marseilles children in 1942 contained only 1,500 calories a day , and that of children in refugee camps only 900 , instead of the minimum daily requirement of over 2,000 . It is not surprising then that French mortality is considerably higher than before the war , especially from tuberculosis . In Paris alone , tuberculosis deaths increased by 40 per cent in the two years of German occupation from 1940 to 1942 . Infant mortality has risen , while the birth rate has fallen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The birth rate must continue at low levels as long as the Germans continue to strangle France by keeping millions of young Frenchmen in prison camps . The full toll of famine and disease in the rest of Europe is not known . Yet such fragmentary reports as come through neutral Sweden or Switzerland indicate disastrous conditions and the number of births has fallen so sharply that in many countries besides France the birth rate is now lower than the death rate . In the long run this would mean serious depopulation . Even in the satellite countries of eastern Europe civilian health conditions have changed markedly for the worse . These countries have been exploited almost as much as the occupied ones . Thus it is notable that partly because of German purchases " and partly because facilities for transportation and distribution were diverted to military uses , there have been actual bread shortages in Rumania , one of the rich granaries of Europe . The official figures show no increase in death rates up to 1941 , but their accuracy is open to question . To some extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military health regime , designed primarily for the protection of Axis troops . A distinct sign of deterioration in the sanitary conditions however is seen in the rise in the number of typhus cases to the highest levels in years . The birth rate in Rumania , one of the most prolific countries of Europe , has fallen sharply . By far the worst sufferers of the war have been Polish and Greek civilians and those in the Nazi-occupied Russian provinces . Large sections of the populations of these areas , especially city dwellers , have suffered from actual famine , and food shortages little less stringent have existed in other regions . Millions have been deprived of their homes and forced into hard manual labor , while insufficiently fed , clothed , and sheltered . Conditions have been further aggravated by the disorganizing effects of mass migrations . An example of the frightful impact of war and famine is the estimate that fewer than one in twenty of Greek infants and children born since 1940 survive to-day . Again , in Polish ghettos civilian death rates after two years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off even more rapidly to-day . It is hardly necessary to elaborate on the plight of the Jews under Nazi domination . To the millions of these people bare survival is a bitter struggle . Health , as we speak of it , is to-day utterly beyond their reach . A redeeming feature in devastated Europe is the reported achievement of Russia 's public health organization . In the unoccupied sections of that country surprisingly high standards have been maintained . Public health precautions have been regarded as a military measure and serious sanitary violations have been punishable by death . In the factories the sickness rate rose in the first year of the war ; but the next year the number of industrial clinics was increased and daily health inspection was installed , and the sickness rate dropped . In the occupied areas , as we have noted , conditions were extremely bad , but in spite of insuperable difficulties the health organization has speedily restored sanitary services in the areas which have been wrested back from the Nazi armies . In an unbelievably short time Russian health workers repaired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to health facilities ? hospitals , clinics , baths , and laundries ? and gave treatment to the large number of the sick and injured civilians left in these areas . Vigorous measures have succeeded in stamping out epidemic diseases which came with the German occupation . IV r-TnitE frightful increases in civilian morI talky in Europe have occurred despite the fact that so far there have been no widespread epidemics . It is true that the general incidence of typhus fever has grown in eastern Europe and that there have been localized outbreaks of the disease in the Balkans , in Spain , and in North Africa . Moreover , there is a constant source of danger in people weakened by famine , who would be easy prey for any of a number of infectious diseases . If a major epidemic got a start it would be difficult , if not impossible , to control it . It is highly probable that it would sweep through these populations , building up virulence , and that it might then extend its ravages through the rest of the world . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand together for the preservation of global health . We in America have a permanent stake in it . We can not isolate our own well-being . Epidemics have a way of crossing boundaries and disregarding national borders . When we consider that after the war no place on earth will be more than sixty hours of air travel from New York it is plain that we can not expect to remain well if sickness rages in other lands . With men and women arriving by plane from the tropics or arctic lands , we shall have to deal with strange diseases , perhaps unknown in our own population . We are thus dependent upon the sound health of other nations , and its maintenance will be a postwar necessity . To right the present disastrous conditions will undoubtedly take at least a generation . In fact a large proportion of the surviving peoples of the occupied countries , especially the children , will bear permanently the effects of the overwhelming hardships they have experienced . If marching armies left their mark on civilian life in the last war , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one . There is before us an immense job of rehabilitation which will require the co-ordinated action of all of the powers of the world . This is the justification and this the program of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration . We are fortunate that this organization has already begun to prepare a complete plan and to assign a quota of responsibility to each country that can help in postwar relief work . An integral part of the scheme is an international medical commission with facilities to serve all nations and with a carefully planned campaign to reach the war-torn peoples most effectively . Only through such joint action can the spread of disease be checked and the health of all nations restored . We have been so fortunate in our own wartime experience that we can well afford to lend our skills and our resources toward the success of this vital effort .                     