@@470985

OF ALL the New Deal regulatory agen- cies , the National Labor Relations Board has been the number one storm center . Around it have seethed the passionate antagonisms of labor and capital , the protracted strife between the CIO and the AF of L , investigations by Congressional committees , and recurrent attacks by the nation 's press . Yet while the winds of controversy have continued to blow fiercely , an increasing number of employers in the New York area have come to accept collective bargaining as one of the facts of life . The person chiefly responsible for this marked improvement in industrial relations is Mrs. Elinore M. Herrick , Regional Director of the Labor Board in eastern New York , the greater part of Connecticut , and northern New Jersey , a district which embraces one-fourth of the nation 's industrial population . During her more than five years of service with the Board Mrs. Herrick had handled in her office , up to January , 1941 , as many as 5,441 cases involving upward of a million workers . It is a point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these cases collective-bargaining relations have been established without recourse to the Board 's legal machinery . Her philosophy of industrial relations is that collective bargaining can never be permanently established by process of law : it will enter into our mores only when capital and labor have learned to understand each other 's language and point of view and to base their contractual relations on such an understanding . " The best way to make the NLRA a success , " she says , " is to administer it with common sense . After all both the workers and the men who hire them are only human beings . " While an employer here and there has remained recalcitrant , the type who has contemned the Labor Board and all its personnel ( " What , go near that woman and let her tell me how to run my business ? " ) when threatened with serious labor trouble often comes to Mrs. Herrick 's office to scoff but stays to pray for guidance . After the initial plunge the employer finds it less distasteful than he had expected to sit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Regional Director 's office . He breathes more freely when it dawns on him that Mrs. Herrick is scrupulously just in trying to determine who is to blame for a labor dispute , that she is warmly human , and concerned first and last with arriving at a reasonable basis for collective bargaining for the benefit of all concerned , including the public . On more than one occasion she has by her swift action saved a company from a serious business loss . In the spring of 1937 some 1,400 workers had taken possession of a New Jersey blast furnace . The ore being smelted was worth $750 , - 000 , and if it had been allowed to harden , production could not have been resumed for many weeks . Called on the telephone at midnight , Mrs. Herrick persuaded the workers to evacuate the plant , arranged an election to determine the collective-bargaining agent , and had the workers back at their jobs all within twenty-six consecutive hours . At another time when the United States Shipping Company 's lines were tied up by the seamen 's jurisdictional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lasting gratitude of Mr. John Franklin , now president of the company . Mrs. Herrick has done an excellent public relations job for the Board and herself by speaking from many platforms . Usually after she has addressed a business group she will get a telephone call from an employer who confesses that he has been having a little trouble with his workers . " Tell me , " he says , " what the devil must I do to comply with your blooming Act ? " One of Mrs. Herrick 's staunchest friends in the employing group is an industrialist who holds an influential position . From time to time he calls Mrs. Herrick suggesting that she meet a fellow employer who needs " a little educating . " Mrs. Herrick tells him to bring his friend to dinner at her apartment . The three talk comfortably over the coffee cups , and before long Mrs. Herrick 's guest is asking her for advice . In the course of time his changed attitude is reflected in his concern 's changed labor policy . After sitting down for the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little educating " finds to his amazement that all union representatives do not wear horns , and he begins to exude good will . A lawyer who has represented more than a few corporate clients in Mrs. Herrick 's region testifies , " Mrs. Herrick 's administration has been a demonstration that a fair , competent , and useful job can be done under the Wagner Act . Among government administrators I know of no one who has been more independent and courageous . I say this even though Mrs. Herrick has not hesitated to give me hell when she thought one of my clients was not playing the game fairly . " Typical of employer opinion of Mrs. Herrick is this comment from President Harry L. Derby of the American Cyanamid and Chemical Corporation . " I have met , " he told me , " a large number of Labor Board officials in different parts of the country , and I should like to pay tribute to Mrs. Herrick 's judicial attitude , her great ability , and her unusual understanding of all the problems involved in employer-labor relationships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position she has taken in cases concerning the companies with which I am connected , I have always been sure of her impartiality and fairness . " Responsible union leaders , on their side , agree that Mrs. Herrick has labored devotedly to extend collective bargaining ? which is the purpose of the Wagner Act ; that she has performed a signal service in educating employers ; and that she has tried to be fair , whether or not her decisions have been in their favor . They add , and quite correctly , that strong union organization has been as essential a factor in the changed industrial atmosphere in the New York area as Mrs. Herrick 's good offices . It is true that two unions which have been under Communist domination , the American Newspaper Guild and the Utility Workers ' Union , have denounced Mrs. Herrick as " company-minded " and petitioned the National Board for her removal while the National Maritime Union has asked that her record be investigated . These partisan attacks , as we shall presently see , have been so illfounded as to cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense Mrs. Herrick has made law , for she has freely interpreted the Wagner Act as a mandate on regional directors to settle disputes by mediation whenever possible . She believes that the legal remedies provided by the Act ? hearings held by a trial examiner and a decision handed down by the Board which is enforceable by the courts ? should be invoked only when mediation has failed . Provision for mediation would have been written into the Act had not Secretary of Labor Perkins , as the Congressional hearings revealed , strenuously objetted , fearing that she would lose her Conciliation Service . As things have worked out , the Labor Department 's conciliators have co-operated closely with Mrs. Herrick . Year after year her annual report has served as documentary proof that in most instances neither the violence inherent in strikes nor legal duress is required to bring ownership and labor to a working understanding . Her report for 1940 shows that only 10 per cent of the cases filed required formal legal action , as compared with 21 per cent in 1936 , the first full year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 45 per cent were settled by voluntary agreement between the parties , and 45 per cent were either dismissed by Mrs. Herrick as invalid or withdrawn . Commenting on Mrs. Herrick 's annual report the anti-New Deal New York Herald Tribune declared that " her helpful attitude and lack of bias have brought to her region a greater degree of tranquillity than can be cited in the recent history of any comparable industrial area . " II Mrs. Herrick 's lack of bias must be attributed to her inborn common sense and mental breadth and also to the fact that she has lived and worked on both sides of the railroad tracks . It is doubtless true that none of us can think in the clear , free from the influence of our own economic background and present situation ; yet Elinore Herrick comes as close to taking a classless attitude as any American in public life of whom I know . The daughter of an old family of Springfield , Massachusetts , her father a Unitarian minister , Elinore Morehouse chose to study at Barnard , where she neglected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Columbia too great a counter-attraction . Married at twentyone , she was faced with the necessity five years later of supporting herself and her two small boys . She got a job in a shoeblacking plant in Buffalo , and three months later in a du Pont rayon plantwhere she earned top wages as a fast piece-worker . Within a year she had been made a supervisor in charge of training all the new employees in the spooling , reeling , and winding departments . When a new branch was opened by the du Ponts in Tennessee she was sent to take charge of the textile division . There was still prejudice in those parts against a woman executive and the tempo of work was slower than in the North . Obliged to match the Buffalo production figures , she invented a number of laborsaving devices which are still in use . During these years she learned so much about machinery that to-day she can often tell from the talk at a conference just what an employer 's operating problems are or what has caused the bottleneck . Once , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believing then that the benefits in the way of company houses provided by the du Ponts made union organization unnecessary . Now she regrets her part in that strike , and yet her experience with the du Ponts makes it possible for her to treat an employer who has fostered a company union as something less than a criminal . After six years of the strain of factory work Mrs. Herrick decided that she wanted to learn something about economic theory as well as practice . She went to Antioch College , where William M. Leiserson , now a member of the National Labor Relations Board , was then a professor . To support her family she ran a boarding-house with her mother 's help and found time also to be one of President Arthur E. Morgan 's assistants and to preside over the guest house . After she had finished at Antioch Mrs. Herrick came to New York City and took a job in 1929 as executive secretary of the New York State Consumers ' League , which was trying to improve working conditions and sanitation in factories by investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made under proper standards . When the NRA was started she was asked by Grover Whalen , New York City director , to train a staff of factory inspectors . In one plant where she had gone to check on a payroll she found a strike in progress and she succeeded in settling it . This led to her appointment as chairman of a city mediation board for the NRA . Soon after , Senator Wagner had her made executive vice-cnairman of the old NRA Labor Board in New York and in this office she settled several thousand disputes . When the National Labor Relations Act was passed she became regional director , and she has held the office ever since . About this time she came to know Sidney Hillman , President of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America , a labor leader famous for his ability and his readiness to negotiate peacefully with management . Mrs. Herrick herself soon became an outstanding New Dealer , working with zest and devotion to improve the lot of labor . When the American Labor Party was formed in 1936 , primarily to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign director , and she resigned as vice-chairman in 1940 only to comply with the Hatch Act . In the first phase of the Wagner Act , when the Liberty League was advising business men to nullify the law , so many employers were getting court injunctions against the Act that Mrs. Herrick was inclined , she confesses , to look on employers generally as an enemy class . But after the Act was upheld on April 12 , 1937 , by the United States Supreme Court , employers were more inclined to listen to reason , and Mrs. Herrick 's attitude toward them changed . III Mrs. Herrick acts swiftly when she hears there is trouble in a defense industry involving some phase of the Wagner Act . From her long experience she knows that little progress can be made until the opposing parties air their differences , face to face , in a friendly atmosphere . She prefers that they come unprotected , if they will , by argumentative and technical-minded lawyers . In case an employer turns down her invitation and says he must wait until his lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the telephone if he wants to make himself responsible for a stoppage in a defense industry . Sometimes the employer , flanked by his lawyer , will in a dudgeon refuse to sit in the same room with the union representatives . Mrs. Herrick then has to meet with the two groups in relays , shuttling them in and out of her office as a doctor does , but not without registering her disapproval . " I am surprised that you are so thin-skinned , Mr. S. , " she will mock ; or she will object , " This is all very undignified and you are taking a lot of my time . " Feeling a little sheepish , the employer sooner or later breaks down and agrees to meet the union leaders . If the union claims that a certain worker has been fired for union activity , Mrs. Herrick urges the employer to let her call in the man to tell his story . " It will do you no harm to listen to his grievance , " she pleads , " and it may clear the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , plus other evidence , convinces her that he has been dismissed for incompetence rather than for union activity she will frankly tell the union that in her opinion they have not the ghost of a case . She has always refused to recommend to the Board that formal hearings be held on charges which she believes to be completely without substance . If a union persists in its charge it must appeal over her head to Washington . Last winter there was a bad situation at the Brewster Aeronautical Long Island and Newark plants , where the aircraft division of the CIO United Automobile Workers has a contract . The AF of L had thrown a picket Iine round the plants , claiming jurisdiction over the truckers who carry supplies from one division to another . Truckers bringing supplies from the outside would not cross the picket line and production was slowing up for lack of materials . Mrs. Herrick called representatives of the two MRS . HERRICK OF union groups to her office , together with the management , and told the AF of L that she felt sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held , that the interplant truckers came under the jurisdiction of the CIO union . After almost eight hours of talk , the AF of L agreed to remove their picket line and to let the Labor Board decide the case . The Board ruled as Mrs. Herrick had predicted . Mrs. Herrick , like a good doctor , believes in preventive medicine . Last spring an Army inspector ordered one of the large airplane companies to discharge two men : the first because he had been found guilty five years ago of burning his automobile to collect the insurance ; and the second because , in a semi-supervisory job , he had been passing defective airplane parts . Since both men were active in the union , the company lawyer consulted Mrs. Herrick before any action was taken . She counseled the company " not to rock the boat " while the request for an election was pending . She felt sure the Army would agree to the delay since the man who had been passing the bad parts was ill in the hospital . " If the Army insists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go fly a kite , " Mrs. Herrick advised the lawyer in her characteristically colloquial style , " and tell the Colonel to call me . " Later a conference was held in Mrs. Herrick 's office and the union agreed not to make trouble if the man who appeared to have lived down his criminal record were dismissed without prejudice to his ability to get another job , and if the other man were found by an investigator from Mrs. Herrick 's office actually to have been passing defective parts as the Army claimed . Almost always , Mrs. Herrick says , a workable solution can be found if either her office or some other official agency is consulted before the trouble breaks out . A case where this was not done in time was that of a small but important company which makes communication devices for airplanes . The United Electrical , Radio , and Machine Workers ' Union of the CIO wished to be recognized as bargaining agent in one of two adjacent plants , having very little strength in the second plant . The company claimed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial unit , and they had accordingly declined to do business with the union on the ground that it did not represent a majority . Instead of appealing to the Regional Office of the Labor Board , the U.E.R.W. had called a strike and had pulled out about half the men in the one plant . The Federal Labor Conciliator had got nowhere , and six weeks after the strike had started the OPM asked Mrs. Herrick to take a hand in the situation . She held three conferences in her office in three days , and at the last one tried starving all parties from four to eight P.M. when she relented and sent out for coffee . She told the union she thought the workers in the two plants properly constituted one bargaining unit and that they were " all wet . " To the employer she suggested that he take back the strikers and put through the wage raise that he had already planned . Then , if the union wished , an election could be held in both plants . The starvation conference broke up with no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at work , both sides having decided to act on Mrs. Herrick 's compromise proposal . Meanwhile the Regional Director had made such a good impression on the lawyer for the company that he had invited her to speak at his church ! While Mrs. Herrick is a very skilful mediator , it must be admitted she has a weapon in reserve which the able but legally powerless Labor Department 's mediators lack . If she is convinced that an employer is violating the law by his refusal to bargain with a majority group or by his intimidation of workers she can warn him that the Board will order hearings and that its decision , enforceable by the courts , will leave him no choice . Sometimes , but not often , Mrs. Herrick is defeated by the pure cussedness of human nature . Last summer the management of Air Associates , a company which makes parts for airplanes , and the aircraft division of the U.A.W. had a dispute over the categories of workers to be included in the bargaining unit . After long conferences in Mrs. Herrick 's office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The election had hardly been held when the company , whose president has been an inveterate enemy of the Wagner Act , fired the eleven members of the union committee and twelve other active unionists . The union promptly called out several hundred workers and kept them out until the National Defense Mediation Board prevailed on the company to reinstate the discharged employees and to begin negotiations for a contract . Mrs. Herrick emphasizes to both sides that strikes are to-day , more than ever before , against the public interest ; yet she will not allow an employer to take unfair advantage of the national emer-gency . She had a balky ' in her office the day after the President had sent troops into the North American Aviation plant and had ruled that workers refusing either to mediate or arbitrate a dispute in a defense industry would not be exempted from the draft . Turning to the union representatives , the employer said slyly , " You are all under thirty , are n't you ? " " If you pull anything like that , " Mrs. Herrick cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tell them that you tried to put over an illegal contract . " The employer retorted , " If there 's a strike we 'll get the Army in . " " The hell you will , " replied Mrs. Herrick ( she is one of the few women I know who can swear without sacrificing her dignity ) . " Before the Army moves in it must be shown that the workers have done something illegal . I can show that it is your company and not they who are obstructing the defense program .. " The irate employer threatened to report her to President Roosevelt for " promoting a strike , " but her cool reply was that she could get to the President more easilythan he could . Afterward she said to me , " If I yielded to threats from either employers or unions ? and I have had plenty of them ? I should be a jellyfish by this time . " IV While Mrs. Herrick carries a big stick and flourishes it when necessary , she has no " side . " The door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come in and out to discuss pending business in the midst of conferences , and you get the impression that open covenants are being openly arrived at . Mrs. Herrick takes practically all her telephone calls and works longer hours than any of her staff . She believes it her duty as a public servant to be on call to give advice at any time to unions and employers . Movie-script writers could get firstrate copy from Mrs. Herrick 's conferences , but the dialogue might seem implausibly informal . Mrs. Herrick 's talk is richly colloquial and almost always relieved by humor ; most of the time she is so completely easy and natural that a stuffed shirt is soon deflated . She may tell an employer to his face , if he says that his plant is one big happy family , that he 's " as innocent as a babe in the wood . " Or she may say bluntly that his excuse impresses her as " pure baloney , " and that if he has a strike he need n't come and " cry on her shoulder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be stretched in his union 's favor she tells him to " cut out the funny business " and adds that " there is no use in bellyaching . " Yet she tolerates no lack of respect for the Labor Board 's authority and she can speak with the air of authority of a Supreme Court judge . When both parties to a dispute have failed to " come clean with all the facts " she reprimands them , " Was n't it important to tell the truth and nothing but the truth , so help you God ? " If the employer comes back with some such remark as " God was n't helping me that day " everyone gets a laugh . Always at the psychological moment some phrase of hers will relieve the strain . Mediators , I suspect , count their successes in direct ratio to the number of laughs they can get out of two groups that are likely to be at swords ' points when they first come together . When the newspapers announced on May 4th that the Bethlehem Company 's shipyard in Hoboken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CIO industrial Union of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers of America , it was big news in view of the company 's traditional opposition to organized labor . It was still bigger news when Bethlehem agreed to negotiate a uniform contract for its nine Atlantic coast shipyards , to be effective wherever the union won a majority in a consent election ; and when it also agreed to elections in six steel plants in New York and Pennsylvania , where the CIO Steel Workers ' Union had been demanding recognition for several years . The company 's change of policy was undoubtedly precipitated by the national emergency and by the Supreme Court 's decision in the Heinz case , holding that a collective bargaining agreement must be sealed by a written contract . Yet I was informed by Philip VanGelder , secretary-treasurer of the shipbuilding workers ' union , that Mrs. Herrick " was very helpful indeed . " For a full year , he admits , the union was impatient of delays and thought her office should have expedited its request for hearings on the charge that the company had refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hearings were about to begin , Bethlehem suddenly agreed to confer on a contract . " I can see now , " Mr. VanGelder said , " that Mrs. Herrick 's patient efforts have been fruitful ; if we had held the hearings and the company had contested the Board 's decision in the courts , we might have spent two years in litigation . " The company , for its part , addressed on May 4th a commendatory letter to Mrs. Herrick which they released to the press . " That these negotiations , " they said , " have been carried on in a spirit of co-operation and without disruption of operations is due in no small degree to the constructive and fair-minded attitude you have displayed throughout the entire proceedings . " V On the same day that the signing of the Bethlehem Hoboken contract broke in the news , another important story appeared . The Consolidated Edison Company had agreed through Mrs. Herrick 's intervention to turn over $300,000 for distribution among 151 Consolidated workers who had been laid off for alleged union activity between 1935 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromise settlement had been accepted by the CIO Utility Workers ' Union , which had originally demanded $1,250 , - 000 in back pay for its members . Since the men had been fired in a slump period when Consolidated Edison had laid off some 3,000 men , the company would not admit that any of the 151 CIO members had been discriminated against . After a thorough investigation Mrs. Herrick concluded that some of the individual claims were more valid than others and she considered the substantial settlement which she finally got from the company more to the men 's advantage than a long court fight . The settlement is of special interest since the leaders of the benefiting union just a year before had petitioned the National Board for Mrs. Herrick 's removal from office on charges involving the same company . The Consolidated Edison story is a long one , revolving round the company 's alleged anti-union activities in former years ; the Supreme Court 's upholding in 1937 of an AF of L contract ; and the continued militancy of the CIO Utility Workers ' Union . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1940 Mrs. Herrick persuaded the company to consent to an election throughout the entire Edison system . ( In a consent election the company agrees to bargain with the winning union , and hearings before a trial examiner and a decision by the Board are dispensed with . ) Just before the election the AF of L dropped out in favor of an unaffiliated group , so that the final contest was between this group , the Brotherhood of Consolidated Edison Employees , and the CIO Utility Workers ' Union . It was the largest election held under Board auspices up to that time , with 31,500 employees in the metropolitan area enentitled to vote . Mrs. Herrick made elaborate preparations to ensure its legality ; an identification-card system was worked out to prevent repeaters from voting ; 246 polling booths were set up off company property , and watchers were present representing both unions . Mrs. Herrick had arranged with the company to allow the employees time off during the work-day on a stagger system so that they could all get to the polls and make up the time on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union , which apparently feared a completely representative balloting . Before the ballot boxes were opened the Utility Workers ' Union , foreseeing defeat , charged that it had been corruptly conducted and that the company , by co-operating , had shown an improper interest in results . Mrs. Herrick immediately impounded the ballots and had them checked against the identification cards at a cost of $2,000 . An error of only .5 per cent was found . The final count showed that 16,124 employees had voted for the Brotherhood , 9,720 for the Utility Workers , and 2,930 for neither union . The charges leveled against Mrs. Herrick 's conduct of the election , carefully checked by the writer , do not stand up . All of the arrangements had been approved in advance by the Board in Washington , which at that time had a majority chronically inclined to favor the militant wing of the CIO . Under the circumstances the Board felt obliged to disallow the Utility Workers ' Union 's petition to have the election invalidated and Mrs. Herrick removed . Increasingly in her administration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's election machinery . More often than not she persuades the company concerned to consent to the election . " Experience with the Board 's election machinery , " she said in her 1940 report , " shows that a fair election goes farther toward securing satisfactory collective bargaining relationships than does any other single factor . . . . While it is important that the workers be given freedom of choice , it is equally important that an employer be satisfied in his own mind that a majority of his employees have freely chosen the bargaining agency . " " Labor leaders , " Mrs. Herrick philosophizes , " are all for me when they win a case and down on me when they lose . " One of her bitterest enemies , outside of the Communist-minded left wing CIO crowd , is Joseph Ryan of the AF of L Longshoremen 's Union . He bears her a grudge for the work she did in 1937 and 1938 to eliminate the corrupt AF of L International Seamen 's Union from the maritime situation on the east coast . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history and also throws light on her ups and downs with the CIO . The elections which she held on all the large steamship lines at a time when shipping was tied up were frontpage copy . Warfare was raging on the waterfront between the AF of L and the rebel group . Mrs. Herrick went aboard ships to ensure that elections were properly held and was not intimidated by anonymous threats to her life . Largely through her efforts , the National Maritime Union , with Joseph Curran as president , was established . It is to-day a strong union , with 50,000 members . Yet the leadership , which slavishly follows the Communist party line , now complains of Mrs. Herrick 's handling of certain of their cases . We all know that Communists and their followers are not restrained by what they call " bourgeois " principles of fairness and honesty . Another case in point is the petition which the American Newspaper Guild filed in May of this year with the National Labor Relations Board for Mrs. Herrick 's removal from office . Back in 1936 Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Associated Press , because it had a good case ? as the U. S. Supreme Court decided in its first decision upholding the Wagner Act . But since , in several recent cases , including one involving the New Turk Times , she has refused to support Guild charges which she considered unsubstantial , this union too is out " to get her scalp . " Communist ideology , it goes without saying , is directly opposed to Mrs. Herrick 's philosophy of industrial relations . A gradualist , she believes that social progress can be achieved through education of the employers , appropriate legislation , and impartial administration of basic laws . The Communist position is that class warfare is not only inevitable but desirable as a means to a revolutionary end . Now that the line-up has changed in Europe , the left-wing CIO leaders have revised their tactics so that this country 's production program may be expedited to help Soviet Russia , directly or indirectly , in its war with Germany ; but their latest somersault for love of Moscow will not fool Mrs. Herrick or anybody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inferred that Mrs. Herrick is out of favor with all the CIO leaders . John L. Lewis and Philip Murray have never joined in the attacks on her and Sidney Hillman relies on her as a trouble-shooter for the government . In New York , Gustav Strebel , right-wing president of the State CIO Council , speaks of her in the highest terms . Such key unions in this area as the United Automobile Workers ' Union , including its aircraft division , and the Industrial Union of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers , refused to join in either the Utility Workers ' or the Newspaper Guild 's petition for Mrs. Herrick 's dismissal . VI While Mrs. Herrick has done a great deal to bring industrial peace to herarea , she is not in a position to avert strikes which sometimes follow a breakdown in contract negotiations . Several years ago her office conducted an election among the employees of the Federal Shipbuilding and Drydock Company , a subsidiary of U. S. Steel , and the CIO Industrial Union of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers was certified . Relations between the management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprised to read in the papers of August 7th that the union had called out sixteen thousand workers because the company would not agree to a clause in the contract providing for a modified union shop . As I write , the National Defense Mediation Board has been unable to settle this strike . Pronouncements by the National Association of Manufacturers and the U. S. Chamber of Commerce suggest that the manufacturing group , led by U. S. Steel , are making a last-ditch fight for the open-shop principle . It goes without saying that Mrs. Herrick has not been able to make every power-hungry labor leader listen to reason , any more than she has been able to convert every single employer to the Wagner Act . On August 7th an election was held at the Curtiss-Wright airplane plants in Caldwell and Clifton , N. J. , and the independent union won 2 to 1 . The AF of L International Machinists Union had wanted the election confined to the Caldwell plant , but the Board had ruled that the two plants were an integrated whole . Despite their defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on strike . A week later they returned to work on the insistence of Sidney Hillman of the OPM . Mrs. Herrick denounced their action as a strike against the Board 's decision on the proper bargaining unit . This is the type of unforgivable strike , she feels , which shows the need of a greater sense of responsibility on the part of some labor leaders in defense industries . In the Consolidated Edison election held in the spring of 1940 , the AF of L withdrew from the ballot and the independent Brotherhood was named the bargaining agency . Yet in July of this year Harry Van Arsdale 's powerful Local 3 of the AF of L 's Electrical Workers ' Union called a general strike of all its members because the Consolidated Edison had used its own workers to install machinery in one of its New York City plants . Censured by both press and government officials , Local 3 sent its workers back to the Navy Yard and other defense industries and several weeks later called off the strike . In this instance the Consolidated Edison had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consulted . The only serious criticism I have heard of Mrs. Herrick in non-Communist labor circles is that she sometimes recognizes as legitimate a group that is alleged to be a company union . But labor leaders are likely to call every independent union a company union . It was pointed out to me , for instance , that the unaffiliated union at the Sperry Gyroscope Company was company-dominated and should never have been given a clean bill of health by Mrs. Herrick 's office . A few days later this same unaffiliated union took a strike vote , and while the strike was averted at the last minute , the group 's militancy proved its independence . Unaffiliated unions , Mrs. Herrick finds , are on the increase for better or worse . The reason , she believes , is that many workers do not want to be caught in a squeeze play between the AF of L and the CIO . As a friend of organized labor , she has consistently deplored the schism in its ranks and has warned of its ill effects . Since both affiliated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no favorites and applies , to the best of her own and her staff 's ability , the necessary tests to determine whether a union is free from company domination . On one occasion I heard her tell a personnel manager there was no doubt in her mind that the union in question , even if it had a new name , was a carry- over from the old company union , since the officers had not been changed and since they were being paid to spend their full time recruiting members . She advised this corporation to disestablish the suspect union before the Board had to take action . Despite Mrs. Herrick 's vigorous support of the Wagner Act , she has at times had serious differences with the Board in Washington , as the evidence unearthed by the Smith House Investigating Committee revealed . For one thing , she held from the beginning of the AF of L ? CIO fight that the Board should allow employers caught in the middle to petition for an election . In her own region she always came to the aid of harassed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request an election . Largely owing to her insistence , the Board changed its administrative ruling a little more than a year ago , so that today an employer who is under fire from both sides may petition for an election . Mrs. Herrick also initiated the practice , formerly frowned on by one faction of the Board , of informally notifying an employer when a charge had been filed against him . She argued that he had a right to know of what specific charges he was accused . She argued too that an employer should be promptly notified when a charge had been dismissed or withdrawn . " Why , " she demanded of the Board , " should we keep the sword of Damocles hanging over his head ? " After the Act was upheld in 1937 and up until the retirement of Chairman Madden in September , 1940 , Mrs. Herrick was frequently at swords ' points with the Board majority of two , but generally in agreement with William M. Leiserson who was appointed in 1939 . Edwin S. Smith , who may have retired before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while ex-Chairman Madden appears to have innocently followed the lead of Mr. Smith and the Board 's former secretary , Nathan Witt . So long as the Smith-Witt clique was in power Mrs. Herrick 's recommendaMRS . HERRICK OF lions were often overruled and she was obliged to be constantly on guard against bias and prejudice on the part of certain staff members both in Washington and in her own office . She would neither resign nor submit , and her enemies did not dare try to oust a Regional Director who stood so high at the White House and with the press . The determined position she took , together with widespread newspaper criticism of the old Board , must have had more than a little to do with the President 's decision in December , 1940 , to change the balance of power on the Board by naming Harry A. Millis , a highly respected labor conciliator , to the chairmanship . Now that former secretary Witt is out and there have been other changes in personnel and methods , Mrs. Herrick is well satisfied with the Board 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Act , she answers that administrative reform , and not amendment , was needed . She sees some merit in the proposal made by the Attorney General 's Committee on Administrative Law , that trial examiners should be investigated and approved by a body independent of the agency , such as the proposed Office of Federal Administrative Procedure . Still she does not believe it would be wise to divorce completely the trial examiners from the Board 's authority or to take the entire power of selection from the Board . An administrative agency , she believes , must assume full responsibility for enforcement of the law concerned , and must rely upon examiners who not only know the particular law backward and forward but who understand all the intricate problems of the operation of businesses which come under the law . She shares the doubts of the Attorney General 's Committee that a general pool of trial examiners will improve the administration of laws like the Wagner Act and the Securities Exchange Act , but emphasizes that the greater importance given to the role of the trial examiners will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She thinks it a good thing that the much criticized Review Section of the Labor Board , formerly staffed by brash young radicals , has been pared down in size and authority . Now , instead of relying on decisions reached by the Review Section , the Board studies the trial examiners ' report in each instance , notes the exceptions taken by the various parties , and refers back to the record on specific points . This practice , with oral argument before the Board , provides a solid foundation for the Board 's final decisions . In the present emergency she is opposed to legislation which would make arbitration of labor disputes " compulsory " and strikes a criminal offense . " It is more important to-day than ever before , " she says , " that we retain and protect all the rights of free people including the right to strike . But we should encourage the inclusion of arbitration clauses in collective bargaining contracts with provision for enforcement of awards by the state courts . Once the bargaining right has been established , a union can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pendulum swings from side to side and that a democracy 's method of handling abuses of power in the last analysis must be by legal process . At the same time she places great reliance on that other weapon of a democracy , an informed public opinion , and believes that this approach better serves the public interest in the long run . She concedes , however , that just as abuses by employers led to the Wagner Labor Relations Act , so might abuses by unscrupulous labor leaders come to require regulatory legislation . When Chairman Madden 's place was left vacant , many people familiar with Mrs. Herrick 's record felt that she should be appointed to the Board . The President could not , in this writer 's opinion , have made a more brilliant choice . But Mrs. Herrick herself , without tasting any sour grapes , prefers her job of Regional Director . She would rather deal with people any day than with documents .                     