@@487509

WHEN Washington is n't too engrossed in such mat- ters as the dreadful revelation that we sent military aid to Russia at a time when Russia was our ally In the war against Germany , it speculates these days about Secretary of Commerce Charles Sawyer and what is making him start to tick all of a sudden . Until recently Sawyer was the Cabinet 's forgotten man . Mention his name and you got a polite " Who ? " The Department of Commerce has long been a moribund agency , and this affable Ohio business man seemed to have dropped into its dignified obscurity without a struggle . Of late , however , he is being regarded not merely as the Administration 's new missionary to the conservatives but as a member of the Cabinet who is helping to expound top policy and perhaps to shape it . Fair Deal supporters even see him as a sinister figure seeking to lead the President off to the extreme right . Actually , he has not yet shown himself to be anything of the kind , however much his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is simply providing the Fair Deal with a useful liaison with big business ; if there is any chance that some of the Administration policies which directly affect the business community can be put into operation without a prolonged BRUCE CATTON Is the author of " The War Lords of JVashington. " 637 dog fight , Sawyer Is apt to be the man who finds the chance and puts it to good use . Specifically , Sawyer is working on anti-trust policy . Not long ago he revealed that he was heading an interagency committee , at the President 's request , to make recommendations on the matter . He said there should be less confusion about the anti-trust program so that the business man could know what he may and may not do , and he touched on the need for voluntary " codes of fair practice " in industry . That sounded like good N. A. M. doctrine , and the liberals took alarm . Apparently they overlooked the fact that Sawyer had just released an extensive Department of Commerce study of concentration in industry which was loaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Celler committee has been digging up ; if Representative Celler succeeds in his attempt to break up big industrial combines , some of his most effective ammunition will have been provided by Sawyer . One liberal Congressman wrote Sawyer insisting that some anti-trust problems ca n't be solved by " educating " big business . Sawyer replied that he agreed and that the loophole in the Clayton act which permits the big boys to buy up their competitors ' assets should be plugged . If the liberals failed to see the importance of this report the conservatives grasped it without delay , and as solid a right-winger as David Lawrence promptly took Sawyer to task , complaining that the whole tenor of the report gave the impression " that those companies which have achieved leadership have probably done so by violating the law . " Suggestions that Sawyer was spearheading a move to soften the anti-trust program were dismissed by Lawrence as " wishful thinking . " In fact , he asserted that the compilation and issuance of this report could be due to nothing but " a desire to penalize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole spirit of free enterprise . " The suspicions that Sawyer has aroused , actually , are of the kind any Secretary of Commerce in a liberal Administration will arouse if he really tries to do his job . This Secretaryship is the oddest post in the Cabinet . It is a complete sinecure if its occupant chooses to make it that . Hoover took the sprawling , inchoate department , applied modern promotion and merchandising techniques , and made it an important branch of government . None of his other successors have emulated him . Sawyer has intelligence and energy and is devoting himself to his task as he sees it . Part of his task is to talk pleasantly to the business community  --  to make business men feel that even in a Democratic Administration there is someone who speaks their language . Part of it is to make studies like the report on concentration of industry , . He is working hard at both .                     