@@487841

At the dinner of the Nation Associates held at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York on October 13 , Sumner Welles , former Under Secretary of State , made the address which appears below . The subject of the evening 's discussion was The Palestine Solution and Its Relationship to World Peace . The other chief speakers were Barney Crum and Richard H. S. Crossman , M.P. , American and British members , respectively , of the Anglo-American Committee on Palestine.j T O ALL those millions of Americans who believe that their nation , because of the influence and power it possesses , should utilize that influence and that power so as to facilitate the solution of international controversies which block the establishment of a free , peaceful , and lasting world order , the past few years have been a profoundly discouraging period . For in the case of Palestine the great opportunity for leadership offered to our government had not been seized . Last Friday this situation radically changed . The United States has at length assumed its responsibility and undertaken a most constructive initiative . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the specific aspects of the Palestine problem , aspects which necessarily arise in an objective appraisal of the recommendations for settlement that have been advanced . Nor would / venture to dwell upon the continuing tragedy of those hundreds of thousands of homeless Jews whose spirits and bodies are rotting in the concentration camps of Central Europe and to whom no hope has as yet been given that they are to have any chance of safety or any opportunity for a new and better life in the days to come . There are many among you who have seen with their own eyes to horror and who have been struggling valiantly to put an end to a tragedy which need never have existed and for which there can be no justification . But I do wish to speak to you on the issue which seems to me chiefly to concern us here tonight . That is the relationship of the Palestine settlement to world peace . It would take long to enumerate the reports of the individuals and of the organizations , official as well as unofficial , which have now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many of these investigations , unfortunately , were undertaken for the sole purpose of procrastination . Many - were ordered merely in an effort to avert a crisis which might otherwise be imminent . There is perhaps no other question of international import upon which so much authoritative information is available , and upon Vthic.h the time and thought of so many able men and women have been expended . What so far has been lacking is the courage and the decision and the authority by which action might be taken on the basis of those facts . I had hoped last spring that the period of evasion and buck-passing was at length concluded ; that the repeated efforts of the British government to prevent any solution and the unsavory attempts of the government of the United States to saddle Great Britain with full responsibility , while at the same time refusing to lift a finger to make a settlement possible , had at last reached their end . For a new and great development had taken place . The nations of the world , at a special meeting of the Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking a settlement of the Palestine question and had appointed a Special Committee on Palestine to undertake a final investigation and to recommend to the full Assembly at its session this autumn whatever solution might in their judgment be most equitable and practicable in the light of all the legitimate interests concerned . The overshadowing significance of that step could not be exaggerated . It meant that the free peoples of the earth had decided that a just and lasting settlement must be promptly found , and that the moral opinion of the world would support whatever decision the Assembly might finally reach upon such a basis . A S WE all know , a few weeks ago the Special Cornmittee submitted its findings . The recommendation , of the majority of the committee  --  and it is pertinent to emphasize the fact that the nations represented in that majority could not conceivably be considered as having any partiality or any prejudice  --  proposed the partition of Palestine and the establishment within the Holy Land of a Jewish and an Arab state . Many questions can legitimately be raised as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these proposals . But no unbiased man or woman can fail to recognize that , granted the lateness of the hour , granted the urgency of the need , granted the developments that have taken place since the report of the Peel commission was rendered ten years ago , and granted the crisis with which humanity today is convulsed , these proposals are the best that could at present be carried Out and are inherently wise and just . The majority report has , of course , been assailed by the Jewish extremists . It has , of course , been made the target of the Arab nationalists , who assert they will reject any settlement through which the Jewish people would at last attain the National Home long since prom440 IT he NATION Lied to them . But I think there can be no question that a vast majority of the outstanding leaders of the Jewish people support the form of settlement now under consideration by the United Nations , however far short it may fall of the ideal for which they had hoped , and that a vast majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a settlement which puts an end to a controversy whose continuation can be of no benefit to them , were they to learn that the United Nations was determined to impose such a settlement . If we view the world as it is today realistically , we can not fail to see that force  --  economic force as well as armed force  --  still continues to be the dominating factor . Every delegate to the United Nations knows that unless the three great powers ? Britain , the Soviet Union , and the United States  --  jointly support whatever decision the Assembly may reach , and jointly undertake to facilitate the carrying out of the Palestine settlement , no settlement is going to be carried out . However strongly the other member states may feel that the settlement proposed is altogether just , however sincerely they may believe that such a settlement is imperative if a major conflagration is to be averted , they possess by themselves neither the armed might nor the economic resources required to bring about its consummation . The United States has now spoken . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session of the Assembly . It supports the majority plan which prayides for partition and inimigration . While I question , the wisdom of some of the modificatkins it advances , I regard other suggestions offered as altogether desirable , From the standpOint of the realistic approach ' to the crux of the problem there IS no more encouraging feature of our government 's long-awaited statement of policy than the declaration that " the ' United State 's is willing to participate in a United ' Nation 's program ' to assist the parties involved in the establishment of a workable political settlement in Palestine " .. and " in meeting ' economic and financial problems and the problem Of internal law and order during the ' . transition period : " For here are more than words or expressions sympathy . Here is the promise of material help and cooperation . The position of Great Britain was made known lip the statement of Mr : Creech-Jones ' to ' the Assembly . We can at least hope that the position then announced may yet be modified , It wanld be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement based upon the provisions of the majority ' report , that the British goVernmerit would evacuate its administrative and law-enforcement agencies froth Palestine before the Assembly 's plan could be implemented , and ' thereby open the Holy Land to probable bloodshed and anarchy at the ' very moment that the ' United Nations ' ' was preparing to assume responsibility . The present difficulties of the British people must not be overlooked . But the United . States was fully justified in urging that the mandatory power should not withdraw until a smooth transmission of authority can be assured . There remains the problem of the attitude of the Soviet Union . Once before , at the Assembly 's special session last spring , the Soviet government categorically stated it would support partition as an alternative form of settlement . The Soviet Union has now reaffirmed this position . We have reason for deep gratification that in this outstanding instance the Soviet government has shown a. dear intention of helping to make the United Nations function and of working for world peace rather than for world disruption . L @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic issues upon whose solution a Palestine settlement now depends . They are few in number . The relations between the Soviet Union and the United States are every day becoming more critical . If the Palestine settlement is thrown into the whirlpool of power politics that now threatens to engulf the entire family of nations , no solution will be attained . If Moscow ' and Washington permit the question of Palestine to be used as an instrument in this looming conflict between expansion and containment , whatever final decision the Assembly may now reach will be void . Yet there is no reason that can be found to justify so needless a frustration . The establishment in Palestine of the Jewish and Arab states now proposed could never in itself be ' regarded as a threat to the safety of the Soviet system or of the Western powers . Only if these two new states came under the exclusive domination of either the East or the West could any fear be legitimately aroused on the part of ' one of the major powers . Great Britain has announced its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Palestine , save in the remote Contingency that the Assembly 's decisions need not be imposed . Moscow can , consequently , no longer charge that Britain intends to use Palestine as a strategic base against Russia . But since in all human probability the Assembly 's recommendations for a Palestine settlement must be imposed and since an adequate police force must , therefore , . be found , is it not unquestionable that if either the United States or the ' Soviet Union attempts to ' bring about the employment of its own troops fdr such a purpose , the Palestine question will inevitably become a cause for further suspicion , for further controversy , and for increased hostility between these two powers ? If the police force is American , the Soviet Union will construe such a decision as an ' aggressive step on our part . If the police for &; is Russian , such a measure will at once be interpreted throughout the West as a new indication of the Soviet government 'S intention to seize the Dardanelles and to dominate ' the Mediterranean . October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what has taken place in Korea what a joint Soviet-American administration of foreign territory implies . It is for these reasons , which seem to me so altogether clear , that I publicly suggested some days ago that the major powers announce that no one of them would send military contingents to Palestine for policing duties , and that they agree that the Security Council should establish , after calling upon intermediate and lesser powers that had no conceivable interest in the Palestine settlement for their cooperation , a Palestine police force composed of military contingents from those powers , under the authority of the Council 's Military Staff Committee . It has been said that such a suggestion is not realistic , that too many practical difficulties stand in the way , and that the problems of over-all authority and of expense constitute insuperable obstacles . The truth is , of course , that such a solution of the problem of security is wholly practicable provided the major powers wish to make it so . If the Soviet Union and the United States are willing to cooperate in this regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competent to adjust the question of over-all authority , and if the member states of the United Nations recognize in practice the obligation they have already unanimously incurred , the expenses of the administration of Palestine during the transition period and of an adequate police force are obviously expenses which should be shared proportionally by all the United Nations . Frankly , such a solution of the need for maintaining law and order during the transition period seems to me far more effective and expedient than the suggestion of the United States that the United Nations establish a special constabulary or police force recruited on a volunteer basis . A volunteer force would necessarily take a long time to recruit and assemble and a long time to train . What criterion , moreover , should prevail as to the national origin of the recruits ? What percentage of recruits should any given country be allowed to send ? What authority would be responsible for screening the recruits ? Would there not be constant suspicion that agents of the major powers were being incorporated into such a volunteer force ? If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their own military contingents to undertake the required policing work in Palestine during the transition period , these governments would be each responsible for the membership of the forces so employed , and none of the controversial questions I have mentioned could arise . W HETHER we shall now see a Palestine settlement of the nature recommended to the ' Assembly by the majority of the Special Committee on Palestine depends primarily on , whether the Soviet Union and the United States will permit the settlement to be carried out . 441 We are told that the troops of the Arab states are now encircling , Palestine . Propaganda is being directed toward the delegates to the United Nations Assembly , and toward public opinion in the West , to make it appear that hostilities will be inevitable if the Assembly adopts the proposals of its Special Committee . If the Assembly permits such blackmail tactics  --  such an open violation of the solemn commitments into which every Arab country has entered  --  to remain unpunished , and to sway its final decisions , the authority of the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room believe that the threats of violence now being made could ever ' be carried out unless the Arab governments received the secret support of one of the great powers ? Can anyone doubt that if Britain , the Soviet Union , and the United States unanimously declared that the decision of the Assembly was also their decision and that they would unitedly support the execution of the steps required to impose it , the attempted blackmail which we are witnessing would not rapidly be shown up for what it is ? Unless the means of securing effective collaboration among the three major nations can now be found , not only will the final settlement of the Palestine problem continue to be remote , but the immediate consequences may be of appalling gravity . Is it already too late for us to have ground for the belief that some field for cooperation between the Soviet Union and the United States can yet be found ? Must we assume that the one world for which we had hoped and for which we have striven is already irreparably divided into two worlds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portends ? Need ' we disregard the lesson which the history of recent centuries should teach us  --  that if two antagonistic and rival nations find some field for cooperation , this experiment in cooperatiOn can bring about an alleviation of tension and encourage the gradual solution of controversies which had earlier seemed altogether insoluble ? I , for one , can not reconcile myself to the belief that it is already too late . I believe that the Palestine settlement affords both the . Soviet Union and the United States precisely such a field , - within which cooperation between them is altogether feasible , and that if they will but employ it they will find the path toward the solution of the differences between them much easier to follow . There has been no greater tragedy in recorded history than that which the Jewish people have suffered during these past few years . Yet it is possible that through the settlement of the Palestine problem  --  the one fitting compensation which humanity can offer the survivors of that tragedy  --  the peoples of the world may find the way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be so rapidly drifting and in which all that remains of our civilization would inevitably be destroyed . . 