@@491924

THEY floundered in the mud , they perished in the snowdrifts , they starved in the frosts . . . . In its scale , in its slaughter , in the exertions of the combatants , in its military kaleidoscope , it far surpasses by magnitude and intensity all similar human episodes . " Winston Churchill , in The Unknown War , wrote those words of another campaign , another war , yet he might have been describing the past eight months of a campaign unprecedented in military history  --  the German drive into Russia . What has it accomplished , what has it proved  --  this greatest campaign in the greatest war in history ? Let it he answered in the words of another World War leader  --  Hindenburg : " In spite of the great tactical success . . . we failed strategically . We had once more managed practically to destroy one of the Russian armies , but fresh enemy forces had immediately come up to take its place . ? . . We could not achieve a decisive result . The superiority of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia in 1914-17 is true again . The Germans have won most of the battles , but they have not won the campaign . Distance and geography , weather and terrain , and the sheer power of the Russian armies turned back the Nazis from the gates of Moscow and , during the winter months , transformed a blitzkrieg into a war of attrition . Keitel , Helder , Von Rundstedt , Von Leeb and their men have hit the Russians in the past eight months with everything but the field kitchen . They have thrown tanks at the muzhiks , smashed at them with Stukas , clawed at them with infantry , battered them with artillery , bridged the Russian rivers with pioneers , played jets of flame against the portholes of Russian casemates , ridden through a Russian sea of mud with cavalry , glided across the Russian snow on skis , scrabbled down the Carpathian foothills and into the citadel of Kiev with mountain troops , tried the vertical envelopment with parachute troops and air infantry . They have captured most of the Ukraine , and the swastika @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of the major battles against the Red armies . Yet the Nazis have failed to win a decision and now they have been jabbed and jolted , shocked and surprised and very badly hurt ; they have back-pedaled from Moscow in their first major retreat in this war . The some factors  --  verst on endless verst of distance ; the howling , wind-borne snow and congealing cold ; the unending ranks of 20,000,000 Russian men ; the fatalistic courage of troops to whom death is a part of life  --  the same factors that have always distinguished Russian resistance to invasion turned back the German forces and future historians may write , prevented the final conquest of Europe . No blitzkrieg , Russia ; yet the lessons of the dusty Polish plains , the lessons of Flanders and of war in the mountains are still valid . Indeed , the Russian campaign has verified them , for the German weapons and the German tactics have met their supreme test against an enemy massively equipped and unafraid to die . Both sides have demonstratedthat in arms and equipment and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has undergone as profound a transformation since 1918 as world economy underwent in the industrial revolution of the nineteenth century . Warfare has been revolutionized by the internal-combustion engine in the air and on the ground . Modern fighting man must be , on the surface , a crawling creature with carapace of steel ; he must support his ground operations with wings of metal . Infantry is no longer " Queen of Battles " ; the Queen is dead ; a new one has been crowned . The German victories in Poland , France , Norway , the Balkans bore few of the earmarks of World War tactics . They had , where needed , mass ; they had impetus , but they had , too , what World War offensives lacked  --  speed and the ability " to keep ' em rolling . " The plane and the tank provided these . Just as the closing months of the American Civil War  --  the trenches at Cold Harbor , the Gaffing gun , the bloody lines of Petersburg  --  provided a sanguinary preview of the war of position and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the infiltration tactics devised by Ludendorff were the tactical progenitors twenty-five years ago of modern blitzkrieg . Infiltration tactics are like an incoming tide upon a beach . The assault is general , but the assaulting troops copy wave action  --  they follow the line of least resistance . Just as the tide by-passes rocks and citadels of sand , lapping around and behind them , finally encircling and engulfing them , so the wave of the assault seeks out the weak spots , trickles through between the citadels , leaving them to be encircled and engulfed , assaulted from the flanks , the rear and the front . In the World War , the foot soldier bore the brunt of this assault ; he probed with his bayonet and rifle into the enemy 's line . Once the weak spots were discovered and the break-through made , the job was to keep the attack rolling , to penetrate deep into the enemy 's rear areas and to roll up his line before he could rush up reserves . The Germans almost accomplished this in their last great offensive of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their knowledge were not quite sufficient to break the stalemate of trench warfare . For the attack could not be kept rolling . The weary doughboy plugging ahead on foot soon got beyond the range of his supporting artillery . To give him fire support , the artillery had to be moved forward , and during this period of displacement the attack was likely to bog down , partially because of lack of fire support , partially because of the weariness and limited speed of the doughboy , partially because it was usually just at this juncture that the attackers encountered the enemy 's reserves . Ever since 1918 , the Germans have sought the answer to the machine-gun-held line , and they have found it in the tank and the plane . Today the assault is general ; it is made with all arms , but it is the tank , not the foot soldier , that infiltrates theenemy line . When the attackers outrun their original artillery support , they provide their own . The mobile artillery of the skies  --  Stukas , attack planes and medium bombers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the tanks themselves pack a terrific wallop , and are continuously supported by mechanized artillery , much of it on self-propelled mounts which roll along with the tanks , halt to fire , often at point-blank range , and move on again . These were the tactics which , up until June 22 , 1941 , when the Panzers moved across the Russian frontier , were universally successful . And those are the tactics , modified by terrain and climate , with which both sides have won success in Russia . The Russian campaign , up until the time when General Mud and General Winter took a hand and neutralized the Nazis ' mechanized and air superiority , was a continual process of mechanized infiltration and penetration of the enemy 's lines , encirclement of some of his forces , and battles to the death . There have been sieges and battles ofposition , at Leningrad , Odessa , Kiev , Sevastopol , Smolensk and Moscow , yet until winter the campaign was primarily a war of maneuver , the front a fluid one . But with two great differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia an army which in quantity of materiel almost equaled their own , an army whose supply of man power was practically inexhaustible . And for the first time they met in the mass opponents who did not quit when they were licked , men who fought on when cut off and encircled . The result has been not the invalidation of the tactical concepts of the blitzkrieg , but the smashing of a Hitlerian legend  --  the myth of German invincibility . The Germans are just people after all ; the Nazi war machine is fallible , human , and the spirit of a nation is its own best armor against aggression . There has never been another campaign to rival the Russian struggle . On 2000 miles of front , the greatest armies ever massed fought and slaughtered , advanced , retreated , in dust , sun , rain and cold . The German objective was primarily the destruction of the Russian armies ; secondarily , the occupation of the rich raw-material areas of the Ukraine and the Caucasus . The Russian army might be destroyed in two ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industrial areas in the west which supplied the Red armies with most of the arms essential to modern war . The German strategy was derived from Can nae and Hannibal ; its concept , destruction of the Red forces by successive battles of encirclement . Their first blow was a body punch to the center of the Russian line , but accomplished tactically , as the German objectives usually are , by pincer movements of encirclement . The main German effort in June and July was directed from Brest-Litovsk and Warsaw toward Moscow ; one arm of a vast pincer , the tanks in the vanguard , skirting the edge of the Pripet Marshes to swing in back of Minsk ; another swept north into the Baltic states , then turned east and south to join back of Minsk with the southern arm of the pincer . This battle , properly a part of the Battle of the Frontiers , first phase of the Russian campaign , trapped a considerable number of the Russian frontier troops  --  particularly those who had been crowded into the Polish salient . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an offensive power which they may never again achieve , undertook , for the first time in history , a general offensive along 2000 miles of front . They were aided by allies , eventually totaling perhaps 100 diverse divisions  --  Italians , Finns , Rumanians , Hungarians , Slovaks , French , Spanish , and so on . The drive in the center reached Smolensk and , its impetus exhausted against the bodies of the Russian dead , its communications lengthened and its strength reduced , it stalled . To Moscow  --  and Back T HEN the second strategic phase of the campaign 1 opened  --  the Nazis shifted their pressure from the center to the flanks . Two gray-green tongues of tanks and sweaty , bloody men lapped over the Baltic states and southeastward into the Ukraine ; Leningrad was besieged , Kiev taken , Odessa ringed ; the Nazi war machine rumbled through the grain fields of Ukraine to the gateway of the promised land . But the rains came and winter was close at hand ; the hospital trains rolled westward with the broken youth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red division after Red division , but it seemed as if fresh enemy divisions sprang , phoenixlike , from the ashes of disaster . Hitler began the third phase  --  resumption of the drive toward Moscow  --  with a rashness common only to the dictator and the damned , in October . He apparently overruled the wishes of his generals and sent an army worn by months of an unprecedented effort through mud and snow and growing frost headlong toward the walls of the Kremlin . The bulbous-shaped domes of the promised city were almost in sight when the turn came . In retrospect , the sudden and dramatic transition from advance to retreat finds few parallels  --  and none on so grand a scale  --  in history . On November twenty-eighth the Russian military spokesman admitted that the situation was grave , and a radio appeal was made by a " political commissar in the name of the commander of the Moscow sector . " " Hold we must  --  and will , " he said ? " through these next few days of strain , if we are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point for his final defeat . We must check the enemy 's offensive and bleed him white . " On November twenty-ninth Moscow reports indicated a decided change for the better on the northwestern defenses of the capital , and declared that at dawn on the previous day Soviet troops  --  now believed to be divisions drawn from Eastern Siberia  --  had launched offensive operations  --  the first moves in the largest , most sustained and most successful counteroffensive the Red armies have yet conducted and which , in late January , were still continuing in the form of harassment and destruction of many rearguard units of a retreating foe . So opened , on November 29 , 1941 , the fourth major phase of the Russian campaign  --  the German retreat . As the weary , frost-bitten Germans retired from the high tide of their conquests the Russians launched a counteroffensive , also patterned upon penetration and encirclement . But because of their greater knowledge of their own winter , they put less dependence upon mechanization . Their first objective was to relieve the Caucasus . This they accomplished by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transfer of units to reinforce the great drive against Moscow . Their second was relief of Leningrad and elimination of the German salients thrust claw-wise toward Moscow . Essentially , the German attack in Russia was the offensive a 0/dream Essentially , the Russian defense was to exact as high a price for every German gain as possible , while keeping the Red armies in being , a defense in depth organized , and retreating farther and farther into the interior . The Russian defense was aided by two major German strategic11 mistakes  --  an original underestimation of the Russian military power  --  admitted by Hitler in his speech of last fall  --  and Hitler 's decision of October  --  a decision which was inspired by his frenetic pride  --  to push on long after the weather had dictated a halt . In the third week of September , American correspondents who visited sectors of the Moscow front saw about sixteen minutes of sunlight in six days ; the rest was " mud , mud , mud , rain , rain , rain " ; transport and supply difficulties were prodigious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The German army was patently unprepared for a winter campaign ; Goebhels ' appeal for " warm clothing " ? even women 's clothing  --  for the troops in the east is one almost unprecedented in warfare ; the German lubricants and the German equipment were not designed for the awful cold ; the Luftwaffe was almost immobilized during several weeks of December , and the engines of the tanks froze like the toes and fingers of their crews . This mistake was one big in consequence . But it was a strategical mistake , a Hitlerian mistake , not disproof of the tactical lessons of the west . It still was the plane-tank team that spearheaded the drive to the gates of Moscow . Valor and Geography I THE west , the Germans accomplished the en- 1 circlement of whole armies . After the penetration of the enemy line , the Panzers fanned out into the back country , their objective , in the Battle of Flanders , to reach the Channel coast , or , in the subsequent Battle of France , to reach the Swiss border or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interior . But in Russia , faced with far sterner opposition and operating over vast areas , in which no one-town or locality could be termed vital , the Germans modified the scope , though not the method , of their tactics . In part , the Russian defense , in part , geography , forced them to such modification . Except in the opening phase , the bulk of the Russian forces were never concentrated on the front line . The frontier troops were encircled and lost , though not until after fierce fighting ; their resistance providing time for further mobilization . And the Russian system of mobilization spotted divisions , corps and armies across the map in such a manner that the Germans , though they constantly advanced , were never able to pin down the main Russian mass to one locality and destroy it ; the Panzers were never able , like a football back , to get into the clear . Note , however , that this enforced modification of the German offensive tactics was not basic . Their tactical system is flexible . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division ; indeed , in no two campaigns have the German tactical units  --  regiments , divisions , and so on  --  been organized in precisely the same manner . The Germans initiated the use of task , or mission , forces of all arms , organized for the specific job to be done . This so-called Einkeit system , now copied to varying degrees by the rest of the world , was again successfully proved in Russia ; indeed , it is nothing but common sense to estimate beforehand the number and kind of forces required to accomplish a given end , and to organize them accordingly . This the Germans did . But the task forces used in Russia advanced primarily by means of escalloping maneuvers ; the Nazis constantly carved scallops out of the Russian line . Except along the Baltic and Black seas , there were no natural flanks against which enemy forces might be pinned down and encircled , as in Flanders , so ( Continued on Page 78 ) that the Germans won their victories and advanced by constant repetition of the " wedge-and-Kesser maneuver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and very heavily supported to a depth of 100 to 200 miles behind the enemy front by Stukas and other planes , smash against the enemy line , drive a deep spearheaded salient into it , and finally penetrate it . The Panzers are accompanied by their own armored infantry , riding in lightly armored personnel carriers , but generally dismounting to fight . They are followed by a vast phalanx of motorized infantry , usually in close support , and a somewhat slower body of foot troops , often with horse-drawn equipment  --  the Germans still use 1,000,000 horses  --  who mop up the Russian strong points by-passed by the tanks , and dig in and hold . The armored spearhead smashes straight through and may effect a juncture deep in the enemy 's rear with another spearhead thrust through at another point . Or it may curve back , taking the enemy line in the rear at another point . Germany 's Iron Coils Russian troops were repeatedly entrapped by this escalloping maneuver , and fought and died in what the Nazis called the Kessels formed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kesseljagen , " a German hunting word , indicating the huntsmen and heaters , after having encircled the game in a forest , driving in from all sides toward the center for the kill . These Kends sometimes covered  --  as at Kiev and Smolensk  --  vast areas , and , in turn , as the Russian resistance was beaten down , they were often divided into sub-Kessels by armored spearheads driven into the midst of the encircled mass . Successful accomplishment of this process of continual encirclement in Russia , where the Red armies often died rather than surrender , put the emphasis upon Kriegwar  --  rather than upon Blitz  --  lightning . As the Field Artillery Journal noted , " From the first day of fighting and continuing throughout the operations , Panzer wedges were a prominent feature , thrusting themselves deep into the enemy front and making a breach . These shock wedges executed their break-through operations with extraordinary boldness , often with flanks uncovered and the enemy on the right , on the left , in front and to the rear , where the Russians would again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant that the encirclers had to fight back to back , facing inward against the encircled and outward against the fierce relieving thrusts of the Russian reserves . But it was the plane-tank team that made possible , in nearly every instance , the initial break-through ; it was speed and mobility and armor  --  the ability to " keep ' em rolling " ? that enabled the Kessels to be formed . The plane alone could never have done the job ; imagine , if you can , the massed Russian armies cut up and destroyed and sent reeling back to Moscow by air bombardment alone . The tank alone could not have done the job ; without air support , its fuel dumps and supply lines would have been destroyed ; the Russian Stormovik attack planes with their antitank cannon would have been unhampered in the attack ; the tank would have been immobilized , the Russians free to mass their reserves to meet its thrust without interference from the air . Nor could the tank and the plane together , though plainly the spearhead of the assault and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done the job alone  --  at least not in the numbers available in Russia . For all other arms  --  infantry to mop up and hold , artillery to support , engineers to rebuild  --  were needed to consolidate the gains of the tanks . Yet it is the tank that is plainly the queen of the modern battlefield , not the foot soldier . Lt. Col. John U. Ayotte , in the January Infantry Journal , starts an article by stating that , " We know , and have known for many years , that infantry , unless it is carefully trained in close co-operation with planes , tanks and artillery guns , is very nearly useless on the modern battlefields . " That " knowledge " which Colonel Ayotte assumes to be universal has not , however , been put into practice . Until the American Army maneuvers of last fall , hundreds of thousands of American soldiers had never seen a tank or plane in mimic war ; today there are still thousands of men who have no idea of the meaning of modern war , thousands who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the Queen of Battles . " It is the plain lesson of this war that the army of today and tomorrow is an army on wheels . Anyone who has followed the military magazines and the daily newspaper accounts of this war with an unbiased and objective viewpoint must understand that the battle of today revolves around the tank , offensively or defensively , and upon the struggle for air superiority . The Defense of Moscow Take the word of Lt. Robert Gerard , of the French army , writing in the Christian Science Monitor : " France was defeated by a series of raids through the French lines by small German mechanized units preceded and backed by dive bombers . " Or take Russia . In every battle , in every sector , except in the eternal snows of the Murmansk front , German and Russian tanks have been in the thick of the fight ; if the enemy 's mechanized forces were knocked out , the victory was won . How , then , explain the successful Russian defense of Moscow ? It is no mystery . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagined , not only did the Stormovik planes and the Russian bombers exceed in number the prewar calculations , but the Red generalship and staff work were better than had been anticipated . Voroshilov and Budenny made a mess , it is true , of their defensive strategy . Budenny 's army was at one time almost wiped out in the . Ukraine . But in Timoshenko and Zhukov , on the central front , Stalin  --  himself no ( Continued on Page 80 ) // ( Continued from Page 781 mean military strategist  --  found highly competent field commanders . The Russian guerrillas were a factor , though not a major one . Ilya Semnovich creeps slowly through the snow toward the German sentry whose frosty breath rises whitely toward the pine branches . Ilya wears no uniform , carries no formal weapons . Yet when he plunges his knife into the Nazi 's back , the soldier is just as dead as though killed by a tank . Thousands of Germans have died in this fashion ; their supply lines have been occasionally interrupted and their task rendered more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guerrilla warfare has never won a major war . Neither guerrilla warfare nor the scorched-earth policy , both of which have been magnified in the public mind , turned the tide . The truth is that the Soviet produced a far greater mass of materiel than anyone had anticipated ; they fought with the traditional doggedness of the Russian soldier , but with far more skill . They fought tanks with tanks , but the crowning blow to the Panzers was that of General Mud and General Winter . The Russians discovered in the Finnish campaign the extreme difficulty of using armored forces effectively in the dead of winter . With that bitter experience behind them , they were prepared in 1941-42 for tank operations in cold and snow . The Russians used cavalry in great masses in the snowbound forests of the eastern front , but they used tanks , too , and in increasing numbers as the winter wore on . And their measure of superiority in tanks , a winter superiority , was the measure of their victories . The German tanks were made captive by ice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , losing their frostbitten limbs by amputation in the field hospitals , abandoning stalled equipment , operating at times virtually without air support , also were learning their lesson . They were learning how to use in special circumstances the armored creatures they had built for ordinary fighting , and if they learned well and soon , the knowledge contained implications of peril . fl Negative Victory " If Winter cornea , can Spring be far behind ? " The Nazi army , retreating slowly , reorganizing its divisions in rest camps , replacing its planes and tanks and generals , was clearly never an army in rout , but for the most part  --  except in the Crimea and at Rostov  --  an army in " planned retreat . " What effects the terrible attrition of winter and the chevying and battering of the Reds may eventually have upon it , no man can say . But as Secretary of the Navy Knox pointed out , Hitler 's Wehrinuchl is still the mightiest military machine in the world ; the Russians , in their defense of Moscow , won a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans may well come back . Still , winter was but one reason for the stalling of the German drive . Not enough of their army was on wheels or tracks . The country was too vast , the distances too great , to maintain for months the frightful pace set at the beginning . Against the British in Flanders , the Panzer divisions sometimes operated five to fifteen miles ahead of their supporting infantry ; against the French , after resistance had decreased , they sometimes operated as much as fifty miles ahead of their support ; against the Russians , the gap was twenty to sixty miles or more . In Russia the Panzers outran their support ; the salients they made were sometimes nipped off at the base , or the penetrations blocked because enemy reserves got up to the gap before the German supporting infantry . Thus , the tank and the plane have their limitations , like every other weapon ever built by man . There are times and places when they can not be used , times and places when they are plainly auxiliary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Malayan jungles , the Japanese foot soldier has obviously provided the principal offensive punch ; infantry still remains the Queen of Battles in particularly rugged mountain country and in jungle fighting and forests , and until man solves his technical problems of motor operation in subzero cold with some such device as the Russian arra same  --  small supply sleighs , driven by an aero-engine propeller ? infantry will remain the principal arm in winter war . Except for such specialized types of warfare , the plane-tank team is supreme ; even these fields of special technique are being invaded by motorized and armored man . The German Great General Staff was developed after the American Civil War around a Railroad Section ; the Germans formerly charted their campaigns from a railway map of Europe , understanding the vital importance of supply . The internal-combustion engine has altered all that . Today a road map offers the signposts to victory . The Germans have supplied their armies in all their campaigns primarily by trucks , secondarily by railroads , thirdly by planes . " The great and continuing lesson to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the vast changes wrought on the art of war by the gasoline motor , " Capt . Paul W. Thompson wrote in the October , 1941 , Infantry Journal . " In one campaign after another we have seen great issues decided by columns  --  that penetrate and encircle rather than smash . " After the French campaign , George Marshall , our present Army Chief of Staff , pointed out that the Nazis had employed only twelve armored tank divisions ; the great bulk of her forces were conventional infantry units . It was thus implied that about eleven nonmechanized infantrymen and seven or eight special corps troops were needed for every tanker . Yet , in the Russian campaign , the German Panzers had been increased to twenty-five ; the motorized divisions.also increased ; the proportion of foot infantry to tanks had been actually decreased . And S. L. A. Marshall in his book , Armies on Wheels , rightly notes the German weakness in this campaign was one not of infantry , but of mechanized troops . She did not have too many tanks , too many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not dictated by choice , but by ability ; there was an industrial limit to the number of Panzer and motorized divisions that German and German-dominated factories could equip and maintain and that her synthetic oil plants could supply . S.L. A. Marshall holds that " infantry remains the principal arm , but not of itself the arm of decision . ? since it must he made complete by the tanks and aviation . " But if tanks and aviation are the arm of decision  --  and it is obvious that victory in modern war can not be won without them  --  infantry has a plainly ancillary role . Modern war is a struggle for communication lines and centers . And tanks can operate in roarinj strength down roads and across high-ways ; if they can disrupt and sever or control and command the communication lines of a nation , they can defeat that nation . The Answer to the Tank One officer recently put it : " I think that there is almost as much danger of some of our people believing that tanks ' and airplanes alone are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them down as of minor importance . " Wars are won with the blood and guts and sweat of man ; man must dominate the machine ; the spirit of the offensive is the soul of any military machine , But the tank enables the translation of that spirit into effective action ; the trudging doughboy moving on shanks ' mare is unable to keep up ; he does not fulfill the first requirement of modern war  --  speed . He must be put on wheels ; his static defense against the tank  --  mines and emplaced guns , even truck-towed guns  --  is not enough . The best answer to the tank is the tank , the gun that moves under its own power . Our Army , compartmentized by the division of the service into arms  --  infantry , cavalry , field artillery , and so on  --  has thought too much in watertight terms , each arm extolling its own combat worth . We have not seen the picture whole . Armored man , with his flying artillery above him , has swept the battlefields of Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mobility , speed , even in the characteristics of the weapons . There is still room  --  and probably always will be  --  for the men who fight on foot , but there shortly will be no rhyme or reason for the men who march on foot . And there is no present limit to the tactical capacity of armored man , save only the indus- trial ability of a country to supply and maintain him , which , in this greatest of all automotive countries , is a happy augury for the future . Wherever tanks can roll in mass and planes can fly above them , the roaring phalanx of armored man will eventually prevail . Just as the armored horsemen of the Middle Ages swept through the broken ranks of the foot soldiery of that day , so the tank has smashed the machine-gun-held line . The Queen of Battles has had her crown knocked off . She may replace it , if she can find the answer to the tank ; she has been threatened before , in ages past  --  by scythe-wheeled chariots , by charging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then was flesh and blood . Today , the soul of battle is still the spirit of man , but the motive power is the internal-combustion engine . The Queen may find the answer to that engine , to the tank ; she has not found it yet . In the meantime , the Queen is dead ; long live the Queen !                     