@@485116

T0 my occidental mind it seemed absurd that the students of the leading university in central China should come to us of the faculty and soberly tell us that , no matter how much they regretted it , they felt it to be their patriotic duty to stop attending classes . What was even more absurd was the fact that the students of the preparatory school felt it to be their patriotic duty to follow in the steps of their elder brothers in the college , and that the students of every high school and grammar school in the city had their representatives on the campus waiting eagerly for the first news that the university men had decided to strike , so that they might go back and call out their classmates . It was not only funny , it was futile . At least so I thought at the time ; for the strike was not a protest against the teachers or the management of the institution  --  indeed the students sought the counsel of their professors in making their decisions  --  it was a protest against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Paris Conference . Imagine the students at  --  let us say ? Yale , or the Brooklyn High Schools , refusing to attend classes because they disapproved of the President 's Mexican policy , or the attitude of Senator Lodge on the League of Nations ! It was in the evening of the first day of the student agitation that I passed the administration building and found two lusty youths , both members of the varsity football team , sitting on the steps , weeping bitterly . " What 's the matter ? " I asked in alarm . " We are weeping , " they replied , " at the disgrace of our country . " It is hard for westerners to appreciate the dramatic value of such a spectacle . We are tempted to laugh when we hear of the patriotic student in Tientsin who tried to kill himself by butting his head against a stone pillar in the Chamber of Commerce . But to the Chinese he was visible rhetoric . There , into the sanctuary of trade , where the sleek and satisfied merchants refuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , comes the student patriot willing to give something more precious than profits , if by so doing he can shame the selfish into sacrifice . It is something the people do not easily forget . So also the student of Wuchang , who drowned himself last June in the Yang-tse River as a protest against the lethargy of his compatriots in the face of a possible partition of China , is celebrated as a national martyr . The student strike started in Peking . There , three days after the Paris Conference announced its decision to allow Japan to remain in Shantung , three thousand students marched to the home of Tsao Ju Lin , Minister of Communications , a prominent pro-Japanese who has negotiated the many loans from Japan during the last few years . Mr. Tsao departed discreetly through his back door when the students entered the front , but his guest , Mr. Chang Chung Hsiang , Chinese Minister to Japan , no less pro-Japanese than Mr. Tsao , was less fortunate . He was seized by the students , given a thorough trouncing , and left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tsao was then burned , though the students disclaim responsibility for the burning . Thirty-three students were arrested but were released in a few days and acclaimed as heroes by the rest of the student body . - The beating of Minister Chang was , fortunately , the only act of violence committed by the students . Immediately thereafter they determined upon an active , but peaceful , propaganda . Student delegates were sent out to other schools and colleges throughout the country ; pamphlets and posters urging the boycott of Japanese goods , and cartoons depicting Japanese designs upon China were printed and distributed by the thousands ; chambers of commerce and guilds of merchants were visited and asked to cooperate ; speeches were made on the street corners exhorting consumers not to buy and shop keepers not to sell Japanese products ; processions marched through the streets carrying huge banners with such devices as , " Put backbone into Chinese diplomacy , " " Buy nothing made in Japan , " " Remember Korea . " Bonfires of Japanese straw hats lighted the curb stones and Japanese wash basins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the three most pronounced pro-Japanese members of the Government was demanded . These three , " the three traitors , " as the students called them , were Mr. Tsao , Minister of Communications , whose house had been burned , Mr. Chang , Minister to Japan , who had suffered violence at the hands of the students , and Mr. Lu , Director General of the Currency Reform Bureau . The attempts of the Government to repress these outbursts of student enthusiasm led only to more determined effort and more efficient organization on the part of the students . A student union was formed in Peking whose executive bureau consisted of elected representatives from all the educational institutions in the city . This form of organization was copied in almost every other Chinese city , and both the friends and the opponents of the movement were surprised by the effectiveness and dispatch with which the business of the students was conducted . About the middle of May a general student strike was called in Peking , and within two weeks the students in nearly every other city of China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President of China issued a mandate defending the actions and policies of " the three traitors " and intimated that any further student demonstration would be regarded by the Government as a breach of the peace and dealt with accordingly . The students in Peking answered by redoubled activity . Groups of picked speakers were sent into every quarter of the city and as soon as one group was arrested another took its place . The police had a lively and exhausting day . They arrested over a thousand students . There was not sufficient jail accommodation , so they were shut up in the law school of the university and guns trained on all the exits . This wholesale arrest of peaceful students , whose protest had been in essence a protest for freedom of speech , caused a storm of popular indignation . Students in far-off cities 834 The Nation Vol. 109 , No. 2843 who had not yet struck , decided to do so ; tradesmen and customers pushed the boycott more vigorously than ever ; dock hands and railroad men threatened a general strike ; shop keepers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time in the history of China , public opinion really influenced the men in control of the Government . On June 8 the thousand students were released , and on June 11 " the three traitors " were dismissed from office . It is not easy for an American to understand the influence which students exercise in China , but when we recall the fact that from the days of Conflidius to the present , the scholar has been looked upon at once as the most useful and the most eminent of men , we can perhaps appreciate something of the respect in which even'the student of high-school grade is held by the common people . Until recent years it has been scholarly attainment alone which has opened the doors to political preferment . Likewise , the general illiteracy among peasants and coolies gives the student in China an advantage which in more literate lands he can not secure , while the student orator is , for those who can not read the newspaper , an audible editorial . The opposition of the Chinese Government to the student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked , should the leaders of China desire to repress a movement which sought by peaceful means to free China from the commercial exploitation , if not the actual political dominance of an alien race ? The answer lies in the corruption and autocracy of the governing groups . The revolutionary movement which overthrew  --  the Manchu Empire seven years ago , and which was begun by a patriotic and enlightened minority , was captured almost at the outset by the military leaders and grafting politicians of the old regime , and exploited for their own benefit . They have maintained their position to the present day by their control of the army , and they have maintained their control of the army by the use of moneys loaned them by foreign Governments . Recently Japan has been the most willing to lend them money , hence they are frankly pro-Japanese . China is a republic without a Constitution . Several drafts have been proposed , but whenever they have come even remotely near acceptance by Parliament , Parliament has been dissolved by the militarists . Suffrage , which is at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exclude all but a few from the privilege of voting , and elections are so thoroughly controlled by the military that even these few seldom venture to avail themselves of the privilege . Until the recent student movement the Government has never had an aroused and intelligent public opinion to fear , for the simple reason that the illiteracy of the vast majority of the people has made it impossible for them to get information on which to base an opinion . Hence the military clique at Peking , known politically in China as " the Anfu Club , " with its henchmen , the military governors of the provinces , has been able to plunder the people unmolested and unafraid . The rulers of China have but two objectives : the maintenance of their position and the filling of their pockets . As for the first , they will stop at no measures to prevent , crush , or side-track any movement for constitutional control of the Government ; for the second , domestic revenues and foreign loans are both grist to their mill . To them it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country or any part of it , as long as they are able to lay their hands on a substantial portion of the price . Theyare ready to knock down any province to the highest bidder . Just now Japan is the highest bidder , and Shantung the coveted province ; but Japan is not the only sinner . Ever since the founding of the Republic the nations of the West have consistently upheld the hands and filled the pockets of the Peking clique . It is much easier to get commercial concessions and trading privileges from men who are known to have their price , and whose price is not exorbitant , than to deal with patriots who believe that China has some higher destiny than to be forever a profitable field for western exploitation . It is a hazardous thing to prophesy concerning political conditions in China , but one ventures the guess that if Japanese and Western support were withdrawn from the Peking clique it would collapse like a bubble . At present the treasury of China is practically bankrupt . Without foreign loans the Peking politicians can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tsao Ju Lin aptly said , in his defense of the Japanese loans , " You can not make pudding without rice ! " Moreover , there now is , thanks to the student agitation , for the first time in Chinese history something which approaches a common , Rational , public opinion on political affairs , and that opinion is anything but favorable to the militarists . Whether any other party has the strength and leadership to take their place still remains to be seen . The constitutionalists of the south of China for the last two years have successfully maintained their refusal to acknowledge the Peking Government , and have gained much sympathy from forward-looking men in all parts of China . It may be that the promise of democracy in China lies in a constitutional government under southern leadership . There is also a hope of democratic leadership in the various associations of educators , merchants , and professional men all over China , north and south , which the student movement has called forth . Certain it is that as long as the Peking clique remains in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was this clique which made the secret treaty with Japan in September of last year , giving Japan permission to do practically as it pleased in Shantung . For this the clique received twenty million yen ( ten million dollars ) . The significant thing about this agreement is the fact that it was signed after China had declared war on Germany , and after Germany , therefore , had forfeited all rights in Shantung , which meant that , in international law , Japan no longer had any standing in Shantung , since there were no longer any German rights which she could inherit . With Japan in this situation China 's rulers deliberately handed the province over to Japan and pocketed the price . They publicly denied it at the time and suppressed the Peking newspapers which ventured to publish an account of the deal ; and they had the effrontery to send their delegates to the Paris Conference in total ignorance of the pact , and to keep them in ignorance of it until the end of January of this year ! Is it any wonder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the Paris Conference had ejected Japan from Shantung , it would thereby have turned it over to a group of political scoundrels who would be likely to sell it again at the first opportunity and use the proceeds to continue their career of spoliation ? The dismissal of the three pro-Japanese members of the Government was indeed a triumph for the students and the public sentiment which they aroused , but this dismissal by no means turned the militarists out of power . Until Japan ceases to support them , and until the western nations cease to support Japan in supporting them , there seems to be little hope of their overthrow . But the dismissal of the three " traitors " was not the only , or the most important result of the student movement . In the first place , the students have succeeded in giving Japan a warning that there is something to reckon with in China besides the pockets of politicians . This warning has come in the shape of the boycott on Japanese goods , which has closed innumerable Japanese shops in Chinese ports , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ K. Tong of Shanghai , has killed 80 per cent . of the Japanese export business in China ; and , what is of still greater significance , has given an impetus to an unprecedented development of Chinese production . In the cotton industry alone 400,000 spindles have been ordered in the last six months , and one American firm of importers has had orders for twenty new and complete cotton mills to be set up in China within the next two years . This development is not in the hands of western companies in China , but is almost exclusively in the hands of the Chinese themselves . An even more important result of the student movement than the warning to Japan or the encouragement of home production is , as I have already pointed out , the arousing of a genuine , fairly well informed public opinion throughout the whole of China . While the order , the restraint , the unselfishness , the efficiency , and the effectiveness with which the students organized and directed a national movement which came to include all classes of people and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who believe that China is today developing a leadership which will enable it , at no distant period , to stand upon its own feet . II . The Real Japanese , , D 0 you think it safe ? " asked my American friends in Shanghai , when I announced my intention of spending six weeks in Japan . The anti-Japanese feeling in China was then at its height , and the anti-Japanese discussion in America was raging . I replied that I hoped I might escape sudden death in the island kingdom if I tried to go about my business there with something less than the usual arrogance of the white man in the East . My friends replied with a recital of harrowing stories calculated to shake my resolution , stories of American travellers insulted on the streets of Yokohama , of discourtesies and delays caused by petty Japanese officials , of prices charged Americans which were veritable holdups . In spite of these tragic tales I went to Japan ; and although I have travelled extensively on three continents I have never met a people so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stranger as the Japanese . It was night when I arrived in Tokio , an irregular , sprawling city , in which it is difficult to find one 's way , even in the day time . The address to which I was bound lay quite across the city , and to reach it involved a change of street cars . I found an English-speaking Japanese at the information bureau in the railway station and told him where I wanted to go . He wrote out the address in Japanese . " Show this to the conductor , " he said , and then took me out of the station and put me on the right car . At the transfer point the conductor , who spoke no English , but who had seen the written address , signalled to his motorman to hold the car , got off with me , crossed the street , put me on the other car , and explained to the conductor of that car where to let me off . This friendly conductor was but one of a score or more of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of kindness which lighten the journeys of a stranger in a strange land . I knocked about the country with not more than a dozen Japanese phrases in my vocabulary ; I stayed at first-class city hotels and at third-class village inns ; I visited far-off monasteries and lived with the monks ; I rode on street cars and rickshas and one-horse country buses ; I took long tramps into the country and climbed the craters of volcanoes ; and nowhere did I experience the slightest unpleasantness . On the contrary I was continually meeting people who went out of their way to help me . At stations or in shops , when I tried to make my wishes known in the few Japanese sentences I used so bunglingly , there invariably stepped forward some one who knew English , a student or a teacher or a young business man , to translate for me ; and no trouble seemed too great for chance acquaintances on railway journeys or mountain climbs if only they might direct me to my goal or assist in supplying my wants . That the Japanese are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my travels. , I found that so far as my experience went the Japanese reputation for dishonesty was not merited . I frequently stayed at native inns , where bedroom doors are softly sliding panels which can not be locked . I did not lose a single possession during the whole summer . My travelling bag was a native willow basket held together by tstraps and impossible to lock in any way . I repeatedly left it at hotels and at railway stations , and not a thing was taken from it . That prices in Japan were high , especially in comparison with prices in China , is true ; it is also true that the cost of living in Japan is rising just now pretty nearly as rapidly as it has recently risen in America . I took pains to inquire of old American residents in Japan and of disinterested . Japanese concerning fair prices , and I invariably found that what I was charged was exactly what every other customer was charged . The most striking and humiliating testimony as to business methods in the East came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Japan for the last few years superintending the erection of one of the largest plants in Tokio . He told me that he was dumbfounded at the business morals of supposedly reputable American and British firms in Japan . He had discovered , he said , that in the purchase of materials used in construction he could not trust them or the goods they supplied . He found it better to deal with Japanese firms . Not only did I find the Japanese with whom I dealt honest , not only did I find the common people kindly and helpful and without a trace of racial or national prejudice , but even the officials with whom I had to do were pleasant and affable . The immigration officials at Nagasaki , of whom Americans are wont to complain , were courtesy itself in comparison with the American immigration officials whom I have heard questioning and bullying aliens at ports on the Pacific coast . The Japanese officials asked me the usual questions about my destination and the business I was on ; and it is this which Americans regard as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never read the list of questions presented to aliens , even alien travellers of English speech and heritage , who seek entrance to the United States . What is more , Americans refuse to think of themselves as aliens in the Orient . 836 The Nation Vol. 109 , No. 2843 Whatever unpleasantness American travellers experience in Japan is largely due to their own arrogant , race-conscious bearing . Indeed most westerners in the East go about with a get-off-the-walk attitude which they would not dream of assuming at home . The white man in China is used to being regarded as a particular favorite of the gods . He can break rules and regulations with ' impunity ; he is subject , not to Chinese courts , but to the jurisdiction of his own land ; his gunboats lie along the Bund ; his money buys for him the docile servility which a feudal baron once commanded . He kicks the coolies , tyrannizes over the servants , and shoves the natives into the gutter . And if he does not actually indulge in these crasser manifestations of superiority , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a white man , he is entitled to di ) so whenever he chooses . I do not for a moment wish to give the impression that all or even most of the Americans in China are of this arrogant , race-conscious type , but unfortunately many of them are . And it is just this type of American from whom I have invariably heard wholesale and unthinking denunciation of the Japanese . For when the American , with his inbred ideas of Anglo-Saxon superiority , strengthened perhaps by a visit to or a residence in China , goes to Japan , he receives a shock . He finds that he is expected to behave there as he does at home , and he resents it . None of this , however , is intended in any way to justify the policy of imperialistic expansion on which Japan 's rulers appear to be intent . No informed perSon can have anything but condemnation for Japan 's Korean administration . It is both a crime and a blunder . It has inflamed Korea , alienated China , and brought Japan into ill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole by no means approve of their Government 's Korean policy . The plain fact is that the mass of the people have not , until quite recently , known what the Government , has been up to either in Korea or in Shantung . This has been due partly - to the control which the Government exercises over the press , and partly to the natural indifference of the ordinary citizen to matters which are remote from his daily task . But the recent disturbances in Korea , and the atrocious and bungling way in which the Japanese militarists met the situation have gradually leaked through the censorship , and right-thinking Japanese , both in and out of Parliament , have so vigorously voiced their protests that the Government has been forced to inaugurate a reform in Korean administration , taking the rule of that country out of the hands of the military and putting it on a civil basis . Just how sincerely this reform will be carried out remains to be seen . That its inception has been forced by liberal opinion in Japan is significant . Few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an act of outrageous land grabbing , but it can be paralleled in the recent ventures of almost every western nation ; and the same is true of the occupation of Shantung . Two years ago the French calmly occupied a section of over three hundred acres in the heart of the city of Tientsin . When the Chinese protested and began a boycott of French goods the French threatened to claim an indemnity for commerical losses arising from the boycott . England is today strengthening its hold on Tibet . A recent American writer on Chinese affairs has estimated the amount of the many foreign holdings and concessions in China , and states that no less than 27 per cent . of the entire area of China is in the hands of Great Britain . When youspeak of Shantung to a Japanese conversant with world politics , he mentions these things . He points also to the West , where France and Italy are , on any pretext , deftly getting their hands on all the German and Austrian territory they can annex . England has recently absorbed Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement for independence . Even the Korean atrocities do not seem so extreme when placed side by side with the accounts we are getting of the treatment of Irish and Indian revolutionists . It is true that the United States is getting no territory out of the war , but there was no territory involved which it could possibly want or use . But suppose , says the Japanese , that prior to the war Germany had secured a port in Mexico , not far from American waters , and had been given valuable railway and mining rights in the provinces adjacent to the border . Suppose further that during the war the United States had driven the Germans out of Mexico , occupied their port , and administered their commercial ventures in the interior . What would the United States have done about it at the Peace Conference ? The question is embarrassing , especially in the light of the present agitation for intervention in Mexico . Intervention in China is urged by the patriotic Japanese on exactly , the same grounds that patriotic Americans urge intervention in Mexico : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they believe , manifestly incapable of taking care of itself ; we should go in , they say , and clean up things for the good of the natives ; being a strong nation and a neighbor it is our manifest destiny to be the savior of China . Such is the argument regarding China or Mexico , as the case may be . Having come from China , where I had learned to admire and sympathize with the nationalistic ideals of its young men , I could not agree with those Japanese who felt that the Japanese possession of Kiaochow and the consequent penetration of Shantung would be for the good of China ; yet I could not , without feeling myself a self-righteous hypocrite , entirely condemn the Japanese Shantung policy , in the light of the schemes for territorial expansion and commercial exploitation harbored by the Allies of the West . American writers seem to take especial pleasure at present in contrasting the public utterances of Japanese statesmen with their secret agreements ; but in so doing they seem to forget that one of the chief counts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this discrepancy between public declarations and secret covenants . That Japan should have followed the example of the West in this respect is indeed deplorable , but we can hardly hold it up as a horrible example without becoming Pharisees ourselves . By far the most significant and encouraging ' sign which I found in Japan was the presence there of a number of resident Americans , mostly educators and missionaries , though some business men also belong to their company , who have freed themselves from the usual western arrogance , who have learned the Japanese language , and have come to understand Japanese nature , and who are genuinely hopeful of the triumph of liberal and democratic forces in Japan . These men and women and the forward-looking young Japanese trained by them represent an achievement in the cause of international fellowship and a peaceful Orient of which America may well be proud . It should not need a journey to the East to convince us that their way of helping Japan toward democracy and brotherhood is better , and in the end more sure , than that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  