@@487863

AFTER two years of fighting one still frequently hears that this war is just like all the others . Nazi propaganda has known how to exploit the lack of judgment of people whose abhorrence of all kinds of shooting leads them to forget who fired the first shot and who will fall by the last one . With cynical versatility Nazi agents appeal both to the bellicose spirit and to the most delicate pacifist sensitivity . Peace and war combine perfectly in Hitler 's strategy . Each new great Nazi drive carries with it the hope that it will serve to convince the democracies of their desperate lot . Success in the eastern campaign will be followed by the launching of a new peace offensive directed to the west ; the experience of the past robs this prediction of any risk . But for such dual tactics to haVe a chance to succeed , - the war must be idealized in countries where it is forging the instruments of fascist domination and at the same time be denounced as a senseless blood orgy in countries which might offer effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the tricks in the double game is to promote among fascism 's future victims a disinterest in the outcome on the ground that after all this war does not differ from others fought in the past . - The Frenchman , the Norwegian , the Belgian , the Hollander who today lives in occupied territory realizes that this war is not like the others . Belligerent or neutral in 1914 , he remembers with horror the sufferings and privations of those days , the spectacle of the blind and mutilated veterans , the economic disaster that followed the transitory prosperity of the neutrals . But when he knows what it means to have the Nazis in his own home , everything he had to endure during the first World War seems insignificant . To discover this was undoubtedly a revelation for many Europeans , especially in France , where Ger man propaganda had worked on the same lines as in America , telling the people how idiotic it was to die for England and what a blessing a Hitler peace would be for all the nations of Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the average Frenchman , Norwegian , Belgian , or Hollander  --  even he who today courageously risks his life to fight the invaders  --  did not understand that fascism had changed the whole meaning of war ; that Nazi war does not end , as the others ended , when the order to stop firing is given . He did not realize that under Hitler armistice and even peace are only deceptive episodes in the interminable process of subjugation . Contrary October 25 , 1941 to what happened in other wars , for instance in the last one , the armies of occupation have not merely the task of enforcing fulfilment of the obligations established by the provisions of the armistice . The armies of occupation act as absolute masters , and their main task is to bring about the transformation of the vanquished nation into a state that- fits into the pattern of totalitarian world order . Never could the general in command of the French forces in the Ruhr after the last war have imagined himself in a position to mold to his whim or the whim of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But General von Stulpnagel , the military dictator of ' Paris , knows that on the day when the little traitors of Vichy cease to obey the smallest order of the Fiihrer he , or any other general , can liquidate in twenty-four hours the fiction of an unoccupied and independent France . If the people of Europe , with the immediate memories of Spain and Austria and Czecho-Slovakia to guide them , had not fully awakened to the horror of Nazi barbarism when the war began , surely it is not surprising that in America a sense of security based on the three thousand miles of water that separate one continent from the other renders many people unconscious of the danger that threatens them . I hope it will not be considered an impertinence on the part of a foreigner if I suggest that the great majority of Americans do not even yet realize what it is like to live under fascism . Even some of those who are aware that the battle against Hitler is their battle have no idea  --  and in a way this is quite natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human being and to become a mere cog in the monstrous machine of a cruel and despotic ruler . Still more blind are those who , in their opposition to the Administration 's policy of resistance , go so far as to suggest that the President threatens to turn this country into a fascist state . To those of us who have known fascism in our own flesh such statements sound like bitter mockery And it is not unusual to hear the very people who argue that the President 's policies are introducing fascism here , insist in the same breath that the danger of fascism after a Nazi victory is much exaggerated , since an old democracy like that of the United States will not so easily be undermined . Yet one of the characteristics of this war clearly differentiating it from the others is the fact that the aggressor levies against the subjugated country not only the price of military victory but also the full price of political victory . If in a certain sense it is true , as Sir Robert Vansittart would claim , that under Hitler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the milestones carry the dates of 1864 , 1866 , 1870 , and 1914 , it is no less true that Nazism has introduced into tradi393 tional . German aggressiveness a new fashion of domination many times more brutal and complete than former methods . The defeat of 1870 imposed upon France the hardest treaty of peace until then registered in the modern history of Europe . In the enforcement of its clauses Germany did not renounce a single point . German troops remained on French territory until the last cent of the indemnity , plus interest , was paid . But with all that , the Germany of Wilhelm I did not dream of crowning its victory with the complete Prussianization of . France . Neither did the peace that the-Kaiser hoped to impose in the fall of 1914 indude the adoption by France of the political forms of the Second German Empire . But Hitler 's war has as one of its officially stated aims the destruction of every democratic government and the reconstruction of the world according to the Nazi pattern . Fascism does not seek merely the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers will make all large decisions about the freedom of the seas , trade between nations , access to raw materials , and treatment of national and racial minorities ; its war aims include the right to rule beyond any frontiers that may be established without taking account of the will of the peoples who live inside those frontiers . In contrast with other wars , the present war combines foreign and civil war in proportions never known before . The destructive effects of invasion are to be completed 394 by precipitating an internal struggle . The firing ceases on the battle front , but the shooting inside the lines begins . The fascist invaders encourage fascist elements within the attacked country to exterminate all who do not share the new totalitarian ideas . And not only do they encourage such action ; they take on themselves the leadership of the civil war . The Nazificatioa of the native fifth column in each country takes place with a rapidity that should serve as a warning to those who proclaim that certain things could never happen on their soil . Nobody , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marcel Deat would go so far in the denunciation and persecution of those French liberals in whose company he rose to power . Everyone knew him as a politician without scruples , as an arriviste of the lowest kind , but none imagined him capable of such utter degradation . A few months of Nazification transformed Marcel Deat into a little beast capable of competing in ferocity with his new masters of the Gestapo. - Yet in his campaigns in support of the New Order , after the French collapse , he did not indulge in any such open attacks upon the Jews as certain appeasers have been guilty of recently in countries still separated by three thousand miles of water from the inspiring example of the Hitler armies . This continuous intermingling of external war and civil war offers to the traitors within such broad opportunities that the process itself must be considered another of the unique characteristics of the present war . Certainly it is not the first time in history that the interests of class have prevailed over the , national interest . Ia the early Italian republics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy state while the common people were heroically fighting in the defense of their native land . During the French Revolution there was the defeatism of the Vencl  --  r and of the ? migr ? noblemen who feared the social advances introduced by the Convention . And Bismarck 's secretary , von Busch , tells us in his memoirs that certain Parisians during the Franco-Prussian War of 1870 asserted that " they would rather see the King of Prussia master of France , they would rather see their country mutilated and dismembered , than see it- become a republic . " However , it is the fascist technique alone which , working through the fifth column in each country , has raised the internal struggle to the level of a real operation of war . As long as defeatism and disloyalty are limited to small groups of the weak-kneed or to those traitors who desire the defeat of their own government out of nostalgia for a reactionary social regime , the effect on the conduct of the war is likely to be insignificant . Every government in time of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if their disloyalty reaches the stage of espionage or of plotting , a firing squad can take charge of their elimination . But when the betrayal of the country is engineered by a vast conspiracy with ramificaThe NATION tions in the highest administrative offices , when the army has been poi oned by enemy propaganda , and when the native fifth column anxiously awaits a propitious moment for seizing power , then the fate of a nation IS sealed . In no other modern war has the treatment of the civil population reached the level of ferocity of the fascist occupation of the invaded countries . During the last war the execution by the Germans of the editor of the clandestine Libre Belgique and of Edith Cavell raised a storm of indignation everywhere ; and the shooting of Sir Roger Casement by the British occasioned furious protests in Irish cirdes all over the world . In Paris today the entire population is held as hostage . Up to now froin ten to fifteen persons have been indiscriminately executed in reprisal for every fallen Nazi . The day may be not far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city being machine-gunned . That is already happening in Yugoslavia . In his last- speech Prime Minister Churchill referred to the horror that will overwhelm the world when the behavior of the Nazi armies on the eastern front becomes known . Did he have in mind the 100,000 civilians , mostly Jews , who according to reliable sources have been shot in the last two months in the Ukraine ? Here we have already a pretty accurate picture of the new European order promised by Hitler . We can easily see what sort of prospect is offered to mankind by those who , believing this war to be no different from the others and wishing only that the shooting should cease , would like to see President Roosevelt or the Pope open peace negotiations with ' Hitler . Fascism can think only in terms of mass executions and concentration camps . Its spirit and its goal are faithfully expressed in the significant words with which Count Ciano warned John Whitaker , the excellent correspondent of the New York Post , on the occasion of his forced departure from Italy : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentration camp in the United States . " It should hardly be necessary to assert that this war , in contrast 1 o the others , has ended both the conception and the practice of neutrality . From 1914 to 1918 the world witnessed many attempts on the part of the Allies and the Central Powers to lure other countries into giving up their neutrality . But even the German Chancellery , after the original violation of the neutrality of Belgium , did not consider it opportune to accompany its clemarchei with the dispatch of motorized divisions to the frontiers of the country it was wooing . Diplomacy still expressed itself in the language of maneuver and intrigue traditional since the Congress of Vienna . Gangsterism had not yet taken its place . A country might be subjected to every kind of pressure , economic and political , but if the decision of its government was to remain neutral , it was not forced to take up arms against its will . The records October 25 , 1941 of German diplomacy during the first World War show a von Papen abusing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show Baron von Stohrer , at that time first secretary of the German embassy in Madrid , today Hitler 's ambassador to Franco , secretly organizing paid terrorist groups in Barcelona to kill the factory-owners who worked for the Allies . But they do not show a German envoy like Dr. Otto Brauer tracking King Haakon through Norway in the hope of forcing-him to agree to the fait accompli of the German invasion . Neutrality is finished forever until Hitler is definitely crushed . Any setbacks Hitler may suffer will force him to try to find a way out through an extension of the war . In Europe the prolongation of the Russian campaign must logically lead Hitler to seek compensation in the west during the coming winter . He will probably attack in North Africa , or drive through Spain to dominate the entire Iberian Peninsula and place Gibraltar under the guns of the German army . In the Far East , in the measure in which American war material flows to Russia , Hitler will use every means to draw Japan into the war . In Latin America the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a state of unrest designed to divert the attention of the United States from Europe will continue . Thus this war , in contrast to the others , will eliminate one neutral after another . The most complacent non-belligerence has proved itself , as in the case of Bulgaria , insufficient . Even the way in which this war may be brought to an 395 end differs from the way others have ended . An editorial in the first issue of Free World warns against the delusion of an easy victory . Reference is made to the " World Party of Assassins with its ten million members and its various national branches  --  the German National Socialist Party , the Italian Fascist Party , - the Japanese Black Dragon Society , the French Cagoulards , the Spanish Phalanx , each responsible for thousands of crimes  --  which will thrash around like a wild beast before facing the hour of its terrible accounting . " This is not simple rhetoric . In the last war the realization that victory could no longer be expected led Ludendorff to advise his government to capitulate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of France . This time it would be unduly optimistic to expect the Nazis and their accomplices , when their backs are to the wall , to surrender without a terrible struggle . Intrenched in Germany , in Austria , in Czecho-Slovakia , in Poland , they will fight like mad dogs before giving up . That is the prospect we must face . Yet there are those who believe that the only problem is to achieve superiority in the air , who discuss the battle purely in military terms . They reject the idea of a double military and political war in which the democracies , while striking at Hitler with all the arms they can produce , would make Europe a hell for him by giving all-out encouragement and support to the ever-spreading spirit of revolt . Nevertheless , this strategy is the most hopeful method of breaking fascist resistance and preventinga prolonged stalemate . 