@@494276

742 Governor Dewey 's Future THOMAS E. DEWEY is still running for President of the United States . Whether , during the next four years , he can do the unprecedented and again win the Republican nomination will depend largely upon two factors : ( I ) Can he get himself reelected Governor of New York ? ( 2 ) Will the fact that he has no war record fatally handicap him ? The answer to these questions may lie in the countless imponderables which be-set every public figure . New York 's old-line Democrats and New Dealers may be unable to agree on a suitable liberal candidate , thus repeating the fiasco of 1942 , when the Democrats put up an ineffective candidate , the American Labor Party put up Dean Alfange , and Dewey won easily . Veterans just returning from the wars may not be sufficiently organized by 1948 to enforce their demands . New personalities may arise in the GOP ranks who so far outshine Dewey that he may not even be considered . But assuming that politics continues to follow a somewhat regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican leaders , it would be sheer delusion to count him out at the present time . For whatever else Dewey may be , he is persistent . His recent defeat will not swerve him from his course . his friends are fond of pointing out that the first Hines cases ended in a mistrial , that Dewey was defeated when he first ran for Governor and that he lost the 1940 nomination to Willkie . But he is great on the second run . However that may be , no conjecture as to Dewey 's future can be made without first understanding and appraising his course during the recent campaign . Neither he nor Herbert Brownell Jr. , Republican National Committee chairman , was a brilliant or spectacular strategist . But they were thorough . An evaluation of their work shows that they rebuilt the thrice-beaten and almost defunct Republican national organization into an effective political machine . From a Republican point of view , Dewey made few mistakes . He never alienated the Old Guard . He was careful not to advance ideas offensive to the party 's reactionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans anyhow , that he was politically more mature than Willkie . He did not repudiate the local bosses , the Senator Nyes , Stephen Days and the other tory isolationists whom the voters themselves turned down . Dewey and his associates are said to be calculating men . They certainly knew that failure to shun the isolationists would cost them the support of liberal DECEMBER 4 , I 9 44 Republicans such as Russell Davenport and Bartley Crum . But the way they figured it , the best to be obtained from the Willkieites was passive silence . The isolationists and anti-Roosevelt extremists could be counted upon to work . The convinced workers are the ones who get out the votes . Moreover , it is not unreasonable to suppose that throughout this campaign Dewey had his eyes as much on 1948 as on 1944 . Except for the last few days when he received glowing reports from Governor Martin of Pennsylvania and may have indulged himself in the luxury of thinking he could possibly win , Dewey was under no illusions . He never once told correspondents that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opened up on the subject he contented himself with quoting some local authority . He was careful never to say whether he agreed . On the basis of private talks he had with numerous Republican moguls it is accurate to say that Dewey believed he had only an outside chance to win . While he could not appreciate the argument that he lacked the experience necessary to lead the nation , Dewey fully understood the handicaps under which he was running . Even though he repeated again and again and again that it was " time for a change , " he realized that many voters were reluctant to gamble in the midst of war . Reviewing the campaign dispassionately , it might be said the only major Dewey-Brownell mistake was in circulating the " Clear it with Sidney " line . Its attendant anti-Semitism served to unify his liberal and labor opponents and spurred them into action in the key industrial states where their strength counted heavily . But his continual reference to topsy-turvy Washington with its many quarreling agencies was extremely effective ? probably his most telling argument . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bold , big , good-humored or too well informed . But neither did he appear unintelligent . In the Republican Party , where there is much money and many good haters , intelligence is still at a premium . On the New York State front Dewey was quick to congratulate the voters on returning an overwhelmingly Republican legislature . In itself a perfunctory gesture , it was a tip-off to hostile Republican legislative leaders that Dewey would like to make peace . There are indications in Republican circles that Dewey will make other , more meaningful , gestures in the not too distant future . To begin with , he will attempt to keep national headquarters functioning on a full-time basis . Either Brownell or some other Dewey appointee will continue as national chairman . The function will be to give continuous ideological leadership . Ostensibly it will be aimed at preparing the ground for recouping the party 's congressional losses in 1946 . Actually it will be to keep the Dewey machine intact . At best this is going to be difficult . It will be made easier by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , still has faith in the ' 44 nominee . Money probably will not be lacking . Since he still has two more years to serve as Governor of New York , Dewey will have adequate opportunity to remain in the limelight . Moreover , he is expected to have many things to say about domestic and international affairs , now that he does not coyly have to pretend he has no further political ambitions . He probably will take pains to avoid the appearance of another Willkie , but he will make a determined effort to eradicate the isolationist aroma which surrounded him during the campaign . He will undoubtedly have much to say about the shape of the peace . He may be expected to deplore " secret diplomacy , " a theme he did not adequately develop during the campaign . He can be counted upon to favor restoration of worldwide opportunities for American business , favoring a form of sugar-coated cartelism . He is apprehensive over the growing influence of the Soviet Union , and to counter it he may appear once again as the champion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas about the Far East or Latin America . Naturally he will oppose " the spread of communism , " but it is unlikely that he will offer any democratic alternatives . He is certain to favor " international coUperation . " On the home front Dewey is apt to be more reticent . But strong hints have come from sources close to him that he shuns the role of " reactionary . " Pains have been taken to let reporters know that if he were to do it all over again , he would like to have the voters know that his West Coast speeches , particularly the San Francisco speech , represented his broad outlook on national affairs . It was at San Francisco that he donned the mantle of the moderate liberal who believes that much of the early New Deal was socially desirable . At Los Angeles he was outdoing the New Deal on social security . But it is among the homefolk in New York State that Dewey will have his hands full . Here again he appears to have anticipated what is in store and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is subject to change without further notice . Ile will find , for example , that the once smoothly running Republican machine is in a serious state of disintegration . Edwin F. Jaeckle , the state boss , has resigned . Political observers are still somewhat mystified at his action . Some say he could not face the Governor 's wrath for failing to deliver Buffalo and Erie County , where he is also local party chairman . Others say that Jaeckle was constantly hamstrung by Dewey and just got fed up . It is true that Dewey appointed a state campaign manager , without regard for Jacekle 's views , and also hand-picked the Republican senatorial candidate . 744 However , Jaeckle was never a first-rate political than some of the downstate Democratic bosses . If it boss , although he , J. Russel Sprague , the Nassau can be said there are degrees of political corruption , it County leader , and Brownell , made an effective team . is probably true that the O'Connell machine bears Jaeckle lacked tact . He aroused resentment among faint resemblance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative Joseph paratus . Tyranny such as is associated with Hague has Mruk , a leader in Buffalo 's Polish community . He ir- not been uncovered , if it exists . But in the governing ritated the other county bosses . All these things ac- of the county since the early twenties , the establish-count for Dewey 's increasing coolness . But when ment of a local business monopoly in the distribution Dewey comes to choosing a successor he will find the of beer and ale , and similar economic matters , the other local leaders less inclined to bow to his will O'Connells admittedly have a stranglehold.                     