@@485030

in the end be left to the harsh mercies of the most reactionary , anti-alien elements in the State Department . For more than six months individuals and committees have worked desperately to save at least a handful of the leaders among the active opponents of the dictators . They have worked against time , knowing that the survival of these people is only a matter of months at best and that those who are not rescued face certain imprisonment or execution , knowing , too , that hundreds have already been delivered to the dictators . In this work , the most important and useful of all the active groups has been the President 's Advisory Committee on Political Refugees , headed by James G McDonald and directed by George L. Warren . Indefatigably , cautiously , with full knowledge of the restrictions to be observed and the pitfalls to be avoided , this body has sifted lists of endangered anti-fascists , negotiated ensilessly with the various departments to establish fixed bases for procedure , examined affidavits and records submitted by interested committees and friends , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the necessary documents . Working together in harmony and with a common aim , the private refugee committees , the President 's committee , and the Department of State could undoubtedly have accomplished the rescue of the most endangered and most valuable anti-fascists in Europe Owing to the department 's inertia and its obstructive tactics only a handful have been saved . The record of delays , misleading reports , promises , more delays , refusals of consuls to act on instructions presumably sent from Washington  --  all this is bitter knowledge among per , .. , as engaged in the business of trying to salvage political emigres . The department claims that it has refused visas in only some twelve instances . Doubtless this is true . The department does not refuse visas . It merely sets up a line of obstacles stretching from Washington to Lisbon and on around to Shanghai . These ordinarily do the trick , and in the process wear down resistance where an out-and-out refusal would produce noisy protest . The refugee who finally surmounts these obstacles must have had immense endurance and friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which must sicken any person of ordinarily humane instincts . It is as if we were to examine laboriously the curricula vitae of flood victims clinging to a piece of floating wreckage and finally to decide that , no matter what their virtues , all but a few had better be allowed to drown . But politically the behavior of the State Department is even more shocking It betrays the profound failure of leading officials of the department to understand even the elements of the conflict in which the United States is inextricably engaged . Has the preservation of democracy anything to do with that conflict ? If it has , surely the leaders of democratic thought and action in Europewill not be deliberately sacrificed to their  --  and our  --  fascist opponents . This position should determine every act of every official charged with the conduct ofour foreign affairs . Instead , what do we find ? According to the State Department 's pronouncement , a new committee representing that department  --  in the person of Avra M. Warren , most active and determined among the obstructionists  --  the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be charged with supervising the admission of political refugees . If this plan offered a way to straighten out the vast tangle of conflicting jurisdictions and rulings in which all efforts at present bog down , it would be a welcome change . But there is too much reason to fear that it will only add a new and far more reactionary committee to the official bodies already concerned . And if it is granted final authority , it will in effect wipe out the functions  --  and consequently the reason for existence  --  of the President 's Advisory Committee . It is difficult to believe that the President himself would knowingly countenance such a change . The danger is that a calamitous result may emerge from a plan set up under the guise of useful and apparently innocent reorganization . Beware of State Department officials bearing reforms !                     