@@475429

AT THE moment , the Republicans in Washington are a sadly confused and disheartened lot . In the 1946 and 1948 elections they face a problem altogether different from anything the party has ever encountered in all its history . And so far they have made no progress whatever toward an agreement on what to do about it . Past experience is no help , because the Republicans arc used to dealing with only one kind of major political crisis . They developed a standard method for handling it ; until recently , at least , it always worked ; there was no need to develop any other strategy . This comfortable state of affairs was possible , of course , only because the Republicans normally have been the majority party ever since the Civil War . Consequently , the Democrats nearly always nominated a terrific and colorful personality ? a Bryan , Cleveland , Wilson , Al Smith , or Roosevelt ? in hopes that he might stampede a considerable herd of voters out of the GOP corral . Even these desperate tactics seldom worked . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , and then only in times of crisis . Now a terrific and colorful personality , operating in the midst of a crisis , is bound to make enemies hand over fist . He has to act , and , as all politicians know , every action is sure to infuriate somebody . Under such circumstances the Republican strategy was obvious . They seldom had to take the offensive , or present any very definite program of their own . All they needed to do was sit tight until the country got sick and tired of That Man in the White House . Then came the moment for the Republicans to wheel out their standard , sure-fire solution . They merely had to nominate some inoffensive fellow who looked as much as possible like a haberdasher 's clerk ? the less colorful the better ? and whoop " Back to Normalcy . " Almost inevitably the result was a landslide , as the repentant voters streamed back into their traditional fold . All through the long darkness of the Roosevelt reign the GOP Old Guard never lost faith in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply presented a bigger and tougher version of the usual problem ; sooner or later the people would get fed up with high-voltage political glamour and demand a return to plainer fare ? a Landon , or maybe a Robert Taft . But these somewhat battered hopes collapsed for good when Harry Truman stepped into the White House . From the very first it was clear that the good old formula would n't work against him . And now to the Republicans ' horror ? Mr. Truman is stealing their formula and improving it for his own use . II ri-sRLINikN not only looks like a haberI dasher : he was one . His whole personality , in fact , is practically an infringement of the Republican copyright ; nobody since Coolidge has ever seemed quite so much like a sedative in a double-breasted suit . Moreover , the Republicans ca n't shout " Back to Normalcy , " because Truman beat them to the punch . Almost before the smoke had blown away from Nagasaki ? and long before the Japanese surrender was actually completed ? he started tossing out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war agencies and war budgets got a sudden , meat-axe trimming . " Normalcy " also returned to the White House for the first time in thirteen years . That feverish tension , that atmosphere of great affairs a-cooking which surrounded Roosevelt like a cloud , all disappeared overnight . One White House intimate describes the change in these words : " When Mr. Roosevelt was here , every day was Christmas . Now it 's Tuesday . " Against the other familiar Republican weapons Truman appears to be equally bullet-proof . Charges of dictatorship would sound a little silly against a President who behaves with such deferential respect for the authority of Congress . And obviously there is no use accusing him of trying to " destroy the American way of life . " When aimed at Roosevelt such charges had at least a faint ring of plausibility , because many Americans suspected that F.D.R. did n't quite know what the American way of life was . After all , he had been born to wealth ; he rode in yachts ; he had been exposed to the exotic influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about American life the hard way ? the unprosperous farm ; those little jobs in the drug store ; the railroad construction gang ; the Union National Bank ; a stretch in the Army , competent and unheroic ; and then the business failure and the almost unwilling venture into local politics . What 's more , he practices it , down to the last detail of the classic ritual , including the Baptist gospel , a little sound whiskey , a decent respect for aces back to back . And after those harum-scarum Roosevelt youngsters , the Truman family has the reassuring quality of a Norman Rockwell painting : the daughter ( not too spectacular looking ) just back from college ; the wife who did most of her own housework until the very day she moved to the White House ; the apparent willingness of both ladies to let the Old Man make the speeches and run the government . On this score , the Republicans simply have to admit they arc licked ? the Truman household is the American way of life , with clusters . M OREOVER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line of defense against the emergency tactics which were improvised by the last two Republican presidential candidates . Both Willkie and Dewey came to suspect that the country really liked a good deal of the Roosevelt program ; so ( in the face of bitter Old Guard disapproval ) they announced : " We 're New Dealers too , but we would do it better . " And they concentrated a devastating fire on Roosevelt 's most vulnerable point , his obvious ineptness as an administrator . During his time as a Senate investigator , Truman himself had found some harsh things to say on this subject and one of the first presidential chores he tackled was the cleaning up of inherited messes . Within his first six months in the White House he carried through a whole series of administrative changes , and he has asked Congress for authority to go much further . Because it is being handled in a piecemeal and unspectacular fashion , this reorganization adds up to a good deal more than the casual newspaper reader may realize . Some of the results will be outlined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the governmental machinery , Truman is handling the controls with a touch very different from that of his predecessor . Roosevelt 's natural bent was high policy ; in the grubby , day-to-day details of administration he simply was n't interested . Unpleasant issues had a way of moldering on the back of his desk for months on end , while the machinery stalled and the little people way down in the boiler-rooms of the government went mad of frustration . The decisions , when they could finally be postponed no longer , were seldom tidy . Instead of settling a squabble between two agencies , Mr. Roosevelt notoriously preferred to set up a third to do the same work and then name a co-ordinator to keep the whole batch out of his hair . FDR.UMAN 'S administrative decisions , in contrast , have generally been prompt and clean-cut . ( Sometimes perhaps a little too prompt ; in a few cases he apparently did n't hear all the evidence before making his ruling . ) Moreover , he has delegated authority far more freely than Roosevelt , so that hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a White House log-jam . At the same time , he is maintaining a tighter discipline within the official family . A bureaucrat who speaks out of turn is likely to find himself out on the sidewalk ; witness the instructive case of William H. Davis , who ran the Office of Economic Stabilization until he announced a long-range wage policy without getting White House clearance in advance . The difference between Roosevelt and Truman cabinet meetings has been mentioned to me , by several people who had attended under both regimes , as a notable example of the Truman method of operation . Roosevelt 's sometimes resembled a pep talk to the office help . Truman 's apparently arc conducted more like a directors ' meeting in a well-managed corporation . Specific issues arc laid on the table ; decisions usually are reached on a basis of joint responsibility ; and when the meeting breaks up , everybody knows what he is supposed to do to put those decisions into action . As a result of all this , the public business is getting done with considerable dispatch , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In a number of agencies the morale of those obscure people on what Washington calls " the working level " is higher than it has been in years . Federal administration is still a long way from perfect , but unquestionably it is on the upgrade . If the trend continues , the President should be reasonably secure by 1948 against political attack on this sector . U NDER these discouraging circumstances , the Republicans in Congress have tended to split into two groups . The larger , composed of the Van Winkle or Back-toMcKinley conservatives , would prefer to ignore the Truman Administration as much as possible . They find it more congenial to keep on slugging at Roosevelt and the New Deal ? partly from sheer habit and ingrained rancor , partly because they have n't yet been able to figure out a way to get at Truman himself . Their interests instinctively turn to son Elliott 's business transactions and the shadows of Pearl Harbor , rather than toward the unfamiliar and somewhat terrifying problems of the decade ahead ; and their legislative guide is what Representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " the old-fashioned issue of conservatism . " In practice this means that they rarely advance any proposals of their own , but vote automatically against any administration measure suspected of being " liberal . " In coalition with their natural allies , the old-line Southern Democrats , they hold working control of the House : From that entrenched position they can block most of Truman 's legislative program ; but they are n't likely to do him much direct political damage . The other wing of the party ? led by such men as Harold Stassen and Senators Morse , Tobey , and Aiken ? doubts that it is possible to beat Truman either by belaboring Roosevelt or by mere legislative obstruction . They arc convinced that the GOP must work out an entirely new strategy ? that it can regain the political initiative only if it stands for something . Stassen and Morse , in particular , have attempted a venture almost unheard-of in Republican circles . They have criticized the Administration , not for going too far , but for failing to go far enough . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foreign policy ( specifically , the scope of the United Nations Organization ) , but the experiment presumably encouraged their more timid colleagues . Cautious old , joe Martin , the House Republican leader , called a hundred and fifty of his associates together on September 14 to begin the drafting of a " positive " legislative and political program . This unaccustomed enterprise was expected to occupy several subcommittees , drawn from the Republican membership of both houses , for a period of weeks , and at this writing the results have not been announced . In view of the mental arthritis which afflicts a good many of the more elderly Republicans , this first effort is hardly likely to produce a vibrant and inspiring document . Yet it is just possible that it might turn out to be the starting point for a new kind of attack , aimed at the area in which the Truman Administration eventually may prove most vulnerable . III r OR Truman apparently has no long- range program of his own . or is there any evidence , so far , that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are now living on inherited intellectual capital , consisting of a rather worn collection of ideas left over from the New Deal . If they ever run into a situation which can not be handled with this set of tools ? a severe economic crisis , for example ? the Truman Administration mayfind itself facing political bankruptcy . The extent to which Truman is depending on the Roosevelt legacy was disclosed by his first comprehensive statement of policy , the September 6 message to Congress . In it the President endorsed , almost line-for-line , the creed of his predecessor ? on public works , taxes , agriculture , natural resources , the handling of unemployment and labor problems , small business , foreign affairs , and a dozen other issues . This fact was somewhat disguised by language more soothing and conciliatory than Roosevelt 's , but under the velvet words the essential bone-structure was still there . A short time earlier , two major pressure groups had set forth their aims ; the Truman message called for passage of seven out of the eight measures on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single one of the items demanded by the National Association of Manufacturers . The reason is plain enough . Before everything else , Truman is a political pragmatist ? a skilled technician , trained in the rugged Pendergast school . He adopted the Roosevelt program primarily because it works . It is the only doctrine in American history which ever elected a man four times . No politician in his right mind would dream of scrapping that kind of asset . This does not mean , however , that the New Dealish legislation requested by the President has much chance of getting on the statute books . He sincerely believes in these things , no doubt , but there is little indication that either he or his close advisers are moved by the passionate , driving conviction which characterized the whole Roosevelt team . They are not hypocrites , but they are n't crusaders , either . They show no symptoms of any overwhelming compulsion to hammer their program through at all costs . More probably they will endeavor to push it just hard enough to persuade the crucial labor vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to antagonize business or the Southern conservatives . If that proves true , all controversial measures on Truman 's list can be written off as dead right now . For , in order to get them through the present Congress , the Administration would have to fight like a wounded tiger , with every weapon of patronage and pressure at its command . ms strategy of working both sides of 1 the street comes naturally to the men who make up the high command of the Truman Administration . They are sometimes referred to in Washington as the Courthouse Gang . and the label is reasonably accurate . Most of the group are shrewd , small-time politicians of the kind you might see around any Missouri courthouse . Their instinct is to get along with everybody , liberals and conservatives alike . Their only discernible ambition is , quite frankly , to win the next election . ( Incidentally , they are money-honest to a degree which the average courthouse machine would consider bigoted , and the word " gang " is applied to them with its clubroom , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group are Postmaster General Robert Hannegan , the political generalissimo , and Reconversion Director John Snyder , the top policymakcr in domestic affairs . The other cabinet officers ? with one exception noted below ? do n't belong . On matters concerning their own individual departments , their opinions are sought and generally followed ; but they are seldom consulted on questions of over-all political strategy . Intimates who have watched Hannegan in action describe him as a hard-working machine boss , without the imagination , personal charm , or unique organizing ability of a Jim Farley , but certainly competent beyond most practitioners of his craft . His most noticeable weakness is said to be art anxiety to keep all the strings in his own hand ? perhaps because of that occupational disease of political bosses , a nightmarish fear of letting any subordinate get powerful enough to grab control of the machine . His corresponding strength is a lively appreciation of the necessity of building up the party organization on the precinct and county levels , a chore which was sadly neglected in the latter days of the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ door-to-door canvassing and getting-out-the-vote in the last election was handled by the CIO 's Political Action Committee , rather than by the regular Democratic organization ; and he hopes to have his local machinery in better running order before next November . To this end he has demanded ? and is getting ? much more of a voice in the filling of all non-Civil Service jobs than any of Roosevelt 's campaign managers ever had In this he has , of course , Truman 's full support ; it is significant that when reporters asked the President why so many federal judgeships were going to Democrats , he replied simply : " I 'm a Democrat . " Hannegan 's own political views probably were accurately summed up in his recent comment about the President : " Harry Truman makes it a point to guide himself by the answer to only one question . . . It is not ' Am I going right or left ? ' but ' Am I going right or wrong ? ' " Like the rest of the Courthouse Gang , Hannegan is not burdened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of his colleagues a vague feeling that under Roosevelt the government was too heavily weighted with Easterners , and that the West seldom got its fair share of attention . This they are determined to remedy . Consequently , most of the key appointments have gone to politicians from the far side of the Alleghenies ; and the views of the new administration can perhaps best be described as a little west of center . S NYDER ? One of the few members of the group who was never a practicing politician ? appears to be closer to Truman than any other man . ( Like so many other new arrivals in Washington , he is an Old Friend from Missouri . ) Promptly at nine o'clock every morning he pays a visit to the White House , and a private telephone links the President 's desk to Snyder 's office in the Lafayette Building two blocks away . Perhaps the best indication of his place in the official family is the fact that Truman 's September 6 message to Congress was largely drafted by Snyder and his staff . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributed by Judge Samuel Rosenman , still the chief White House wordsmith , as he was under Roosevelt . ) Jovial , baldish ' , and a little plump , Snyder talks and acts like the Midwestern banker he is . Partly from shyness , he makes a weak and unfortunate impression before congressional committees ; but in his own conference room he operates crisply and pleasantly . For a man who holds a dominant responsibility for the country 's economy , he is curiously innocent of economic theory . ( When someone used the term ( ( gross national product " in a recent congressional hearing on the full employment bill , Snyder quite evidently did n't know what it meant . ) Aware of this gap in his intellectual equipment , he leans heavily on his personal staff , which includes some of the brightest economists in the country . Another ranking : - member of the Courthouse Gang is Attorney General Tom Clark , the darling of the powerful Texas congressional delegation . A veteran of the unhobbled brand of politics practiced in Dallas County , he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the richest single political bonanza in the federal government . Because of his former legal practice . he has a wide acquaintance in the oil industry , which sometimes proves a lucrative source of campaign funds . A similar acquaintance is one of the assets of Ed Pauley , the eminently successful treasurer of the Democratic National Committee . Possibly because of his tested ability as a money-raiser , Pauley recently has been spending most of his time on reparations problems in Tokyo , Moscow , and Frankfort , but when at home he too sits in with the top political council . So does Leslie Biffle , Secretary of the Senate , who has become one of Truman 's most trusted advisers on legislative matters and his unofficial liaison with Congress . A dozen or so of ' Truman 's old cronies on the Hill ? such as Speaker Sam Rayburn and Senators Hatch and Connally ? now carry more weight with the White House than any congressmen ever did in Roosevelt 's day . The less conspicuous people in the presidential circle include Matt Connelly , a discreetly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; George Allen , a Washington insurance man and one-time District of Columbia commissioner , who takes on political chores as a kind of hubby ; and Charles Ross , theconscientious White House press relations man . In a category all his own is Brigadier General Harry Vaughan , Truman 's military aide , a Missourian of notably carefree and untrammeled habits . His career as a public speaker was curtailed abruptly after a recent talk to the Women 's Auxiliary of a Presbyterian church in suburban Washington , in which he gave forth his uninhibited views on Stalin , army chaplains , Churchill , the WAC 's , and related topics . The general 's conversation around the White House , however , is still a joy to everyone within earshot . Some of the boys in the press room there refer to him as the Court Jester . IV MliE men who make themselves at home I around the White House nowadays obviously are more in keeping with American tradition than the old Roosevelt palace guard ever was . We arc used to seeing politicians in Washington ? it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when F.D.R. imported a troupe of heavy thinkers the spectacle was disquieting , like a herd of buffalo on Pennsylvania Avenue . Consequently , the departure of the New Deal fauna has made a lot of citizens feel easier in their minds . Business men , in particular , were often baffled and upset by such intellectuals as Thurman Arnold and Alvin Hansen , but they know how to talk to the Hannegans and the Clarks . As a result , Truman has been widely praised for the political astuteness of his appointments . Yet the very quality which makes the new style in bureaucrats so popular may , in the long run , turn out to be the Administration 's most serious weakness . One of these days Truman may find that he needs some first-rate brain-power . And it probably wo n't be there . Although the Roosevelt menagerie did include some queer and frightening specimens , it also brought together a number of the most brilliant minds the country could afford . Consequently , Roosevelt always had prime intellect on tap , in the persons of William Douglas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leon Henderson , Adolph Berle , Milo Perkins , Lauchlin Currie . Harry Hopkins ( a widely underestimated man ) , and a dozen others . What was even more important , he attracted into the obscure lower ranks of government two or three hundred exceptionally able young men , who gave the Administration an unusual store of resourcefulness and vitality . Today nearly all of them are gone , many into private business at salaries up to ten times as large as they could ever hope to earn in government . ( One small group is left in Snyder 's office , under Robert Nathan and Thomas Emerson , while a few other New Deal survivals have found temporary refuge in the Treasury , State , and Interior Departments . Henry Wallace 's Commerce Department has not provided such a haven , for reasons which will be examined in a later article . ) Worse yet , no new crop of bright young men is coming into Washington to take their place ; nor is there much prospect that the Truman administration will be able to attract them in significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? certainly not for the kind of money the government pays . They worked for Roosevelt because they were convinced that he was aiming at something more fundamental than the next election . So far , at least , Truman has not been able to convey that kind of conviction . 0. - rnE consequences are not hard to fore ' see . Roosevelt was never at a loss for ideas to deal with any conceivable situation . Frequently , indeed , he had too many of them ? a regular avalanche of plans , proposals , and ingenious schemes , which he was unable to evaluate and fit together ; hence the confusion and contradictions which so often afflicted the New Deal . The surplus left over from the Roosevelt era was enough to set Truman up in business ; but it is by no means clear how he will be able to replenish his stock . The old corps of idea-men has been replaced by officeholders who have no very strong views about the role of government in modern society . Their interest in foreign affairs is at the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to argue about what makes an industrial economy tick . To many of them , indeed , the very word ? econc ) mics " has a vaguely radical sound . Long-range planning , in particular , does not come easily to the new men in Washington . Their instinct is to play by ear ? to make decisions , not on the basis of what may be best for the country in the long pull , but according to what is politically popular right now . Already this habit of short-run thinking is producing some embarrassing consequences . The wave of labor disputes , which is to be expected after every war , caught the Administration without either a clear policy or adequate machinery for handling strikes . Similarly , when Lend-Lease was abruptly cut off with the end of hostilities , there was no foreign economic policy ready to take its place ? with the result that half of Washington was thrown into a panicky scramble to find some new device to prop up the tottering economics of our Allies . Even less excusable was the scandalous lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up in such ominous deadlock in October . However serious these mishaps may now appear , the really grave effects of the Administration 's distaste for long-term planning probably will not be felt until the country hits a major economic crisis . There are some plausible indications that this moment might arrive in late 1949 or early 1950 . The Administration is now gambling that the reconversion letdown will be pretty well over by next summer , and that no large-scale government action will be necessary in order to get the country back to work before the November congressional elections . ( The stakes are considerable ; one federal statistician , who has been uncannily accurate in his past predictions , estimates that the Democrats will lose control of both House and Senate if as many as seven million are jobless when the ballots are cast . ) Thereafter the Administration is counting on boom times , with virtually full employment , for at least three or four years . The federal budget might then be balanced at about $25 billion a year , even with progressive ( though moderate ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expect to win the 1948 presidential election in an easy canter , amid the huzzahs of both labor and business . But the thunderheads may be gathering even as he starts his second term . A dozen different calculations , by both government and industrial economists , indicate that the pent-up wartime demand by that time will be fairly well satisfied . It is conceivable , of course , that some entirely unforeseen development ? atomic power , perhaps , or another war ? will come along to provide a new outlet for the fantastic productive capacity of American industry . Barring this , however , the signs point to trouble at about the close of the decade ? falling purchasing power , closed factories , a rising tide of unemployment . And at that point the policies inherited from the New Deal obviously wo n't be much use . The Roosevelt remedy ? heavy government spending , made-work , and an unbalanced budget ? could work reasonably well when the public debt was around $30 billion . Even the most rabid New Dealer , however , would hardly argue thatthe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that large . What will be called for is a new policy ? probably a highly complex one , dealing with every element in the economy from wage scales to the rate of investment , tariffs , trade restrictions , and foreign lending . Such plans are n't improvised overnight by a bunch of shrewd courthouse politicians . They have to be hammered out , over a period of many months , by top-flight policy makers both in Congress and in a dozen different executive agencies , working under imaginative and farsighted leadership . And the time to start the job is now . It has not been started . Nor is there any indication that the Administration will give it much thought until the hurricane starts moaning around the eaves . Then , of course , it will be too late ; and then ? if the Republicans have finally managed to put together a positive program of their own ? the GOP may find its greatest opportunity since the days of Lincoln . 