@@475779

THE German economy in the American and British zones is now on dead center . This is the first conclusion I would draw from a recent visit to Frankfurt , Berlin , and the Ruhr Valley . Attempts to increase coal production have met with repeated failure . German industry , now operating at about fifty per cent of prewar , shows little sign of improvement ; in fact , its ability to produce is declining . Supplies of raw materials are diminishing , machines are wearing out and the morale of the working population , managers as well as employees , is crumbling . We and the British , by dint of pouring in some $700,000,000 a year , have been barely able to keep alive the 45,000,000 Germans in our zones of occupation . Their prospects for a long or vigorous life are not bright . Average body weights of adults in the American zone , after a steady decline since January 1946 , are now 5 to 20 pounds below the minimum health standard . Deaths from pulmonary tuberculosis are alarming : the rate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was about eight times the comparable figure for New York State . In the past ten months we and the British have not appreciably increased the Germans ' ability to support themselves , to pay their own way in the world . The reasons for our failure to lift the German economy out of its stagnation ? this is my second conclusion ? have been only partly economic , lack of food , lack of coal , etc . We have been blocked also by psychology , the apathy and passive resistance of the Germans , and by politics , the refusal of the Russians to carry out the terms of the Potsdam agreement . At Potsdam , in August 1945 , the Russians agreed to the economic unification of Germany . For almost two years they have blocked all attempts to put that principle into practice . Meanwhile , Germany has hung like a millstone about the necks of the British and American taxpayers , while Western Europe , deprived of German coal and coke , German steel and German manufactures , and cut off from German markets for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recovery . My third conclusion is that we have come to the limit of our accomplishment under the present system of four-power control . Further progress in realizing the aims of American policy with respect to Germany can be made only by the economic and political integration of the three zones of Western Germany and by bringing that area into close relations with the rest of Western Europe in the Marshall Plan . THE economic causes of low German productivity are obvious : undernourishment ( the normal consumer now gets 1,500 calories per day , about one-half of the minimum for health and efficiency ) , bad housing , inadequacy of all means of transportation ( not nearly enough busses , street cars , and railway cars ) . With all consumer goods in short supply , necessities are rationed and luxuries , available only at black-market prices , are out of the workers ' reach . Hence money wages have lost their power to stimulate effort . But economics does n't fully explain why the German economy fails to tick . In the Ruhr , we and the British have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not live by bread alone . Three successive attempts to increase coal output by raising the miners ' food rations have produced only meager results . Many miners , it is true , are overage , new recruits lack training , and equipment is in poor condition , but all these factors taken together do not explain the failure of production to rise . Communist propaganda may have some effect , but at bottom the failure of the Ruhr miners and other industrial workers in the combined zones to put their shoulders to the wheel lies , I feel sure , in the abnormal social and political situation in which they live and work . Modern industrial production is a social process of great complexity , depending on the voluntary co-operation of great numbers of specialized groups and individuals . But in Germany today the basic conditions of co-operation are disappearing . The fabric of German society is falling apart through the decay of the ties , both of self-interest and of group loyalty , which previously bound together social groups and individuals . The collapse of the Third Reich abolished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The boundaries of the four zones of occupation , cutting across long-established lines of civil administration , have severed also the arteries of trade and communication . Trade unions and many other autonomous , nonofficial groups , weakened by the Nazi regime and by the stresses of war , have not regainedtheir vigor . The old political parties have disappeared ; the new parties , established at the instance of the occupying powers , have as yet no roots in public opinion . Thousands of families have been broken up by war disturbances and by postwar privations . The combined result is the atomization of German society to a point where all of the appeals usually employed to stir a people to common effort have lost their force . Propaganda to rouse them for the sake of the German nation is fruitless ? there is no German nation ? and one could not expect that the vanquished would bestir themselves to help the victors . The latter can employ force ; but military power , as the commanding generals recognize often more clearly than their civilian aides , has little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stepping up its productivity . The German workers know that as long as they do even a half day 's work we and the British will not let them starve . And they know that we and the British , for humanitarian as well as practical reasons , can not force them to do more . T HE German business man is not going all out to increase production . Economic and political uncertainty dampen his incentives , too . When coal is selling at one half the cost of production , the mine managers may think it better business to keep it in the ground than to put it on the market . In the British zone the threat of socialization of mines and factories is still in the air ; in addition , many managers and owners of mines and factories still do n't know what may happen to them under denazification proceedings . Until the special tribunals have rendered their verdicts they have little incentive to build a business career . In theory , the responsibility for starting the German economic machine rests with the German business man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gear boxes . He has to operate under two systems of economic planning , the Land system of price and wage controls , still in force , and , superimposed on that , the comprehensive controls ( allocation of materials , designation of markets , etc. ) inaugurated by the bipartite ( Anglo-American ) economic agencies . Even the simplest transaction requires an unbelievable mass of paper work ( to export a German camera you have to fill out sixteen separate forms ) . Moreover , because the Reichsmark has lost its usefulness as a medium of exchange , every business man tries to exchange his goods , not for money , but for other goods . Hence all deals tend to be barter trades . In theory , the free enterprise system prevails , but actually every business transaction is minutely regulated according to an over-all plan . This plan aims ( 1 ) to get a maximum of calories for the German population per dollar and ( 2 ) to build in the combined zones a self-sustaining ( not a self-sufficient ) economy . Contrasted with Russian planning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much of what they are doing as bad economics , justified only by short-run necessities ( e.g. , the shift from pasturage to cereals ) or by political considerations ( e.g. , the export of German timber to England ) . Our unwilling planners are worried also because they are losing control of the economic machine . All their plans must be based on statistical information , but the German statistics , formerly the best in the world , are now inaccurate and unreliable . They issue more and more orders and regulations which prove less and less effective . More and more factory products find their way into trade outside the officially designated channels . Farmers stubbornly refuse to step up their deliveries to market . Black markets flourish . H W HERE can the motive power be found to move the German econ- omy off dead center ? An economist who has labored conscientiously to make the present system successful urges that we relax controls on prices and wages and turn the German economy back to the Germans . Two years of " planning , " his argument runs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " disease and unrest " formula , but it ca n't supply the impetus essential to lift production to the self-sustaining level . Admitting the danger of losing all control over prices , he and other advocates of a " controlled inflation " think the dangers of the present situation even greater . General Clay and his more conservative advisers oppose this solution . They favor currency reform , meaning by that the sterilization of a substantial part of the redundant purchasing power , but they recognize that a necessary supplement to this policy is massive imports of raw materials . Without raw materials for production , currency reform can only produce unemployment . But General Clay has no funds for purchasing materials ; his dollars must be spent for calories . Exports of German goods , $200,000,000 for the calendar year 1947 , are pitifully inadequate to pay for the millions of tons of grain , cotton , vegetable oils , and other industrial materials which the factories in the combined zones must have if this area is to be self-supporting . The present trend in the combined British and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stagnant economy . The trend can be reversed only by large-scale imports of raw materials . In the short run such imports must be 6-nanced by the United States ; eventually they can be repaid by exports , but only on condition that the German economy is again made a functioning part of the European economy and the world economy . Everywhere I found agreement that the German problem can not be solved in isolation , but only as a part of the European problem . In practical terms that means not only that supplies for Germany should be included in the Marshall Plan 's list of goods needed for European recovery ; it also means that the recipient nations , as a part of their contribution to the success of the Plan , as an indication of self-help , should signify their willingness to accept German industrial goods in foreign trade . Southeastern Europe furnished a substantial outlet for German goods , not only during the Hitler regime but over a much longer period . But the best markets for German manufactures will naturally be found in the richer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . Unless we and they are ready to take them , the whole fabric of United States policy will collapse . GENERAL CLAY 'S " mission " in Germany , as outlined in the Direc- tive of July 11 , 1947 , is not limited to economic reconstruction . In addition , his job is to democratize local government , to rebuild political parties , and to reform the educational system . Thus , by transforming German institutions and bringing into power right-thinking leaders , we hope to make Germany a trustworthy and useful member of the family of nations . The visitor to the American zone gets at once the impression of great activity in the " cultural " field . He finds scores , even hundreds , of energetic fellow countrymen who are busy with plans for purging German society of the Nazi poison , for transforming the German schools into democratic institutions , setting up new newspapers and supervising their publishers and editors , overseeing the activities of political parties . The planners are enthusiastic and their schemes are far-reaching . Undeterred by the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job as if they expected military occupation to last indefinitely . In denazification we have attempted to carry out in our zone , on behalf of the Germans , the social and political revolution which they seemed incapable or unwilling to accomplish for themselves . We have planned nothing less than converting a totalitarian society into a democracy on the American model , by a peaceful , orderly process . Armed with typewriters and card catalogues we have proceeded with typical American business efficiency , and we have taken care that every step should be strictly " legal . " But the early attempts of the Army to discover and remove active Nazis proved ineffective , and the whole business was turned over to the Germans , working , of course , under close supervision of the military government . I found Americans as well as Germans frankly skeptical about denazification . No one is satisfied with the process , except , perhaps , the officials immediately in charge who , like many other conscientious administrators faced with a logically impossible task , are more concerned with getting decisions made and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worthwhile . Outside observers , however , complain of the elaborate and cumbersome procedure which keeps the German community in a state of uncertainty and irritation . On August 31 , 1947 , more than two years after the liberation , there still remained 855,000 persons " chargeable " under denazification proceedings whose cases had not yet come up for trial . Progress is slow ; only 35,000 cases are being cleared each month . Moreover , up to this point the special courts ( Spruchkammer ) have been dealing mostly with the " little " Nazis ; of the remaining cases , over 75 per cent ( 727,000 ) are " heavily incriminated " Nazis whose trials will impose a heavier burden on the courts . Even were the courts more effective , there would still remain the doubt whether they were good examples of democratic institutions . They are engaged in applying ex post facto laws and the evidence against the accused is often provided by informers whose motives are not to see their community purged of Nazism but to settle some private grudge . D ENAZIFICATION is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positive side we have encouraged the Germans to organize new political parties . Far-sighted observers , however , believe we may have made a mistake in speeding up the processes of political reform . They say the political parties were activated too soon , before they could function well . Hence Germans are disillusioned with their new-found democracy . I 'll cite two instances . At Frankfurt , a hundred and fifty German men and women , the remnants of a formerly numerous and prosperous middle class , neat but threadbare , gathered in the Funkhaus , one of the few usable public auditoriums . They were holding a Town Meeting of the Air , American model , on the topic : " Is Party Government an Illusion ? " On the platform four speakers had eight minutes each at the microphone . Two professors gave the rationale of political parties . Then two political leaders told why their parties could n't do a better job . For an hour thereafter speakers from the floor put their questions and comments . The consensus was : You ca n't expect parties to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy , which implies self-govern. ment , can not exist . That explains , said one speaker , why the activities of the German political parties are only make-believe . They have no power to affect really vital issues , the food supply , housing , reparations , Germany 's political future . In a dingy , crowded lecture hall at the University of Frankfurt , the Rektor , who as a prisoner of war had a postgraduate course in American democracy at Fort Getty , read our Bill of Rights to half a hundred students , mostly veterans . They laughed . That did n't mean they despised democracy . It meant only that they found bitter irony in contrasting the American freedoms with the restrictions which hamper every phase of their existence . Some Americans are skeptical of the possibilities of re-educating the Germans , of changing their point of view , because they do n't seem to be properly repentant . They say the Germans do n't seem to be sorry for what they have done . They are not willing to admit , privately or publicly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repentance is the first step toward salvation , how can the Germans become democratic and peace-loving unless they first confess their totalitarian sins ? Logical reasoning , perhaps , but naive . A victorious nation occasionally has been willing , many years after the event , to admit it had fought an unjustified , aggressive war . The British feel that way now about the Boer War , and we are apologetic about our war against Mexico a century ago . Victorious nations can afford to he repentant since they retain both their prestige and the spoils of war . But when did a defeated people ever admit it has been in the wrong ? Certainly that was not the attitude of the best citizens of our Southern states in 1865 , nor later . So it is not surprising that the Germans are not proclaiming their guilt from the housetops . If you ask them who is to blame for their present misery , you will find they want to make a scapegoat of Hitler and the Nazi gangsters . But when you push your inquiry further , as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a judge , and a bishop , you find that , although they repudiate the notion of collective guilt , they admit that the whole German people must bear a heavy burden of responsibility for the misdoings of their leaders . German intellectuals particularly , who should have been the leaders in the struggle for democracy , were indifferent ; they were " tin-political . " That was true under the Second Reich and also in the days of the Weimar Republic . They evaded their responsibility for controlling their own government and preventing it from adventures in imperialism and aggression . The more thoughtful Germans recognize that the sins of the fathers are being visited on the children . Recent publications of a few eminent German writers , Alfred Weber , economist , Friedrich Meinecke , historian , and Karl Jaspers , philosopher , have frankly recognized the responsibility which every German must bear for the consequences of Nazi misrule . OFFICIALS engaged in re-education often complain that the Germans are " unco-operative . " They seem to be dragging their feet . German educators do n't come along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readily the new directives of our information control authorities . In civil government , the L ? nder officials show reluctance to undertake the new responsibilities we thrust upon them . Thus in the social and political field the Germans are displaying a mild type of passive resistance like that practiced by miners ( and perhaps by managers as well ) in the Ruhr Valley . It would be wrong , I believe , to interpret their attitude to mean a lack of faith in democracy . It would be surprising if , suffering from poverty and serious undernourishment , seeing little prospect for improvement , the Germans should show enthusiasm for either the educational reforms or the political ideology of the occupying powers . " The German problem , " a witty American official remarked , " is a combination of insoluble problems inextricably intertwined . " That is true in the economic field ; food , coal , raw materials , transport , currency ? you ca n't tackle any one of these without running bang against all the ' others . The general problem of economic recovery , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconstruction . At the beginning I suggested that radical changes in our policy were in order . I feel that we have made about as much progress as is possible as long as Germany remains disunited and under military government . These conditions we regarded when we took on the job as only temporary . At Potsdam we succeeded in establishing the principle that Germany was to be treated as a single economic unit , but for two years our Russian allies blocked all attempts to put the principle into practice . Furthermore , we never anticipated a long period of military government . But it is now fifteen months since Secretary Byrnes declared , in his Stuttgart speech , that the time had come to give the German people , under proper safeguards , primary responsibility for running their own affairs . This purpose obviously can not be achieved under military occupation . At London the Council of Foreign Ministers failed in what may prove to be its last attempt to come to agreement on Germany . The Russians repeatedly declared themselves for unification , but their price , participation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reparations from current production , the United States government rightly regarded as too high . Our course is now clear : to bring about , if we can , the merger of the three Western zones into a political as well as economic union , leaving the way open , of course , for the Eastern zone to join when the Russians so decide . This action should be taken , however , without creating a sovereign state of Western Germany , and without concluding a formal treaty of peace . N o ONE should pretend that this is more than a second-best solution . Economically Western Germany lacks balance . It has great industrial potential but no hinterland . Its specialized factories have been cut off from sources of raw materials in the Eastern zone and from the supplementary industries withwhich they were formerly interdependent . ( Cameras made in Wetzlar got their lenses from Jena , now in the Russian zone ; factories in the Ruhr supplied machinery for the textile mills in Saxony , etc . ) In addition , markets in the Eastern zone for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete merger of the British , American , and French zones would tend to make the barriers on the East even more impassable than at present . Politically the drawbacks of separation are equally obvious . It would leave seventeen million Germans in the Russian zone under a form of government and an economic system of which the great majority thoroughly disapprove . Furthermore , the merger of the three zones under a single government would widen the gap which now divides Eastern from Western Europe . These consequences are , to say the least , unwelcome ; but what are the alternatives ? We can continue to wait for the Russians to agree to economic and political unification on our terms . But while we wait , conditions in Western Germany go from bad to worse ; stagnation breeds decay , productive capacity will be lost , morale and public health will deteriorate even further , thus making even more difficult the already formidable task of building in the West a self-supporting economy and free institutions . American policy , at Potsdam and subsequently , has strongly insisted that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all along we have assumed that the administration , although necessarily involving four-power agreement , would proceed smoothly and along lines congenial to us . Two years of negotiations with the Russians have shown how unfounded was that assumption . In the light of that experience , do we honestly want a merger of the four zones ? If every important step in trying to reconstruct Germany were blocked by Soviet opposition , what would we accomplish by formal unity ? Even worse , we and the British would lose independence of action in our own zones , for unification would mean that policies affecting these zones would be subject to Soviet veto . In the new three-zone area we should give the Germans increased responsibility for the management of their own affairs . Already in the bizonal Economic Council they have a body which legislates for the eight Lander , but only in economic affairs . The Council 's Executive Committee has correspondingly limited administrative powers . If the French should decide to bring their zone into the merger , the Council and the Executive Committee , appropriately enlarged , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With the establishment of such a government , the three armies of occupation should be withdrawn . They are now much larger than is necessary to overawe the Germans and far too weak to stop the Russians , should they decide to move westward . Instead , we , the British and the French should maintain at key points small bodies of highly trained troops to enforce disarmament and demilitarization , and to suppress disorder or incipient revolt . Abandoning our detailed direction of all phases of German life , we should bring home ninety per cent of the 5,000 civilians now attached to the American Military Government . I Am not proposing that we free the Germans in the three zones from all external control . What I propose is that we take a new and more realistic view of the problem . What we need is a system of control which will fulfill these requirements : ( 1 ) it must be effective in preventing the Germans from building up military power , but without stifling their efforts at economic reconstruction ; ( 2 ) it must concentrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ( 3 ) these prohibitions must be so important that their violation will alarm public opinion in the victor countries . Prohibition of rearmament , everyone would agree , is essential . In addition , we should insist that the new government in the Western zones should guarantee to every German citizen the exercise of full civil liberties , such as we have in our Bill of Rights . Furthermore , we should insist that American , British , and French tourists , business men , journalists , scientists , and educators be permitted to enter the zones , as soon as facilities are available to accommodate them , and to go about freely on their lawful errands . Their reports will give us all the information we need to determine whether or not the Germans are violating the rules we have laid down . The successive steps in Hitler 's rearmament program and in his conversion of the Weimar Republic into a totalitarian state were no secret . All the world knew what was happening . But no nation had the will to cry " halt . " If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the world against a resurgence of German aggression involves reeducating the victors as well as the vanquished . We and our Western allies must learn that mechanisms of control and inspection , no matter how intricate and comprehensive , are not automatic ; they have no force in themselves . The force on which we must depend for peace in our time is that of an alert , informed public opinion in this country and among our Western allies that recognizes its responsibilities and will act in time .                     