@@475577

EVER since the events at Hiroshima and Nagasaki convinced the intel-lectual multitude that the political ways of modern man are obsolete , a frantic search for the formula of perpetual peace has possessed campus and platform . Time is short and the danger to civilization , indeed to human survival itself , so immediate that it is small wonder that the thirsty thousands mistake the mirage of world government for the oasis of perpetual peace . Plans proposed by the high-minded people who are currently engaged in drafting blueprints for global peace are morally so unassailable and logically so irrefutable that converts to the new political theology can be forgiven for exhibiting righteous intolerance toward the skeptic . The truth , after all , is so inescapable when it arrives with the blinding flash of revelation . War , they say , is caused by anarchy or the " absence of government " in the relations between nations . Clashing sovereignties , which know neither law nor restraint , can be curbed only by the creation of a world government enforcing world law . It is an all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atomic age , therefore , is the drafting of a world constitution acceptable to the peoples of the earth . Although such classics as Emery Reves 's Anatomy of Peace and Mortimer J. Adler 's How to Think About War and Peace antedate Hiroshima , the movement for a world republic achieved political status as a result of the dramatic opening of the atomic age . Norman Cousins ' Modern Man Is Obsolete served as the manifesto , while the meeting of scientists , jurists , and literati at Dublin , New Hampshire , in October 1945 , under the leadership of Justice Owen Roberts , launched World Government Now on its career as an inspired but respectable political movement . Not long afterwards , Americans United for World Organization changed its name to Americans United for World Government and enlisted the powerful voice of Raymond Swing . It is now the most popular organization in the field with the announced purpose of working " for the development of the United Nations Charter into a world agency adequate in delegated sovereignty to enforce the peace . " By December 1945 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs , was telling an enthusiastic audience at the Nation Associates ' Forum that there existed " no middle ground " between world government and international anarchy . World government , he quietly emphasized , provides " the only course which holds any prospect either for a decent way of life or the avoidance of atomic war . " Meanwhile , more academic enthusiasts were flocking around the neo-Aristotelians at the University of Chicago who had founded the " Committee to Frame a World Constitution " with the blessing of Chancellor Robert Hutchins and outstanding members of the faculty . The Committee has been meeting periodically to draft " a morally credible and logically articulated blueprint of global peace . " DESPITE minor variations and some tend- ency toward splintering , all of these groups pursue an essentially identical line of argument . While admitting that the step they advocate is radical , enthusiasts disregard the revolutionary implications of the move and reduce complexity to a simple problem in deductive reasoning . Thus , the " Appeal to the Peoples of the World " issued by the Rollins College Conference last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of principle and a syllogistic argument . The principle : " There can be no absolute guarantee that peace will be maintained so long as any nation has the sovereign right to decide questions of war and peace for itself , " because peace " is not merely the absence of war but the presence of justice , law , order in short , government . " The argument then noted that the United Nations , as a league of sovereign states , could not prevent conflict or establish justice until it had been transformed into world government . The immediate political task , therefore , was the calling of a General Conference under Article 109 of the Charter to draft a world constitution . The sheer simplicity of the argument is so appealing , the solution offered so economical , the cause in which it is advocated so noble , that it is no wonder that men of good will are signing up in wholesale numbers . Nor is it surprising that opponents shrink from challenging the faith . To do so labels one as a blind reactionary bogged down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face the facts of atomic life . But the time has come for skeptics to inject a few doubts . For the fallacy of World Government Now is so overwhelming that its adherents must soon realize that they are being led a merry chase down a blind alley . P-rxEv might begin by inquiring how it 1 is that the house of world government has so many mansions that it can harbor well-meaning people of every shade of political and social belief . Everybody who is against sin joins in shouting hallelujah . Socialists , free-enterprisers , and undefined liberals ; conservative judges , radical labor-leaders , and middle-class intellectuals ; atheist scientists and fundamentalist clerics , the Thomists on Lake Michigan and the pragmatists on Washington Square ? all join together in subscribing to the new party line . So apocalyptic is the approach that James B. Carey , Secretary-Treasurer of the CIO , joins hands with Robert M. Gaylord , Chairman of the Executive Committee of the NAM , to embrace the common doctrine of peace through world government . There is no political party in the country ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows an isolationist line ) which can not safely include support of world federation in its platform . Only the practicing politicians and political scientists appear to be reserving their enthusiasm . The World Government Now craze might thus be dismissed as politically innocuous were it not also possessed of the dangerous doctrine that World Government Now means World Government First . Immediate , hard issues of international life can postpone solution until the " primary " task of establishing a world federation has been accomplished . True believers express prophetic impatience with skeptics in the State Department who continue to haggle over the lesser issues of power politics . Typical is the sentiment expressed by the Right Reverend Alexander Turner in a letter to the New nil , Times admonishing the politicians at the Paris Conference to stop bickering over Trieste and Albania and to take up the serious business of designing world government . " Peace can not be established until war is made impossible , " he warns . " That means the merger of national sovereignties in a world government . Why is our country not setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fuss over secondary issues ? " And the time is now . " No plans arc going to save us unless they arc enforced , and force is a function of government . That means world government , and if we are to forestall another war it means world government now ? not in twenty years . Every other problem can wait . This one cannot. " e-rawo centuries ago Rousseau hinted at 1 the difficulty in swallowing such simple solutions when he remarked of the Abbe de Saint-Pierre , who fathered a similar " project for perpetual peace , " that " he would have been a very wise man had he not been so absurdly reasonable . " A simple conclusion is not necessarily valid . Simplicity in an argument may be a concomitant not of lucidity but of immaturity . No solution is more simple than the classic suggestion of the Sad Sack of the Pacific Theater that " we capture all the atoms in the world and store them at Fort Knox and let the Marines guard them . " Peace can not be achieved by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elementary political science years ago . The prophets of World Government Now have been getting away with their sleight-of-hand by effectively concealing three Grand Errors . The first of these is the error commonly made by neophyte students of political science : that you can pass a law to stop almost everything , including sin . This view stems from a topsy-turvy misconception of the way governments are made . Reduced to its barest elements , the chain of distortion takes the following path : Constitutions establish governments . Governments , in turn , pass laws to stop people from fighting each other and to persuade them to settle their differences in friendly fashion . Resultant law and order encourage people to co-operate and live as one big , universal , happy family . Nothing could be more absurd . Except for short periods under dictatorship the process is exactly reverse . Through common living and common loyalties a community forms , establishing common habits and rules of behavior . It is out of this social order that political authority and government arise . Constitution-making is the last step . Error @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This assumes that if you do away with the right of sovereign states to wage war , by delegating that right to a " higher sovereignty , " you do away with war . The shadow of soy-ereignty is mistaken for the reality of power . For , as the history of civil strife demonstrates , the sovereign right to make war is hardly a prerequisite of battle . Closely related is the third major error , that war is a lawsuit fought with bombs instead of briefs . World government , it is argued , will establish effective tribunals for the settlement of " disputes " which lead to war . But war is rarely so much a dispute over justice as a conflict of interests . War , like politics , is an attempt to determine by pressure who gets what , where , when ; it is an attempt to change the status quo . EFORE scrutinizing these Grand Errors more closely it is pertinent to note that , contrary to the impression dropped by its propagandists , the prescription of world government for a warring earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typical is the attitude of Professor Adler , who claims that he was forced to make the great discovery himself . " I was given no understanding of war and peace , at any point in my education , " he sadly remarks , and " until very recently . . . I had no understanding of the basic simple truths which make peace on earth an intelligible ideal . " That Dr. Adler , who specializes in political classics , should " until recently " have escaped contact with the constitutional formula for perpetual peace is beyond belief . It is grossly unfair to his teachers at Columbia University . Even lesser students could hardly have remained ignorant of the central teaching in the history of international ideas : that for at least the past four hundred years every major war has produced its pet project for perpetual peace . Most of these projects were identical with the specific being offered today in a modern cellophane wrapper . Discount , if one will , Dante 's proposal ( in 1313 ) for ending European strife through the establishment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Papacy . No one can deny , however , that it contains the central argument that world peace and order depend on the creation of a super-state . More apposite is the series of peace projects which followed the religious and dynastic wars of the seventeeth century . In 1623 there was published in Paris a semi-anonymous volume entitled Le Nouveau Cynie ( The New Cyneas ) , attributed to an obscure cleric , Emeric Cruet " , which appears to have been the inspiration for later peace schemes . Arguing the need for a central world authority to enforce peace , Cruce envisaged the establishment of a permanent international assembly at Venice to exercise compulsory jurisdiction over all types of disputes , " and the better to authorize it , all the princes will swear to hold as inviolable law what would be ordained by the majority of votes in the said assembly , and to pursue with arms those who would wish to oppose it . " Cruee 's idea was carried a step further in the Duc dc Sully 's " Grand Design of Henry IV " which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the central authority of a grand council which could make and enforce decrees . Influenced by these ideas and touched by the misery resulting from the wars launched by Louis XIV in 1688 , William Penn , English Quaker and founder of the American colony , urged the immediate organization of a European parliament to legislate " rules of justice for sovereign princes " as the only means of ensuring peace . An even more grandiose plan was advanced in the Abbe de Saint-Pierre 's Projel de Paix Perpetuelle , published in 1713 and containing an elaborate draft for a world constitution which the Abbe hoped would interest the peace-makers at Utrecht . The central argument employed by both Penn and Saint-Pierre was repeated by the philosopher , Immanuel Kant , in his proposal for a federation of states . Just as individuals had renounced their " lawless freedom " to escape anarchy , Kant reasoned , so must states " subject themselves to compulsory public laws , thus forming an international state which would . . . include all the peoples of the world . " The scope and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the peace movement of the nineteenth century , amply demonstrate that current proposals for world government are not modern discoveries , born of the stresses of the atomic age . Similar proposals wereadvanced during the League of Nations debate of the first World War , notably the Lepert plan for a world confederation , presented to the French League for a Society of Nations , and the Belgian suggestion for a democratic peoples ' world parliament urged by Paul Otle.t . This history is recalled not to dismiss world government as an old-fashioned idea but to advise caution before swallowing similar prescriptions without analyzing the contents of the package . Arc conditions ripe for the adoption of World Government Now ? III ? Dirty are not . The Greeks had a word I for the type of thought-process employed by World Government Firsters to convince us that only a suitable constitutional formula is required to ensure global law and order . They called it bysteronprotcron , which Webster defines as " the fallacy of explaining a thing by that which presupposes it and so inverting the natural order of reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Errors noted above , which now require fuller analysis . fen . en government make a govement by drawing up a I set of rules called a constitution which serves as the foundation of law and order . Only in the Iooking-glass world of make-believe can this feat be accomplished . Constitution-making is always the end of a process , never the beginning . Political science is based on the truism that society precedes the state . In laymen 's terms this simply means that men must live together , form common habits , and co-operate on the functional level before government can be instituted among them . Through cooperative living plus common habits and loyalties men come to feel and act as though they belong together . This community , as the sociologists call it , may codify its standards of behavior , refine its administration , and set down in a constitution what it will recognize as political authority . Constitution-making is the final step in establishing a regime of law and order . Only where basic law and order already function can men sit down to draft a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true then the primary question of world law and order is not whether world government is desirable . Nor is the primary argument that without World Government Now we will perish in the international jungle . There is a previous question : do we now have a world community ? If not , how can we best encourage its growth ? For without community , constitution-making is a noble but vain endeavor . That we 're all in the same boat does not prove the existence of a world community . Neither does the fact that in space-time Moscow is only a day 's travel from Chicago , nor that a decision taken on the Potomac may intimately affect the livelihood of a peasant on the Ganges . Still less can we convince men that they are brothers by frightening tales of Hiroshima . These are all pressing reasons for accelerating the growth of a world community . We can no longer afford to postpone functional solutions of such global problems as world famine , world aviation , world living standards , world education , world atomic energy control . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by " inverting the natural order of reason . " We are a long way from a world constitution . Even France , possessed of one of the most homogeneous communities in the world , is finding it a herculean task to draft a constitution which will satisfy conflicting class-interests . To bolster the argument that the world is ripe for constitution-making , no more misleading analogy has been offered than the experience of the United States in 1787 . It is the trump card played at every debate . But to compare the contemporary state of international relations with that of the states under the Articles of Confederation is wilful nonsense . By the time the convention met in Philadelphia the states had fought a revolutionary war as a united force and under a single command ; they possessed a common cultural heritage , common language and tradition and habits and law . Interstate trade , though subjected to some obstructions , was relatively free . Moreover , the colonists had never lost their common nationality and citizenship . There were no immigration barriers between New York and Connecticut , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remotely in need of naturalization . The separate states enjoyed neither tariff autonomy nor independent conduct of foreign relations . The inhabitants of each state were " entitled to all the privileges and immunities of free citizens in the several states . " The wild comparison arises partly from a misconception of what the delegates at Philadelphia set out to do in 1787 . An accurate reading of history will show that they did not create a government , let alone build a social order and community where none existed before . They did not even form a union . The Convention performed the much more modest task of perfecting a union already in existence . No constitution can do more than that . Clashing national sovereignties are respon- sible for war . Merge them into the higher sovereignty of a world government and the sole cause of war will be removed . This error , too , can best be exploded by recalling certain facts about the birth of the United States . The American Revolutionary War resulted in the splitting of a sovereignty . It was a civil war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There was war despite the fact that the American colonies were united with Britain in a " higher sovereignty " ; despite the fact that sole war-making authority rested with the Crown , which represented that higher sovereignty ; despite the fact that no organized force was initially at the disposal of the rebels ; and despite the fact that the revolution was definitely against the constitutional law which obtained in the colonies in 1775 . According to the folklore of World Government Now , such an occurrence should have been impossible . " The only cause of war , " Adler maintains , " is anarchy . Anarchy occurs wherever men and nations try to live together without each surrendering their sovereignty . " How then explain the impossible fact that men who were living together under a single sovereignty in 1775 found themselves engaged in war with each other during the next eight years ? If anarchy can occur within a sovereignty , then global unification under a world constitution is hardly the clue to global peace . Sovereignty is , after all , no more than an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power by a constituted authority . But real power rests with him who actually exercises it and not necessarily with its formal owner . In the real world , wars are not always clashes of sovereignties but they are always conflicts of power . That is , a conflict of power within a sovereignty will also lead to war . If enough people anywhere feel strongly about justice , about the distribution of property and privilege , and about the way in which constitutional authority is exercised , they may organize a rebellion and set up their own " sovereignty . " In the Philippines , for example , the brand-new sovereignty guaranteed against war by a Constitution on which the ink is barely dry is under attack by armed peasants ? the Hukbalahaps ? who defy all edicts to disarm . Conflict over land tenure and rivalry for control of the state in China has resulted in civil war involving more people , more destruction , and greater stakes than the Chaco War between the " sovereignties ' of Bolivia and Paraguay . Dozens of sore-spots in Europe and Asia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be a " clash of sovereignties . " On pie other hand , the basic harmony of interest between the United States and Canada makes it possible for their peoples to " live together without each surrendering their sovereignty . " W itten , then , is the prime mover ? Advocates of World Government Now skirt around the issue of civil war , but its prevalence is directly germane to any discussion of the subject . For we are entitled to be skeptical about the efficacy of their prescription as a war-remover when the history of civil strife demonstrates that the " surrender of sovereignty " to a central constitutional authority can not ensure law and order . Sovereignty , then , is not the key to war and peace . The establishment of a super-state will not ipso facto dissolve the conflicts which lead to war . Arms are taken up to overthrow a constitutional order as often as they are taken up to enforce it . A world constitution , establishinga formal regime of law on a global scale , can no more ensure world peace than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor has civil war been an incidental part of history . From the middle of the tenth century , Europe suffered a centuries-long civil war to determine whether Pope or Emperor would inherit the sovereignty of Rome . The French Wars of Religion which lasted throughout the latter half of the sixteenth century , like the English War of Roses a hundred years previously , were struggles over the internal exercise of power . England fought another civil war in the seventeenth century to determine , according to the historian H. A. L. Fisher , " whether the true seat of sovereign authority lay with the Crown or Parliament , " Americans need hardly be reminded that the Constitution , which even foreign statesmen hailed as the most perfect instrument of its kind , did not stand the test of a house divided . That is always the test . Not the perfection of a constitution , but the degree of basic unity within a house , a society , or a state determines peace . Ever since the depression of 1930 threatened the stability of democratic regimes , political scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survive unless its people agree on fundamental social issues . Where , as in the case of Germany in 1932 , of Spain in 1936 , of China in 1946 , as of the United States in 1860 , there exists a profound cleavage on such issues , loyalty is split and constitutional authority ceases to have any real meaning . The result is either civil war or dictatorship or both . Lincoln 's profound observation on the condition of domestic peace is no less valid for world peace . War is a lawsuit fought with bombs instead 0 of briefs . World government alone can provide an effective world court to settle disputes since it will be backed by a world police force . Closely related to error number two , this one assumes that sovereign states tote their own six-shooters on the frontier of international politics merely because law-enforcement machinery is lacking . Nations have " recourse to war " for the settlement of disputes because international law is imperfect , international courts lack jurisdiction , and there is no sheriff to enforce their judgments . Each nation thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ error leads to the absurd conclusion that Hitler attacked Poland because of a " dispute " over territorial and population rights ; that Pearl Harbor resulted from a " dispute " over a just settlement for the Pacific area ; that the present tension between East and West stems from a difference over the proper interpretation of rights under the Yalta and Potsdam agreements . What is the reality ? All war , civil and international , is a conflict over interests , not a substitute for litigation . War is an instrument of policy and an attempt to change the status quo , not to define it . War is not an appeal to the rules of the game but a forced reshuffling of the deck and redistribution of the chips . Conflict , of course , need not issue in war ; differences can be resolved , compromised , arbitrated . But the solution lies not in delegating the war-making power to a world authority . Making war illegal for nations and legal only for the world federation is destined to be a vain endeavor . No one has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether it is legal to go to war . I osE. who delight in discussing whether international law is " law " at all tend to raise an eyebrow over the practice of nations in refusing to submit to international tribunals issues regarded as " nonjusticiable . " States , it is pointed out , never arbitrate questions involving " vital interests . " This is so , but it has nothing to do with the " weakness " of international law or with the fact that it is not a camplete code of laws . The reason is simple enough : the issues involved concern differences over policy , not the definition of established rights . As Professor J. L. Brierly of Oxford University has often noted , most limitations of international law are expressions of the limitations of all law . Any kind of law is a special method of social control , generally limited in usefulness to the definition of rights within a stable social order . It is true that within such an order law can sometimes function creatively and mayitself inspire new patterns of behavior . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it impose a set of rules contrary to accepted mores or cherished interests . Law could not ensure the success of the noble experiment of Prohibition because the American people refused to sanction it . Nor could the letter-perfect Weimar Constitution bring unity to an economically insecure and politically restless Germany . When the issues are important enough , law can not prevent people from fighting . Tv . G IVEN these three Grand Errors it is clear that the constitutional formula of World Government Now can solve nothing . It can not create government , much less bring about a social order with any prospect of stability . So long as fundamental global problems remain unsolved there can be no basis for the world community which must precede world government . The beginning of wisdom will come with the realization that world order is a complex problem which can be solved only , piece by piece , on the functional level . Global solutions on that level will weave the fabric of world administration into a design for world order . Constitution-making comes last . The test , I repeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atomic energy control , for example , must be judged not on their punitive aspects but by the degree of effective control they delegate to a world administrative agency over the sources and uses of atomic energy . Well-meaning internationalists who are now capering down the primrose path of world government could do infinitely more for the cause of world peace by mobilizing their political strength behind the proposal of Sir John Orr , Director General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations , to establish an international ever-normal granary . Orr 's plan would set up a World Food Board with authority to store food , stabilize food production and prices , and allocate surpluses so as to prevent famine . This is but one example in a long list of projects which deserve priority support over constitution-making . There is the suggestion to set up an International Petroleum Authority ; the need for implementing the recently-constituted World Health Organization ; the arduous tasks facing the new International Refugee Organization : and dozens of other attempts to solve global problems on the functional level . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a world community will become real . One World is the recognition of a problem , not the description of a fact . " Blueprints for global peace " must wait on the evolution of a world order . To be able to time the introduction of a world constitution will take the genius for political timing which present-day enthusiasts for World Government Now appear woefully to lack .                     