@@487454

THE C. I. 0 . ' s new generalissimo , Philip Murray , is something of an enigma to the public . Although he has been a vital force in the American labor movement for almost forty years he has always been content to play a secondary role ; in his own words , he has " plugged along the mill gates " close to the people he has worked with all his life . As second in command of both the powerful United Mine Workers and the C. I. 0. , he has kept clear of politics and never sought popular acclaim , being always more than willing to remain behind the scenes and let the applause and flashlights concentrate on his chief . Now that he has been thrust into top place , a good deal of speculation has arisen among varied groups as to what he will or will not do . Complicating the situation is the fact that the retiring head remains not too far in the background and is known to be of a temperament which does not relish a secondary position . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways : he can announce his intentions through the country 's headlines , or he can proceed quietly on a choseri course of action and let the results reveal to the nation where he stands . Without a shadow of a doubt he will do the latter . He is not the kind of leader who , in a manner designed to capture popular fancy , addresses himself to the public at large regardless of the consequences to the group he represents . His primary concern is to further the well-being of his group , and all his utterances and actions are directed to that end . He is aresponsible rather than a " popular " leader . To the specific questions , therefore , whether Philip Murray will " clean house , " fire this man and replace him with that , reorganize this local or that council , the answer is that as a responsible labor leader he is not interested in making spectacular announcements even though the front pages are eager to quote him , or in providing a forum for dissidents , or in spending time on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on major issues that Philip Murray will concentrate his attention . Seated behind a massive mahogany desk in his spacious office in the United Mine Workers ' Building in Washington , he sketched for me in broad outline his organization 's projected " program of action . " Despite phenomenal organizational gains in the past few years and many legislative and judicial victories , labor is confronted today with problems so grave and so far-reaching that the welfare of the whole nation depends upon their successful solution . Trade unionism was a comparatively simple matter when it could confine itself to the task of bargaining and fighting for higher wages , shorter hours , better working conditions . Now , in a period of advancing technology , centralized control , and huge gov- 630 ernment spending for armaments , this type of unionism is outmoded . The complexities of the present situation confront all branches of labor , organized and unorganized , but the greatest burden rests upon the C. I. 0. , for the C. I. 0 . represents the workers in the major mass-production and national-defense industries  --  steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mention only a few . Philip Murray considers his new job in line with what he has been doing all his life , " only more so . " At the age of ten he went into a mine in Scotland as his father 's helper and forthwith joined the miners ' union . ( The son of a miner , under eighteen years of age , could join without initiation fee and pay half dues . ) Six years later he came to the United States , promptly entered an American mine , and as promptly joined the United Mine Workers . Since then he has held many offices , from committeeman and checkweighman to C. I. 0 . vice-president and head of the steel organization drive . Each one demanded responsibility , devotion , and resourcefulness . His present position , he finds , merely " broadens the scope . " Within this broadened scope are four major fields of activity , all closely related . The C. I. 0 . must pursue aggressively its task of organizing the unorganized . It must consolidate the gains already made . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the defense program . In cooperation with other groups it must shape policies designed to safeguard democracy and to avoid economic catastrophe after the defense program comes to a close . An intensified organizing campaign is already under way , with efforts centered in the strongholds of Bethlehem , Republic , and Ford . An office has even been opened in Weirton , where none could be rented for the past two years . Employees of these plants have been hired as organizers , and Philip Murray places more confidence in their drive to organize their fellow-employees than in the many rumors that Grace , Ford , Girdler , and Weir may yield to exhortation and voluntarily embrace unionism . More difficult than this direct organization effort is the task of forestalling reaction seeking under the pretext of national emergency to rob labor of its fundamental rights , which would mean " tearing down the first line of defense . " Asked how he proposed to combat this trend , Philip Murray smiled and leisurely lit another cigarette . " Oh , by the usual methods , I suppose . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you ? I 'll not make a fool of myself . We will not confine ourselves to criticism alone but will be prepared to offer constructive proposals for every phase of the program that we criticize , and will base both our complaints and our proposals on facts . " The C. L 0. , he said , has undertaken extensive surveys of present and potential production in order to obtain the necessary data concerning basic defense industries . He proceeded to elaborate . The all-important task before the country today is to The NATION make intelligent use of our resources and to safeguard democracy . That ties up , of course , with the defense program and with what is happening on the other side . " Narrow-minded , selfish , reactionary interests " brought France to its present state . The same interests are re-. sponsible in large part for Britain 's plight . And exactly the same forces are operating here . " The country must be saved from them . " To illustrate , he went on , there is a drive to outlaw strikes . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be tantamount to committing suicide . " If such legislation should pass , " it would give rise to the biggest wave of strikes this country has ever seen . " This , he added , does not mean that the C. I. 0 . favors strikes in the present emergency ; " but we believe that we are better able than the Coxes and the Hoffmans to recommend ways and means for controlling the situation . " Concretely , his plan is to set up in every major defense industry joint boards on which labor , industry , consumers , and the government would be represented , with boards of review over them to serve as " clearing houses , " and with a " final " board which would include the President of the United States . Had such boards been in existence , he firmly believes , the much-publicized Vultee and Aluminum strikes might have been averted . Such boards , too , would act to correct the present " scandalous " awarding of government contracts to large producers to the exclusion of smaller firms  --  a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry in the hands of the great monopolies . Bethlehem Steel Corporation , for instance , controls 13 per cent of the country 's steel capacity . To date it has received 40 per cent of the government 's steel orders . United States Steel and other top-ranking producers have likewise received more than their proportionate share of government orders , while a number of smaller companies have received " not a dollar 's worth of government business , " and their employees work only two and three days a week . It may be true that these smaller concerns , " most of which , by the way , maintain excellent labor relations , " are in poorer competitive position . But , Murray asks , would it not be to the ultimate benefit of our economy if the government subsidized improvements in these plants instead of loading the big corporations with so many orders that they may have to build additional capacity , thus concentrating a basic industry in fewer and fewer hands ? And what is true of steel , is true of a number of other industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which the C. I. 0 . expects to concern itself . Another is the burning question of wages . Workers in most of the defense industries are determined to demand wage increases . They do not wish to add to the government 's burden of defense expenditures or to set the " go " signal for price inflation , but they are going to demand a share in the huge profits which industry is piling up . December 21 , 1940 The high capacity at which all defense industries are operating has enormously increased both the per unit and the total profit . It is not only morally justifiable but to the best interest of the national economy that some of these profits be diverted to wages and consumption . The C. I. 0 . will continue to press its demands for a joint conference of all interested groups " to probe and explore " possibilities for making our economy function more effectively . " I may be accused , " said Murray , " of being a crank on this matter , but I am willing to take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He has no illusions that by calling a meeting he can solve the country 's difficulties . What he proposes is more than just a meeting . He envisions a permanent endeavor to cope with pressing national problems . To deny the possible fruitfulness of such an endeavor is to deny democracy 's capacity to survive , for upon our ability to solve our problems in this peaceful and intelligent manner rests the ultimate fate of our democratic institutions . If the conference is being sidetracked because industry631 or some other group is unwilling to cooperate , then it is time the country knew about it . Murray does not believe that we can attempt to solve our problems without regard to what is happening in the rest of the world . He is by no means an isolationist . He believes that the psychological effect of a British defeat upon our people " would be tragic beyond words . " Moreover , the present war , Murray believes , is being supported and fought by British workers , and American labor feels a strong kinship with them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not want " a single American boy to be sent across the water . " This is the view , he believes , of labor 's rank and file . He is convinced that labor was the deciding factor in the reelection of President Roosevelt . The workers in the main approved of the President 's policies and had confidence in his pledges . As the responsible head of a large segment of labor Philip Murray is mapping his " program of action " to help the President justify labor 's confidence .                     