@@492426

MUGWUMP SENATOR By JACK ALEXAN1 ) ER A N the political world which revolves about Washington , D. C. , Joseph Hurst Ball , the junior senator from Minnesota , is a paradox of large proportions and portents . Ball , a tall , shambling , rawboned man of forty , habitually speaks his mind , without noticeable worry about what his party , his constituents or the pressure groups will think . Usually , what he has to say is not especially popular , and sometimes it is definitely unpopular . He is probably the most popular unpopular man in the capital . The way in which Ball 's unorthodox approach to politics has worked out so far is illuminating , and it raises a thin suspicion that there may be other methods of assuring long tenure in the Senate than that of watching the public-opinion polls . Ball was propelled into the Senate in 1940 with an abruptness that surprised everybody , including Ball himself , who was so badly caught off guard that he hastened home to reread the passages in the Constitution which define @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to that time , he had been a state political reporter for the St. Paul Pioneer Press and Dispatch and his secret ambition had been to become a novelist . His appointment , by Gov . Harold Stassen , to fill a Senate vacancy created by sudden death , was considered by many Minnesotans to ha an affront to the political intelligence of the state . In the orthodox view , what Ball did after getting to Washington should have done much to confirm this suspicion . From the beginning of his appointive term he seemed determined to cut his throat politically . Actually , he wanted to stay in the Senate as badly as the next senator . Yet every public act he performed appeared to have been designed to assure his defeat in 1942 , at which time he was to face an election for the standard six-year term in a state which , presumably , was a stronghold of isolation . He went on record as favoring passage of the Lend-Lease Act , repeal of the Neutrality Act and extension of the Selective Service Act . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ran about twenty-five to one against him . This acted on Ball like a spring tonic on a jaded kulak . In the months immediately preceding the election , 9 with the country freshly into a war and eddying in its thinking as unpredictably as a woman in a department store , he came out in favor of a postwar organization of nations . He surprised a picnicking group of Townsendites at Redwood Falls , Minnesota , by telling them that he was against their extreme demands for pensions , and he helped to kill the Thomas-Hatch amendment to the anti-inflation bill . The Thomas-Hatch amendment would have revised the farm-parity formula to include the cost of farm labor for purposes of price control . It had the solid backing of farm-block organizations with strong membership in Minnesota . To accusations that he was " against the farmer , " Ball replied that he had never considered himself to be for , or against , any one group . " I am for the United States . " he said . Some of his friends inquired what he meant by this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flavor . Ball replied , solemnly and almost painfully , that he meant that a senator should serve the interests of all the forty-eight states and not merely those of his home state , and he added firmly that that was the way he expected to conduct himself as senator . " Our issues are n't sectional , " he argued . " They 're national . Ca n't you guys see that. ? " Ball 's friends shuddered quietly at his concept of a senator 's duties and consoled themselves with the thought that after recovering from the slugging that plainly awaited him at the polls he could pick up his old career of commenting on politics from the outside . Minnesota crossed them up by giving Ball a substantial margin in the primary and an even better one in the election . If Ball had needed a mandate to plunge deeper into international affairs , which he did n't in the least , this would have been it . He plunged deeper anyway , in March , 1943 , in the company of Senator Burton , a fellow Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium of a jointly sponsored Senate resolution advocating formation , after the war , of a union of nations to keep the peace . This document became famous under its nickname , the B2H2 Resolution , and it definitely established Ball as a national figure . Ball is a Republican , but the label is purely conventional . He was never an organization man in the usual sense , and his last-minute plumping for President Roosevelt in the 1944 campaign , for foreign-policy reasons , permanently ended any hopes that he could be lured into thinking along organizational lines . This act of his riled even Stassen , his liberal Republican godfather , who has strong feelings about the necessity for keeping the two-party system aliveand healthy . The Minnesotans are , however , still good friends , with a deep and undamaged respect for each other 's motives , and their friendship stands a good chance of playing an important part in American politics during the next decade . Stassen , who resigned his governorship to join the Navy and rose to the rank of captain , has recently returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wise in the ways of politics , and doubtless will be a leading candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in 1948 . A Legislative Pill for Labor 's Ills MEANWMEANWHILE , Senator Ball pursues his stormy HILE , Since last June he has been recurrently under accusation of being " against " labor , and has been painstakingly insisting all over again that he is n't against anybody . This embroilment stemmed from his connection with a bill bearing the title of Federal Industrial Relations Act . The bill was introduced in the Senate under the joint auspices of Ball , Senator Burton , his Republican twin of B2H2 days and now an associate justice of the Supreme Court , and one of his B2H2 Democratic colleagues , Senator Hatch . As Ball explains the bill , which has been nicknamed the B2H bill , its purposes are to improve the Federal machinery for settling industrial disputes , which , under the Wagner Act , is weakened by vaguenesses in policy and conflicts in bureau functions , and to distribute equally the responsibility for avoiding lapses in production . Both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman last December provide for cooling-off periods and fact-finding commissions , and both draw a good deal of inspiration from the Railway Labor Act of 1926 . Although the Truman proposals temporarily deflected some of the critical heat from the B2H bill , Ball continued to defend his measure whenever it was challenged . With characteristic directness , he refrained from coloring his legislative pill and admitted that organized labor would have a harder time swallowing it than capital would , although it would impose heavy obligations upon both . Labor , he insisted , should swallow it for its own good and for the good of the country ; otherwise , he said , the national economy would be slowed down and labor would fall heir to the " public be damned " stigma which attached itself to some industrialists when they enjoyed unchecked power . Ball is convinced that organized labor is now stronger than capital , and that labor leaders , and some of their followers , too , have become intoxicated with their newly acquired power . Organized labor 's spokesmen have strong opinions about Ball and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is well over six feet tall , bunches up over a typewriter in his senatorial chambers , he looks like nothing more than a veteran rewrite man on a newspaper , which he actually was for six weary years . A rewrite man writes not what he wants to write , but what his omniscient superiors decree that he shall write . Naturally , he wants to break away from his desk and really write what he thinks . Joseph Ball seems to be the only rewrite man in the history of journalism who ever got a chance to express , in a practical way , the half-smothered missionary spirit which smolders in the breasts of the breed . From his father , the late Joseph Ball  --  who had no middle name  --  he inherited both the missionary and nonconformist spirits which have marked his own career in the Senate . The elder Ball , who was of French Huguenot and English descent , ran away from his home in Kansas when he was fourteen . Large for his age , and sturdy , he worked his way through a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year he ran across the agnostic writings of Robert Ingersoll , and after graduation he never preached . Migrating to Kentucky , he read law and was admitted to the bar But he never practiced law either . After teaching school in Kentucky for a few years and selling textbooks throughout the South during the summer , be married a girl named Florence Hurst , a Kentuckian of Scottish and Irish descent , and moved on to Minnesota . He supported his family by teaching and working in an express agency . The present senator was born in Crookston , Minnesota , and he made his political debut prematurely in 1912 , when he was seven . His father took him to a railway crossing one day to see Theodore Roosevelt , who was campaigning for the presidency on the insurgent Bull Moose ticket . As Roosevelt stepped out onto the rear platform , Ball held his eon up and said to the nominee cordially , " Shake hands with a young Bull Mooser . " Teddy grinned his famous grin and shook hands with the future senator . To conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With horsefly persistence he wrote stinging letters to public officials , criticizing their acts , and to newspaper editors , chastising them for what he considered their timidity . He was as violently for Woodrow Wilson and the League of Nations  --  without reservations  --  as he had been for T. R. On the business side , his family had to adjust itself to ups and downs . Ball went into the land business and for some years operated a number of farms around Crookston , but was wiped out in the agricultural depression of the 1920 's . When he died last spring , still agnostic and still liberal , he bad the satisfaction of having seen his dream of international co-operation started on its difficult way , aided substantially by his son 's fight for it in the Senate . Young Joe Ball , who was the sixth of seven children , was , like his father , constructed on a massive scale . At Crookston High School , where he boxed and played guard on the football team , he was a hard man to injure ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's mountaineer strain  --  were uniformly large , and his hands were oversize . Hies jaw jutted far out , and a pair of protruding eye sockets , cushioned by matlike eyebrows , protected his deep-set eyes from thudding boxing gloves and the erosive crush of football scrimmages . The eyes themselves furnished the best tip-off to his character ; they were a studious blue-gray . Ball was a gluttonous reader , and what he learned from his father 's well-stocked library helped him to finish high school in three years . Emulating his father , Ball early learned to earn his own way , and in the process acquired some ideas about individualism which today color his criticism of the labor unions . During school vacations he worked for farmers , and in his last year of highschool he raised enough money growing seed corn for a commission house to pay his initial expenses at college . He chose Antioch , an institution at Yellow Springs , Ohio , in which the students divide their time equally between study and gainful work . Ball 's gainful work was performed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembly line of a steam-shovel factory . Choosing a vocation was as hard for him as it had been for his father . At first he directed his Antioch studies toward a degree in chemical engineering . Then he decided that his oversize hands would serve him poorly in delicate laboratory work and swung toward civil engineering . But his reading , largely of the poets and of Sinclair Lewis and Willa Cather , aroused in him an ambition to be a writer . This ambition was to spark him for many years . In search of the nonexistent formula for competence in writing , he quit Antioch after three years there and matriculated at a normal school in Eau Claire , Wisconsin . Ball chose Eau Claire because he was broke , and a married sister who lived there had a spare room . A year later , in 1926 , he moved on to the University of Minnesota , in Minneapolis . Here his disordered career at last began to find pivots . One of the pivots was a coed named Elisabeth Robbins , who wee the daughter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a reporter 's job at fifteen dollars a week on the Minneapolis Journal which Ball obtained in the summer of 1927 . Miss Robbins , after getting her bachelor 's degree , moved into the Journal as a librarian in the reference department , or morgue . Up to then , their acquaintance had been of the ca3ual campus variety . Appropriately , considering what the future held for them , they began falling in love one Saturday night after discovering a mutual appreciation of the unconscious humor that lies in the pages of the Congressional Record . Ball abandoned his pursuit of an academic degree . In the manner of most young reporters , he devoted much of his spare time to writing fiction . When , in the spring of 1928 , he sold a mystery story to a pulp-paper magazine and followed up this success with several other sales , he decided optimistically that the time had come to exploit his writing talent to the full . He and Miss Robbins pooled their savings , which came to a total of $125 , bought a ring for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wedding present from the bride 's father and by what remained of their savings , they moved to Bellingham , Washington , and rented a bungalow on a mountain slope overlooking the sea , for twenty dollars a month . Ball settled down to pounding out pulp-paper fiction , and his bride , who had a talent for painting , did some portraits . " It was a screwy and wonderful idea , " Ball says now . " Betty liked the ocean and I liked the mountains , and we had both . ( Continued on Page 1181 T II SAl'UltIMY EVENING POST We were young and carefree , and we did n't give a damn . " The idyll had its drawbacks . In eight months , writing at the rate of from 3000 to 5000 words a day , Ball produced fictional epics of prize fighting , air war , murder mystery and cow-punching , and netted less than $2000 . Reasoning that he could write with greater inspiration in New York , the fountainhead of publishing , Ball decided to head there forthwith , with a short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his ambitions . The regularity of nature 's processes caught up with Mrs. Ball and she settled down to have her first child , and the irregularity of Ball 's writing income made continuation of the New York trip impractical . When the stockmarket crash knocked the bottom out of the pulp-paper-fiction market , Ball swallowed bard and began to look for a local newspaper job . Meanwhile , he and his wife lived on a diet made up basically of potatoes and strawberry jam , which happened to be cheap and plentiful . Late in 1929 Ball was taken on as a rewrite man by the St. Paul Pioneer Press and Dispatch at forty-five dollars a week . Mrs. Ball , after having had her child , added to the family earnings by free-lancing at publicity and advertising . During the grim days of salary cuts , in the early 1930 's , Ball consoled himself with a vision of someday getting to New York , the holy city of the writing newspaperman . While waiting  --  fruitlessly , as it turned out  --  for the vision to materialize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a badly understaffed paper . Ball was assigned to the Pioneer Press , which is the morning paper of the publishing combination . Morning-paper employees do their work mostly at night , and Ball , for six nights a week , ground out copy like an animated meat grinder , taking time out only for coffee and a sandwich . Meanwhile , he was exposed at times to the workings of organized labor in a way that was to give him set opinions on the subject . In 1932 and 1933 , during a teamsters ' strike in the Twin Cities , there was rioting and bloodshed , and the National Guard was railed out , Ball , leaving his desk temporarily , covered some union meetings in St. Paul . He concluded , from what be saw and heard , that the St. Paul teamsters did n't want to strike and that the seasoned labor leaders did n't either . " There were others , though , who did want strikes , particularly the Communists , " he says in discussing this period . " They liked ' quickies ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fostering discontent and paving the way for revolution than they were in improving the lot of the worker . I was disgusted at strike violence . There is no excuse for violence on either side in labor-employer disputes . " Ball had a further disillusioning experience  --  this time from the inside  --  when he joined the American Newspaper Guild . The guild was founded in 1933 for the avowed purpose of raising the pay of newspaper editorial workers , whose wages were , and to some extent still are , sadly out of proportion to those of other newspaper workers . Editorial employees , often at the risk of being fired , began joining the guild , hopeful of bargaining their employers peacefully into reforms . Ball joined the local as a charter member and became , as one of his old associates recently described him , " a red-hot radical . " He dragged in new members , helped to plan strategy and worked on committees which served demands on publishers . He stuck to the guild for a time after becoming a political reporter in 1935 . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travelers succeeded in dominating the national organization , and for years the guild was torn by intramural fights over ideology . There were numerous strikes , with picket lines and occasionally violence , and national guild leaders were in the forefront of left-wing movements . Ball did n't like most of the strikes , and he did n't like to see the guild being transformed into a political instrument . The process was accelerated when , in 1936 , the guild became a member of the CIO and began endorsing the CIO 's political candidates . There were other factors which helped to shorten Ball 's guild membership . The CIO in Minnesota was waging a campaign against the policies of the Pioneer Press and Dispatch . Ball was beginning to get ahead in the newspaper business and his family was growing ; and the guild , in CIO fashion , tossed the newsroom workers , who tended to consider themselves something special , into a common union pot with all the other unorganized newspaper workers  --  clerks , stenographers , librarians , and so on . Ball knew himself to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had a strong desire to get ahead in the world through the unimpeded use of those talents . It was plain that the sprawling guild union would inhibit the progress of such a workman . Ball was vocal in his denunciation of the use of unions for political ends , and still is . He was not especially popular with his newspaper colleagues ; a man with a sense of destiny rarely is . Ball was respected rather than liked , and he did n't particularly care . He dropped out of the guild sometime in 1936 . Shunted to Washington Two incidents involving transportation combined to deflect Ball away from New York , the city of his dreams , and to shunt him toward Washington . One was an automobile ride which he thumbed in the fall of 1935 after he had covered a Republican conference in an Iron Range town in Northern Minnesota . Among those present at the conference was the twenty-eight-year-old prosecutor of Dakota County , Harold Stamen , whom Ball knew casually . They rode back to St. Paul  --  Dakota County adjoins the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which took four hours , they exchanged views on political subjects from ward organization to collective world security . By the time Ball got out at his home in St. Paul , the pair had discovered that they thought pretty much along the same lines . Ball , in a column of political opinion which he wrote occasionally , hailed Stassen as the hope of Minnesota in overcoming the hold of the radical Farmer-Labor Party . Stassen won the Republican nomination for governor in 1938 , and Ball predicted that he would be elected by a landslide . The prediction was , surprisingly , fulfilled . The second transportation incident on which Ball 's career pivoted was an airplane crash in 1940 which resulted in the death of Sen. Ernest Lundeen , of Minnesota . Lundeen , who had been elected on the Farmer-Labor ticket , had been an outspoken isolationist , as were all radicals and pinkos in the era of the Nazi-Soviet pact . Governor Staasen , who was strongly opposed to isolationism and who disliked the conservatism of his own party , spent several weeks winnowing a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon Ball , whom be rated as an intelligent liberal Republican , and he made his offer privately . In a way , Ball was shocked . He had just made arrangements to join the Washington bureau of the Pioneer Press and Dispatch , and the prospect was pleasing . He talked over Stasssn 's offer with his wife , then accepted . He was thirty-four years old . The Gentleman From Minnesota Stassen announced the appointment one morning at the capitol and , anticipating an unfavorable reception which might set back his appointee hopelessly from the start , went on the radio in the evening and introduced him to Minnesota . The reception was unfavorable anyway , but Ball was oblivious of it . The only outward sign of change in him as senator-designate was a fresh razor-crease in the blue serge suit he usually wore . Up to then , he had favored comfortable dress , and his suit was usually well wrinkled from sitting in on poker games in the capitol press room . In Washington the new senator from Minnesota came out of his corner swinging in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When , in the summer of 1941 , he went home for a barnstorming tour in defense of his expressed opinions , the state was in a ferment over the threat of war . Isolationist speeches had been made in the Twin Cities by Senator Wheeler , of Montana , and Charles A. Lindbergh , a native son who had a large following in Minnesota . Ball was not a fluent speaker and he had a hard time getting used to the rough-and-tumble of the hustings , but he plugged away at it . No novice trying out his larynx at a Dale Carnegie public-speaking course ever went through worse agonies . He was booed at a meeting dominated by the German-American Band and , while he was speaking , someone on the platform covertly administered a kick in the shins to Mrs. Ball , along on the trip . Prudently , she kept quiet about it until afterward . Most of the crowds Ball addressed were polite , though hostile , and Ball spoke to them in the earnest manner of a man trying to convince through appeals to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge of his Minnesota ; although at times volatile , the state is , politically , among the most mature in the Union , and its electors usually reward a public man who has the courage to pursue an unpopular course . It has an exceptionally large proportion of independent voters . Wben the tour was over , Ball felt that he had won over a good many ? Minnesotans to his way of thinking . On his return to Washington , he set about consolidating his gains by inaugurating a series of weekly letters to Minnesota newspaper editors in which he explained why he thought and voted the way he did , The effects of his barnstorming and his cultivation of the editors showed up in Ball 's first brush at the polls , in 1942 . The editor of the Fairmont Sentinel , who two years earlier had published a one-line editorial saying , JOE BALL FOR U. S. SENATOR ! Goon GOD ! , ran a oneline pre-election editorial saying , Jos BALL FOR U. S. SENATOR ! THANK GOD ! Of the vote cast in a four-candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent . His nearest opponent , a Farmer-Laborite polled 213,965 . Ball 's concept of political conduct seemed to be paying off . In the Senate he resumed his firebrand role and kept immersed in work up to his ears . His most important committee job was with the Truman Committee , which investigated the progress of the war effort at home . Calling on his rewrite experience , Ball helped to draft the committee 's first two reports and won the respect of his associates . At one committee hearing , during which John L. Lewis stated that his coal miners were n't getting enough to eat , Ball said sharply , " That 's simple demagoguery , and you know it . " " If you say that , " Lewis replied , " you are less than qualified to be a true representative of the people . " Ball , in his next letter to the editors , wrote that Lewis was the most arrogant man he had ever encountered , and added that he seemed to have scant respect for democratic methods . To those who knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a fourth term in 1944 war , not exactly a thunderbolt . As a voter he had scratched many tickets . His political flexibility was such that he could cast his first presidential vote for Hoover and subsequently vote for Floyd Olson , the brilliant Farmer-Laborite , for governor of Minnesota . And when Olson died in office , he was capable of turning on the heat to help get Olson 's dissident heirs out of the capitol . In general , he has been , and is , a supporter of men and their ideas , rather than of a party , but he has an eye , too , for the practical business of electing the men with ideas . In 1944 , for example , he could conscientiously have supported either Willkie or Stassen for the Republican nomination Convinced , however , that the once-defeated Willkie had no chance at the convention , Ball made strenuous preconvention efforts to get the nomination for Stassen . He made two national broadcasts and traveled to Wisconsin , Michigan and Nebraska to talk to Republican leaders . The convention 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the international issues involved overshadowed all others , and he was convinced that both men were isolationists at heart . He did n't care much for Roosevelt , either , and was fearful that he , too , would alight the main issue . To clear the atmosphere , he framed three pointed questions about international relations and suggested to the voters that they insist upon knowing where the rival candidates stood . As the campaign progressed toward its close , both Roosevelt and Dewey were still ducking the questions . The crucial fourth-quarter play was a foreign-policy speech which Dewey was to make before the New York Herald Tribune 's forum . It was preceded by a strategic Roosevelt maneuver that was in the best tradition of the late Knute Rockne . Just before the forum , Roosevelt held a press conference at which he made a point of ducking Ball 's questions once more . " The press conference was probably designed to encourage Dewey to keep on ducking , too , " Balt says . " If so , it was smart politics . Dewey went before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Policy Association and came out flatly on all three of the questions , and I came out flatly for his candidacy . " For a public man who is never far from a political storm center , Ball is exceptionally calm and quiet , even when making a speech on a controversial subject . Most of his early awkwardness as a speaker has been ironed out , and he talks in a plain conversational way , much as if he were talking to a companion over a drink . He is strongly opposed to the emotional style of political speaking , believing that formal oratory operates to befuddle the listeners ' judgment . He has a passion for smoking out the opinions of political candidates and , in turn , never dodges a sharp question himself . Between Ball and the senior senator from Minnesota , Republican Henrik Ship-stead , there is an antipathy which neither tries to conceal . Ball is distinctly a political lone wolf . After more than five years in the Senate , be has reverted to his old baggy style of dress . He goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grayish-black hair falling over his forehead . There is a suggestion of a stoop in his shoulders , and he walks as if he were being careful not to knock over any furniture . When seated , he is inclined to lounge on his spine . " Joe likes to make himself look dumb , " says one of his friends , " but that 's just the come-on . " Making Ends Meet Ball 's maximum income as a newspaperman was $4500 . Financially , therefore , his elevation to the Senate represented a considerable push ahead . As a senator he receives a salary of $10,000 and he makes another $2000 writing articles for magazines and newspaper syndicates ; all this is , of course , subject to income tax . Added to the Ball family income is $5040 which Mrs. Ball , who serves as his secretary , receives as salary . The expenses of maintaining a fairly large staff of stenographers and researchers is taken care of by a special Government allowance , but Ball 's frequent trips to Minnesota and elsewhere are paid for mostly out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed round-trip mileage for only one trip annually to his home state . Like other senators , he must maintain two homes . In Washington the Balls live in , and own , what is known as a semidetached house  --  which means that it is one unit of a double dwelling  --  in the Cleveland Park area , and drive to and from work in a 1941-Co-operation in Office and Home Mrs. Ball also helps to organize and direct publicity campaigns for her husband 's pet ideas . The promotion of publicity for the B2H2 Resolution is a case in point . The resolution was introduced at a time when the S. enate was vaguely toying with the idea of pledging its support to the purposes of the Atlantic Charter . There was much worry among the internationally minded that any postwar treaty to use force in an effort to maintain the peace would be killed by a Senate minority under the two-thirds rule , as it had been killed in Wilson 's time . Senator Truman , who was strongly for the B2H2 Resolution , held a luncheon for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light fires under wavering senators , was mapped out . Ball was assigned to see that it was carried into effect . Mrs. Ball obtained the services of forty volunteer woman helpers and set up shop in the Senate Office Building . Through circularizing various kinds of clubs and peace associations all over the country , they obtained speaking dates for nonpartisan teams of senators and representatives . Twenty Republican and Democratic legislators gave up their vacations to carry the message of world organization to the country . As things turned out , the B2H2 Resolution never came to a vote , but the steam generated by the speakers helped to assure passage , by an overwhelming majority , of the Connally Resolution , which said the same thing , but in more cautious language . The vote on the Connally Resolution paved the way for our effective participation in the San Francisco Conference and gave a reasonable hope that no Senate minority would stand in the way of further commitments in the cause of peace through international action . The Ball home , which is maidless , is run on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ball is preparing the children for school , the senator cooks breakfast for the family . In the evening he also helps to prepare dinner and he washes the dishes afterward . The Balls do not move about in the fancier social circles , nor do they ever give a formal dinner party . Old friends , particularly newspapermen , occasionally drop in for dinner and stay to help with the dishes and discuss politics . If skill at the kitchen stove is , as it seems to be , the new cachet of political success in Washington , Senator Ball has a brilliant future . 