@@431229

 | The Bright Shield of Continence By Commander Gene Tunney , U.S.N.R. The AEF of 1917 suffered 1oo,0oo more casualties from venereal disease than from enemy bullets . Today , in the camps where American manpower is being mobilized , syphilis and gonorrhea again threaten to impair the efficiency of our armed forces . Alarmed , medical authorities of the army and navy are laboring to check the plague with the preventive and curative methods of modern science . Yet they agree that the best solution of the venereal problem is not medical , but moral . Sexual continence is the strongest weapon yet devised to combat venereal infection . The battle against syphilis and gonorrhea is distinctly worth winning , both for the individual soldier and the nation he serves . Syphilis can shatter body and mind ? causing ulcers of the flesh , ulcers of the bone , ruptured blood vessels , doddering paralysis and progressive insanity . Gonorrhea , the great crippler , attacks the joints , causing inflammaition , arthritis , invalidism . The germs may be carried to the heart , inflaming the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death . Until the outbreak of the present war , medical science was winning the battle against these ancient plagues . New treatments were curing syphilis , making it rapidly noninfectious , incapable of spreading . The newlydiscovered sulfa drugs were almost miraculous cures for gonorrhea . So bright was the prospect , that in the normal course of American life venereal disease would have been virtually eliminated within a few decades . But with the coming of war the picture changed swiftly . While Selective Service mobilized great masses of men , commercialized vice mobilized a counter-army of prostitutes who flocked to the vicinities of military camps . The trend of progress against venereal disease was halted ? then reversed , as more and more men fell victim to the spirochete and gonococcus . The venereal rate among draftees as they were inducted was practically zero , since draft boards weeded out infected men . Yet , within a year or so , 40 in every thousand had gonorrhea , and 11 had syphilis . At present venereal disease is responsible for more hours lost from army duty than any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these ravages , but the plague spots around military camps multi-  | ply faster than they can be wiped out . Motorized brothels transport prostitutes from one camp to another ; hundreds of girls are shipped like cattle by vice syndicates . In juke-box joints and red-light districts , the cheapest and most diseased classes of harlots ply their trade . If these places are raided , the girls are whisked away to other camps , or engage in furtive streetwalking . That these prostitutes are packages of transmissible disease is revealed by statistics : out of every 10oo , 50o have gonorrhea and 36o are infected with syphilis . Out of 2o recently arrested in one house ( all with medical certificates stating that they were free from disease ) , 18 had syphilis or gonorrhea , or both . Tally cards , seized as evidence , showed how much these prostitutes had earned in one day ; three cards showed 49 , 37 and 28 customers respectively . The three prostitutes holding these cards responded 4-plus to Wassermann tests . One can imagine what happened to the 1 14 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sense of false security by the " medical certificate , " the men probably failed to report for prophylactic treatment and may now be disabled by syphilis . The grim truth is that these certificates mean nothing . Evidences of infection in women are usually discernible only by a much more thorough examination than is ever given in red-light districts . Furthermore , an undiseased prostitute may become infected 2o minutes after receiving certificate . So it 's really up to the individual soldier or sailor to be the guardian of his own safety . A former comrade of mine in the Marine Corps put this way : " If you do n't touch the they ca n't burn you . " And don make the error of thinking that on professionals are infected . Easy pick ups , too , are likely to have veneral disease . In a realistic attempt to stamp oil venereal disease , the medical authorities of the armed services see that the men are taught to use prophvlactic medication . They are urged t procure prophylactic sets when going on leave . If they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camp at once and report for prophv lactic treatment . Theoretically this system should be nearly 1oo percent preventive . But many men simply do n't bother with prophylactics ? stupidly , they " take a chance . ' " Others , equally foolish , become diseased because of delay . For the longer the interval between exposure and medication , the greater the risk of developing venereal disease ; if two hours intervene , the risk is seven times greater than after one hour ; after five hours it is 18 times as great . Men are taught this , yet some will put off the drab chore of medication . Usually alcohol is to blame . It casts a false glow over the senses and leads men to postpone prophylactic treatment until too late .  | Since closing the houses of prostitution and issuing prophylactics are about all the military authorities can do ? and are relatively ineffective ? each service man himself ought to take responsibility for his fitness . He should , for the duration , set his face against the temptation of the too costly " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of character and will power are called for . Our fighting men can exempt themselves from the horrors of venereal disease , and increase the efficiency of our armed forces , if they will display the moral courage that underlies the practice of continence . Is this too much to ask in our national crisis ? Ordinary athletes ? all who engage in sports whether amateur or professional ? realize the importance of continence if they are to keep at the peak of physical form . The average professional boxer , certainly no loftier in character than the average service man , practices continence . Not from exceptional idealism ; he simply wants to win fights and nab the big end of the purse . Can our sailors and soldiers , as the champions of democracy , afford to indulge in sexual promiscuities scorned by most prize fighters ? Dare they forget that in the first World War 7 , oo0,0oo days of service were lost to the U. S. Army as the result of venereal infections ? Does all this sound goody-goody , unrealistic ? It would n't seem so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of young men lie disabled as a result of a few moments ' dubious pleasure . Unquestionably these men would have displayed character and bravery under fire . But in an unguarded hour of weakness they succumbed to a more insidious enemy . They have learned too late that no single contribution means more in terms of individual health and military efficiency than moral bravery when confronted by the rouged challenge of venereal danger . The problem is to some extent one of mental attitude . It 's traditional ? part of the " you're-in-the-army-now " school of thought ? that soldiers and sailors on leave turn necessarily to liquor and women . Many a boy goes along hesitant and worried , yielding to what amounts to a social persuasion . If this idea were changed , if continence became a code of the services as it is in athletics , more service men would tend to accept it . There is also a widespread opinion that the indulgence is physically necessary . But this is false . Back in 1917 the General Medical Board of the Council of National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ venereal disease , was compatible with sound health . The American Medical Association endorsed this statement . As a matter of fact , some of the greatest contributions to our civilization have been made by men who practiced continence as a way of living . Continence is not an easy victory . Men do n't get medals for practicing  | it . Yet the victory must be won by our soldiers and sailors , even though their biologic impulses are heightened by the life-and-death nature of their mission . These men are far from home , unable to find consolation for the sexual longing normal to adult males . Temptations to satisfy the deepest of human hungers in cheap and momentary satisfactions are constant and seemingly attractive . But no man should deceive himself by imagining that he will find consolation , or anything approaching it , in the arms of a prostitute who has already been handled by 30 or 4o men that day . What does the brothel patron get that is one-thousandth part as precious as the thing he destroys ? Any man above the emotional level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only a menace to health but a shameful desecration of ideal love . it can not create ( indeed , it endangers ) the structure of mutual affection and shared happiness that the sex relationship builds for its faithful celebrants . Even if prostitutes were not diseased ; even if medical science could cure syphilis and gonorrhea in a single day , I would still say to the members of America 's armed forces : " Continence is the only guarantee of an undefiled spirit and the best protection against the promiscuity that cheapens and finally kills the power to love . " Lest his body be contaminated and his emotions fouled , the fighting man must bid a long farewell to catch-as-catch-can pleasures with diseased women . Only by strict continence , only by individually renouncing as unworthy and dangerous all invitations to the hired embrace , can the soldiers and sailors of the United States whip venereal disease and keep themselves wholly fit for their duties .                     