@@167527

Psephomancy , the antique Greek art of divination by plucking pebbles from a heap , is today a $2,500,000-a-year study of the U.S. oil industry . Its present name is micropaleontology , and its new methods were explained last week at the University of Chicago conference ( see p. 63 ) by Geologist Carey Gardiner Croneis . <P> Geologists use the microscopic fossils brought up in the borings when wells are drilled to identify and correlate oil-bearing rock formations . The rock that overlies oil deposits consists of petrified muck of swamps where dinosaurs sloshed , and of seas where ichthyosaurs swam . In the pertrified muck geologists find the dinosaurs ' infinitesimal contemporaries because they are bored up intact and in great numbers . In the Carboniferous period and before , when the earth 's coal and oil deposits were formed , there prospered a hard-shelled order of protozoa , the Foraminifera , which were sometimes two inches but usually less than a millimeter across . Micropaleontologists watch for these and do not overlook the fragmentary remains of such creatures as worms , starfish , sea urchins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they sometimes spend from $1,000 to $2,500 for an analysis of the microfossils which characterize it , so that finding another such well will depend less on luck . <P> First commercial micropaleontology was undertaken about 1920 in Houston and Dallas by Humble Oil and Refining Co. , Rio Bravo Oil Co. , Atlantic Refining Co . In 20 years micropaleontology has become a favorite course of budding geologists because of the jobs it offers . An expert Texas micropaleontologist can diagnose the age and character of 100 underground samples a day , making a geological index of 3,000 to 4,000 feet of drilling . In California , where petroleum signs are more complex , scientists must identify about 100 types of fossils in each sample , and analysis is far slower . All told , some 500 fossil experts are hired by Gulf Coast and California oil producers to divine the meaning of the " pebbles " they dig up .                     