@@494205

Russia Carries the Ball At the turn of the year the big military news is the rapid advance of the Soviet armies on the central front , in the region of the Don River bend . Strategically , this campaign if successful is capable of pinching off the huge salient which the Germans drove into the Caucasus last summer , and so is of much greater importance than the previous surrounding of the armies attacking Stalingrad . In terms of grand strategy , it is a hint that as time goes on we may have to reconsider the role which Russia is going to play in the victory . So far , we have thought of the Soviet armies as sapping German strength , while the Western Allies prepared to deliver a knockout blow . But it is just as likely that in the end these roles will be reversed , or at least that the Red soldiers will be marching on German soil in the east while we come in from the west and south . That time is , however , probably still far away . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready in Tunis , the ball may be passed back to Africa . The continuance of the campaign in the South Seas and the British invasion of western Burma are merely preparatory to major actions which may come later . And of course the original " second front " has still to begin . Meanwhile the conference of Hitler , Ciano and Laval may have laid plans for some new German offensive designed to regain the initiative . The Aryanization of France Chae more step has been taken in the long process of robbing and massacring the European Jews . All thosein France , including the Jewish inhabitants of what used to be called the Free Zone , are now to lose their civic rights . They are to be dismissed from all public services , deprived of all pensions , expelled from all public schools and probably ? says Darquier de Pellepoix , Minister for Jewish Questions under Laval ? they will be confined to newly created ghettos . He does not add that they will later be sent to their deaths in Poland , although that may well be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the new law will affect " about 1 ) 5001000 Jews . " Just where did he get this figure and what does he mean by it ? The American Jewish Committee estimates that there are only 24.0,000 French Jews , but perhaps it is counting members of the Jewish faith . Other estimates , though they include all those of Jewish descent , have never been higher than 400,000 . France is not a great center of Jewish population , though Jews have lived there for 2,000 years . When Darquier de Pellepoix mentions the fantastic figure of 1,500,000 , he must be planning to include not only everybody with one Jewish grandmother but also members of a new category ? those having " Jewish opinions . " Anybody opposed to Hitler would be open to this accusation . Very few Frenchmen could prove that they were chemically pure Aryans , because race is n't mentioned in their birth certificates ; their government used to believe in human equality . By the new decrees , any French patriot could be charged with the crime of being a Jew , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slaughter camps in Poland . Not even Dr. Goebbels ever devised a more cynical plan . Darlan Admiral Darlan 's statement , read while he stood beside our diplomatic representative Robert Murphy , and given out in Washington , without comment , by President Roosevelt , evidently represents the successful attempt of the administration to make the best of a bad situation . How does the balance now stand ? Darlan has renounced political ambition and promised to wipe out Nazi and collaborationist policies in Africa . Through him we have gained Dakar without fighting , have obtained some French warships and may also get those in Alexandria . We have the President 's assurance that the arrangement with the Admiral is temporary , and that the French will eventually choose their own government . On the other side , however , is the fact that still sticks in the craw of majorities of the British and French , and of democrats everywhere ? we are employing a French Quisling as our deputy in the government of the first territory to be reoccupied . Not until this situation itself is changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position to use the full moral and political force at our command . Africa ought to be governed , while the war is on , not by Dalian , not even by anybody else chosen by the United States . It ought to be governed by military or civil authority of the United Nations , as trustees for the future peace . Hitler and the Jews Liberals everywhere will welcome the declaration of the United Nations condemning " in the strongest possible terms " the bestial policy of the cold-blooded extermination of the Jews which the Nazis are pursuing throughout conquered Europe . Such a joint declaration was one of the measures proposed in Varian Fry 's article in last week 's New Republic . But while it is to be welcomed , it is not in itself enough . Moral condemnations will not deter the Nazis , and even vague threats of retribution to come will fall on deaf ears ? until , at least , the Nazis themselves are convinced that they have lost the war , which they are apparently very far from being today . Nor will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearts of their victims , or strengthen the resistance movements in Europe . Europe has had enough of our fair words . What is needed is deeds , concrete and immediate . Fortunately there are at least two things which can be done at once . One is to set up a United Nations commission to gather information on Nazi crimes and the names of their perpetrators . Individual Nazis may even today hesitate if they hear their names singled out nightly in the short-wave broadcasts from England and America . If our information can be made detailed enough , and be obtained and announced with sufficient promptness , the effect on the mass of the German people can be very demoralizing , as the Germans themselves demonstrated during the fighting in France , when they told French soldiers what their commanders had had for breakfast . Let Them in The other thing we can do now is to offer immediate haven to all who escape from occupied Europe . There are many areas of the world to which they can be admitted . But they must be admitted promptly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slow machinery of bureaucratic visa procedure to turn . Far too often even one month is too late . We can make a beginning with the refugees who escaped from France to Spain before and during the occupation of what was once the occupied zone , and are now interned in Spanish concentration camps , where Hitler will catch them if and when he marches over the Pyrenees . It is hard to imagine a gesture which would more effectively wash the bad taste of the Dar-Jan deal from the mouths of European democrats than an announcement by the United Nations that they will take these anti-fascists and Jews to safety now . Queer Doings in Morocco The situation in French Africa is still extremely confused . The Moroccan radio is supposed to be controlled by Darlan and Darlan is now supposed to be working for our side . Yet as late as the middle of December , this radio broadcast the text of a violentiv pro-fascist article that had appeared the day before in a local newspaper . The pathetic confusion of mind of some French fascists was shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frenchmen to come over to Africa and fight against the Germans , the Jews , the Freemasons , the communists and the democrats . We are told that this speech is not a typical product of the Moroccan radio ; but there is no evidence that Darlan objected to it before or after the broadcast . it is surely time to ask : who controls French Africa , Darlan or the United Nations ? And if the latter , is n't it high time we cleaned up the remnants of fascism that obviously still exist there ? Stay with Us , Senator We understand that Senator George Norris is hesitating between remaining in the East ? in New York or Washington ? and returning to Nebraska . We hope we wo n't seem to be giving gratuitous advice if we urge him to stay close to the storm center . Nebraska is a fine state and we have nothing against it except its failure in the recent election to appreciate the abilities of its senior senator . But even the most loyal . Nebraskan must admit that Senator Norris can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the point where it is most fiercely attacked , than from a front porch in McCook . Silver Tongues The dying Congress went out in such a blaze of ignominy that we do n't blame Senator Norris for not wanting to see " the poor thing die . " The Senate session expired in a filibuster by the silver Senators to prevent the profits of the mines in their states from being threatened by a measure that would have meant an economy of millions to the government and the release of this badly needed metal to take the place of copper and other scarce strategic metals . According to law , the government has to buy all the domestically mined silver offered to it at a fixed price , far above what it could command in the market . The original idea was that this was good currency policy , so that if gold ran short , there would be plenty of this " precious " metal in the Treasury as a backing for our paper money . But for years we have had so much gold that we do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into our coffers from all over the world . There is no chance whatever that any more silver will be needed to keep our currency good . The trouble is to keep the gold itself from stimulating inflation . That was bad enough , before the war . But now silver is urgently needed in industry . Because of the artificial price ? which is nothing but a subsidy to the mine owners ? industry either has to buy silver from abroad or borrow it from the Treasury . But what do the silver Senators care about that ? The bands of their backers are in the pockets of Uncle Sam 's jeans , and in yours and ours . Therefore , in the midst of a war , they use the closing days of a congressional session to prevent , by interminable talking , the Senate from acting on the silver measure , or on anything else . Thus they preserve the dignity and prestige of our upper legislative chamber while democracy is fighting for its life . Mr. Mote Protests Some weeks ago in The New Republic we published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Indianapolis , before an audience in Cincinnati . We said that Mr. Mote addressed the Mothers of Sons Forum , the American Charter Group and the Farmers ' Protective Organization . We added : Objects of attack at the meeting were " the International Bankers , " " the Jewish press , " Vice President Wallace and Wendell Willkie , who , it was said , sold himself to the people " through Clifton Fadiman , a Jew . " Representatives Elston and Hess were supported for reelection and Father Coughlin was praised . Mr. Mote has written us saying that he spoke only to the American Charter . He says he did not mention the Jewish press , Clifton Fadiman , Representative Elston , Representative Hess or Father Coughlin . The New Republic never charged Mr. Mote with any of these statements , made by other speakers at the meeting . If the American Charter Group was alone officially ' 841 responsible for the meeting , it is nevertheless true , according to our information , that members of the other two groups were present . Mr. Mote can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The New Republic is strongly anti-Semitic in tone , so much so that we do not care to quote from it even to support this contention . Food for Those Who Need It Claude Wickard , Secretary of Agriculture , is now grappling with one of the biggest jobs in the nation : seeing to it that we produce enough food for our own needs and those of our allies . To aid him he has called in two able men , Herbert Parisius on production and Roy Hendrickson on distribution . Hendrickson is keenly alive to the fact that to win the war we need a healthy nation and that for good health , many people should have more and better food than they can afford to buy . This is illustrated by the fact that less than one-half of all Americans have been buying as much as two and one-half pounds of meat per week , the new ration . To meet this problem a plan called Victory Shares has been proposed , as was described by Helen Fuller in The New Republie of December 7 . People poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth 50 cents for each dollar they spend in the grocery store , this 50 cents to be used to buy foods on a special list . Mr. Hendrickson and many others realize the folly of depriving many of our citizens of maximum health and energy in wartime just because they ca n't compete with the well-to-do in buying groceries . If you agree , we suggest you write your congressman and say so . Wasteful Advertising in Wartime One hundred well known college professors , mostly economists and political scientists , representing many of the nation 's leading institutions of higher learning , have just issued a joint blast against the enormous present volume of advertising . Pointing out that advertising in newspapers and magazines is now about 21 percent above the level of the years 1935-39 , they argue both that there is a tremendous waste of scarce materials and manpower and that appeals to the public to buy unnecessary goods are in opposition to the national policy of fighting inflation . Without discussing the value of advertising in peacetime , they ask that the amount of advertising should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that much advertising is being done to avoid excess-profits taxes . If it be argued that a firm must advertise now to retain its hold on purchasers after the war , the manifesto replies that if all competitors become silent simultaneously , no one will be disadvantaged . This is a serious indictment , coming from a thoroughly respectable source ; we shall be interested to see what the advertising fraternity has to say in reply . To Be Continued ! The Select Committee on National Defense Migration ? better known as the Tolan Committee ? has done so much to speed the day of victory that it will be a major loss to the United Nations if it is not continued by the incoming Congress . Its Sixth Interim Report alone , with its program for reorganizing the war economy in terms of the maximum mobilization of idle tools , plants , men and processes , is proof enough of the committee 's value to the nation . But the sixth report was preceded by five others , each as accurate as a Yank 's Garand . Long in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Tolan Committee was calling the turn on what needed to be done . Had it been more carefully heeded by executive agencies , much of the grief which has dogged our footsteps would have been avoided . Not the least of its contributions has been its repeated warnings concerning the fate of small business , and its realistic proposals for integrating the unused facilities of thousands of small plants into war production through subcontracting , regionalism , labor inspection , taking procurement out of uniform and other steps . Charting a new course , the Tolan Committee has moved boldly , swiftly , effectively . It still has work to do . There remains a great need for the clear-headed thinking , the careful evaluation of facts which it has brought to the task of putting America squarely behind the fighters in the field . We hope the rest of the nation will join us in asking Speaker Sam Rayburn and Minority Leader Joe Martin to put continuation of the Tolan Committee high on the agenda of the next Congress . Colleges at War The joint army-navy plan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's colleges for technical training will not destroy the country 's colleges , as the draft of the eighteen and nineteen-yearolds had threatened ; it will save about half of them . The plan even carries a tonic suggestion of democracy , for by laying stress on ability and proficiency it may destroy many of the worst leisure-class elements in our American higher education . The students will be soldiers at war , studying for war , selected and judged for their ability to serve in war , and their success in various tests in the schools will be the only standard of judgment . Yet it can be said that this plan , while democratic enough and certainly urgent enough , does not bring the full resources of the nation 's colleges into use , and by its grim stress on the " war subjects " only postpones the need of the army 's own education for democracy . The British army has learned , as we have not , that the humanities are not frills , but tools for necessary development of men fighting for the democratic idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 English and History ; the army , apparently , looks kr ward only to a generation of technical specialists . The army feels that there is simply not time enough in the soldier 's day for " extraneous " subjects . But if it q it might find time . We need the technical specialists to save democracy ; but even technical spa ' cialists need a fuller consciousness of democracy , and the possible culture of democracy , to win in this ward ideas ? and to make victory stick . Jesse Jones Jesse Jones has one of the worst records in Was ington in his failure to demonstrate the skill and inis , nation needed for the conduct of an effective econon0 warfare all over the world . The Senate Bankig Committee performed a substantial service in defect " ing his effort to get back control over RFC funds frail the Board of Economic Warfare , which since its fa ' mation on April 13 has built up a far more effectiC : program and managed to retrieve some of his increur ble blunders . Jones 's failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The BEW was able to furnish the committee " many examples , such as the fact Jones had only sPe man in South America to develop the important rubber program . The BEW has eighty-six and this number must be doubled . The economic potee0 ity of our wealth was one of our strongest weapons ( ) ! It entering the war . It would be suicidal to immobilig4 by returning it to Jones 's hands .                     