@@485111

LAST week the President and the War and Navy de-'apartments showed that they could act boldly and move fast . The appointment of a Board of Inquiry headed by Supreme Court Justice Roberts and the displacement of the army , navy , and army air force commanders in Hawaii followed immediately upon Secretary Knox 's round-trip flight to the island and his report that the sea and air forces were not on the alert when the Japanese attacked . The government 's drastic action is reassuring . Americans can stand bad news ; the disaster at Pearl Harbor itself  --  revealing so nakedly the purposes and gangster tactics of the Japanese  --  aroused rather than depressed the spirit of the people . But the mood of belligerent defiance would have quickly simmered down into suspicion if the disaster had been minimized or hushed up and the persons responsible for it whitewashed . A shake-up never has a bad effect if it carries with it the promise of reform . It was not until new men took hold of Britain 's war effort after the defeat in Norway and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Isles shook off the apathy that had dominated the Chamberlain period of the war with Germany . If our lesser Dunkirk can be made the means of injecting a new sense of the fierce initiative and implacable determination that characterize Axis strategy , it will have been worth even the 3,000 lives sacrificed on the altar of American complacency . But the President 's quick action at Hawaii serves to dramatize the need of similar action closer home . Political policies offer no excuse for military derelictions ; the commanding officers in Hawaii who were responsible for the island 's state of unreadiness deserve the full consequences of their failure . But it is fair to say that the political relations of the United States with Japan provided no hint that an attack was possible . The President himself-has emphasized the incredible duplicity practiced by Japan 's responsible officials , from the envoys in Washington to the Mikado in Tokyo . It is clear that the American negotiators  --  with a complacency merely mirrored in the negligence at Hawaii  --  thought that Japan would avoid war as long as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means . This was the official belief , freely transmitted to the country . Is it not fair to assume that this belief was communicated directly or by implication to the American naval and military authorities in the Pacific and Far East ? And if this is so , is it not fair also to insist on a division of the responsibility for the disaster ? The men in the State Department who engineered the policy of appeasement , which for the past four years has assured both Japan and the United States that this country would permit one aggression after another rather than risk trouble , are full partners in the guilt of Pearl Harbor . They should be retired along with the responsible admirals and generals . An inquiry should not be necessary . their record is plainly written in the history of these last disastrous years . Such action is too much to hope for . Our Dunkirk was not final and sweeping enough to blast out government offices as well as military commands . The President has not yet convinced himself that the Munich mind operates with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did in the Foreign Office . He still reposes confidence in men who have lost the confidence of the public . And so we shall no doubt continue to make deals with pro-Nazi Frenchmen and send oil to fascist Spaniards till new Pearl Harbors drive home the lesson so bitterly learned abroad . And democratic Europeans will continue to be shunned as potential trouble-makers while members of the frayed nobility and landowning gentry of Central Europe get official pats on the back . And Latin Americans who try to tell our officials such facts as are set forth in the Warning from South America in this iss'ue of The Nation will continue to meet with polite skepticism or out-and-out disapproval . During the last few days the situation in the Argentine , which I mentioned last week , has become more threatening and more sharply defined . Dr. Castillo , Acting President , has gathered all power into his own hands , first by decreeing a state of siege and dismissing Parliament , and then by replacing three pro-Ally ministers December 27 , 1941 with men sure to support him and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His pretense that the emergency was declared in order that he might more effectively suppress Axis propaganda and carry out his obligations under the Panama and Havana pacts was short-lived . His first act was the suppression of a great national demonstration planned in honor of President Roosevelt . He has followed this by returning his ambassador to Rome  --  indicating an unshaken determination to maintain relations with the Axis countries  --  and by prohibiting the press from publishing anything which might " disturb the friendly relations of the Argentine nation with other countries Even the New York Times correspondent , Arnaldo Cortesi , who has appeared in the past to accept without question the official version of Castillo 's maneuvers , remarked that this latest move " is all to the advantage of the Axis powers , " since the Argentine press with few exceptions " favors the democratic cause . " It would be naive to assume that the State Department is ignorant of the meaning of the Argentine crisis . On the contrary , no man knows better than Sumner Welles what is going on in the Latin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " successful " dealings with dictators ; in Latin America as elsewhere it applies a nice mixture of appeasement and economic pressure . And usually , in normal times , the method works  --  well enough , at least , to satisfy the interests of American business men if not of the people of the countries in question . But sometimes it does n't work . It does n't work when it runs head-on into the far subtler and far more powerful methods applied in the interests of Axis diplomacy . It did n't work in Japan . It is n't working in Spain or Vichy . And it wo n't work with the pro-Axis dictatorships in Latin America unless an Allied victory pitches them , willy-nilly , into the arms of their Good Neighbor . But if that happens a lot of soft soap and dollars will have been wasted . The Russian Victories T HE Nazi military record in this war is such that most people , including ourselves , have tended to feel that the news which has come out of Russia during the past few weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removal of Field Marshal von Brauchitsch as Commander-in-Chief of the German army and his replacement by Hitler himself indicates that the Nazi military situation in Russia is more serious than we had dared to hope . Hitler clearly showed his concern over the eastern front when he appealed to his soldiers " to hold and defend until spring " the gains already made against " the most dangerous enemy of all time . " He had told the German people a day or so earlier that the Reich was657 fighting a foe " superior in numbers and material , " and Goebbels had called upon the impoverished civilian population to contribute blankets , heavy coats , shoes , and gloves for the army , caught by the Russian winter , " which has arrived so early this year . " The military commentator in Hitler 's own paper has gone so far as to admit that man for man the Russian soldiers " equal us and are sometimes even better , " and to confess that Germany seriously underestimated Russia 's economic and industrial resources . Even the German people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find it difficult to reconcile these admissions of German weakness and Russian strength with Hitler 's boasts in October that the Russian armies had been annihilated and that further organized resistance was impossible . The statements of Hitler and his aides , as we have learned from bitter experience , should never be taken at their face value . In this case , as in others , they were made with the full knowledge that they would be played up by the democracies , and on previous occasions Hitler has been known to encourage the spread of stories of Nazi difficulty and dissension just before launching a new attack . It is quite probable also that the statements were designed to drive home the Nazi contention that the choice before the German people is victory or extermination . Hitler 's action in ousting his top general is a trick in one sense Von Brauchitsch has always bowed to Hitler 's leadership , and if Hitler , as he says , took supreme command in 1938 , he could hardly do it again in 1941 . The real significance of this move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to disavow responsibility for the Russian campaign and has taken the immemorial way of doing it  --  by selecting a scapegoat . The dismissal of von Brauchitsch , in other words , confirms the essential fact that German arms have suffered a reverse in Russia . And that is important . But it would be a mistake to exaggerate the Russian successes up to date Soviet communiques have spoken of " exterminating " the enemy . But a careful reading of the dispatches will reveal that the Germans are not only far from being " exterminated " but have actually not been driven back any great distance so far . The threat to Moscow and Leningrad has undoubtedly been lifted , and it seems unlikely that the Germans can make another effort to seize these cities before spring . But the Nazis have apparently been able to retreat in good order ? although strongly harried by the Red Army and are still within easy striking distance of Russia 's two greatest cities . According to the most recent reports , the Germans are still in the vicinity of Mozhaisk  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Moscow-Leningrad railway south of the great Baltic seaport . In general , the Russians have recovered only about half the territory they lost during November . If they can keep the Nazis 658 on the run and prevent them from digging in on their chosen line , then it will be time enough to talk of rout . And we must bear in mind that as the Red Army advances over twice-devastated territory , its own communications problem will grow harder . The Case of Copper C OPPER is one of the basic necessities of modern war . Shell casings are made of brass , and brass is 70 per cent copper . One type of bomber requires more than two miles of copper wire alone to keep it flying . Every time a battleship slides down the ways another two million pounds of copper have gone to sea . In copper , as in aluminum , the OPM was slow to recognize danger , slower to admit shortages . These are now upon us . On September 20 the OPM admitted that there would be a shortage of 230,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . Even these figures overestimated supply , underestimated demand . On October 21 an order was issued forbidding all use of copper in building construction after November 1 , and use of copper in a long list of civilian commodities was reduced 30 to 40 per cent below last year . On Noveirp. ber 14 the OPM admitted that " with a demand for more than 150,000 tons of copper for direct military and lend-lease use during the current month , only an estimated 128,197 tons of this critical metal is available . " The September estimates had pictured copper supply as adequate to fill direct military and lend-lease requirements but insufficient to cover all civilian needs . While the need for copper has been rising , production has been falling . This extraordinary discovery the country owes to the Senate 's Truman committee and to the Mine , Mill , and Smelter Workers ' Union . Copper , lead , and zinc are extracted in the same mining processes . All three are vital war materials . The production of all three has been lagging . The output of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The production of zinc  --  shell casings are 30 per cent zinc  --  is slightly higher than last year but not yet up to the level of 1926-29 . Copper production this year , with a total estimated demand of close to 2,000,000 tons , was up only 15,000 tons over last year . Even this increase is deceptive , for it is accounted for by the production record of one company alone . Kennecott Copper increased its output by more than 55,000 tons this year . This means that total production of all other companies was actually 40,000 tons below last year . Behind this poor production record lie the backward methods of the industry , a tacit slow-down by capital to force an increase in the price of copper , and a silent protest against the excess-profits tax . Industry representatives complained before the committee that the excess-profits tax made it more profitable for the cornThe NATION panics to curtail production now and mine more ore later when the tax would be lower . While capital holds back , labor is in a position to take the lead . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , through Philip Murray of the C. I. 0 , has presented a plan to expand copper production . It wants an industry-wide inventory to determine what happened to the many copper , lead , and zinc mines which have closed down since 1929 . There were 180 copper mines operating in that year ; only 49 were producing ten years later . It wants to know just how many mines are operating at less than full capacity , and has provided the Truman committee with some startling examples of lackadaisical operation in a period of crisis Anaconda , at its rich mine at Butte , Montana , is now producing 2,000 tons a month less than in the first half of the year . In one of the world 's largest mining camps half the miners are working less than half the month . The union wants improved safety and ventilation devices and explained the relationship between these and output . It revealed the backwardness of production methods in an industry where profits per man have run so high as to make it unnecessary in the past to adopt modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has failed to gear expansion of the brass industry to the supply of copper , so that although brass-mill capacity is being enlarged 79 per cent , 40 per cent of the existing plant can not obtain metal to continue operation . The detailed suggestions and constructive criticism in the union 's twenty-seven-page memorandum to the President and the testimony of its research director , Ben Riskin , contrast sharply with the testimony of the dollara-year men examined by the Truman committee . The contrast is the best argument for the union 's proposal that a labor-management council be set up in the industry to run a " Production for Victory " program . The principal dollar-a-year witness , Philip D. Reed , deputy director of the OPM 's Materials Division , showed an ignorance of the basic facts and figures inexcusable in one who in private life is chairman of the board of General Electric . The other dollar-a-year man earns his living as consultant to the great copper companies which must be criticized if output is to be lifted . It is easy to understand his reluctance to treat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the heat off the OPM , announced hearings on ways to expand copper output , but has since declared that it would take written suggestions instead of holding public hearings . New ideas will go into the OPM 's wastebaskets unless labor is given a seat in its copper councils and a voice in its decisions on copper . We suggest that the Truman committee complete the picture by putting Jesse Jones on the stand and showing the relationship between the high prices paid the big American copper companies for their low-cost Chilean ore and their unwillingness to expand production in this country .                     