@@485321

The Art of Selection In naming , his key State Department triumvirate , President-elect Kennedy has demonstrated political skill of a high order . He did not , for example , reject Senator Fulbright ; he merely bowed to publicly expressed protests which made it clear to everyone , Senator Fulbright included , that a signer of the Dixiecrat Manifesto was not acceptable as Secretary of State . This leaves Senator Fulbright in the vitally important position of Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , for which he holds the highest qualifications by reason of temperament , talent , influence and experience . The key operating positions ? head of the United States delegation to the United Nations and Under Secretary of State ? have been filled by appointment of the two men best qualified in the Democratic Paity for these respective positions . Along with G. Mennen Williams ( Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs ) , Mr. Stevenson and Mr. Bowles will function at levels that will remove them from the direct line of fire of know-nothing elements in and out of Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , widespread approval in the press and Upset few elements in the leadership of either party . It is very hard , as Senator Kennedy discovered , to find anyone who is against the Rusk appointment . The appointment also had the effect of making it possible for Messrs . Stevenson and Bowles to accept their respective appointments . For it may be assumed that neither man was willing to serve without assurance that he would be able to work with the new Secretary and have a hand in shaping policy . In his own light , the new Secretary is able , experienced , knowledgeable ; he has worked with Congress and he is almost as well known in the Defense Department as in the Department of State . He has intimate knowledge of the world of private agencies which are concerned with shaping public opinion on foreign policy . By permitting the press to pair the names of David Bruceand Dean Rusk , andthen selecting the latter , the President-elect again emphasized the importance that he attaches to Asia , Africa and Latin America . Mr. Bruce is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia and the underdeveloped areas . At the same time , the . fact that Mr. Rusk was highly recommended by Dean Acheson was , in itself , reassurance to European foreign Offices . Above all , Mr ' . Rusk is neither the messianic type ( jqhn Foster Dulles ) nor the knight-errant type ( Dean Acheson ) ; he believes in diplomacy and negotiation . One guesses that inflammatory " anti-Communist " rhetoric Will be less conspicuous in State Department pronouncements than it has been in the last twelve Years . Europe 's New Savior Time 's December 19 man-on-the-cover is West Germany 's redoubtable Franz Josef Strauss . A long story in the foreign news section describes the defense minister as a " brawny , brawling bull of a Bavarian who symbolizes the unsettling vitality of the new Germany . Rough , ruthless and flamboyant , , lie bowls ' over obstacles in his way like a Tiger tank ' smashing through a Pomeranian forest . " Strauss does , indeed , somewhat ? resemble an illustrious predecessor , Ernst Roehm , but the differences outweigh the similarities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside of military matters , he has no radical ideas . Nor is he the leader of a disorderly horde of brown shirts and hence a rival of the German generals ; he is himself the unchallenged boss of the generals . Thus he is not in the slightest danger of sharing Roehm 's fate ; on the ' contrary , by all indications he will become Chancellor after a ' short'occupation of the top spot by Ludwig Erhard , or even directly after Adenauer . Time reveals that Strauss 's father , a Munich butcher and staunch Catholic , once gave young Franz Josef a hiding when he caught him handing out brown-shirt leaflets , and as late as 1949 the future defense minister declared , " Anyone who wants a weapon in his hand should have his hand cut off . " But when Adenauer began talking up German remilitarization , Strauss did not take long to remilitarize himself . " It looked like a road to political power , " says Time , and it was . Strauss , still has both his hands . Hitler is Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Strauss is n't Germany , not yet , anyway , but he comes very close to being NATO . With half a million French troops tied down in Algeria , the 280,000-man Bnndeswehr is already the strongest force on the Continent ( the Russians are Asians , are n't they ? ) and by the end of 1961 Germany will furnish 340,000 men to the Western alliance . And , man for man , the German is probably still the best soldier in the world : he takes to militarism , whether in the aboriginal fOrm or in the sanctified Adenauer version , like a duck to water . Herr Strauss knows all this , and he acts accordingly . The Germans , he warned when he took over in 1956 , will never- agree to be " foot soldiers to the American atomic knights . " The Germans are going to be atomic knights themselves , first behind the NATO facade , then on their own . Strauss does not go for any nonsense like fifteen hands on the NATO nuclear trigger . He wants ? we are still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German ground and in hand . " The Americans are too irresolute for the heroic successor to Frederick the Great , Bismarck , Wilhelm II and Hitler , Goering , et al . The United States might hesitate to employ nuclear arms in a limited war against the East Germans , for instance , since their use would invite nuclear retaliation on its cities " for the sake of a few acres of German soil . " The decision , says Strauss , should be made by the European members of NATO alone . In short , a committee led by Franz Josef ' Strauss should decide whether nuclear weapons are to be used against the German kinsfolk , and the Americans in their cities across the ocean would have to take their chances , the same as Europeans , . Will- Kennedy buy it ? Last September he reviewed Deterrent or Defense , in which B. H. Liddell Hart argued that European nations might be better advised to concentrate on conventional forces and leave nuclear ? deterrence to the Americans . Kennedy suggested that . " our partners may wish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own , under a NATO nuclear treaty . " Our partner Franz Joseph Strauss certainly prefers this ' arrangement . Kennedy said further : " We must think through afresh the military mission of NATO . " He had better think hard . Underwater Hall of Fame One after another , our new super-submarines , nuclear-powered and nuclear-armed , slip beneath the water and are gone . It will be hard to keep track of the growing Polaris fleet ( see Commander Sir Stephen King-Hall 's article on page 495 ) , a fact which may or may not deter the Russians , but which certainly disquiets the Scots who live on the shoreg of Holy Loch , and some thoughtful Americans as well . Partly to disarm the doubters , perhaps , the Navy has departed from its tradition of naming submarines after fish . Instead , the Polaris fleet has been given such magic names as George Washington , Patrick Henry and Abraham Lincoln . Designed to be silent , unseen and ? in a showdown ? impersonally destructive at a 1,400-mile distance , the Polaris sub is ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Navy reasoned that naming the subs after national heroes might " warm them up " in the public mind . Furthermore , names which are sonorous with the history of liberty on this continent would reinforce the claim that these faceless underwater satellites are indeed the ' first-line defenders of our freedom . It the always well to be reminded of our heritage , even by the bow of a Polaris sub . No one should object to the names unlesk he also wants to quarrel with those Americans who , in 1797 , named their new super-frigate the Constitution . If the thought of George Washington groping through the liquid gloom under the Arctic ice cap , with sixteen Polaris missiles poised in her tubes , comes as a jolt to the minds of Americans , so much the better ! Heroic names may not prove to be a good cover for the minimal , mechanical strategy of deter-orretaliate which the subs represent . Instead ; they may provoke us to weigh this strategy against our American tradition , and ' wonder if we can not come up with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with our neighbors . Susskind Calls a Halt David Susskind , by far the most courageous and original of TV producers , has announced that as far as he is concerned the practice of submitting names of performers to networks for " clearance " is dead . " I will no longer submit names for clearance by anybody , " says Susskind . " I think the witch-hunt hysteria in America is over . " This hysteria ( it is far from over ) was actually what Aristotle called a " contrived terror . " The people who engineered the terror were not under the illusion that the handful of Communists in show business were going to overthrow the government or influence the American people . The terrorists were simply out to mine the rich diggings of publicity which show-business names offer to every fanatic and schemer in the country . The technique was successful because , on their part , the networks , advertising agents and sponsors are groups easily blackmailed . The one thing they want is " good " publicity , the one thing they must avoid ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " publicity . The first victim of the TV black list was Jean Muir , an able and charming actress who in her younger days Made a few speeches before the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League and such-like organizations , and probably nodded to left-wing screen writers when she passed them On ' Sunset ' Boulevard . She was black-listed in 1950 . Susskind , through his production agency , Talent Associates Ltd. , submitted her name to CBS for its videotaped series , " The Witness . " CBS objected . Susskind replied that " Jean Muir was cast , that she was ideal for the role , that she was a splendid American and a fine actress . . . . I intend to fight against black-listing as an unjust , unmerciful and ugly thing . " Straws in the Technological Wind The pace of technological advance may be gratifying ' to the " priests of the machine , " as Spengler called the engineers , but it may be too fast for the operating personnel available . A few items in the new indicate the possibility of a nuclear catastrophe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Force Base in California a Titan missile blew up in its undergroundsifo . The missile was unarmed and the explosion was purely chemical  --  the equivalent of perhaps fifty tons of TNT , compared with 20,000 tons for a Hiroshima-type atomic bomb , and downright trivial compared with the yield of , a hydrogen bomb . Yet this minor explosion wrecked the silo , did some $10 million worth of damage , and threw enough dirt into the air to simulate a volcanic eruption . Suppose the missile had been armed  --  and it is useless for retaliation unless it is armed  --  can anyone guarantee that the atomic warhead would not have gone off ? Another item : on October 5 ? but the news leaks out only now  --  radar reflections from the moon set off a missile scare at the nation 's defense centers . The early warning radar at Thule , Greenland , routinely scanning the skies , mistook the moon for a Russian missile enroute to the United States . The computers flashed a signal to the Strategic Air Command 's control center and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In about a minute the alarm was countermanded , but should not the experts-at Thule have been aware that the moon would rise at a certain minute and second on October 5 , and that the radar beam would bounce off it ? The Toronto Daily Star gave the incident a red-streamer headline and its science editor suggested that " this appalling howler should be the subject of a most searching investigation " ; The New ' York Times published only a few inches of the story on an inside page . The last item has to do with the dangers of nuclear shipping , which are referred to in a review of a book entitled Nuclear Ship Propulsion. in this issue of The Nation . That the reviewer 's misgivings are not overdrawn is indicated by reports in the San Francisco Chronicle that the Corps of Engineers is investigating what would happen if the nuclear ship Savannah , which is scheduled to visit San Francisco next year , should get into a collision while it is in the harbor . The tests are being carried out by the Engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract with the Maritime Administration . Alexander Grendon , California 's coordinator of radiation protection , wrote to the Board : " As you know , many scientists , including the distinguished Dr. Edward Teller  --  who has seldom been charged with unreasonable caution in such matters -- = have been concerned about the possibilities of ' an accident of this type . I share this concern . " Dr. Teller has said that if a big ship reactor got out of control : " its store of radioactive particles would be more dangerous than a nuclear bomb 's fallout . " No one wants to throw barriers athwart the path of technological progress , but some of the , prOgress these days appears to be heaclstiong. 