@@485689

I find it very disturbing that in your editorial ' Iranian Students " The Nation , Dec. 1 you did not mention even once that the review by the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the status of Iranian student aliens was undertaken to see if any were in this country illegally , in which case they should have been deported long ago . Such a news slant casts doubt on the rest of the articles in your magazine . Ulf Hellslin Law enforcement directed against those of a particular race , religion or national origin is obnoxious even when it turns up proof of illegality . Suppose the Internal Revenue Service targeted all Jews for audits and prosecuted only those found to have cheated on their taxes . That 's the sort of thing we objected to in President Carter 's directive to screen , all Iranian students . ? The Editors OIL CLARIFICATIONS Washington Fred J. Cook 's article entitled " Heating Oil Goes Through the Roof " The Nation , Oct. 20 quoted former Deputy Energy Secretary John O'Leary as having testified on September 5 that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence " that price boosts at the refineries are a major cause of rising heating oil prices . Since then , there has been additional Government testimony which clarifies the picture . On October 22 , C. William Fischer , Acting Assistant Secretary for Policy and Evaluation , U.S. Department of Energy , presented the following testimony to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy Regulation : In summary , we find that heating oil prices currently reflect the marginal cost of production , which has been driven upward by the increasing volume of spot market crude oil purchases . Any uniform ceiling price set below the current price would therefore reduce production to some degree . Reimposition of DOE 's previous price control system could reduce the average refinery gate price by 2 to 3 cents per gallon , and would create ' pressure for an allocation program to minimize the wide range in selling prices that would result . Neither of these control mechanisms is necessary , and both would be counterproductive in the effort to assure adequate heating oil supplies this winter . Fischer added : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crude oil and other cost increases which have taken place in the last six months . The Government 's most pressing concern now should be to aid those who most need help in meeting higher energy costs and to assure adequate supply . " We feel that this testimony is an im-portant contribution to the debate on heating oil prices , and would be grateful if you could publish it . Harry H. Hardy Public Relations Director American Petroleum Institute Interlaken , N.J. I am always amazed at the effrontery of the American Petroleum Institute and its handmaidens in the indUstryinfiltrated Department of Energy . Since Mr. Hardy - wrote his letter , the picture has , indeed , been " clarified . " Within twenty-four hours /after President Carter announced we would buy no more Iranian oil , the major oil companies servicing New Jersey , acting in concert , jumped the price of home-heating oil another 3 cents a gallon . The media had been telling us , of course , that the Iranian cutoff , while it might not create shortages , would mean higher prices in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " months , ahead " ? it had ' to jack up home-heating oil prices at once . I am not impressed by A.P.I. 's citing William Fischer 's testimony . It is worthless . D.O.E . has contended for years that it was faithfully " monitoring " home-heating oil prices , yet in the last D.O.E . hearing in September it virtually abandoned the pretense that it is doing such " monitoring . " So how in hell can it know ? The fact remains and is ' irrefutable : every major oil company in the nation has stonewalled state energy commissioners , Congressional committees and D.O.E . itself when challenged to put on the record its cost and refinery prices : The A.P.I. itself boycotted the hearings held last year by D.O.E . hearing examiner Melvin Goldstein and failed to present any evidence to justify heating oil prices or to refute charges that they represented a , monstrous , , multibillion-dollar rip-off . Now it seeks to pull the wool over the eyes of the American con-sumer by . a bland , meaningless state-ment devoid of a shred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oil . Fred J. Cook WORKER CENSORSHIP , ? 1 Menlo Park , Calif . While much of Prof. Andtew Zimbalist 's article " Worker Cbntrol Over Technology , " The Nation ' , Nov. 17 dealing with the safety and quality of the work environment is well taken , I am troubled by his apparent approval of worker censorship of technology . If a corporation used its market power or political influence to-suppress - anew technology in order to , preserve or expand its profits , we would be outraged . Is this not what a labor union does when it uses its power to suppress a new technology in order to preserve the high-paid jobs , of its members ? There is an important moral dimension in worker issues and it , is important that it not be compromised by apologetics for the more reprehensible practices of trade unions . Davis E. Keeler                     