@@470707

DURING the summer of 1938 there was fought in Amsterdam a prolonged battle in a war that is to-day , directly or indirectly , involving the entire world and may eventually affect more lives and result in profounder political , social , economic , and geographical changes than the war of arms trying to get started in Europe as I write . The battle was truly one of ideas , fought without bloodshed , bombast , animosities , or even a recognizable victory for either side ; but its mere occurrence is of transcendental importance . I refer to the discussions of section IIIc of the Congress of the International Geographical Union , which dealt with problems of colonial geography and specifically with the general question of the white man in the tropics . The proceedings contain seventy-one . papers in five languages , which attack the question from all angles and often disagree violently one with the other . A few geographers reproclaimed the accepted notion that white men can not make a success of tropical colonization in the true sense ; the rest of the delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ammunition they could muster . The mere fact that such an attack took place is deeply significant ; a few years ago most men who concerned themselves with the subject were agreed and there was neither basis nor need for argument ; to-day there is not only basis but a need so pressing , so worldwide , that its possible consequences stagger the imagination . Briefly , we have now a worldwide social and political structure of nations and colonies that is based fundamentally on the idea that white men can live in the tropics only as temporary sojourners , as administrators and overseers of the colored labor that does the work , and never as true settlers . If that idea should fall , then a large part of the present worldorganization would necessarily fall with it and a reorganization of inestimable magnitude would have to take place . It makes little difference whether you or I ever plan to live in the tropics . In one way or another , directly or indirectly , we should be affected by the consequent changes of the world 's political and economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Germany 's demands for Lebensraum and colonies , and by Italy 's conquest of Ethiopia . It is of course impossible for any one scientific congress , let alone one article discussing it , even to touch on all the facets of a problem so staggeringly complex . The tropics themselves are poorly defined . Their limits may be the rigidly mathematical ones of 233/2 deg . N. and S. , or the climatic ones on which no two climatologists seem ever to have agreed completely . Within them they contain infinite variations , highlands and lowlands , islands and inland areas , tradewind belts and humid jungles , deserts , relatively infertile pampas , and regions of riotous fauna and flora . As a general rule , tropical soil is less fertile than that encountered in the temperate zones ? a fact that militates against white settlement at least as much as does the hot climate . The problems which the white man has to face in the tropics vary with race , location , political and economic creeds , the nature and density of the native population , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reasons for migrating in the first place . Explorers , medical men , political administrators , commercial overseers , engineers , military men , and climatologists have all had their somewhat confusing say on the subject , to which geographers , as such , have heretofore paid little attention . Nevertheless it is of basic importance to the whole vast subject of geography as the study of man 's adaptation to his environment , and when we boil the whole question down to its irreducible fundamentals we always arrive at certain first principles . Those principles were admirably stated at the Congress by Dr. Max Salvadori of Geneva . They will be recognized immediately by all who have read Ellsworth Huntington 's emphatic proclamations of the white man 's **29;1732;TOOLONG , by those thousands who have worked in the United Fruit Company 's tropical empire or in the tropical outposts of the American or British colonial empires , and by all who not only cling to the white-man's-burden attitude of mind but seek to bolster it with science 's comforting conclusions . For instance , after mentioning the harmful effects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Salvadori says that " it is advisable for the settler to reduce any regular physical or mental strain to the minimum , " and that " he requires more rest than in Europe . " In other words , physical labor is harmful or impossible for the white man in the tropics . The obvious corollary is expressed in the statement that in the tropics " Europeans can only form a fraction of the total population , " meaning that the colored races have to do the work and that whites can act only as overseers and not as settlers in the true sense . The argument is pursued withan inhumanly relentless logic when Salvadori goes on to say that " the social development of the natives will have an injurious effect on white settlement . The higher the civilization of the natives , the more will they be able to compete with Europeans in activities which provide a living for the latter . " Every orthodox Southerner in the United States will welcome that last statement with a whoop of joy . To be sure , our South has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressing problems from what was once a truly tropical exploitation-economy ; as a consequence it is constantly concerned with the difficult and often bloody job of " keeping the niggers in their places . " We can go on from Salvadori 's statements to the rest of the arguments against the tropics , all of which were presented at the Congress . The need to " keep face " prevents tropical whites from working every bit as much as does the climate , crowds them toward alcoholic and other excesses through sheer boredom , and throws the down-andouters on the beach of romantic fiction rather than on their own efforts . The white man needs a higher standard of living in the tropics than in the temperate zones , and far more medical care to protect him against the numerous ailments that the natives slough off through something called natural resistance . Fertility is apt to drop off , infant mortality to increase , and degeneration to set in in spite of all care if whites try to live in the tropics longer than a generation or two . Everywhere in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their children to school " back home " in the temperate zone , if only to protect their health . All those things are common knowledge , glorified and epitomized in the Kipling-legend . The significant thing about the Amsterdam Congress , however , is the fact that there all the above arguments were presented largely by men who had devoted serious study to them and who proceeded to shoot them full of holes . Dr. A. Grenfell Price of Australia , for instance , pointed out that there are many cases where whites have lived in the tropics for many generations , doing their own work , living as settlers rather than as mere sojourners , without showing any of the common and expected signs of debilitation . I wish that Price had quoted his own epoch-making book White Settlers in the Tropics apropos of the universal problem of keeping the natives in their places . Talking about our South , for instance , he discusses the dangerous presence of large bodies of exploited colored laborers as reservoirs of degradation and disease . " The matter , " he says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the negroes to their own standards of living and health . " Others , like Dr. Lodewyckx of Melbourne , pointed out that there are such tropical areas as Australia 's Queensland where white men not only do their own physical work but seem all the healthier for it . Indeed , the question whether whites can work in the tropics and so dispense with native laborers who have to be kept in their places understandably emerged as the crux of the problem , and Queensland , to be discussed later , furnished most of the ammunition . After citing evidence from Saba , Dutch Guiana , and Curacao , Dr. Winckel of Amsterdam made the startlingly definite statement that " it was long ago observed that planters and soldiers on active service retain their health better than any other group of whites , that , in fact , heavy physical labor is the most efficacious means of keeping fit in a hot country . This conclusion has been corroborated of recent years by the results obtained from the treatment of neurasthenic patients with physical labor , among other things , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument , based on firsthand observations . The man who works is generally far healthier than the one who does n't ; men who do hard physical work in the fields feel the heat less than those who do white-collar work in sheltered offices ; white womenwho lead sheltered lives in the tropics , take scrupulous care of themselves , and find servants so cheap that they do n't even do housework , show the effects of the climate much more drastically than do the men . The implication throughout is that the supposed debilitating effects of the tropical climate may well be at least in part the effects of an inevitable neurasthenia , resulting from the attempt to live abnormal lives according to accepted but abnormal mental , physical , hygienic , racial , political , social , and economic standards . Summing up : The Amsterdam Congress was a symptom of a present-day worldwide attack on yesterday 's scientific ideas about the debilitating effects of the tropical climate . In general that attack says : We whites went into the tropics as conquerors , found colored races there , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Chinese , according to legend , once set for the conquering Manchurians , the trap that ensnares the conquerors in the debilitating effects of being lords of creation , served by the conquered . We went in as sojourners rather than actual settlers , striving to get rich quick and return to our native lands with our wealth . We surrounded ourselves with dangerous reservoirs of disease and degradation , in the form of vast bodies of exploited natives who must be kept in their places at all cost . Often we went to the tropics to escape work rather than seek it . We drank too much and otherwise indulged in dangerous riotous living . Then , when we paid the inevitable price , our scholars erected a vast and sturdy structure of scientific argument that bolstered the whole vast social-economic structure based on those concepts by blaming the whole trouble on climate . We do n't know if those scholars were entirely wrong ; we do know that there is now enough evidence to refute them to force us to re-examine their entire structure , certainly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a new and more realistic one . II The results of the so-called Queensland experiment have been attacked by a number of scholars on the grounds that they are still too young to be conclusive , that the Queensland climate is not truly tropical in the sense of , say , the African and South American lowlands , and that the experiment is being carried out with government help and supervision , behind the protective walls of a tariff . Nevertheless they are extremely important . In 1866 a gold rush brought white men into Australia 's tropical Queensland , the coastlands invited attempts to grow sugar , Kanakas were brought in to do the heavy work on a basis little removed from slavery , a plantation system was developed similar to the old one in the United States and the West Indies . Economically , the system was a success ? the sugar planters made money ; politically , however , it caused so much trouble that northern Queensland once almost seceded from Australia , as our South seceded for similar reasons ; hygienically , it bore out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a flat failure . An appalling incidence of disease and death afflicted the Kanakas and , through them , the whites . The small whites were forced into a position similar to that of Alabama 's " poor whites " ? and by the same condition of nearby cheap colored labor . Among all the whites , small and large , " the expectation of life at birth was only 41.3 years , a figure more than 12 per cent less than that of the average for Australia ; and the average crude death rates for Queensland were enormously in excess of those of other States , in one year ( 1884 ) there being an excess of as much as 50 per cent . " In those days northern , or tropical , Queensland was a glaring proof of the general unhealthfulness of the tropics , sodden with such diseases as malaria , carrying the burden of short life-expectancy , high deathrates , low birthrates , sterility , and widespread and obvious degeneration . The unique feature was , however , the fact that Australia as a whole recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formulated the " White Australia " policy , and began to repatriate the Kanakas and Chinese laborers in spite of violent protests from tropical Queensland . As late as 1889 a Royal Commission reported that opinion was unanimous that white men could not cultivate cane . Nevertheless Australia in fifteen years sent home so many colored laborers that their number decreased from 10,775 to 8,826 . Necessarily these had to be replaced at least in part by whites . Whether in spite of that or because of it , during the same period Queensland 's annual production of sugar rose from 55,000 tons to 123,000 . The present Australian Commonwealth was formed in 1907 . Confronted on the one hand by the scientific " knowledge " that white men can not labor in the tropics , and on the other by its unhappy experience with imported colored labor , by the tragic example of negroization in the West Indies , and by the dangerous social and hygienic troubles that the Negro problem had created in the United States , and being no doubt painfully aware of the " yellow peril " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a matter of Government policy , to disregard the teachings of science and to pursue the " White Australia " policy with utmost vigor . Kanakas and Chinamen were sent home en masse ; white men were encouraged to settle and work in tropical Queensland and were given Government bounties to help tide them over the difficult transition period . Englishmen , Australians , and Italians took over all the processes of production in a few short years . In 1884 sugar cane was produced almost 100 per cent by colored workers . In 1907 they still grew 86 per cent of the crop . By 1912 whites were producing 96 per cent of it . To-day , with tariff walls and embargoes supplanting the old bounty system , it is grown almost 100 per cent by whites . While the change was made to the tune of dreadful warnings from most " authorities " on the tropics , it seems to have worked out amazingly well . In tropical Queensland there are to-day some 260 , - 000 white inhabitants who are settlers in the true sense of the word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " normal " lives . They do their own work and do not have the doubtful advantage of inordinately cheap colored laborers and servants . They raise their children and send them to schools in the immediate neighborhood , no longer finding it necessary to send them away for reasons of health . They dress lightly and sensibly , but they no longer find it necessary to protect themselves against sunstroke with those cork helmets and spinal-pads that were once essentials in their country , that are still considered essential among Englishmen in India and Africa , and that are badges of the white man 's burden throughout the tropical world . They have their own schools , hospitals , recreation centers . They take care of their old and bury them , and expect their children to take care of them and bury them in turn , in the endless cycle of every permanently established settlement . How is it working out ? Referring again to the Battle of Amsterdam , we find Sir James Barrett of Melbourne there presenting a number of highly significant statistics . In 1935 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of non-tropical Australia was 16.43 , of Metropolitan Australia 13.62 , of all Australia 16.55 . So much for loss of fertility in the tropics . In the same year tropical Queensland had a deathrate of 8.89 , non-tropical Australia of 9.47 , Metropolitan Australia of 10.42 , and all Australia of 9.46 . Children fared correspondingly well . In 1936 the infant mortality in Queensland , tropical and non-tropical , was only 36.20 ; in Metropolitan Australia , which had all the usual city aids of better medical care , better hospitals , visiting nurses , and the like , it was 41.55 ; in all Australia 41.16 . So go the statistics . Could we ignore all other factors and draw lessons from those figures alone , we should have to say : " If you want to live a normal , safe , healthy life , with higher birthrate , lower deathrate , and lower infant mortality than elsewhere , forget everything you ever heard about the tropical climate , move into the tropics , do a good day 's work , keep on doing it day after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , raise children , and just make yourself at home in general . " In another part of his paper Sir James Barrett mentions such widespread diseases as malaria , yellow fever , yaws , dysentery , and tropical ulcers as having always and everywhere been major obstacles to the white man 's " conquest " of the tropics . It must be remembered that they were also rampant in tropical Queensland in the old days of Kanakaexploitation . Barrett , however , goes on to make the surprising statement that to-day " Australia is practically free from these diseases though some of them exist in quantity ? notably malaria ? in the adjacent islands . " Whether that surprising absence of malaria and other tropical diseases in Queensland is attributed to some active Government health-campaign or to sane standards and technics of living , or both , I do n't know . I do know that in the worst parts of South America 's interior I found that those people who did their own work , ate fresh instead of imported foods , and otherwise lived fairly normal lives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence . I also know that in Puerto Rico those jibaros who miraculously still retain their own little patches of land and can so grow their own food and lead fairly normal lives are relatively healthy , while in the sugar areas , where the natives have been debased by the American-fostered plantation system to abysmal standards of bare subsistence and a constant , devastating diet of little more than rice , beans , and the contents of garbage cans , we find one of the highest malaria rates in the world . It is of course impossible to present here all the numerous pros and cons about the Queensland experiment . Suffice it to say that it has indicated if not proved that white men not only can , but probably must if they want to succeed , do physical work in the tropics as everywhere else . It has indicated that a dangerous race problem , with all its social and hygienic implications , is no more necessary to white colonization in at least some tropical regions than are the colored laborers whose presence produces it . In spite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to replace the British , the experiment has so far succeeded beyond the dreams of the wildest enthusiasts of twenty-five years ago . That , in view of its widespread and deep implications , is a great plenty for the time being . III While the results of the Queensland experiment are startling enough to make almost any geographer pause and take notice , we can not assume that they , in themselves , were primarily responsible for the energetic assault on long-accepted ideas that is taking place throughout the world to-day . The social sciences do n't work that way ; they do n't change their fundamental ideas except under the pressure of absolute need . The cattle ranchers on Marajo Island , in the mouth of the Amazon River , the white settlers of Saba , German settlements in Venezuela , Dutch settlements in Suriname , various tropical settlements established after the Civil War by refugee Southerners who did n't want to live in the same country with the Damn ' Yanks , were eloquent , living refutations of the concept of the debilitating tropics for decades before Australia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if any geographers paid attention to the lessons taught by those groups , or regarded them as more than , at best , the exceptions that proved the rule . But now the issue is forced by the fact that any schoolboy can MAGAZINE see how vitally necessary it is for us to re-examine our ideas about the potential usefulness of an enormous part of the world to the white man . Against the background of recognized population pressures in virtually all the world 's great nations except Russia , consider the relative emptiness of the tropics . They include something like one-third of the world 's land areas and are peopled by some 550 million human beings , most of whom are colored . The Colonial Problem , published some years ago by the African Research Survey in London , states that the total white population of tropical and sub-tropical colonial countries is probably less than a million . Add to those the 4 million whites who live in Cuba and Puerto Rico , the 2 or 3 millions in Mexico and the smaller Central American States , the white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total white population of some 10 or 12 millions , holding one-third of the world 's land area . You also get some inkling of why there are still enormous uninhabited stretches in South America and Africa , lordly expanses with varying fertility , beauty , healthfulness , and general attractiveness ? as determined by their own natures as well as by the point of view of the beholder . ( The man who looks at them with bayonets and concentration camps at his back is apt to find them far more beautiful and potentially useful than the man who is firmly entrenched within some one economic structure , and who dismisses , without solving , the refugee problem with the facile quip that you ca n't make pioneers out of moneychangers and shopkeepers . ) The refugee problem itself is serious enough . Tens of thousands of people wandering homelessly over the earth constitute a menace that is already in part responsible for the present alarming growth of fascist feeling in the United States . The refugee problem as a symptom of world-diseases is a hundred times more serious still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate problem that is really forcing the issue over yesterday 's pessimistic concepts about the possibilities for white men in the tropics . As I write , I come from a number of conferences with people who are working on the problem of refugee settlement . The important trend in their efforts is this A few years ago at least the refugee organizations in Ncw York labored mainly to find jobs and places for the homeless in such countries as the United States ; to-day they are beginning to look on such efforts as mere temporary stopgaps . They are applying the long-range point of view and are looking toward the tropics and the sub-arctic for possible colonization . So , for instance , several New York organizations are even now arguing over the relative merits of Alaska , where the possible passage of a congressional bill in Washington may soon make room for an appreciable number of refugees , and the highlands of British Guiana , where an international commission recently examined conditions for the benefit of refugees and turned in a report that was on the whole favorable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financed to the tune of two million dollars for the express purpose of actually doing something about the refugees , is now actively working out colonization schemes in the Dutch and French tropics . So too Sir Neville Chamberlain , with his usual genius for making himself appear the champion of the under-dog , suggested a year or so ago that Jewish refugees might be settled in those African colonies that Germany once held and now wants back . It matters little whether you consider such thinking visionary and impractical ; as things now stand it is far less visionary than any idea that room can be found for the refugees within any one country even as large and as liberal as the United States ; as a symptom of realignments of world thought it is so very important that it is forcing geographers to reexamine the very fundamentals of their scientific structure . The refugees , however , are only the unfortunate whipping-boys who take the rap for that world problem that is loosely called " over-population . " To be sure the term is encumbered by a vast amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general , populations are still growing while the abilities of the various capitalistic economic structures to take care of them are slowing down , standing still , or actually decreasing , according to who does the arguing and about what country . Under conditions of that kind something has got to give . Yesterday 's great east-and-west migrations have largely been stopped by the quota system in America and elsewhere ; now we are turning our thoughts in a north-and-south direction . Even the United States is now " overpopulated " in relation to her economic structure to the tune of some thirteen ? or whatever it is ? million unemployed . In so far as any single ? and , therefore , inadequate ? explanation ever suffices , we can very well explain Japan 's conquest of Manchuria and her present war in China by her annual population growth of 900,000 , and Italy 's conquest of Ethiopia by hers of around 500,000 . The latter is also a direct attack , by force of arms , on the old ideas about the debilitating effects of the tropics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlers ? farmers , homebuilders , not mere colonial administrators and sojourners . If he succeeds ? which remains to be seen ? then Italian Ethiopia will loom over the growing British settlements in the East African tropics and threaten the main British trade route to the tropical East , as Japan 's activities in the East have long menaced the Philippines and Australia . Project those forces into accelerating world realignments , view them in the light of the one problem that was discussed by Section Inc of Iast year 's Congress in Amsterdam , and you can catch a small glimpse of the importance of that Congress to yourself , myself , and our children and children 's children who will inherit the earth as we leave it to them . It is a mere truism that even the social and economic ideologies on which our present world structures stand are undergoing profound changes under the pressure of absolute need . Even the Economic Royalists almost invariably preface their attacks on Roosevelt 's patch-up efforts with the smug remark that they know very well that capital has to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor . Every bit as significant , and forced by the same general need , are the changes that are being made by geographers and other scientists in those ideas that yesterday stood firmly as parts of the foundations of capitalism 's colonial world empire . That is why the battle of Amsterdam , as an incident in man 's war over changing scientific ideas , is at least as important as the battles of Guadalajara and Warsaw , as incidents in our present bloody deadlock over political and economic dogmas . IV Geographers have long been aware that for the past twenty years their particular body of knowledge has been undergoing a revaluation so profound that it can well be called a renaissance . By to-day that revaluation has gathered so much momentum that it is beginning to affect the world 's affairs , and in that condition we can see a striking repetition of history . In classical and medieval days the white man 's world was small and encompassed by a wall of scientific ideas that hemmed it in every bit as much as did the dangers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The wise men of those days taught that only the temperate zones were habitable ; the tropics were too hot and the polar regions too cold to be even penetrated by man . It mattered little that the Phoenicians circumnavigated Africa and so crossed both the tropics twice , some two thousand years before those ideas were scuttled , or that the Norsemen penetrated some seven hundred miles beyond the Arctic Circle . The Phoenicians and the Norsemen were barbarians , hence what they did did n't count ; there was as yet no pressing need to revise scientific opinion , hence the proofs that contradicted it were simply ignored . But eventually the need did become pressing . Filthy , crowded , diseased , suffering Europe needed Lebensraum ; successive crusades failed to break the barriers in the East ; hence ideological barriers had to go . Isaiah Bowman has pointed out that the broad general study of man 's life proceeds on the dual vehicles of history and geography , the one to give it depth and perspective , the other to give it breadth . It is well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is generally written to bolster a social and political status quo and must be rewritten when that status quo changes . In more ways than one it is becoming apparent now that the writing and thinking of geography changes in an exactly similar manner . Finding it necessary to break through the ideological walls that were hemming them in , the Portuguese of the fifteenth century began to sail farther and farther south along the coast of Africa until , in 1484 , they crossed the equator and discovered that the tropics not only did n't burn but were on the whole quite pleasant . With that they unleashed the frenzied age of discovery , colonization , and conquest . The centuries-old barrier of the supposedly burning tropics had been broken ; it was only a matter of time before the barrier of the impenetrable frozen north also , and inevitably , had to break down . Spain and Portugal discovered a vast new world and divided it between them . England did n't like it . Spain controlled the Southwest Passage to the fabled East , by way of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Cape of Good Hope . England looked to the north for a passage that would beat them both . When the longestablished scientific dogma of the impenetrable frozen north stood in the way , it had to go . Robert Thorne attacked it with his famous dictum , " There is no land unhabitable nor sea unnavigable . " It had to go to permit three centuries of heroic searching for the Northwest and Northeast Passages . When the restraining dams of scientific knowledge had finally burst , men swarmed in exuberant hordes into the mental and physical terra incognita beyond , just as they may again in the near future , to beat themselves bloody against the realities of previously unsuspected difficulties , just as they will again if they start to swarm by the uncontrolled thousands into the tropics . Even in his war against the wilderness man must have thousands of troops who are nothing more than cannon fodder . The important thing is that they swarmed , and so made the whole world over . The arctic was n't as pleasant as the men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another failed . Gradually the world settled down to a concept in which the temperate zones were climatically the true homes of the white man while the tropics and the romantic polar regions served only as temporary abodes of explorers , adventurers , military men , and colonial overseers of one kind or another . Scholars developed a system of thought that explained that condition . With regard to the north it was as definite as with regard to the tropics ; there the " monotony of cold , " the supposedly nerve-racking effects of the so-called long , dark , winter night , the danger from scurvy , were as menacing to white men as were malaria and heat in the tropics . But , just as we are to-day seeing all our previous ideas about the tropics challenged , so all our old notions about possibilities for arctic colonization are going by the board . Stefansson started it by exposing the weaknesses of the old way of thinking , but as long as the question was an academic one and debate a matter of intellectualexercise he was a lone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else the Russians , because they needed the far north , actually scuttled the ideas that Stefansson had attacked so vigorously . They needed a sea route to the East and the raw materials of Arctic Siberia . Hence they opened the Northeast Passage for commercial shipping , built cities and settlements hundreds of miles north of the Arctic Circle , started an active campaign of arctic colonization that has never been approached , that compares in magnitude with our own westward expansion after the Civil War . From all accounts that arctic colonization program seems to be working out exceedingly well . Certainly it is every bit as significant in refuting yesterday 's scientific thought as is the Queensland experiment . Certainly too it is giving such regions as Alaska a brandnew potential importance in the eyes of a number of forward-looking Americans . The similarity between those events and the breakdown of long-established geographical thinking that marked the end of the Middle Ages is too striking to be ignored . As in medieval days , we have been hemmed in by ideological walls that were no less effective for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we are to-day attacking those walls , finding great holes in them , breaking them down wherever possible . It has often been predicted , on other evidence and reasoning , that the end of the world 's present deadlock over issues of fundamental political and economic dogmas will release a vast flood of pent-up energies , will send men out by the thousands to conquer and " civilize " the far corners of the world , to do for the world what our westward expansion did for us . The battle of Amsterdam is only one of many indications that our thought is shaping in that direction , and that geographers are doing everything in their power to pave the way for a new renaissance of unpredictable scope and significance .                     