@@475389

THE TENNESSEE Valley is , like the Grand Canyon , one of the great sights of these United States . But whereas man has added little to the Grand Canyon ? it is nature 's handiwork unadorned ? the valley of the Tennessee attracts visitors because of what man has done there . It is less the valley itself that people go to see than the work of the Tennessee Valley Authority , now twelve years old , whose accomplishments have been heralded around the world . The great dams , built for flood control , to regulate water for navigation , to generate electricity , or as multiple-purpose structures serving two or three of these purposes simultaneously , can be looked at as spectacles , as monuments to man 's constructive powers , or as great utilitarian works ? so the inscriptions tell us ? built " for the people of the United States . " Thousands went to look before the war , thousands more will du so after the war . There are , for example , the great Fontana Dam recently completed on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ height of 480 feet and a length of 2,662 feet , the tallest structure of its kind east of the Rockies ; and the Wilson Dam at Muscle Shoals , Alabama , in the main river , an inheritance from the last war , designed by Hugh L. Cooper ( who later designed Dnieprostroy for the Russians ) , with a maximum height of 137 feet and a length of 4,862 feet . Moreover , the dams create great , spectacular , and attractive lakes where none existed before . These things forcibly impress the imagination . But unless you arc a technician they impress it like other man-made vastnesses , the Empire State Building and Radio City in New York , and the Pentagon Building in Washington . They impress , but the mental illumination they bring of themselves is small . The inevitable pragmatic question is : What can they do for the people of the Valley and the United States ? That question takes one to the heart of the problem confronting TVA today . What , in the final analysis , will be their impact on Valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get FI-1 clearly in mind what TVA is charged with attempting to do and the historical background of its tasks . Much of the confusion with regard to the enterprise arises from failure to study the law which created it . By act of Congress TVA was set up as a corporate body : To improve the navigability and to provide for the flood control of the Tennessee River ; to provide for the reforestation and the proper use of marginal lands in the Tennessee Valley ; to provide for the agricultural and industrial development of said valley ; to provide for the national defense by the creation of a corporation for the operation of Government properties at and near Muscle Shoals in the State of Alabama , and for other purposes . The properties already owned by the government and taken over by TVA in-eluded Wilson Dam , begun in 1918 and completed in 1925 , together with a nitrate plant built during World War I but brought into operation too late to do any good in that war . It was maintained in standby condition by the Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the end of the war and 1933 , private interests ? Alabama Power and Henry Ford , for example tried to buy these properties but were refused . Congress prevented the transfer on the grounds that they should be retained as public properties . ( As a matter of fact , the government had been active in this area for a very long time . Congress gave lands to the state of Alabama back in 1827 to finance a canal at Muscle Shoals . ) Although today TVA and electricity are always associated in the public mind , neither in the Preamble nor in Section 1 of the Congressional act is the production of electricity mentioned , and not until we come to Section 9a is this function defined . Subsequent sections of the act lay down specifications which have been the basis for some of the most severe attacks on TVA . For instance : the directors of the authority are charged with operating dams and reservoirs " primarily " for the purpose of promoting navigation and controlling floods . But , so far as may be consistent with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and operate facilities for the generation of electric energy not only for the use of the corporation and of other government agencies , but also for sale , " to assist in liquidating the cost or to aid in the maintenance of the projects of the Authority . " The act goes on to specify that : in the sale of such current by the board it shall give preference to states , counties , municipalities , and co-operative organizations of citizens or farmers , not organized or doing business for profit , but primarily for the purpose of supplying electricity to its own citizens or members . Almost all of the controversy about TVA circles around these provisions , since the private utilities and their supporters find in them a deliberate intent of encroaching upon their preserves . For our purposes at the moment , however , we needonly take note of the fact that TVA 's production and distribution of electricity is by statute subordinate to both flood control and navigation . There is little controversy over the flood control and navigation aspects of TVA 's activities , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The federal government has been dealing with these matters for a time ? since 1821 to be exact ? acting through the War Department and the Army Engineers . Even Adam Smith , the apostle of free markets , admitted that they were legitimate activities of the state . But electricity is a different matter . We all know that governments the world around have entered the field and are likely to invade it ever more freely as time goes on . It is one of those generally accepted extensions of governmental activity which are characteristic of our time . As well oppose the weather . But it should be noted that thus far in the United States the government 's production and distribution of electricity remains incidental to more traditional purposes . The language of the TVA Act reflects the policy developed by the Bureau of Reclamation , which pioneered in this field by developing electric power at irrigation dams in the West . Beginning in 1906 ? under the first Roosevelt ? at the Salt River Valley project in Arizona , the Bureau has steadily added to its plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-eight scattered through Arizona , California , Colorado , Idaho , Nevada , New Mexico , Texas , Utah , Washington , and Wyoming . These plants produce electricity primarily to aid in operating the irrigation projects , but they also sell Tow-cost energy to private buyers and have done so for years . In 1928 , with the Boulder Canyon project , the idea was accepted that power should help liquidate the cost of the works built fundamentally for a different purpose . Power sales will pay off 90 per cent of the cost of Boulder . On other projects of this sort electricity sales will meet from 50 to 100 per cent of the cost . In the sale of its power the Bureau , like TVA , gives " preference to municipalities and other public corporations or agencies , and to co-operatives and other nonprofit organizations . " In other words , TVA 's production and distribution of electricity , like flood control and aid to navigation , is backed by perfectly respectable tradition . In any case , the electric power phases of TVA were not sprung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Dealers of 1933 invent the definitions of policy they used . At bottom , that responsibility belongs to T.R. and the conservationists. nUT TVA is not limited to these func- tions . It shoots off in other , complementary directions . Agricultural development is mentioned in the preamble to the act , and there are other references in various sections which support an active program in this field , chiefly with regard to the use of fertilizers produced in the old nitrate plant , the use of soil-building cover crops , the promotion of cultivation methods that minimize soil erosion , and the development of new crops which will increase the incomes of the farmers . Furthermore , the Authority is specifically empowered to deal with the problems of forest utilization on a perpetual production basis , to encourage factory industry , and to foster the " economic and social well-being of the people " in general . Like the other functions of TVA these are traditional activities of government in America . Here , then , are the general objectives of TVA , as summarized in Section 23 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flood control ; ( 2 ) the maximum development of said Tennessee River for navigation purposes ; ( 3 ) the maximum generation of electric power consistent with flood control and navigation ; ( 4 ) the proper use of marginal lands ; ( 5 ) the proper method of reforestation of all lands in said drainage basin suitable for reforestation ; and ( 6 ) the economic and social well-being of the people living in said river basin . It is these six objectives which set the basic pattern of the Authority . WHAT MAKES the Authority unique is not the objectives assigned to it but the co-ordination of these objectives under a single organization with power to carry them out in a specified region , and their coupling with planning powers . Planning is , of course , a fighting word , and those who arc excited by it should read carefully the planning powers as set forth in Section 22 of the act . They will discover that what Congress has provided is a kind of resources planning board for the Valley ; it has no power to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . TVA planning is chiefly " for information , " and the plans remain " information " until , as the section states , Congress or a state implements a specific plan . TVA 's planning authority is cribbed , cabincd , and confined . It is not a well from which can be drawn the heady waters of authoritarian planning , even within the Authority 's bailiwick . Indeed , there is little in the act in any connection that allows for authoritarian conduct on the part of the board of directors . As a federal agency TVA presumably could be arbitrary , overbearing , and overriding in relation to the states , local governments , and individual citizens . Moreover it wields considerable power of the purse , in itself a potential source of arbitrary power . But thus far the directors seem to have done rather better than well in keeping clear of the authoritarian virus . Finally , TVA is a corporation . This alone is enough to give some good folks the jitters . But government corporations are legitimate devices for accomplishing public ends . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dimock in Harfier 's for May . He pointed out that the United States has been experimenting with them since 1904 . TVA was n't the first ; it wo n't be the last . And there is no evidence whatever that it is , or will ever become , a monstrous growth . That dubious honor appears to be reserved for Mr. Hoover 's RFC . MOST OF the writing about TVA that has substance has to do with admimstration . This is natural enough , I suppose , since the running of such a gigantic enterprise , operating in parts of seven states , containing numerous local governments ? counties , villages , towns , and cities ? presents an infinitude of problems which fascinate administrators , especially professors and others who think they are developing a " science " of administration . However , much of this stuff makes arid reading . Pm not going to add my quota to it , whatever the provocation . Rather I am going to ask and attempt to answer in concrete terms a central question : Is TVA really democratic ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its administrators rely so heavily on persuasion , accompanied by co-operation N.-ith state and local authorities through negotiation and shared responsibility . But nevertheless I find it hard to convince myself that the way TVA is at present operated is the only way it could be operated under the existing law , even though that law does pretty clearly specify persuasion . I can imagine another set of directors resting on their oars and relying upon the passive coercion of federal prestige to get the required results . I can even imagine the covert use of active coercion as an instrument of policy . In short , after careful reading of the law and of a reasonable amount of the literature about TVA administration , I feel sure that the active pursuit of the correct course is a matter of the personalities of the directors , and especially of the chairman , David E. Lilienthal . MHE THREE directors of TVA today are James P. Pope , Ilarcourt A. Morgan , and Mr. Lilienthal . Mr. Pope , a former senator , had so little to say at the general conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I could not assess his outlook . I was told that he was very good at making persuasive speeches to local organizations of any kind and that he was a Nation-New Republic liberal . Harcourt Morgan , on the other hand , had a lot to say . I gathered that he felt that the real solution of the Valley 's problem is a kind of exciusivist sectionalism , something which on a Valley basis would be an equivalent to economic nationalism on a nationwide basis . ( Sharp dissent from his audience . ) I concluded that he was a curious and interesting man who has become rather tired in his earnest service of the public good . Lilienthal overshadows his fellow directors . He is in fact and by logic chairman , the principal personal influence on the TVA . Luckily we saw more of him than of any of the others , David Lilienthal is a naturally friendly man . He is easy with people . He likes people . He is not , however , a fluent conversationalist . Words are obviously not his professional medium . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference they make in practice ? and that , naturally , he has little use for metaphysical theory . He is genuinely interested in discovering ways and means of reconciling big organization and true democracy . Above all , he is a convinced democrat of the liberal persuasion who believes that the kind of job TVA has to do is a right and proper job for a government agency . Lilienthal believes in decentralization . He decidedly does not believe that all our problems should be handed over to a few bright boys in Washington . He doubts whether all the bright boys get to Washington . More important , he believes that even if they did they would lack that understanding of local mores which is needed to deal properly with problems in their local expressions . Every bureaucrat is a potential Procrustes , trimming people to fit his rules , and Procrustes was no democrat . But since Lilienthal is anything but a rigid logician , he does n't think the alternative to Washington centralization is village-pump localism . He does n't even believe in states ' rights as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are more reasonable geographical units of administration than the states . lie therefore accepts the region as a desirable administrative unit , standing as it does somewhere between Washington and the states . As a regionalist he sees this new unit as a means for realizing common purposes which require that state boundaries be transcended . A river valley is often such a logical regional unit . Certainly the Tennessee Valley Is one . But because the region is larger than the states , it does not follow that state and local governments should be obliterated by the regional authority , even in the areas of action peculiarly its own . Mr. Lilienthal appears to have sought in an extraordinarily conscientious fashion ? even , to some degree , at the expense of efficiency ? the intimate co-operation of state and local authorities in carrying out TVA 's duties . Thus , in realizing the farm program , the work is largely done through , and with the help of the land-grant colleges of the Valley and the established county agents of the extension service . TVA has sought , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properly local functions and , on the other , has sought to act positively to strengthen and extend local functions . It seeks to realize its purposes through local institutions , wherever feasible . This , I think , is democratic . Moreover , it is democratic in that it does not command co-operation ; it achieves it by negotiation and , often , by written agreement defining the responsibilities assumed by the parties ; and , further , it does not seek to coerce the ultimate beneficiaries , the citizens . If TVA in its activities needs an improved county library system , it helps the local system , if one exists , or it assists in establishing a new one . But it will not maintain the new library facilities permanently . When TVA 's special need ? created , say , by the building of a dam in some remote place ? has passed , the further maintenance of the improved library system must be undertaken by the authorities normally concerned . As a rule this happens , because the people in general have welcomed the enlarged opportunities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever said , " Comes TVA , books you shall read . " Nor does TVA require people to abandon old shacks for modern houses , TVA style ; or even to cease following farm practices that erode the land . TVA seeks to gain co-operation all along the line by persuasion , not coercion , and to teach by example , not by compulsion . That it succeeds is clear from the testimony of the Valley governors , solicited and printed by the St. Louis Post-Dispatch . All of them absolved TVA of any interference with states ' rights , Governor Prentice Cooper of Tennessee saying that " the rights of this state and its citizens , far from being restricted or violated by activities of this federal agency , have been enlargedthrough enriched opportunities , " and Governor Ellis Arnall of Georgia going so far as to assert , " The only complaint I have regarding TVA is that its influence has not permeated this state further . . . . There has been no encroachment on states ' rights . " III A THOUGII it is all to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it might be run democratically to a footless end . What is the central purpose of TVA ? I assume that there will be little quarrel with the statement that its fundamental objective is the raising of living standards ? particularly within the area of its operations , but with a generally favorable effect on the nation as a whole . Everything TVA does has an effect on living standards , even though it may be hard to measure each item in dollars and cents . How would you reckon the per capita value of the sharply diminished risk of floods ? Or the worth to the average man of improved navigation facilities on the Tennessee ? How would you state the worth of a good library system in terms of personal income ? Or better facilities for recreation ? Can you calculate in money terms the significance of a sharp decline in the incidence of malaria , due to TVA 's malaria-control program , in a region where it was once rife ? Measuring living standards is always difficult , since there are so many intangibles involved . How much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of so complex an institution as TVA . Some things we know . TVA operates in an area where living standards , as indicated by dollar incomes , have long been below the national average , in some districts sharply below . The Valley includes portions of seven states ( Tennessee , Alabama , North Carolina , Virginia , Georgia , Kentucky , Mississippi ) in which a larger proportion of the citizens are engaged in farming for small returns than is true of the nation as a whole , while a smaller proportion are engaged in manufacturing . We know also that such an occupational distribution is not favorable to a high average level of income . Coming into this general situation in 1935 , TVA 's first impact was like that of any public works program . The building of the dams gave people jobs under good conditions ? exceptionally good for construction camps ? at wages at least equal to those of the general vicinity . But it is obvious that something more permanent than this is needed to justify TVA , though it has continued to play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now drawing to an end . It is at this point that the production and sale of electricity and the agricultural program begin to assume major importance . The agricultural program has as its principal purpose the pointing of a way to improved incomes on the farms by ( a ) better methods of cultivation , ( b ) improvement of the quality of the soil , ( c ) development of new crops , ( d ) processing of crops in the immediate vicinity before final mar- , keting . The electricity program contributes its share to improving farm methods by making possible the use of electric hay driers , refrigeration , electric milkers , and so on . Of course none of the newly introduced factors operates evenly throughout the entire Valley . The TVA approach through persuasion precludes that . But it is already possible to state that a lot of progress has been made on the farms . They can not be turned into gold mines , but they can produce substantially improved incomes . As to the general effect of TVA electricity , it can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate rise in consumption per customer to 50 per cent above the national average in an area where income is below the national average ; and the number of residential consumers more than doubled between 1933 and 1943 . Cheap current also sharply enlarged the sale of appliances of all kinds . ( VA does not retail electricity , as it happens , but it controls the resale price through its contracts with retail distributors . ) The enlarged use of electricity in homes and on farms is a definite step forward , and its effect on living standards is extremely important . trr ' rum real road to rising standards in the area as a whole is through the development of new factory industries . In so far as TVA electricity plays a strategic role in bringing industries to the area , it is definitely setting the stage for a general advance . TVA tries to encourage the establishment of small industries , locally owned and managed . Mr. Lilienthal has stated , " TVA took a firm stand against any policy of inducing existing industries located in other regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established in the Valley must , therefore , be net additions to the total national plant . If , for example , TVA sees the need for a new farm implement , or an adaptation of an old one to local conditions , its technicians do the job at the technical level and then the Authority encourages the production of the machine by a local manufacturer . Or TVA technicians may tackle the problem of freezing strawberries , carrying the job up to the pilot-plant stage , but the local people arc then expected to carry on the job from there . In short , TVA may , at any given moment , be experimenting in a number of industrial lines , but it is not engaged in manufacturing on a permanent basis , except at the fertilizer works at Muscle Shoals , save in wartime when it does electro-metallurgical work as a service to national defense . But beyond its direct . technological contributions , it definitely encourages industries of all kinds from cheese factories to flour mills . And it is also not averse to old industries being expanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources , including power . In the electro-metallurgical and chemical fields , where electricity is a primary cost , there are Alcoa , Monsanto , Victor Chemical , the Electro- Metallurgical Company , and Reynolds Metals . In 1944 , indeed , electricity for non-ferrous metals constituted the largest single item of power requirements in the TVA area , with chemicals third , and municipalities and co-operatives sandwiched in between . The Valley , like the Pacific Northwest , with which it will be in fairly direct competition , looks hopefully to the light metals age . All this means that TVA can finally achieve its basic purpose only in so far as private enterprise picks up the ball and carries it across the goal line . T HE STRATEGIC importance of industrialization in improving living standards is fully recognized by Mr. Lilienthal . Concerning the recent ICC order making uniform the class rate structure in railroad freight east of the Rockies , he said : What is wanted in the South and West are medium-sized industrial plants serving mostly local communities . Through the establishment of such industries I hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income of the South to the level of the entire country . A close examination of TVA today reveals that while certain things , like improved farm management and cheap electric current , can cause a marked change for the better in a retarded area like the Valley , in the final analysis the way forward is along the strictly traditional lines 1 have so frequently emphasized in this magazine : progression from the primary industries ( agriculture , mining , and forestry ) to the secondary or manufacturing industries , thus leading to the elaboration of the tertiary or service industries . The basic problem of any area seeking to improve its income position is to get these three categories of employment into a proper balance . As long as the Valley has an abnormal concentration in primary industry , it will lag behind . As it moves a proportion of its farmers into manufactures , it will improve . As manufacturing gets on a sound basis , the services will he developed more fully . When the three categories approach the balance which is characteristic of the nation as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average . In order to emphasize this problem , let me present here some comparative figures on per capita income in the United States as a whole and in these states with which TVA is concerned . In 1939 the national per capita income was $539 , but in Tennessee it was only $295 and in Alabama only $242 , while the average for all seven of the TVA states was just over $290 . The full significance of these figures emerges only when they are set against those indicating the percentages of the working population engaged in the various types of industry . In the nation as a whole , only 18.8 per cent are engaged in primary industry , as contrasted with 33.2per cent in Tennessee , 39.9 per cent in Alabama , 58 per cent in Mississippi , and so on . Thirty per cent of the country 's workers are engaged in manufactures and 51.2 per cent in the services ; but in Tennessee only a little more than 24 per cent are employed in manufactures and in Alabama only about 36 per cent work in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task before the TVA . It differs from state to state , but in no instance ( except perhaps in Mississippi ) does it , on the surface , suggest insurmountable difficulties . IV r " -A E 1E REALLY hard pull in the Valley has just begun . The construction period is about over , so the public works effects will now rapidly fade away , and the rather rapid rate of improvement in incomes and living standards which they induced in a substandard region will inevitably be retarded from now on . What may be called the internal structural changes , which caused sharp improvement , have shown themselves valuable but insufficient , even should they eventually be uniformly adopted in the Valley . Now begins the long pull , a pull along a traditional road , the usual progress from a heavy concentration of manpower in primary industries , to a rising proportion in factories and services . The war has helped this movement , but with what final effects it is impossible just now to calculate . Here , beyond a question , is a crisis in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be fully revealed in the postwar period . Only if industrialization moves forward rapidly can the Valley maintain its past rate of progress . Even the important job of further spreading the good effects of improved farm management and cheap electricity is really incidental to the main task now clearly defined . It is my guess that the Valley will not industrialize at a spectacular rate and that . therefore , incomes and living standards will tend to level off at a point which is still definitely below the national average . Mr. Lilienthal is aware of this probability , I think , and it is to his credit that he recently accepted a second nine-year appointment as chairman of the Authority in the face of his knowledge . He has shown himself willing to tackle the toughest problem of all , compared with which building dams is child 's play . After all , our technological capacity far outruns our ability in social engineering . Ile could have retired triumphantly , alleging that TVA was a complete success . 1L4AOR TVA exists today in a halo of glory tarnished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathizers . The propaganda battle over TVA is , like the undertaking itself , definitely on the colossal side . There is an uneasy feeling in TVA circles that its friends have overpublicized it , claiming too much for it , oversimplifying the problems the Authority is up against , and giving the public the impression that not only is TVA already a subdivision of Utopia , but that it can be duplicated anywhere just by chanting the three magic letters T ? V ? A. I have tried to show otherwise , emphasizing that the testing time is yet to come ; that no royal road to higher living standards has been found ; and that what TVA has done thus far is to clear away the underbrush and lay out the right-of-way for progress along the traditional highway . If the American economy moves forward in the next few decades , TVA also will ga forward . If it hesitates or marks time , so also will TVA ? though perhaps to a slightly lesser degree . Any flaming optimism , or thoughtless overvaluation of prospects , can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job of work to do in the Valley . The case which has been made out against TVA is not easy to state in summary since it deals both with general principles and particular issues of fact . The basicobjection is to TVA 's very existence ? on the theory that the government should never have undertaken such an enterprise . From this standpoint the crux of the issue is the generation and sale of electricity , since flood control , navigation , agricultural extension work , and so on can hardly be ruled out of the government 's province . The production and distribution of electricity is asserted to be unfair competition . ( Lately 167 private utilities have banded together to support the proposition that the government may produce electricity at the dams , but should sell it all to private companies for distribution . Thi3 is a metaphysical distinction , more an evidence of a planned retreat to a new position vis a vis TVA and other government electricity schemes than anything else . Why should the government manufacture but not distribute ? Like Mr. McNaughton in " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't get it . " ) As matters stand today , figures put forward by the private utilities themselves show that the government generates only 20 per cent of all the nation 's electric power , and distributes only 14 per cent of it . Of course , within such areas as the Valley and the Pacific Northwest , it does tend to pre-empt large areas where private companies would be the principal suppliers if left to their own devices . The question seems to me to be : Should the government ever , under any circumstances , engage in the production and distribution of electricity ? I think there are many circumstances under which it should ; and this answer has also been given by liberal and conservative Congresses alike at various times since 1906 . You ca n't take the issue out of its context and arrive at a rational judgment on it , unless you are a fanatically dJarinaire advocate of private enterprise . The private utilities still have ample scope for their operations in this country , and the day when they can legitimately complain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the areas served by government plants may have to sell out . This I can not regard as disaster to private enterprise as a whole . An operation like TVA is of such magnitude that , on the one hand , no private group is apt to undertake it and , on the other , even if it should propose to , it should not be allowed to do so . As the New York Timer remarked editorially , " The task was too huge for private capital to undertake ; or if private capital had undertaken it the resulting monopoly would have been dangerous to the public welfare , " If a few private utilities cease business ( after full compensation ) as a result of such a public undertaking , this must be balanced against the larger good . NV nass it comes to particular indict- ments of TVA it is my candid opinion that the private enterprise critics have done a shabby job . When you get a hot issue Like this one , you realize keenly that there are as many demagogues among business spokesmen as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence public opinion by distortion , misrepresentation , evasion of issues and facts , or just by talking egregious nonsense , do more harm to business than can readily be measured . In dealing with great issues of public policy , business must be prepared to meet the issues head-on and to handle facts with candor and scrupulosity . Many business leaders will cheer this statement , I am sure , but there are still too many mavericks running loose who have n't learned . Many of the allegations against TVA are too trivial to be refuted here . But two that may appear to carry weight are , first , that it does not pay a proper share of taxes , and , second , that it operates at a loss and therefore sells power subsidized by the taxpayer . Neither of these allegations holds water . As a federal instrumentality TVA does not have to pay taxes to states and municipalities . This position is based on Justice Marshall 's decision in McCulloch v. Maryland in 1819 . But TVA is nevertheless instructed in Section 13 of the act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gross proceeds derived from the sale of power " to " those states and local governments in which the power operations of the corporation are carried on and in which the corporation has acquired properties previously subject to state and local taxation . " As far as I can make out they are equitable payments . Today they exceed in amount taxes paid by the private utilities formerly operating in the TVA area . Private utility spokesmen , trying to calculate the tax load they carry to compare it with TVA 's liability , have included their excess profits taxes . This is nonsense . On the profit and loss issue , the usual dodges are to ignore the question of allocation of capital costs among the several functions of TVA ? flood control , navigation , fertilizer , and so on ? and try to establish that electricity should carry them all ; and likewise to charge against the income from electricity the current costs of flood control , navigation , fertilizer , and so on . Now the question of the allocation of capital costs was publicly thrashed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was established by Congress , which rejected ? as not consistent and not objective ? the theory that all capital costs should be allocated to power . The effort to make electricity carry all capital costs is , at bottom , simply an effort to lessen TVA 's ability to make profits as a preliminary to denouncing it as a failure ; or , alternatively , to destroying its effectiveness as a yardstick for beating down private utility charges for power . Nor is there any rhyme or reason to charging all TVA expenses against electricity unless you are aiming to reiterate that electricity should carry all capital costs as well . Section 14 of the act clearly lays down the principle of allocation of capital costs among the several functions of the Authority . In practice the TVA allocates nothing to fertilizer and national defense , though it can d a so if it likes . The allocation followed is this : The heavier charge to power in wartime is jastified by the special emphasis now given to power production for national defense . On the basis of the above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to the federal treasury as a contribution toward liquidating the public investment in power facilities in the Valley. * If it were required to pay off all investments of public money in TVA activities , it could also do so , after appropriate adjustments , though that would take longer than to liquidate the power investments alone . Thus even if the Valley standards of living never reach the national average , the chances are excellent that the taxpayers will eventually recover their heavy capital investment in power . They might , if Congress so ruled , recover their entire investment . ONE OF the amusing consequences of the gaudy publicity received by the Authority is that the letters TVA have been translated from a specific into a generic term . We hear of TVA 's planned in all corners of the globe : in the Danube Valley of Europe , in the Sone River Valley in India , in the Waikato River Valley of New Zealand , in the Clarence River Valley in Australia , and of course in the Missouri and Columbia River Valleys of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good look at the s , /ecific TVA from whence they all derive . The mechanical translation of TVA ( specific ) into TVA 's - everywhere will bring headaches and grief . Every project should be assessed in detail , not only in relation to the natural and human resources of the specific area but also in relation to the general social , economic , and political context in which it will have to operate . The Missouri and Columbia projects , for example , include irrigation works , whereas the Tennessee does not . This introduces a problem of water-utilization of major magnitude . The Columbia Valley is , in general , an area of fairly high average incomes ; the Missouri Valley is in this respect a very mixed grill ; and therefore the structural changes in production methods , so effective in the Tennessee , admittedly a depressed area , might not have such striking effects , save in a spotty way , in the other two valleys . Both the Columbia and the Missouri , however , offer ample opportunities to duplicate the administrative techniques of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Danube Valley For the figures for the fiscal years 1939 and 1944 , see Personal and Otherwise.embraces several sovereign nations , raising diplomatic problems far more intricate than those of states ' rights . The Sone Valley project in India ( which will include irrigation ) will operate in a context of very low incomes , and will also involve problems of co-operation between various provinces and the central government , much more delicate than are found in the Tennessee Valley . The New Zealand and Australian projects , too , offer all sorts of special problems unlike those of TVA or the other foreign ones just mentioned . We must remember , too , that the original TVA operates in the advanced economic context of the United States , with vast capital resources in the hands of the sponsoring government and equally magnificent technical and managerial resources ready to hand to carry out the work . The Missouri and Columbia projects would be similarly situated . Other TVA 's would not be so fortunate . And in some instances they would involve borrowing capital from foreign lenders ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utterly different from those at TVA . BUT WHATEVER the problems raised by exporting the TVA idea , let us see our own TVA plain : It is a state capitalist enterprise operating to provide a new floor ? including the power resource of electricity ? on which private enterprise is to continue to operate , the whole designed by a combination of state and private effort to give a sharp fillip to the standard of living . Other nations , other purposes , no doubt . But we should not fool ourselves into believing that we have gone farther in the Tennessee Valley than we actually have . We have , of course , gone a long way beyond what is customary in this country , but only by bending old policies to new ends , as I have shown . Above all , let us keep firmly in mind that only if private capitalist enterprise does its stuff in the Valley can we hope to see TVA gain its objective in full measure . Here , therefore , is a sharp challenge to action that our capitalists must surely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the results will be profitable to thernselve ; , the Valley , and the whole nation .                     