@@494291

Has Truman Lost the Left ? by Helen Fuller DECEMBER 3 , 1945 , may be an important date in Democratic Party history . On that day , President Truman called for industrial-relations legislation which organized labor solidly opposes , legislation setting the whole of labor against the Democratic Administration for the first time in more than twelve years . Unless this breach is healed , chances of Democratic victory in 1946 and 1948 will be dim . Drastic party realignment might even result . Professional politicians attribute Franklin D. Roosevelt 's long tenure to his ability to keep the big New Deal team of horses pulling in harness . He knew when to slacken or tighten the reins on the Southern Democrats , the Northern city boses , labor , the Negroes and the other minorities which together elected the New Deal . Truman 's falling out with labor unfortunately comes at a time when his relations are also strained with Negro and Jewish groups over his handling of the FEPC and the Palestine question . Apparently Harry Truman is not a skilled enough driver to handle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor pulls out of harness , Truman may soon be left driving a losing team . Most of labor was never very enthusiastic about Truman . Railway Brotherhood men were among the Truman-before-Chicago supporters , but the CIO fought hard to nominate Wallace and only swallowed Truman with a brave face as part of the price of a Roosevelt ticket . From the first days after Truman succeeded to the White House , he gave labor leaders the feeling that they were permanently scheduled to be " second-table " guests . Philip Murray and William Green were accustomed to being invited in to advise and consult With the President at regular intervals , and when Tru ' man showed no signs of following this custom , the labor leaders decided to keep their pride and their distance until Truman made the first move . One result was that appointments and bills came in for labor criticism after the fact rather than before public announcement . And the President was not kept up to date on what working men and women were facing and wanting . Truman said all the right things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to grow more and more adept at evading action . The reconversion crisis was well along when Mr. Truman became President . The crisis in wages had Jelled by late May , but it was not until September that the President got around to doing something to loosen Up the wage jam . By then , the CIO had already decided that widespread strikes would have to be called to get results . And industry had determined to stallon the collective-bargaining deals into which it was forced . The call to labor and management to sit down together and work out machinery for settling industrial disputes looked all right on the record , particularly to middle-class citizens who were unaware of the tensions embedded in industrial relationships . Truman had no wise advisers to insist that he make government a full partner in the Labor-Management Conference he decided to call , that government 's responsibility for industrial reconversion be made dear from the beginning . And labor was not close enough to the presidential ear to voice its frank fears , about which most of the rest of Washington heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far advanced to be settled by any such mild approach as Truman was proposing in his Labor-Management Conference . And the principal parties knew it very well . Because the general public did not know it , neither side was willing to incur ill will by saying this out loud . So the conference went on . The Chamber of Commerce of the United States , the NAM , the AFL and John L. Lewis agreed with the government that the wage question should not be on the agenda , because it would only cause " friction . " The CIO violently disagreed . Realities and results now seem to bear out Philip Murray 's position . Wage earners had suffered direct pay cuts of from 23 to so percent of what they earned during the war years , through loss of working time and downgrading to inferior jobs . The Office of Reconversion was advising the nation to expect eight million unemployed by the spring of 1946 , and government figures showed that wage earners since V-J Day had lost $25 billion , on an annual basis , through wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions were locked in wage struggles when the government summoned them to sit down together and discuss everything except the cause of their conflict . The United Auto Workers ( CIO ) had presented its demands for increased wages to General Motors weeks before the conference . The company had stalled for weeks before beginning negotiations . A strike vote had been taken , and GM had announced its refusal of the union 's demands . U. S. Steel took only forty minutes to reject the United Steelworkers ' demand for a wage increase . It made no counter-offers of any kind , and has refused to enter into collective bargaining on the question . Twice in one week U. S. Steel refused a government request to mediate the dispute , to bargain with the union . One afternoon in the middle of Tru- 8z6 man 's Labor-Management Conference , Jack Stevens of U. S. Steel sat in a meeting of the Committee on Collective Bargaining , mouthing fine sentiments , at the very moment that Labor Secretary Schwellenbach was opening a message from U. S. Steel President Fairless refusing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile industry continued to pile up the same exorbitant profits it had been making during the war . The Office of War Mobilization reported that American industry could raise wages 24 percent and still earn more than twice as much " take-home profits " as it did before the war . Congress , with Administration approval , eliminated excess-profits taxes and gave other tax relief for next year which promises to swell industry profits even more . A company that sells goods this year is taxed a maximum of 85% percent for each dollar of profit . But beginning next year , that same company will pay a maximum tax of only 38 percent . Industry can keep only 14Y2 cents of every profit dollar this year , but in 1946 it can keep 62 cents of each dollar . So industry is not at present producing to the full the much needed consumers ' goods , clothes , washing machines , radios and the like , although there are no strikes in these fields . And industry is refusing to bargain with labor for an increased share of the profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused the UAW offer of voluntary arbitration . Both U. S. Steel and GM have refused to mediate the wage question even though requested to do so by the government . Labor 's answer has been to vote to strike . The auto workers have led the way , but half a million steelworkers have also voted five-to-one for a strike ; electrical , aluminum , packinghouse and rubber workers have voted overwhelmingly in favor of strikes unless their demands are met . Government 's answer has been to ask for legislation . On the face of it , President Truman 's message to Congress asking for legislation " to provide adequate means for settling industrial disputes " seems sound and con- THE NEW REPUBIC structive . The Railway Labor Act on which it is mod= eled is highly regarded generally , and the President 's proposal does not seem to place undue hardship on either party . But all factions of organized labor were quick to point out to their less-knowing sympathizers that there is more to this proposal than at first appears . William Green said it was " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the r llways unions also spoke out against it . T HE NIGHT AFTER Truman 's message , CIO Presi- dent Murray went on the air to explain his organization 's position in detail . The Administration , Murray pointed out , has not informed the people of the basic causes of this present industrial crisis . It has done nothing to end the " sitdown strike " of industry , to force it to fulfill its duty and its promise made at the Labor-Management Conference to bargain fairly and cooperate in mediation . The Administration has shown itself impotent to enact **25;1156;TOOLONG , full-employment and other progressive legislation to which it has given lip-service . President Truman clearly can not control the actions of even his own party in Congress . It is within this framework that the proposed legislation must be viewed and its real intent understood . As to the basic point of Truman 's proposal , Murray said " labor has never feared the public disclosure of facts pertaining to a labor dispute . We warmly welcome public attention to the facts which underlie our claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listeners recalled that GM officials , in the midst of Labor-Management Conference proceedings , denied that the facts about corporation profits had any bearing on the auto-wage dispute , and not only refused to open their books to the union but added that they do n't even open their books to their stockholders . Murray was saying , then , that Truman 's legislative proposal taken by itself was one thing , in theory not necessarily too bad , but taken in the present industrial framework , quite another . In view of the kind of Congress Truman has and his lack of power over it ; his proposal , Murray warns , " can be but the first step for even more savage legislative repression . For this reason the CIO shall mobilize its entire membership and the American people to defeat this specific measure and all similar attempts directed against labor . " Congressional hearings on Truman 's proposed bill have already begun . Progressives in the Senate , hou ' ' ever , are showing considerable reluctance to rush the measure through . There is a good chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christmas holiday , " as the President requested . Labor 's fears that the sito " tion will get out of control are already being justified . The most vicious anti-labor elements in both Houses are mobilizing to load murderous amendments 011 the bill . Truman does not have the majority to defeat them . DECEMBER I 7 , 1945 Philip Murray did not mince words in his denunciation of Truman 's basic policies as well as of his specific labor proposals . The political implications of his attack are clear . Truman 's actions , Murray said , mark " a very serious departure from the policies which the people of this country have repeatedly approved within recent years under the leadership of President Roosevelt . " It is being generally assumed , therefore , that the PAC will pay more attention to policies than to parties in making selections for ' 46 . Whether or not the people who made the New Deal will feel that this " departure " is serious enough to warrant withdrawing their support from President Truman may not become clear for quite a while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CIO has 827 closed the gate on the Truman Administration for all time to come . Mr. Truman can still correct the aspects of his Administration that have alienated labor . There is still time for him to fire his well meaning but utterly inadequate old friend John Snyder and bring in a Reconversion Director who could deal fairly and forcefully with the labor-management problems involved in reaching full peacetime employment . There is still time for the President to call in the industrial leaders who are guilty of " sitdown " tactics and make them live up to their responsibilities under present labor-relations laws . There is still time ? for a leader who understands the importance of today 's decisions . It is not clear that Harry Truman does understand .                     