@@494251

THE DAILY PRESS described Mr. Churchill 's vote of confidence on December 8 as an overwhelming victory ; but the coalition government might well add : A few more such victories , and we are lost . Mr. Churchill got 281 votes of a total House of Commons membership of 615 , less than a majority . Moreover , even among those who voted for him , scores disap ? proved of what has been done in Italy , Greece and other liberated countries . They supported him only because they did not want to see the dissolution of the government at this time . Leading journals of Great Britain such as The Manchester Guardian and The New Statesman and Nation are against the Churchill policy . The London Times , normally a semi-official government organ , has opposed him on Greece . If it were not for the urgent necessities of war , the actions of British forces in shooting Greeks on their own soil because they want their own government and not one dominated by Great Britain , would certainly have caused the fall of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men like C. R. Atlee , Ernest Bevin , Herbert Morrison and other Labor members of the government at being forced to support , if only by their silence , such deeds as these . What has hap ? pened in Greece may yet sweep the Tory Party out of power in the next national election . Mr. Churchill 's speech in his own defense seems to us not only the weakest but the most shameful of his whole career . At one stroke he has done much to tarnish the reputation he made as the spokesman for bulldog British courage in the darkest days of the blitz . The main point of his speech was that the Alliescannot tolerate disturbances in their rear which may interfere with the war effort . No one disputes that fact , but no honest , informed person can believe it has anything to do with the actions of the British govern . ment in Greece . The Germans are now entirely outside the Greek peninsula ; the few Nazi garrisons remain ? ing on islands in the Aegean are cut off from all help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Churchill 's charge that the EAM is secretly pro-Nazi is without any verification ; even Mr. Eden was forced to ignore the accusation in his own speech on the situa ? tion . No country , not even Poland , has suffered more terribly at the hands of the Germans than Greece . Does Mr. Churchill imagine that the natives of that land have forgotten Distomo ? The charge of pro-fascism is an ignoble falsehood . Aside from this , Mr. Churchill 's speech contained little except name-calling . He said the EAM consisted of communists and ruffians , using the terms inter ? changeably , and talked about " poor old Britain , " which , he said , is criticized from all sides . Apparently it does not occur to him that such unanimity may mean that the critics are right . He talked about the armed forces of ELAS , the military arm of the EAM , who he char ' ged were trying to seize the government of Greece by force . But here again there is no evi ? dence that Mr. Churchill is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary . Spokesmen for the EAM were quick to point out that if they had intended a vio ? lent revolution they could have brought it about , with the certainty of success , before the British troops landed . The London Times , which is the last paper in the world to oppose Mr. Churchill if it could avoid doing so , has said that the EAM is a coalition of prac ? tically all Greek parties except the extreme right : com ? munists , socialists , liberals and agrarians . Moreover , it was the British , through the puppet Papandreou , who started the shooting . British weapons in Greek hands were fired at an unarmed group consisting largely of women and children , engaged in a peaceful demonstra ? tion , killing 21 of them . That incident will go down in history along with the O'Dwyer massacre in India , as a blot on the British record of which every decent Englishman will forever be ashamed . If Greece or any other country in Europe wanted , by democratic methods , to adopt a communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies would have any normal right to interfere . For the record , however , let it be stated that in not a single liberated country is this true . What is desired by the peoples of Greece , Yugoslavia , Italy , France , Belgium and Holland is in all cases a left-liberal regime with some nationalization of heavy industry and public utilities , within a democratic political framework . If the Allies believe in democracy , they should not only tolerate this development ; they should actively encourage it . Behind Mr. Churchill 's fustian oratory lies a grim reality of a very different sort . It is not communism that he fears in Greece , but independence . The British government decided long ago that Greece must remain within her orbit to keep open the " lifeline of empire " through the Mediterranean to India and Australia . What Britain demands , at whatever cost , is a Greek government that will give her the sea and air bases she requires . Predictions were widely published months ago that the British would make these demands , and would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance to carry them out . As for Russia 's influence over Greece , there is no evidence that she would have any more power under the EAM than she already has , by the sheer fact of proximity and size , over all countries in that part of the world . And in any case , the British can not admit they are fighting the Russians in Greece without admitting also that Britain 's plan for a west European bloc under British auspices is aimed against the USSR . In fact , in his anger against the Greeks who oppose , or might possibly oppose , British policy , Mr. Churchill entirely forgot the effect his words , as well as the actions of his soldiers in Greece , will have in Moscow . How do the Russians feel , to have communists made synonymous with ruffians and bandits ? Do they re ? member that Mr. Churchill sang a very different tune when the Germans were being hurled back from Mos ? cow and Stalingrad ? How do they feel when the streets of Athens run red with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign invader just as Russia has fought to drive back the Nazi hordes ? Repeatedly it has been said that Hitler 's one hope is to break up the Alliance . Mr. Churchill 's course of action in Greece has already gone dangerously far in that direction . The United States Government , which in the past has certainly not shown itself too squeamish about the rights of democracy in the liberated coun ? tries , has found it necessary to repudiate British pol ? icy in Italy and Greece . It is profoundly disturbing that the British should have taken their action in Italy against Count Sforza without consulting the United States , and should have acted in Greece on the basis only of a hasty personal description of British intentions months ago by Mr. Churchill to President Roosevelt , a description which obviously gave him no conception of the lengths to which Britain was prepared to go . Even after the chief powers have been in the war together for three years , there is still no sort of adequate , regular liaison . We do not yet have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers that are fighting the fascists , sitting continuously and solving just such problems as the Gruk one before they burst into violence . As to the sincerity of Mr. Churchill , we might re ? member that Tito 's government in Yugoslavia , the only real government that country at present possesses , is closely similar to the EAM in Greece . Tito , too , has the support of people on the Left , ranging from com ? munists to liberals . If Mr. Churchill were sincere in saying Britain can not tolerate such a government any ? where in Europe , he should have made war on Tito long before this . On the contrary , he collaborates with Tito in every possible way . The answer is partly that Tito is strong , and partly that the British do not need Yugoslavia as they need Greece . ' DECEMBER 18,9 4 4 No one need have been surprised at what Mr. ' Churchill and his group in the British government have done . His conception of democracy is and always has been an extremely narrow one ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been strong and all-inclusive . Giving the Greeks the democratic government they want would never seem to him important in comparison with the necessities , or even the advantages , of the British Empire . But for ? tunately Mr. Churchill does not represent the whole British people . More than half the Parliament refused to vote his way . Powerful British journalistic voices have been raised against him . And the Prime Minister has been bitterly excoriated in the French press . Amer ? icans are entitled to rejoice at the new attitude Presi ? dent Roosevelt has revealed in the statement by Secretary of State Stettinius , statements for which the President himself is , of course , responsible . The world today stands at a crossroads . Mr. Church ? ill 's path lends to power politics , imperialism , spheres of influence and more and more war . The other path leads to democracy , peace and freedom . It is for people of good will throughout the world to fight , and fight hard , for the second road . The Navy Helps MacArthur The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ormoc is both a good illustration of the value of sea power and the evidence of what was gained in the second battle of the Philippine Sea . We are not told whether the convoy reached that area through Surigao Strait or that of San Bernardino ? probably the former ? but the important point is that either would hardly have been attempted while the Japanese fleet based on Singapore and Manila was still in a state to offer opposition . The chain of pas ? sages and reefs among the Philippines is strikingly similar to that through the Solomons , and it is note ? worthy that throughout the long campaign for the upper islands in the latter chain not a single American landing was attempted along the inside flank ; they all came from open sea , where they could have the protection of ships cruising at large on the way in , a procedure attended by its special drawback that all assaults were in effect frontal assaults . The naval victory of October has thus enabled Gen ? eral MacArthur to rescue a campaign that had pretty well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headquarters about difficulties imposed by rain and talk about the extent of the Japanese losses . ( Just why headquarters in the Philippines should be complaining about the rains is not exactly clear ; the army 's own manual on the Philippines , published for the delectation of every private , points out that rains in the Leyte area during December amount to between 25 and 40 inches a month , one of the heaviest rain-82 falls in the world . ) The point is that over-optimism at the start of the campaign , frequently described as an occupational disease of generals , has always found a particularly easy victim in General Douglas Mac ? Arthur . Japan 's Plan of Action He apparently did not think that the Japanese would make the all-out fight for Leyte that they have ? another illustration of the truism that a military campaign consists of the working out of one party 's plans as modified by the counter-plans of the other . The nature of the Japanese plan seems now fairly clear : they are trying to prevent American access to the coast of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line across south China to the food and raw-materials areas of Indo-China and Burma . If this line is once set up on a firm basis , it would not matter whether they lost control of the South China Sea or not ; and this is why they were willing to sacrifice so much of their navy in the Octo ? ber battle . At the same time the indications are that the pre ? vention of such a line rests rather upon the MacArthur offensive than upon anything the Chinese themselves can do or upon the Allies working from north Burma . Chinese sources report a victory at Tuhshan , which has for the time being relieved the Japanese pressure in Kweichow and removed the threat to Kweiyang . It may or may not be a permanent victory ; there has been no indication in any of this year 's fighting that the Japanese could be prevented from taking anything they really wanted in China , and there has been no re ? ported victory over the other Japanese force work ? ing its way toward Kunming , which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on which three years of painful effort have now been expended . In fact the announcement this week that General Chen Cheng planned to train 30 Chinese divisions with modern weapons early next year can only be interpreted as an admission of the complete incapacity of the Chinese armies to accomplish any ? thing with what they have at present . 