@@493708

ADDING A SKILL TO STATESMANSHIP FOR A VERY long time , in most fields of human activity , the employ ment of experts to get important results has been taken for granted . Most of us assume that because a person is in a particular position , he is an expert in the field of responsibilities of that position . Much of the social organization of any modern state concerns itself with the problem of assuring expert knowledge , skill and experience in posts where the welfare or the lives of the people depend on those qualifications . But there are some countries where the qualifications of persons holding critical positions can ? not be accepted without question . In some places peo ? ple are holding responsible technical jobs because ofpolitical or family or other irrelevant considerations . Wherever that hap pens , and to the degree to which it happens , we must recognize a " backward country . " Even in the more " advanced " countries , it might be well from time to time to check on these jobholders ' technical compe tence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of date and new circumstances demand special abilities which are not yet widely recognized as necessary or not yet available in sufficient quantity . Even a quick glance at the present world shows some gaps between needs and qualifications . For instance , two that have been recognized in most countries are in the nursing and teaching professions . Almost every NEW REPUBLIC where there : are not enough , and not well-trained enough , people working in these fields . However , the fact that these deficiencies are of wide concern gives hope that they may be remedied soon . It is generally recognized that there are not enough psychiatrists for the adequate treatment of mental disturbances even in those countries where medical practice is sufficiently advanced for such cases to be identified . This shortage , too , greatly concerns the authorities , and some progress is being made toward , rectifying the situation . There are other fields in which the supply of technical train ? ing ' has not met the demand , but in most of them training has been or is to be stepped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , have changed so rapidly , so extensively and so recently that some of the new needs have hardly been recognized , much less met satisfactorily . In the more advanced countries , developments in the material sciences , within only one or two generations , have produced extensive changes in the social and institutional structure . Social complexity and social contacts have multiplied to a degree not conceivable even up to the early years of this century . The importance of the human sciences has increased accordingly , as they deal with the understand ? ing of human relations and with the techniques of affecting those relations . There is plentiful evidence of the great need for increased use of the human sciences in public affairs , whether local , national or international . It is usual to scoff at the students and exponents of these sciences as " half-baked , " " impractical , " even " disloyal " or " trai ? torous , " and of course it is true that they are to some degree all these things ? if " half-baked " means not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if " impractical " means not accepting present ways of doing things as necessarily permanent ; if " disloyal " means being willing to give up any old ideas , certain ? ties or devotions when something more beneficial to the human race becomes possible ; and if " traitorous " means setting the same value on the welfare of all peo ? ple everywhere . It is an inevitable result of the new understanding fostered by the human sciences that the values placed on various human behavior patterns are changing . Such changes , of course , will be regarded , by those who are not developing with the times , as dis ? loyalty to old values or as impractical idealism . In spite of these difficulties , the human sciences ? psychology , psychiatry , sociology , cultural anthropol Dr. Brock Chisholm , head of the World Health Organization of the United Nations , was an eminent psychiatrist in Canada before enter-Intl public service . During the Second World War , he was head of the medical service of the Canadian Army. , ogy , education , etc. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During the Second World War the more advanced countries found real need for all these sciences both inside and outside their armed services ; before the end of the war they had been found to be indispensable to the effective use of manpower , pres ? ervation of morale , strategic planning and to many other aspects of the war effort . Since the war , vast new social developments have taken place , particularly in the field of international cooperation and coordination . The major examples are , of course , the United Nations and its specialized agen ? cies , and certain regional , geographical and political organizations . Even within the British Commonwealth of Nations great changes have occurred in the political status of several of its members and the relationship of all of them has altered . While this has been going on , the processes of government have been increasing enor ? mously in complexity and volume of work , and new social institutions have been proliferating rapidly . This tremendous development has meant an unprec ? edented need for people to work in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply of trained human scientists is already grossly inadequate to meet the present demand . Whether because the need is not yet recognized , or because qualified personnel is not yet available , an economic commission of the United Nations may still meet and discuss a great variety of subjects covering the most diverse human concerns without advice from either social psychologists or cul ? tural anthropologists , who are clearly the best-trained people in some of the areas under discussion . This field of human relations is obviously the most important concern of the whole human race . Success ? ful or unsuccessful operations in these areas will de ? termine whether the human species survives , at least in anything like its present type of development . For ? tunately , this crying need is not ignored everywhere . There is a bright side to the picture . Much of the basis for hope lies in somewhat isolated endeavors , but the total is impressive ? as , for example , the current ac ? tivities in the field of the human sciences . 41 , Several of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notably the Social Department of the UN ? UNESCO and WHO . UNESCO 'S " Group Tensions Project " may prove to be the most far-reaching activity being undertaken within the en ? tire UN structure . This project involves the study of the mechanics and dynamics of inter- and intra-group relations and includes detailed study of international conferences and assemblies . C. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Tavistock Institute in London have been collaborating for some years in studies and publications in this field . C. In the summer of 1948 a great Mental Health Con ? congress was held in London . Its subject was " Mental Health and World Citizenship " ? the question of the ability of people to live together in peace in one world . More than 2,000 technically trained people attended that congress ; about 5,000 had been preparing for it by studying and reporting on the items on its agenda for periods of a few months to more than a year . Out of the congress came a continuing international organ ? ization ? the World Federation for Mental Health ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WHO . National Committees for Mental Hygiene , Associations of Psychologists , Psychiatrists , Anthropologists , Sociologists , Educators , etc. , are mem ? bers of the World Federation . C. An important branch of the American Psychological Association ? the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues ? has now been active for some years . These examples show that the human scientists , along with their brothers in the material sciences , are beginning to develop a degree of social responsibility . It remains for them to be used effectively and widely . Of course these human scientists need more experience . Their sciences are far from fully developed , but their abilities , compared , for instance , with those of the old-time diplomat , who tended to think and talk in terms of prestige and power and whose training was either in the classics or , more recently , as a " sound business ? man , " are very much more adaptable and effective in this entirely new kind of world . In government agencies increasingly it is being found practical to get technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the US Soil Conservation Service , under the old methods , the average time required to set up a soil-conservation district was two years and eight months . The situation was studied by an anthro ? pologist-sociologist and recommendations were made . Now the field technicians allow six months to obtain results that previously took thirty-two months . There is still a fear , unfounded but persistent in some quarters , that academic young men , who may use a strange vocabulary and know little about farming techniques , are too impractical to deal effectively with farmers . But it must not be forgotten that the ability to adjust to the widest variety of circumstances is , basic to the training of the human scientists , and that their work has now been proved to be effective . Many other developments indicating an increasing use of technical advice in human relations could be found , enough to justify a reasonable hope that in the future fewer mistakes which produce antagonism and aggression between individuals , groups and nations will be made . Clearly there should be great concern everywhere about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationships , in em ? bassies and , consulates and in all international meetings , the UN , its commissions and committees , and in the specialized . agencies . Perhaps the time has come to consider minimum qualifications for delegates to inter ? national organizations . Basic qualifications should be : a good working knowledge of the concepts and methods of normal and minor abnormal psychology , cultural anthropology , modern history and comparative religion , plus some reading in sociology . Second , the development of our children concerns the whole race . They must be able to grow to a level of maturity , of civilization , which our generation has not attained . They must be able to deal better with their own aggressive pressures than their ancestors have been . They must be able to adjust more easily , and with fewer internal tensions , to the need for change . They must be tolerant where we have been rigid , and to love where we have hated . These adjust ? ments are difficult because of our prejudices , but they can be made if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we do that of the structural en ; gineer or the , aeronautical designer . A complicating factor is that psychologists give varying advice and change their minds frequently . Of course they do ; their sciences are developing just as is airplane design or bio-physics . In the human-behav ? ior area , however , many of us take for granted that there is one " right " way to behave under any given set of circumstances . This is entirely fallacious , of course , and simply comes from having had all our behavior in our early childhood classified as " good " or " bad , " a most misleading and distorting method by which our elders tried to keep us under control . Even though the human scientists do change their attitudes , and do disagree , it is almost certain that their advice , on any matter within their competence , will be more reliable than that received from an unqualified person or from our own " natural " decisions , which are likely to arise from prejudices we do not even recognize . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these workers in the human sciences ? more reluctant than they are to take the advice , on a dif= ferent level , of a bus driver or the pilot of a plane . Yet the status of the scientists is improving . Whether it is doing so fast enough to be of value in averting another war is for us to decide. ; 