@@494289

Twenty-four hours later Bowles told the members of the NAM to their faces , at their annual conference , that amendments to the price-control act which they have sought " would in my opinion have made effective price control absolutely impossible , " adding $30 bil ? lion to the cost of fighting the war and $38 billion to the cost of living for the American consumer . The third point in the industrialists ' policy has to do with labor . It should now be perfectly clear to every ? body that many important industrialists are out to break unions , destroy effective collective bargaining and reduce wages at least to the prewar level , and below it if they can . They may not be able to obtain actual repeal of the Wagner Act requiring collective bar ? gaining , but they hope to nullify it by long delay which will enable them to starve out employees if they go on strike . In their general attitude they have gone back to the I920 's ? or rather , they now feel powerful enough to reassert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They reject , as a General Motors spokesman so contemptuously did a few days ago , the theory that permanent high prosperity can only be preserved if consumer purchasing power is kept as large as possible . They propose instead to drive wages down as far as they can and raise profits to the highest level , keeping that level secret , as General Motors boasts that it does , not only from the workers and government representatives , but even from their own stockholders . It is in the light of these facts that President Tru ? man 's proposals for fact-finding bodies and for a com ? pulsory cooling-off period before strikes , should be read . At first glance such proposals may seem fair , reasonable and in the interest of all parties . If the employers really wanted a just and generous settle ? ment , if they had accepted the principle of collective bargaining as British employers have done , such a plan might work . But labor notes that even as the President brought forward these suggestions , he de ? manded that the General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interest of management and designed to prejudice the strikers ' case in the eyes of the public . They know that a cooling-off pe ? riod would mean one in which the employers could assemble strikebreakers and with their powerful influ ? ence over most of the press and radio , could win the first round in the battle for public opinion . The work ? ers know that the present conservative Congress is most unlikely to pass any law giving a fact-finding body power to open the employers ' books and that if by a miracle such a law were passed , the courts would almost certainly declare it unconstitutional . Finally , they know that we shall never have industrial peace until all parties involved really want industrial peace ; and that , in the meantime , the strike is labor 's only effective weapon . For forty years , this country has been trying intermittently to put an end to industrial strife by legislative coercion ; it is absurd to suppose that it can now be done by another hasty and haphazard law cooked up by forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of grave industrial unrest . What does this all add up to ? The answer can be told in one word : Depression . The dominant industrial and financial forces of the country have demonstrated in the past few weeks their complete economic illit ? eracy . The lesson of the great depression which began in 1929 has been lost on them ; they still do n't under ? stand what caused that depression ; they are doing their best to reproduce the conditions which brought it about . They want low wages , low taxes and high profits for industry ? profits which will far exceed the need for new capital expenditure in productive enterprise in the sort of society they are seeking to create . In their in ? terest as well as that of the country as a whole , their efforts to commit economic suicide must be stopped . THE WORLD TODAY faces a profound dilemma . At the end of an exhausting war in which three of the chief fascist countries were vanquished in a. military sense , a fresh attempt is being made to create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace . But even before that association is born , and many months or perhaps years before its machinery can be fully mobi ? lized for the task , a new and terrifying weapon has been created ? the atom bomb . As everyone now knows , the " secret " of the bomb is no secret . In the near future , at least a dozen countries will be in a position to manufacture such bombs and to destroy other countries on which they choose to make a surprise attack .. The danger is grave enough when such a weapon is in the hands of even a nation like the United . States ; it becomes enormously worse in the hands of one of the surviving fascist countries dedicated to totalitarian principles , like Spain or Argentina . We need a new basis for international control of countries which may not have committed an overt act of aggres ? sion yet are obviously a potential threat to peace . The charter of UNO , written at San Francisco before the news of the atomic bomb had heightened the urgency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal with this problem . We need an additional philosophy and additional actions based on that philosophy . This philosophy will obviously require of the nations in the UNO a greater genuine devotion to democratic prin ? ciples than even the best of them possess at this mo ? ment , and far more than the worst of them . Our tragedy lies in the fact that our time is so short . An attempt has now been made to suggest the new philosophical basis on which the nations of the world can interfere in the internal situation of a country which is a potential threat to peace even though it has as yet done nothing which would justify invoking United Nations action on the old , already largely obsolete , principles expounded at San Francisco . The Uruguayan Foreign Minister , Dr. Alberto Rodriguez Larreta , has proposed that the doctrine of non-intervention be re ? examined and harmonized with the present realities , to which it does not always conform . Dr. Rodriguez 's suggestion was endorsed so promptly by Secretary of State Byrnes that it became obvious his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not , indeed , inspired there . His proposal , in substance , is that a country which conspicuously flouts democratic principles in ? ternally , which denies its citizens liberty of opinion and political action , is not living up to present world prin ? ciples , and therefore should not he entitled to accept ? ance , legally and morally , as a member of the world community . Dr. Rodriguez proposes , not immediate action under this principle , but a reexamination of inter ? national law to see how and to what extent it should be modified for this purpose . It is necessary to distinguish sharply between this new idea and the past policies of the democratic coun ? tries , none of which actually approaches the ideal of democracy in fact . What we have done heretofore in the name of international principles such as non-inter ? vention , neutrality and legitimism , is a sorry record . Non-intervention is the banner under which we share the blame , along with Great Britain and France , for cowardly inaction during the Spanish civil war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took special measures beyond the scope of the Neutral ? ity Act to prohibit arms exports to the democratic defenders of Spain who vainly tried to defeat the Axis dress rehearsal for war . The blind-side brand of non-intervention , not to be confused with its valuable application in the Western Hemisphere , is the corollary of neutrality . The Neu ? trality Act of 1793 , legalizing our hands-off policy , was expedient protection for our shipping and foreign trade when we were a powerless nation , and at a time when it took many weeks to get so much as a message from one continent to another . Violations of neutrality were our reason for entering the First World War . In what Henry Stimson called in 1937 , after Roosevelt 's " quar ? antine " speech , " the wave of ostrich-like isolationism Which has swept over us , " neutrality was to be our ex ? cuse for staying out of World War II . Further review of our follies in the thirties is appro ? priate . Because the nation was " non-interventionist , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scrap iron and oil to Japan , while holding the Burma Road open to China . We explained our policy by a hair-splitting technicality : it was an " undeclared " war in the Far East ; con-ec , ut-Ttly we could politely pretend that it was no war at all . The Western Hemisphere , it is true , has seen the brighter side of non-intervention . After the Monroe Doctrine was declared in 1823 , our moral support of Latin America 's efforts to shake off her European masters ? in line with the Jeffersonian policy of de-facto recognition of revolutionary governments ? was salutary . But with the ascendency of the apostles of American imperialism , Theodore Roosevelt , Admiral Mahan , Josiah Strong and others , suspicion of the B'g Neighbor began to grow . Under the flag of " manifest destiny " after the Spanish-American War we inspired the Panamanian revolt against Colombia , meddled militarily in Santo Domingo , Nicaragua , Haiti and Mexico , and intervened in a number of countries as debt-collecting bookkeepers . Even Woodrow Wilson endorsed the worn-out principle of legitimism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our popularity in Latin America was soon below the British par in India . Just in time , Roosevelt and Sumner Welles moved in with a change of policy . Their first objective was to build some semblance of trust south of the border and Latin American confidence in the despised " Colossus of the North . " The doctrine of non-intervention , gradu ? ally implemented at various Pan-American meetings , paid off . Last year 's Act of Chapultepec condemned " intervention by a state in the internal and external affairs of another . " Earlier , at the Buenos Aires con ? ference of 1936 , it had been agreed that " every war or threat of war affects directly or indirectly all civilized peoples . " Mutual consultation was provided for if the menace of war did exist . In other words , unilateral action was to be replaced by multi-lateral action of the cooperative kind Secretary Stimson had often advo ? cated in world affairs . It is quite obvious that if at this moment the new Uruguayan doctrine were to be applied either by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Security Council , dominated by the Big Three , and if these nations continue to act as they have done in the past , there would be very little hope of real and effective action for peace . The British coalition gov ? ernment refused to join in sanctions against Argentina , proposed by the United States , on the painfully realistic grounds that the British wanted food from the Argen ? tine and a market for their exports . The British Labor government is shooting the people of Java whose only crime is a desire for freedom , and is doing so in the name of international peace and order , with no effective dissent from the United States or Russia . The form of the Russian government is such that the Uruguayan proposal , strictly applied , might easily put Russia among the objects of international discipline rather than the group of disciplinary powers . It is recognition of these problems that has brought the suggestion that the Uruguayan principle might first be applied only in the Western Hemisphere . To say , however , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to say that the court should not exist . On the contrary , it is to emphasize the necessity that these democracies shall clean their hands , as completely as possible and with the utmost possible speed . If we looked only at the facts of the past , we would necessarily adopt a defeatism regarding the future which would make the destruction of civili ? zation in another world war inevitable . However great the difficulties , however idealistic and starry-eyed the suggestion may seem , it is literally a life-and-death matter that we should try , beginning now , to create a world order in which it will become the business of a truly democratic association of powers to forbid the continuance of governments like those of Peron in Argentina or Franco in Spain . The fact that the time is short does not mean that a beginning should not be made , when the alternative is death . The Uruguayan proposal must have the widest and most earnest con ? consideration ; and those who do the considering must realize that a time bomb is ticking in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it must continue to come up as long as it exists and we own a political conscience . We mean the poll tax that is used as a tax on voting in Virginia , South Carolina , Tennessee , Ala ? bama , Mississippi , Arkansas and Texas and has held the people of these states under minority rule for the past half-century . Proposed federal legislation to remove this disability from citizens desiring to cast votes in national elections , has passed the House three years hand-running by overwhelming majorities . Action is being sought in the Senate before the year's-end recess . This year , as in 1943 and 1944 , passage of the bill ( HR 7 ) is rec ? ommended by the Judiciary Committee . In other years , the measure has failed of passage by the margin of the Senate 's unwillingness to overthrow a filibuster . This year a filibuster again looms , with Senator Bilbo of Mississippi dusting off his trusty tele ? phone books , mail-order catalogues and other refer ? ences from which he can harangue his colleagues as long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poll tax is spotlighted not only as a barrier to our social progress at home , but as the bar sinister on the escutcheon we show to the rest of the world . President Truman 's foreign-policy address on Navy Day in which he went over " our responsibilities within the framework of our fundamental principles " was resplendent with declarations of our belief in the return of " sovereign rights and self-government to all peoples , " through the establishment of governments in accordance with the " freely expressed wishes of the peoples concerned . " In view of the fact that the people of seven states of our own Union have no way freely to express their political choices , and therefore no access to " peaceful democratic government , " all of the above falls a little fiat . As important as it unquestionably is that Bulga ? rians and Rumanians have a free vote , it is not less important , surely , that Virginians and Tennesseans have as much . But Congress mocks and dawdles . Its hands are tied by its committees and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give a hang about the people of the United States , but only about the miniscule electorates in their own estates that have survived the tax on voting and are only the fractional remainder of once-sovereign peoples . Six poll-taxers make an indigestible lump in the stomach of the House Ways and Means Committee . Five poll-taxers plus backward-gazing Cochran of Missouri and Erwin Of North Carolina out of 13 Democrats , and Clare Hoff ? man of Michigan , Judd of Minnesota and Rich Of Pennsylvania among the Republican members , make up the Unholy Alliance in the House Committee on Expenditures of the Executive , whose chairman , poll-taxer Carter Manasco of Alabama , wogs openly at the executive 's plea for legislation to bridge the nation 's road over the postwar perils of inflation and depression . Enactment of HR 7 would honor the constitutional guarantee of a republican form of government to the people of all the states of the United States . A major ? ity of the members of the Senate have given their word to support the bill . Obstacles to its passage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ses ? sions or broken by cloture , and a resolution by Sena ' for Joseph C. O'Mahoney that would wrap up the whole issue as a question of constitutional amendment . Whatever the Senator 's personal sincerity in this proposal , its effect , if accepted , would be ( beyond fur                     