@@487471

WHEN the partition of Palestine was voted by the General Assembly on November 29 , two months and four days had elapsed since the opening of the discussions . More than a million dollars had been spent by the U. N. in an operation begun six months before , when , at the request of the British , an extraordinary session was called to advise on the future form of government in Palestine . On . September 1 the Special Committee of Inquiry ( UNSCOP ) , which had spent three solid months investigating the situation in Palestine and in Europe , presented a report , signed by a majority of the eleven members , recommending the establishment of two independent states . On September 25 a committee of fifty-seven , . representing all members of the U. N. , which came to be known as the Ad Hoc Committee on Palestine , met to , receive the report of UNSCOP and to decide on recommendations to be made to the General Assembly . It was expected that the majority report would be adopted with little delay , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in urging its adoption , since the partition proposal embodied the views expressed on more than one occasion by the President and was in line with this country 's traditional position . The United States did not take the initiative . Instead the American delegation lent itself to a policy of protracted delay and encouraged the piling up of obstacles , including threats of an Arab revolt , designed to defeat UNSCOP 's proposals and thereby open the way for con. tinuing control by the British . It was hoped in some quarters that a modification of the Morrison-Grady plan , advanced in 1946 and at that time rejected by the United States government , might be accepted as a compromise between the majority and minority reports of UNSCOP . Under such a plan Britain would remain for five years more in Palestine , during which time the Western world might win its war  --  cold or atomic  --  against Russia . The plan was a British plan . But playing the British game until the last moment were certain members of the State Department , some American military leaders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of World War IL Early in September it looked as if Secretary Marshall , and the President too , would be drawn into the scheme . This accounts for the fact that although the United States was committed in advance to the establishment of a Jewish commonwealth , its delegates gave no indication of where it stood until October 11 , forty days after UNSCOP reported and sixteen days after the Ad Hoc Committee met . In the interval there were well-authenticated reports that the President had been persuaded that defense inter- ests required capitulation to Arab demands . These , rumors were silenced for a time when the United States delegation came owt on October 11 with a statement favoring the majority report . But that statement was not made until leaders of public opinion , including several important political figures , brought the matter personally to the attention of the President and received his assurance that partition would be supported . The President kept his word . It was primarily his insistence , backed by vociferous public and press demands cutting across-party lines , that prevented a gigantic double-cross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Near Eastern and African Affairs , and his group in the State Department would have been accomplices . It must be kept in mind that although the Constitution intrusts foreign policies to the President , foreign affairs are actually conducted by the State Department . It is the State Department to which the U. N. delegation is responsible and from which it regularly receives its instructions . In the delegation were warm advocates of partition and sincere friends of the Jewish cause , such as Mrs. Roosevelt and Ambassador Austin . When General Hilldring , long familiar with the refugee problem , was added as a special adviser on the Palestine question , confidence was increased . But his appointment was offset by the addition of James Wadsworth , the American representative in Iraq , whose opposition to Zionist aims is intense and outspoken , and of a number of ill-informed , small-fry career diplomats-in-the-making . The sympathies of Herschel Johnson , United States representative on the Palestine committee , were in doubt . But he was known as an experienced official who would follow instructions closely . c OON after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , head rif the delegation , became immersed in preparations for the meeting of Congress and the conference of Foreign Ministers . Jahn Foster Dulles , on the Palestine question as on other matters the evil genius of the American delegation , was strongly of the opinion that the U. N. had no legal right to deal with the question  --  a view put forward by the Arab states and owithin one vote of being adopted by the Ad Hoc Committee as late as November 24 . Throughout the session the American delegation took its orders from Loy Henderson ' . Not until ten days be- 676 fore the actual vote was President Truman brought into the picture again and made aware of the disparity between his pledges and the department 's instructions . In the interval the delegation engaged in three levels of activity : ( 1 ) formal actions based on the pledges of the President , which committed the United States to support the majority plan ; ( 2 ) a quiet process of attrition of the majority plan ; ( 3 ) delaying tactics while decisions waited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the British , in close alliance with the Arabs , were busily developing opposition to the partition plan , particularly among the Latin American delegations . Harold Beeley , the British Foreign Office expert , sat in with Subcommittee II , which dealt with the Arab proposals . Hadow , the British liaison man for Latin America , was unceasingly active . " Shadow Hadow , " as he was called , wearing a black patch over one eye on alternate days , in the fashion of the classical pirate , worked until the very last minute to prevent a majority for partition . What the State Department attitude was may be gauged from the following facts : On September 26 and again on October 16 Arthur Creech-Jones , the British Colonial Secretary , appeared before the Ad Hoc Committee and said that the British government intended to terminate the mandate at will , that it would accept no responsibility for implementing a decision not acceptable to both Arabs and Jews , and it would accept no decision that it did not believe to be just . Yet on October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for one week the work of the subcommittee , produced its own proposal for implementation , it was based on the idea that the British would implement the partition plan . On ! October 31 and November 13 , 17 , and 20 the representatives of the British government rejected every scheme of implementation involving even the most minor cooperation on the part of Britain . Not untiL November 22 , when the subcommittee on implementation had been working for a month , did the United States offer its first public reproof to the British government and announce its intention of proceeding regardless of the British position . The whole U. N. was permitted to mark time and suffer snub after snub from the British . O N OCTOBER 11 , when the American delegation announced support of the majority plan , it indicated that it would ask for certain geographic changes , mentioning specifically only the transfer of Jaffa from the Jewish to the Arab state . On October 23 the subcommittee was named to work out the practical - details of partition , including boundaries , the status of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states . The American delegation did not agree to final boundary changes until November 25 , when the report of the subcommittee had already reached the Ad Hoc Committee , The NATION the very day of the vote . The representatives of the Jewish Agency for Palestine had themselves offered to give up Jaffa and had proposed eleven other boundary changes . In return for these changes , which would have added one million dunams to the Jewish state , they offered 2,300,000 dunams in the southern Negev to the Arab state . In this exchange the number of Arabs in the Jewish state would have been decreased about 22 per cent , and the Arab state would have had a net gain of some two million dunams . The chief obstacle to the adoption of these proposals was the State Department . It accepted the Jaffa exchange , but made many other claims , the most important being a aemand that 8,000,000 dunams in the Negev , including the port of Aquaba  --  the whole Negev had been granted to the Jewish state by UNSCOPshould be given to the Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand was made . At no time was the issue raised in the working committee , the Ad Hoc Committee , or the General Assembly . It was discussed privately in the hope that the Jewish Agency could be persuaded to acquiesce on the assurance that only in this way could the two-thirds ' majority be obtained . As if the members of the U. N. actually kneW , understood , or cared about detailed boundary differentials ! The American delegation , acting under instruction from the State Department , was prepared to have Subcommittee I present a report to the Ad Hoc Committee , but the Americans reserved the right to reopen discussions on boundaries and on economic union . Had this happened , it would have invited other revisions and even possible defeat of the majority plan . Only the direct intervention of President Truman prevented it . On Wednesday , November 19 , the President issued a directive that the American reservations were to be withdrawn . Actually , they were not withdrawn until November 25 , and then only after renewed White House pressure . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dunams . On the afternoon of November 24 I was informed that a new monkey wrench had been tossed in by the British , who had warned the State Department  --  and the name of Loy Henderson was mentioned specifically  --  that if it proceeded with the partition proposals it would be made to rue the day by Communist infiltration into Palestine and the alleged alliance among the Russians , the Irgun , , and the Stern gang . " What is going to happen ? " I asked my informant . " They are going to take a Gandhi-like attitude , " he said ; " they 'll wait and see ! " The State Department did wait . Four days later , when Ambassador Parodi  --  for understandable reasons , which , however , do him and France no honor  --  proposed a twenty-four-hour adjournment to allow a new conciliation move , it was not the United States but the delegate of Poland , Dr. Lange , who challenged the proposal . December 20 , 1947 While the Arab states were thundering their threats of revolt and bloodshed unchallenged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the physical reduction of the Jewish state was also supervising the planning of a program involving hundreds of millions of dollars for irrigation and reclamation projects in the countries of the Middle East , to be financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the United States supplying engineers and materials . IT HE Arab delegations have made many accusations - I-  about the strong-arm methods used by the United States to insure the votes necessary to carry the partition proposal . Let us examine the record . As far as I am aware the United States produced perhaps one important vote , the vote of the Philippines , and then only when it became a matter of fate-saving ; by November 29 this vote was no longer necessary to insure the two-thirds ' majority . On Monday , November 24 , one day before the vote in the Ad Hoc Committee on the majority plan , a highly placed official informed me that in the view of the State Department three more votes were needed . Yet on that same day the American delegation 's staff was not aware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no " in the plenary session . On . Wednesday , November 26 , the plenary session met ; It was known that there had been seventeen abstentions in the Ad Hoc Committee on the previous day . If the vote of the Ad Hoc Committee were repeated in the Assembly , the partition proposal would be one vote shy , and Haiti 's was the balancing vote . The session opened with the speeches of the Philippines , Paraguay , and Greece . Neither the Philippines nor Paraguay had been present during the vote in the Ad Hoc Committee . What three votes ought to have been more certain if the Americans were interested in assuring a two-thirds ' majority ? But Greece , the Philippines , and Paraguay announced that they would vote " no. " - Mr. Dickerson , a member of the delegation staff , when asked by the Siamese delegate how he should vote , said it was a matter of indifference to the American delegation . The delegate of Siam Voted " no " in the Ad Hoc Committee . By chance his credentials were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cast in the plenary session . Last week Sir Zafrullah Khan , the Pakistan delegate , an ardent and able advocate of the Arab case , who left before the plenary vote , in a cable to a New York paper described the delegate of Haiti casting  --  his vote for partition " with tears in his eyes . " This was to show how American pressure had been exercised on small countries . The delegate of Haiti was never approached by the United States . In fact , the story of Haiti 's vote illuminates the entire State Department attitude . Early in the debate , the representative of Haiti indi-677 cated that his government favored partition . He received new instructions by cable over the week-end of November 22 . An investigation by friends of Haiti disclosed that the reversal was based on anger at the cavalier fashion in which a Haitian mission had been treated by the United States government after three and a half months of vain effort to obtain a five-million-dollar loan from this country  --  a loan , incidentally , which , doubled in amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haiti hoped by withholding its vote to put pressure on the United States , its action was perfectly understandable . The Haitian government was persuaded to return to its initial position by liberal friends on moral grounds alone . Liberia is another interesting case . Up to two o'clock Friday , November 28 , the delegation of Liberia , representing a government which has a State Department adviser , was never approached by a representative of the Uhited States . Its intention to cast a negative vote was changed through the efforts of friendly , unofficial Americans . If space allowed , several other equally significant instances could be cited . By the evening of November 28 even the State Department could no longer stall in face of the Presidential directive . For perhaps the first time in the more than two months of deliberations the American delegation was instructed to hold the lines and to insure that nothing would prevent a vote on the report as the first business on the agenda of the plenary session . These directives were issued by the President from the White House and Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignored . On Saturday afternoon , November 29 , Herschel Johnson for the first time was permitted to tell the Arabs and the British that the Americans would stand for no more nonsense . And because he said it directly , firmly , mincing no words , the parliamentary maneuvers of the Arabs , British , and Ahmbians failed ; a prepared resolution for simple adjournment was never offered . When the vote of thirty-three to thirteen , with ten abstentions , was finally registered , the United States and the Soviet Union together had produced the first constructive act of the United Nations . I T IS worth-while analyzing how this remarkable ex-ample of teamwork was achieved in a session distinguished by the most violent disagreements between the two powers on every other issue . It was not an accident . The Russians want the British out of the Middle East . The establishment of two independent states in Palestine was a means of accomplishing this purpose . But it must be said to the credit of the Russians that in working for this end they were the only big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still being accused of playing for an alliance with the Arabs ; yet they alone among the major delegations dared to challenge the role , the record , and the participation of the Mufti and his Arab Higher Committee . And it was the Russians who at every point tried to prevent the attrition of the majority report and to secure for the Jews their just demands . But in the last resort the victory was won by the committee known as Subcommittee 1 . It consisted of nine members , all of whom favored partition and none of whom were unfriendly either to the Soviet Union or the United States . It was the only U. N. committee in which the British were given no opportunity to tun interference for the United States against the Soviet Union . And although there were two dominion members on the committee ? Canada and South Africa  --  both , and particularly Lester Pearson of Canada , worked with the greatest good-will to get agreement . The fact that this was a homogeneous committee was not the result of State Department design . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brazil added to it , although neither had then indicated its attitude on partition . Representatives of the United States approached the Polish chairman , Mr. Pniszynski , with the suggestion that the two countries be included . He declined to act on the ground that he had no authority . When a similar proposal was made to Dr. Evatt , he too refused to be budged . Together Guatemala , Uruguay , Venezuela , Poland , and Canada , during four weeks of delicate negotiations , worked day and night to keep the committee moving and to defeat the delaying tactics of the State Department . In the end it was these countries and the dominions which made possible the affirmative vote ; and Dr. Evatt:s extraordinary skill which enabled it to be taken within three days after the report was submitted . It remained for the State Department to supply the final note of cynicism . In Subcommittee I it had been agreed unanimously that the PalestiO commission should consist of Iceland , Norway , Poland , Guatemala , and Uruguay . Usually it is the custom to reward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the partition proposals than those of Guatemala , Uruguay , and Poland . The first two had served on UNSCOP and had been invaluable members of Subcommittee I. After six months of work they had become experts on a question requiring experts . Without the agreement of the subcommittee the State Department decided that the Palestine commission should bechanged . The slate was unceremoniously scrapped , and five new members were chosen at the last moment , on November 29 , with the Philippines included  --  obviously as a reward for voting " yes . " Last week Loy Henderson called a meeting of division heads , including Herschel Johnson . There Johnson was reprimanded by Henderson for having so successfully carried out the President 's directive on Palestine !                     