@@487519

LAST YEAR IT WAS LILIENTHAL . THIS YEAR it 's Hopkins and Wallace . And always , at bottom , it is Franklin D. Roosevelt who is the real object of the endless probing that has become standard procedure with the opposition . Link the dead President to Russia , to something very like treason if possible  --  that is the hope ; and the technique is to damn him through his top lieutenants . Sordid as the strategy is , there is perhaps some gain for political decency in having these men emerge unimpaired after each brush with their detractors . It was Senator Hickenlooper , not David Lilienthal , who looked bad When his particular probe turned out to be hardly more than a whine , though a prolonged one . Hopkins and Wallace are luckier . Not all the screeching of the New York World-Telegram and the Hearst press could give more than a few days ' life to the fantasy of Fulton Lewis , Jr. , that they had forced the shipment ed atomic materials to Russia over II : the protests of General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revelation of a publicity-starved ex-major that when he was a lend-lease expediter at Great Falls in 1943 , Hopkins had pressed him into speeding uranium , heavy water , and various documents to the Russians . He had opened suitcases , he said in a radio interview with Lewis , and found a memorandum II on White House stationery bearing the initials " H. H. " and containing the line : " Had a hell of a time getting these from Groves . " Apart from the wild implausibility of this tale ? Hopkins was gravely ill and in the hospital and we had only an insignificant quantity of fissionable materials in 1943 ? the Jordan story was utterly demolished by Groves himself , though he obviously had no affection for either Hopkins or Wallace . The contention that numerous carboys of heavy water had been shipped , the General told the un-American Activities Committee , was like saying " the Russians had obtained ten Hope diamonds . " THE AUSTRALIAN LABOR GOVERNMENT'Sdefeat is not nearly so significant as some wishful-thinking commentators would have us believe . Over the last thirty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lost it at subsequent elections , and later regained it . The idea that this new upset by a narrow margin after an eight-year stretch in office indicates permanent decline is of course nonsense . So too is the suggestion that Australia has started a steady retreat from socialism . Robert Gordon Menzies , leader of the victorious conservative party which calls itself Liberal , who will become Australia 's next Prime Minister , is described as a fervent believer in the free-enterprise system . Nevertheless , it is certain that he will attempt neither economic counter-revolution by returning Australia to a real free-market economy nor abolition of the welfare state . His followers are mostly stout protectionists : his allies in the Country Party , on whose votes he must depend for a majority , qualify their devotion to free enterprise by such demands as a ten-year guaranty of minimum prices for farmers . Moreover , Mr. Menzies was careful to disclaim any intention of interference with the social services . Such considerations have not tempered the pleasure of British Tories who claim that the overthrow of Labor governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own country . They badly needed some Antipodean cheer , for two days before the Australian vote they had failed by a substantial margin to snatch the South Bradford parliamentary seat from Labor . Before the poll the Labor Party had been nervous about the outcome of this by-election , but the returns showed that its 1945 following had remained almost intact . To British political experts this fact has a more important bearing on general-election prospects than Labor defeats under the SOuthern Cross . WITH THE FIRST FALL OF SNOW IT IS NICE to and that the swallows are safe in the Southland and our Senators are home again , safe from the wolves of Europe . Senator Thomas , of Oklahoma , had a narrow escape from Sweden , where he wandered about for several days without so much as a. free banquet . His feelings are still badly wounded , but he seems to have made up for the malnutrition by living rather well in France . Taxpayers will be glad to know that the Senator 's trip at their expense included visits to the Lido , Bal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he told a reporter for the Paris edition of the New York 586 The NATION Herald Tribune . " We got all our Christmas shopping done , " too , the Senator announced . And now , well fed and full of good cheer , he can turn his senatorial attention to those aloof Swedes . For Senator McCarran , of Nevada , a high spot of Europe was the displaced persons ' camps . McCarran ca n't see why any haste is needed to get people out of those camps four years after the end of the war , even though they may be decaying in idleness and despair . Their living conditions , he reports , " are better than living conditions of the average inhabitant of many areas of the United States . " The finding , coincidentally of course , will sustain Mr. McCarran in his feverish efforts to prevent any liberalization of the present grudging D. P. bill . But the camps were not the only fine thing in Europe . Spain was just as good , with a program of " extremely progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senator , by the way , and it raises a neat question . If progressive legislation justifies support of Franco , why not of Truman ? But here McCarran 's standards must be taken into account . After all , Franco Spain ca n't help appealing to a man whose idea of the good life is the carefree existence of a D. P. camp . THE ASSEMBLY OF THE UNITED NATIONS wound up its fourth session with a record of failures , blunders , and limited successes . It achieved success in the controversial issue of the Italian colonies ; it ' failed fo satisfy the universal clamor for agreement on the question of atomic energy ; and it blundered most irresponsibly on Jerusalem , producing a " solution " which - will injure the unit &; N-ti-ns r- , ore +l- , , n the A communities directly concerned . The Assembly showed better sense in dealing with China . By turning the problem over to the Little Assembly , it buried diplomatically and with partial honors the Nationalist demand that the United Nations hold Russia to blame for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ended the dispute on the very day when the last remnants of Nationalist China were fleeing from the mainland to take refuge on the island of Formosa ? a precarious refuge unlikely to be retained until the next Assembly . Whether or not this situation is reflected immediately in the Security Council , one thing seems sure : British recognition of the Communist government will come within the next few weeks , American recognition will inevitably follow , and the question of Chinese representation in the Security Council will be resolved automatically . The Assembly closed with a final bitter attack by Russia . Many people present thought that Jacob A. Malik , the Soviet representative , would have done better to demand that the intermediary period between this Assembly and the next should be used to clear up some of the main areas of conflict , , as was done last year in the case of Berlin . Certainly it December 17 , 1949 will not be through inflammatory speeches and mutual recriminations that solutions will be achieved . Present tactics may end in falling bombs but not in agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy is added evidence of the deep current of dissatisfaction which for more than a year has been agitating every Socialist Party in Europe . The continental parties are sharply divided over many policies , domestic as well as foreign , which their representatives in the various governments have supported . If the French Socialists have been disturbed by the attitude of successive coalition Cabinets toward economic issues and , above all , toward the rapid resurgence of clerical influence under the protection of the Catholic M. R. P. , the Italian Socialists have found it even more difficult to collaborate in a government headed by a man who frankly speaks for the Vatican . This growing dissatisfaction dominated the congress at Florence from which the new party emerged . The ostensible purpose of the Socialist Unity Party is to heal the breach in the Italian Socialist movement , which in 1947 divided into a left-wing party headed by Pietro Nenni and a right-wing party led by Giuseppe Saragat . So far , however , it has drawn its backing from the right rather than from the left , the Nenni @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new organization nine of his thirty deputies , with four still undecided . Besides such well-known figures as Ignazio Silone , the novelist , and Giuseppe Romita , a minister in the first post-war Cabinet , the new party has among its leaders Giuseppe Faravelli , one of the best of Saragat 's parliamentary group . In terms of policy it is interesting that the first pronouncement of the new party was a strong protest against the North Atlantic Pact . This development is well worth watching . It may be the beginning of European socialism 's recovery of its personality and in , dependence . EVERY DOCTOR IN THE UNITED STATES , whatever his views on national health insurance , - will now have to contribute $25 a year to the American Medical Association to support its fight against such legislation or put his stethoscope in mothballs . A doctor can hardly continue in practice if denied the liability insurance , the working arrangements with hospitals , and other benefits accruing from membership in the association and affiliated state and county medical societies ; and last week in Washington the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body  --  decreed that membership shall henceforth be contingent upon payment of $25 in annual dues . This , it so happens , is precisely the amount A. M. A. officials wanted to assess each physician last winter to provide $3,500,000 with which 587 to combat President Truman 's health plan . When too many doctors rebelled , the assessment was hastily redefined as " voluntary . " Two-thirds of the desired total was ' subscribed , of which but $50,000 remains unspent , while health legislation is more than ever in demand . We can understand the panic of the A. M. ' A. leaders , but their latest maneuver may prove their greatest mistake , for as even the conservative New York Worlds Telegram has pointed out , it can only arouse hostility within and without the medical fraternity . They might more wisely have taken a moment from their debates to listen to Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois , who in a press conference a few blocks away outlined a health plan he would soon submit to Congress in an effort to resolve the public-health controversy . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be much good sense in the Senator 's proposal to apply a small pay-roll tax toward insurance against " catastrophic " medical eirpensesthose exceeding 5 per cent of a family 's income . At the same time the workability of a program under which state and private agencies administer federal funds is doubtful . But in any event we repeat Senator Douglas 's warning to the A. M. A. : If you do n't accept a sensible program now , you may in the end find it impossible to avoid something less than sensible . IN MOSCOW , IDAHO , WHICH HAPPENS TO BE the home of the state university , four Indian boys were recently given sentences of fourteen years each for stealing one sheep . The theft of livestock has , of course , always been a serious offense in the West and was once punishable by death . But even if one makes allowance for the strength of tradition , this particular sentence seems gravely disproportionate to the offense . The Indian boys , in asking for-a rehearing , said that they did not know the meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promised light jail sentences or fines if they entered pleas of guilty . As Roscoe Fleming , the always quotable columnist of the Denver Post has observed , " The term grand larceny does seem a trifle obscure as applied to one sheep divided among four Indian boys . " THE SEVENTY-FIFTH BIRTHDAY OF ALVIN Johnson , president-emeritus of the New School for Social Research , to be celebrated on December 18 , will be the occasion for innumerable tributes . It is unlikely that any of them will give him as much satisfaction as does the contemplation of his two major works , the New School and the Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences . Max Lerner has said of the latter , on which he worked : " I do n't suppose there has been an encyclopaedia venture since that of Diderot in the eighteenth century which generated more excitement in its making , and 588 which will prove a greater landmark among social science scholars . " As for the New School , it had been floundering for four years when Dr. Johnson became president in 1923 . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adult education , and a tenacity and faith sufficient to make his dreams for the school come true . To others belongs the credit for the creation of the concept of adult education ; Johnson gave it life , imagination , and a sense of purpose . Later , when Hitler hounded the foremost German scholars from their posts , Johnson welcomed scores of these men to the New School , enabling them to live and continue their work . That many of these refugees are now on university staffs throughout the United States is largely due to Dr. Johnson 's success in persuading the heads of these institutions to open their doors to these able teachers . The Nation greets Dr. Johnson on his birthday and wishes him many more years of fruitful work . Can the Miners Win ? W HATEVER settlement John L. Lewis may be able to achieve for the miners of bituminous coal is not likely to solve their problems  --  or his  --  for very long . Mr. Lewis is an unrelenting fighter , and when he is in the ring , as he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his punches are hard . By pressing his advantage to the utmost in the past ten or fifteen years he has achieved virtually complete organization of the coal diggers and recently has won for them not only the highest hourly rates paid in any important industry but a substantial pension and other advances . But in the present situation , though he may knock out his opponent , little is likely to be gained from the victory . Something besides fighting is now required . After World War I , Mr. Lewis 's combative tendencies , combined with his failure correctly to diagnose the economic situation , nearly destroyed his union . Again and again he would enforce higher wages or shorter hours on the unionized employers of the industry , only to see them lose their markets to_the non-union operators . A high wage rate is of little use to a miner who has no work . Nearly 200,000 miners left the industry between 1923 and 1929 , and a large proportion of those who remained were in the end working at non-union rates for operators who did not practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was pointed out to him frequently , but he kept his stubborn course , ousting from power all opponents within the union who recommended a more far-sighted policy and establishing a virtual one-man dictatorship . Thanks to the New Deal and the National Labor Relations Act , Mr. Lewis was able to rebuild the strength of the union and to make gains for the miners ' standard The NATION of living above the depression low of 1932 . World War II so increased the demand for coal as to put great powers in his hands , which he employed to the limit . But now the situation is again like that which the industry faced after 1920 , with the exception that the miners are more completely organized . The union , however , is not the controlling factor in its economic fortunes . There is an abundance of coal in the United States . It is in the hands of many owners ; no company or small number of companies can monopolize it . When the demand for coal is pressing , as in a war , output is increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . Then prices can be raised , and the organized workers may benefit . But when the emergency demand ceases , the industry is left with more mines and more labor than are required to fill the demand , especially at an inflated price . Coal may be a necessity , but that does not mean there are no substitutes for it . When the price rises , and particularly when the supply is interrupted by frequent strikes , large industrial consumers , railroads , and ships turn to oil or gas ; diesel and diesel-electric locomotives have displaced the old-fashioned coal fired steam engine on many of the nation 's railroads . High wages provide a stimulus for mining companies to substitute machines for labor , and they have been doing so at an accelerated pace . Meanwhile those who continue to use coal economize on its cost by using it more and more efficiently ; so that a ton of coal will now turn out much more energy than it did thirty , twenty , or even ten years ago . This too tends to reduce employment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recent strike have been intended to increase the bargaining power of the union by reducing the stocks of coal above ground . As soon as the miners are allowed to work full time , a surplus appears . " Vacations , " three-day weeks , and the like help to diminish the surplus . But at the same time they slash the miners ' livelihood . Mr. Lewis is , in essence , substituting union-organized unemployment for the unemployment which would normally appear if full production should be allowed to continue . How long can he keep up this pressure ? In a sense it is self-defeating . Every time he pushes up the wages of miners or threatens interruption of the coal supply , he discourages the demand for the product . The miners , for their part , are said to have lost on the average about a thousand dollars apiece in wages this year . The basic problem is lack of enough work for the existing number of miners , and all that the union 's present strategy amounts to is a spread-the-work program in the guise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wins concessions that place an added cost burden on the industry and its customers , many of the miners will soon again be on- short time or out of work . December 17 , 1949 , If the union wants to keep high wages and other advantages , the continual technological improvement will help it to do so , provided it facilitates transfer out of the industry into other occupations of those miners who are no longer needed . This is the basic problem589 the workers face . A remedy ought to be organized promptly , with the cooperation of government and employers if possible . Otherwise depressiorl in the coal fields and widespread unemployment among the miners will be the fruits of Mr. Lewis 's strategy ,                     