@@470735

is time for Americans to do the kind of straight thinking about the Far East that they somewhat smugly accuse the British of not having done about Europe in the years preceding 1939 . Looking back now , one can sec how the European war came about . Whether one takes as the beginning the Treaty of Versailles , or the failure to rectify it in time , or the failure to stop the Japanese in 1931 , or the failure to stop Italy in 1935 , or the failure to stop the Spanish intervention , or the failure to warn the Germans out of Austria and Czechoslovakia , or the capitulation at Munich , one can see now the things that were not done that might have been done to arrest the progression to crisis and inescapable conflict , up to the moment at which the British and French could choose only between complete surrender and war . My point in this article is that in precisely the same way we are not doing the things that might he done to prevent a general war in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and do them before it is too late , before there too we are at the point of inescapable conflict , when there is no choice but surrender or war . By " we " I include the United States . Americans can he self-righteous and magisterial about Chamberlain and the Cliveden set . They had no responsibility and they do not have to pay the price . But they can not be self-righteous about the Far East . There , rightly or wrongly , for better or worse , they have a responsibility , one deriving from all that America has done in that part of theworld for nearly a hundred years . And if there is a general war in the Far East America will pay the price , probably earlier than other Western countries and perhaps a heavier one . The responsibility is all the greater because of the European war , for now America alone is free to act . Simultaneously the danger is greater because of the European war , because Japan too may consider herself free to act for her own purposes If any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general war in the Far East , a drift as clear now as it should have been in Europe in 1936 or 1937 , it must be made by America . And it can be made by America . If the European war has added to the danger and has increased American responsibility , it has also created America 's opportunity . By reason of the combination of recent political circumstances , America can act with a maximum of effectiveness and a minimum of risk . Concretely , it is proposed that America take such positive measures as will lay an injunction against further aggression or expansion by Japan and at the same time lay such handicaps against Japan 's recent aggressions as to make them unprofitable -- in other words , prevent Japan from consummating its conquest of China and instead compel it to relax its grip on that country . This can be done by using the opportunity offered by the suspension of commercial treaty relations with Japan . The treaty should not be renewed . The state of suspense should be used as a club over Japan . If necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan , rising in the scale of severity as Japan attempts to go farther in aggrandizement . If necessary , a complete embargo should be laid against exports to Japan and such heavy duties imposed on imports from Japan as to reduce those imports to a minimum . It is possible that the threat to do so will in itself suffice to serve as deterrent . If so , if Japan can be given pause and the present tensions eased , time will be gained in which a solution for the Far East can work itself out without war . To talk of " non-involvement " and " none-entanglement " now is to play on words , to profess a fidelity to phrases which already has been broken in fact . There has been an incongruity in America 's relation to the rest of the world since last autumn that is difficult to explain on rational grounds . With respect to Europe , America has abandoned both pretense and self-deception . There is neutrality neither in thought nor deed . The embargo on the sale of arms to belligerents was repealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The embargo was lifted in order to sell arms to Great Britain and France and thus help them win the war . And this was the concrete expression of a general recognition that a German victory would be not only unpalatable to the American people but inimical to the American national interest . With respect to the Far East , however , America continues to provide Japan with war materials which help it to conquer China , a victory which also would be unpalatable to the American people and inimical to the national interest . This is more than inconsistent ; it is absurd . What is the American national interest in the Far East ? What does America desire in that part of the world and to what end should it direct its policy ? For reasons to be examined in detail later , it is to America 's interest that there should he no such disturbances in the Far East as will compel it sooner or laterto go to war , either for the purpose of preventing any one country from acquiring such overweening power as to constitute a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purpose of insuring that America shall have a right to trade in the Far East on terms of equality . What this comes to in practical politics now is that Japan shall be checked from getting control over China as the first step toward setting up a great Eastern empire , that Soviet Russia shall be checked from getting control over China as the first step toward setting up a great Eastern empire , or that Japan and Soviet Russia in alliance shall be checked from getting control over Eastern Asia and then dividing it . In the immediate instance this means that Japan must he forewarned against running amok and seizing Shanghai , Hongkong , Tientsin , and territories adjacent to China under international or Western guarantee while Great Britain is engaged in the European war . II There is only one practicable way to serve this interest , whether conceived in the long run or in the immediate danger . That is by implanting in Japan a fear of the consequences of rash acts . While it is true that , viewed in the long run , America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan against China , it is also true that the immediate danger has been mitigated by American measures . If the Japanese have not taken advantage of the temporary elimination of Great Britain and France by the European war to overrun foreign areas in China and colonies to the south of China , that has been mainly because of the uncertainty of what America would do . Clear indication of their intentions can be read in their blockade of Tientsin last June and July , when food was withheld from foreign concessions and British subjects were stripped and searched . The British were already helpless because of the imminence of war in Europe , and the more headstrong of the Japanese army men were demanding that foreigners be cleared out of China . The European war came , thus creating Japan 's opportunity . The Japanese did not avail themselves of it . For in the meantime the United States had given notice of the abrogation of the treaty of commerce . Then in October the American Ambassador in Tokyo delivered a pointed warning in a formal speech . Japanese uncertainty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States would be legally free to suspend all intercourse or to lay the most stringent disabilities on such intercourse . The Japanese have remained quiescent . They will remain quiescent only so long as America does not relax its vigilance or its firmness , and does not by some act or word restore their confidence that they can move with impunity . It is imperative that America should not do so . A severe test may be impending . By the time this article is published a puppet government may have been set up in China on the model of Manchukuo . By the precedent of Manchukuo Japan will recognize that government as the legal government of China and then negotiate a peace treaty ? a treaty dictated by the Japanese army of course . Then China , presumably sovereign and independent , will proceed to exercise the prerogatives of sovereignty and demand the retrocession of the International Settlement at Shanghai , the foreign concessions , and other foreign rights and privileges . The British , French , and American governments will protest to Japan , and Japan will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter : the Chinese government is the government of an independent country and if it chooses to dispossess the foreigner that is a pity , but what can Japan do ? If , that is , Japan is not forewarned that the same stratagem can not be used twice , that Japan will be held responsible and that if any such attempt is made retaliation will be taken against Japan . Warning should take two forms . first , the evils of secret diplomacy notwithstanding , Japan should be told privately that any steps taken by the socalled Chinese government will be followed by reprisals against Japan , not China . This should be communicated privately , lest the Japanese government lose face and be compelled out of pride to act in defiance . Second and more important , the American government should retain full freedom of action by refusing to restore any treaty relations . This will give point to the warning , and may prevent its having to be put into effect . So long as Japan can be kept guessing America is in a powerful position . Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constrained to good behavior on the principle that it is better to suffer the repressions it has than fly to punishments it knows not of . After two and a half years of war which has inflicted serious deprivations on its people , without any sign of early relief , Japan will perforce be hesitant in assuming risks . Japan will doubtless offer minor concessions in the next few months to placate America . It will remove some of the existing restraints on foreign trade , for example . The concessions should be gratefully acknowledged , accepted , and not recompensed . They will be apparent concessions only . For example , the Yangtze River may be opened to foreign shipping , but such foreign ships as attempt to carry cargoes up the river will be so bedevilled by restrictions , regulations , and admirably managed accidents that it will be unprofitable to repeat the attempt . Little by little any concessions made in order to get a new treaty with America will he whittled away once the treaty is signed . No promise made by Japan now is worth the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too plain its intention not only to acquire effective hegemony over China but to displace foreigners , foreign interests , and foreign trade there . And nothing can deter it except the fear of penalties . So far from accepting concessions and returning a quid pro quo , America should retain the initiative and at every opportunity given it by Japan take the aggressive . There will be no lack of opportunities ; the Japanese army is prolific of provocations . The so-called moral embargo should be extended ; that is , as airplane manufacturers have been urged not to sell planes and aerial equipment to Japan , so the manufacturers of other commodities should be similarly pressed . Penalizing duties should be imposed on Japanese imports . As occasion requires ? or can be made ? embargoes should be put on the export of one commodity after another among those most necessary to the continued conduct of the war : oil , scrap metals , copper , machinery , and if possible , cotton . Thus preventive pressure can be put on Japan and at the same time obstacles put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in China . In the first two years after the beginning of the China-Japan war there were serious arguments against adopting such a course . In the first place , there was the belief that Japan could purchase its supplies from other countries if America adopted sanctions . In the second place , there was the natural reluctance to lose a market when economic conditions were deteriorating again . In the third place , there was the fear of provoking Japan to war . These arguments have now lost their validity . Japan can no longer buy supplies in any appreciable quantity from any other country ; for among the principal exporting countries America alone is not engaged in war . For all practical purposes Japan is now dependent on America for war materials . Shut off from America , it would not necessarily be put out of action , but in the course of six months or a year it would be seriously crippled . It could be brought to a halt in China . As for the loss of profits from the Japanese trade , that has now become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war in Europe will last for some time there will be ample demand from European belligerents forjust those essentials to warfare that Japan has been buying from America . The loss of Japanese war trade is a luxury which American business can now afford , and the internal political opposition to an embargo , which undoubtedly has been an important factor , is therefore diminished , if not removed . With respect to the danger of provoking Japan to war , that too is materially diminished . It has already been said that Japan has been seriously weakened . It can not extricate itself from China , puppet government or no puppet government , and at the same time it must husband its remaining strength against the possibility of an Anglo-French victory in Europe . For Great Britain and France , especially Great Britain , have accounts to settle with Japan . If the British grand fleet is ever free to move out to the Singapore base Japan will have to fight for self-preservation against odds not too promising at any time but insuperable in its present straits . Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Japanese army may be given to recklessness , but it has learned caution . It received a sound drubbing from the Russians on the Mongolian border last summer and then with alacrity accepted an armistice on terms constituting acknowledgment of defeat . The Japanese army knows when discretion is the better part of valor . And it has always been circumspect about America . There are no illusions in Japan about America 's power . Parenthetically , there is a syllogism that should be drawn from the Russian-Finnish fighting and the Russian-Japanese fighting . If the same army that defeated the Japanese was wiped out or sent fleeing by the Finns , then how shall the Japanese army be rated ? Has the world been overawed all these years by a false front ? or was the Siberian Red Army , being a separate and homogeneous force , better than the European Russian army ? Perhaps the main argument now being made against any attempt to curb Japan by economic measures is that it will throw Japan and Soviet Russia into each other 's arms . Against this three things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the Japanese can make a deal with the Russians for a division of the spoils in Eastern Asia they will do so regardless of what position America takes . In the second place , a Russian-Japanese deal would have little political significance , since it would be tenuous and transitory . Neither side would trust the other , neither would have any cause for doing so ; neither would be faithful to its engagements , and each would expect the other to betray . For purposes of long-term unified action a Russian-Japanese alliance is a remote possibility , if possibility at all . There is no division of spheres they can make that would not entail the jeopardizing of one of them , so much so as to mean eventual subordination of one to the other . And that neither would concede except as the penalty of a lost war . It is almost a cardinal principle of the political philosophy of both Russia and Japan that the other must be driven out of the Eastern Asiatic continent . In the third place , the threat that strong American action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disseminated most assiduously by the Japanese themselves for American consumption . It is part of a diplomatic propaganda campaign to keep America inactive . The danger from Russia in the Far East should not be too lightly dismissed . But it does not consist in an alliance with Japan for the division of China with the northwestern provinces left to Chinese communists under much the same status as Outer Mongolia and the rest left to Japan . The danger is rather that Russia will get control of China on its own account . This danger is accentuated by the Japanese invasion and could be diminished or eliminated if Japan were forced to recede . If the present war of attrition lasts long enough , and Japan continues to be able to draw on other countries for material help , it may be that the Chinese National government will become dispirited and drop out , not so much surrendering as letting go by default . In that event the brunt of resistance to Japan will be carried by the Chinese communist armies , with material support from Russia at first and then the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " And in that event China will fall either to Russia or Japan . But if it will be to Russia then , unless all the European Powers are completely emasculated , which is unlikely , and the United States is immovably immured in isolationism , which also is unlikely , there will be a continental struggle of the non-communist countries against Russia over whether Asia is to become Russian , with or without communism . One of the unfortunate by-products of the European war is that China has been cut off from all support by Great Britain and France , which in the nature of things can now spare little for the Far East . At the same time the United States is doing little . In result China may be increasingly compelled to turn to Soviet Russia , willy-nilly . It can be understood if China , fighting for selfpreservation and unable to get help elsewhere , accepts it from Soviet Russia even at the price of laying itself under obligation and making token payments in advance ? as , for example , giving an increased share of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite likely , would be the thin end of the Russian wedge . If for no other reason , it is just to avoid this that something should be done to ease the strain on China ? either in the form of direct help to China or in the form of handicaps imposed on Japan . If China is not pressed too hard by Japan , if it can continue by formal and guerilla warfare to withstand the Japanese troops and slowly wear them out , then it can remain friendly to Russia but firm , taking help when given but refusing when too much is demanded in return . For this is what the present leaders of China desire . If the government can be kept in being and solidly based until Japan is forced to beat a retreat or accept a compromise that is tantamount to defeat , then the Russian danger is over . If China as now Ied saves itself from Japan it can be depended upon to save itself from Russia . For one thing , its motive in resisting Japan as desperately as it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make decisions in China are anti-communistic and suspicious of Russia . In short , by curbing Japan now we can simultaneously lift the Japanese menace that hangs over China and the Russian menace that hangs over China . We can obviate a Japanese militarist-fascist empire and a Russian militarist-communist or pseudo-communist empire . There could be few more ghastly prospects for the world than what would follow if the Russians were to use the millions of Asia as a spearhead of world revolution , whether the revolution were as genuinely social as Marx conceived it or as spurious as Stalin has made it . For there would be combined what was most terrible in the Thirty Years ' War with the mass destructiveness of mechanized warfare . III It is a truism that wars are made long before they begin and can not be prevented in the period just preceding their outbreak . There is a point in international relations at which a momentum has set in which can no longer be arrested . Then there must be war , with or without fighting . That is to say , either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because one side has yielded to threats . Where there is clear preponderance of power there can be bloodless victory ; where there is not there must be war . There was not in Europe , so there is war ; neither Great Britain nor France was resigned to accepting relegation to obscurity . Most distinctly there is not in the Far East , and if and after a certain momentum has set in there will be war in the Far East . That time is not far distant . In fact it may already have arrived . In a sense , the Japan-China war is the beginning , as the pitched battles between the Russians and Japanese in 1938 and 1939 were the beginning  - -  arrested for the moment , as it happens , by the sudden volte-face of Russia and remaining in suspense until the full import of Russia 's volte-face can be assessed . We have been near enough to general war in the Far East on more than one occasion since 1919 . We are nearer now because the Japanese invasion of China set highly volatile substances in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ameliorative agent in the Far East . It offers the means of arresting the momentum to war in that part of the world . There is no paradox in saying that the Far Eastern war is a by-product of the European war , even if it came two years earlier . It would probably not have come at all if Europe had not already been in the preliminaries to war by 1935 . Europe 's internecine struggles have for long fixed Japan 's harvesting seasons , for then Japan could reap without hindrance . Until there was decision or prospect of decision in Europe no European Power could take the risk of commitments in the Far East . It could not even risk antagonizing Japan too much , lest Japan join the enemy coalition . As a matter of fact , by not being uncompromising Great Britain did keep Japan from making an outright alliance with Germany . So long therefore as the European war was threatening but not under way Japan enjoyed impunity . Even America had to be indecisive since it did not know what lay ahead in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has come . Decision is in the making . The war has come with the unexpected turn of Russia toward Europe through the alliance with Germany , which prevents the automatic extension of the war to Asia through a combined German-Japanese attack on Russia . This alone is of immeasurable benefit to the Far East . Furthermore , if Russia 's fiasco in Finland is symptomatic and Russia can be written off as an offensive force , then too there is simplification in the Far East as well as in Europe . The complicating factor of Russia is cancelled again , as it was in 1905 after the Russian fiasco in the war with Japan . Once decision is arrived at in Europe there is direct approach to settlement in the Far East . If there can be only ten years of stability in Europe , with the major Powers free agents for action elsewhere , then a combined effort can be made to work out a solution for the Far East . And with Russia exposed as hollow and Japan already weakened , the solution can be imposed . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desirable one , since even European Powers are not given to any sudden access of self-abnegation . But it could be a socially desirable one , and if China is left strong enough after the present war it will have to be a socially desirable one . China itself will make sure of that . By socially desirable is meant a system of relationships that does not foreordain war for spoils of conquest . All this is contingent , however , on military decision in Europe coming before a military decision in the Far East , or , in other words , before the Japanese have forced China to surrender or the Russians have laid China under mortgage and then foreclosed . Otherwise it will be an accomplished fact that Europe and America confront and the burden will be on them to undo it . This would mean a war of course , and on all historical precedent there w ill be a war , whether against Japan or Russia or both . In that war America will be a participant . For there will be at stake not only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of expropriated economic interests and the right of all countries to trade , especially if the victor in the present war should be Japan . In the light of the past few years it scarcely needs to be demonstrated that these are the stakes for which nations fight . Disputes over possession of territory may not lead directly to war . But they generate fears and rancors which lead to defensive move and counter-move , alliance and counteralliance , until a tension is drawn which no longer can be borne . In international politics , no less than in physics , there is a law of tensions . There is a limit to tensile strength , and the time comes when at the slightest pressure everything snaps . Anything then is preferable to continued suspense . It was so in Europe last year . Great Britain and France did not go to war to save Poland . German possession of Poland did not menace them vitally ; if anything , to the contrary , for it led Germany off to the east . But the periodically renewed alarms had become unbearable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only fear but the conviction that unless Germany was stopped no country would be safe . And probably none would have been safe , for aggression grows by what it acquires . The same reasoning , or perhaps the same charging of the emotions , would follow on a similar acquisition of territory and power by Japan . For the past ten years demonstrate that Japanese aggression too grows by what it acquires . A Japanese empire aggrandized by China and gathering accretions in Pacific waters by its own power of attraction , by the fear it radiates , would be a menace or would be deemed a menace by all other countries in the Pacific . And America lies in the Pacific , politically as well as geographically . There are the Philippines , there is Hawaii , and there is the cumulative effect of the position the American government has taken in the Pacific , not only in recent years but for almost a century . The American battle fleet has been stationed in the Pacific for most of the past ten years . Given an aggrandized and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be enlarged to dimensions unprecedented in American history . In fact , building has already begun . And that in turn would induce the Japanese to take countermeasures for security , and history would repeat itself . The strain between Japan and the United States has been growing as it is . The tension has been acute more than once in recent years . Not much more would be required for it to snap . The argument with respect to exclusion from trade is more direct . It may be demonstrated in theory that trade is never worth a war or the risk of war and that America 's trade with China is relatively small . If the trade were lost by act of God or economic evolution the loss doubtless could and would be borne . But if it were denied by fiat of another Power , more particularly a Power with which there was already friction and whose pretensions had already aroused fear , the loss would not be borne . Trade would not be the avowed or even acknowledged cause of war ; but its enforced loss would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The issue is not new . This country has had only two permanent policies : the Monroe Doctrine and the Open Door in China , which means equality of opportunity for trade with China . From these two policies it has never receded . The second is not phantasm or fetish . It is true that the trade with China has never exceeded $250,000,000 in value and is now less than half that . But that is not conclusive or even indicative when set against the fact that that trade has grown steadily and at an impressive rate , having increased sixfold between 1910 and 1930 ; that in the years preceding the ChinaJapan war the United States had the largest trade in China , and that China 's trade prospects arc just coming to fruition . China has only just begun to industrialize , and the potentialities of any undeveloped area come into play only as it industrializes . If China is unimpeded in industrializing , its potentialities as a market will be as great as those of any similar area in the nineteenth century . It is incidentally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a fact that is hardly negligible in view of contemporary economic conditions in Europe and America . It is denying all the precedents of history to believe that any greattrading nation , America or any other , will submit to exclusion from the opportunity to share in those potentialities so long as it has the power to prevent exclusion . It is denying the facts of American history to believe so . Wars can be prevented not just before they begin but at the time when the forces of collision are set in motion . After they have acquired sufficient momentum those forces can no longer be arrested , if only because then too much emotional drive has been put behind them . Hence the cardinal importance of maintaining in the Far East the status of January 1 , 1940 , until the end of the European war . Hence , further , the vital necessity for America to use its present opportunity to obstruct Japan ? to prevent Japan from seizing British and French colonies in Eastern waters and from driving farther into China or capitalizing on the gains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a position to do so . It may never again be in a position to do so , or to do so with as little risk . There may never again be so favorable an opportunity for staying the sequence of cause and effect making for war in the Far East . If stabilization of the Far East on its present basis can be assured until the end of the European war and Great Britain and France win the war and Russia has to he contented with licking its wounds , then we can go about making peace in the Far East . Then Great Britain , France , and the United States can tender certain " advice " to the Japanese government . If the advice is not followed they can present peremptory demands . If the demands are not met , they can post ships on the main seaways to intercept all vessels plying to and from Japan with intent to sever all intercourse between Japan and the rest of the world . They can mass the better part of their fighting fleets in Eastern watcrs lest Japan essay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blockade tighter until Japan , no longer able to feed on its own fat , is exhausted and asks for mercy . And the purport of the advice and demands , the objective of the cordon of ships , can be simply put : the evacuation of China by Japanese troops . After that we shall be able to proceed to drawing the bases of a new political structure in the Far East , the foundation of which will be the independence of China ? but which will include broad enough scope for Japan 's economic activities to enable the Japanese people to maintain themselves on a standard of living satisfactory to themselves . If Japan has not already conquered China , not much time will be required before it bends to the inevitable . It will not have much vitality left at the best . And if it remains obdurate and in desperation offers forcible resistance , putting down that resistance will be a simple matter . Against a combination of worldwide blockade and massed navies of the principal Powers Japan will be helpless . There will be at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It will be short and inexpensive either in life or property infinitely less expensive than a war that has to be fought later . Such risk as is entailed will have to be borne . We live in a generation in which escape from risk is not given to men . All that is within their choice or control is consciously to draw up a scale of risks , make a kind of equation of risks and choose the lesser . Had the lesser risk been taken before 1939 ? in 1935 , say , when if oil sanctions had not brought Italy to heel , a short and inexpensive campaign would have been sufficient and Germany could have been forewarned ? all Europe would not now be standing to arms and depleting the vitality of generations to come . If at the close of the European war we do not do something in the Far East analogous to oil sanctions or campaign in 1935 we shall later have to do that which is analogous to Europe in 1940 . On the simple arithmetic of humanitarianism it is better to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffering . Meanwhile , it must be repeated again , the key lies in America . America can and should act .                     