@@487484

The audience in the reserved seats , by which I mean the Parliamentary Labor Party , has not applauded the performance . It has been uncomfortably aware that the ? results of the municipal elections  --  fought on national , not local , issues  --  showed that the Tories were successfully exploiting every popular discontent over shortages and enforced austerity , and that it was apparently easier for the opposition to mobilize the anti-Socialist vote than for the Labor Party to get its own supporters to the polls . Too little socialism , or too much ? Debate on that issue between the left and right wings of the party continues . Both wings agree that the government 's great record of social reform  --  national security , the health service , and so forth  --  is in danger of being obscured in electors ' eyes by the unsolved economic crisis . Whatever may be the merits of reducing the Peers ' right of veto to one year , the fact remains that the bill was introduced largely to console Aneurin Bevan and the- " ' Keep Left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalists in the steel industry . Similarly , the loudly trumpeted assault on wealthy idlers ? an assault which they can readily circumvent by becoming nominally " occupied " in any of a hundred minor employments not included in Mr. Isaacs 's short list of " unessential " trades  --  was undoubtedly prompted by the desire to compensate the trade unions for the fact that the only serious direction of labor so far enacted applies only to the unemployed . These measures gave little impression of coherent policy , and within a. few days of the reassembly of Parliament it was plain that there was no great enthusiasm among Labor back benchers for Mr. Attlee 's reshuffled Cabinet . Add the fact that , before the budget affaire , there was considerable doubt whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Minister for Economic Affairs saw eye to eye on crisis policy , and it is not perhaps surprising that there was renewed talk of a move by the right to make Mr. Bevin Premier in Mr. Attlee 's place , so as to have a strong hand at the helm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Sir Stafford Cripps to the position of dictator of Britain 's economy . The whole future of the Labor movement depends on what Cripps will do and whether , in relation to the economic crisis , he can " bring it off " ? with or without Mr. Marshall 's aid . A T THIS point I beg leave to reverse the film se- quence . Mr. Dalton 's resignation may have been inevitable from the standpoint of strict parliamentary punctilio . Whether , relying on . the tradition that trusted parliamentary correspondents are safe recipients of confidences , he gave undue latitude to a journalist 's normal urge to secure a " beat , " or whether you make the editor of the Star the villain in a piece from which nobody drew profit , no government can easily afford to retain a Chancellor who has been involved in what was a highly unusual indiscretion . Perhaps the Cabinet would have rallied to Mr. Dalton 's defense if it had not been wondering uneasily whether there was room for both a Dalton and a Cripps policy in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just introduced was illogical if it was intended to carry out the full implications of Sir Stafford 's " all-for-export " plan . The budget , it is true , represented a partial surrender to the anti-inflationists . It imposed fresh indirect taxation to the tune of about ? 130,000,000 , much of which would fall on working and lower-middle-class incomes , hit additionally by the decision to terminate subsidies on wool , cotton , and leather and thus let the prices of clothing and footwear rise . But in the matter of the food subsidies Mr. Dalton stoutly refused to follow the advice of his Tory and big-business critics , who would have had him curb inflation and release more goods for the export drive by letting the price of essential foodstuffs soar , thus curtailing the purchasing power of the working class . Instead , he decided to " mop up " ? 47,000,000 from the more speculative class of rentiers by doubling the inThe NATION dustrial-profits tax , and to tap , in the betting industry , a novel and potentially fruitful source of revenue . For his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " cuts " foisted on the MacDonald government by the May committee in 1931 , the Labor movement owes Mr. Dalton thanks . After ' the increases of the past six months in the cost of unrationed food , transport , and many other essential services , it is extremely doubtful ' Whether the mass of consumers in Britain have in fact any " excess " purchasing power : the inflationary pressure arises from accumulations of corporate and personal capital which can be , and are , drawn upon for current expenditure on unessentials . For this the only remedy , in the view of an increasing section of the Labor Party , is a capital levy . Whether Mr. Dalton , had he remained Chancellor , would have included such a levy in his budget next spring is now an idle speculation . All that he said in his budget speech last week was that he hoped to make in April " readjustments " in the burden of taxation which would combine needed relief with added incentives , having iegard to the fact that our society was still marred by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the autumn budget may be said to have dodged the big issues  --  the ultimate contributions which the rich or the poor are to make toward solving the crisis ? by postponing decisions . The new Chancellor will have to make them ; and Sir Stafford , it may be presumed , is as aware as the disappointed and infuriated Tory deflationiststhat increased taxes on consumers ' goods which while stiff are not prohibitive will not do much to channel British production into his export markets . M UST we then expect , next April , a budget of much more stringent austerity ? The answer largely depends on what happens , not in Britain 's Parliament , but in Congressional treatment of Mr. Marshall 's aid program for Europe . As it stands , the Cripps plan , taken in conjunction with the autumn budget , does not add up to figures which make sense . At present the sterling balance of payments is still running a. dollar deficit at the terrific rate of ? 900,000,000 a year . Even if his somewhat sanguine export targets for next year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far announced , combined with the ? 200,000,000 curtailment in capital developments , involve drawing at least ? 300,000,000 from gold and dollar reserves in the next twelve months ; and though it is hoped optimistically that Britain 's global balance of payments may be in equilibrium at the end of that period , the dollar deficit in 1949 will still be equivalent to ? 250,000,000 a year , with only ? 270,000,000 of reserves left to support the currency of the whole sterling area . These figures mean one of two things : there will have to be a considerable further descent into the spiral of restrictions of imports and cuts in - raw materials for British factories and in rations for their work people , December 6 , 1947 or the American Congress will have to provide aid , either in the form of direct relief shipments to Britain or in the form of convertible dollars supplied to Europe which can be spent in payment for Britain 's otherwise " unrequited " t --  exports to the non-dollar area . Can Sir Stafford count on finding himself in a position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or indirect ? The omens seem against such an assumption , and as Cripps is a realist first and a Socialist second , we may look for further cold douches of austerity , both in the husbanding of Britain 's resources and in the taxing away of purchasing power . Politically , the dictatorship of Cripps is a big risk for the Labor movement . If he follows a distinctively , Socialist policy , imposes a capital levy , presses on with nationalization of steel , sets up a state monopoly to acquire and make bulk sales of export goods , and thus succeeds in developing trade with the U. S. S. R. and other potential suppliers of food . and raw materials outside the Western Hemisphere , he may be able to get the British working class to accept temporarily lower rations and decreased real wages . Otherwise , there are heavy storms " ahead : the relations between the Cabinet and the Trades Union Congress and between Sir Stafford and the left within the party will be strained to the breaking-point . It is up to Mr. Marshall and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next year ; and it is difficult from here to discern what place they consign to Britain in their schemes . The impression created in the Parlia- 619 mentary Labor Party by many of the features which have emerged in the aid-to-Europe program is unfavorable . If adopted , the proposal to put all relief on a bilateral basis as between the United States and the recipient countries would go far to destroy the constructive conception of Western European collaboration which was a valuable part of the Paris conference report ; and it is beginning to be asked with anxiety whether this or any other European country can really afford to accept from the United States assistance which may temporarily maintain higher standards of living than would otherwise be possible but will do little to promote radical economic reconstruction . News of the " unavailability " of much American steel and machinery , coupled with the Harriman committee 's suggestion that Europe 's projected capital developments are excessive and that shipbuilding , for instance , should be restricted , have made people here wonder whether the United States wants to finance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . If it does not , would it not be more sensible to get down , here and now , to a real siege economy , tighten our belts , get what we can from the Empire and the rest of Europe ? East as well as West  --  and follow the advice Professor Viner of Princeton has given us in the current number of Lloyd 's Bank Review , that we should spend more , not less , in improving our capital equipment ? These look like the great issues of debate here in the coming months .                     