@@494167

The Men Who Make the Future II . Science ? Defender of Democracy AN A DEMOCRACY defend itself with the same efficiency found in the totalitarian states ? To be specific , can our science meet the present emergency and compete successfully with the followers of Hitler ? Here in America we have heard much of how Der Ftihrer has mobilized the brains and ingenuity of his laboratory experts in fulfilment of his ambition . No such universal mobilization has taken place in England or the United States . Is it possible that by this mass effort Hitler may have put his scientific research far ahead of anything we have to offer ? No ; ii the answer given by leading American research scientists who have recently discussed this sub . ject with me freely , on the pledge that their names would not be published . Momentarily , the marshaling of scientific brains may aid the Nazi war machine somewhat , but in the following ten or twenty years or more , they expect Germany to lag far behind in the race for technological supremacy . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Germany 's scientific clock is running down . Momentum may keep it going for a few more years but with steadily diminishing power . " In Germany , pure research has been almost entirely abandoned . Every worker in every laboratory is keyed up to efforts on behalf of specific purposes for the glory of his Reich and Ftihrer . But , many of the great discoveries of science in the past in all countries have been of a different category . They have come when a research worker was looking for something else , or for nothing at all ? just satisfying his own curiosity . Thus the whole vast coal-tar dye industry was made possible because a chemist tried to invent synthetic quinine . Electrical science was stimulated because Mrs. Galvani happened to hang up a pair of frog 's legs suspended by a copper wire so that when the wind blew they swung against an iron railing and twitched with the release of the electrical impulse . One should not of course , overemphasize the quality of sheer accident in great discoveries . Many times they result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outgrowth from the work of other scientists in various parts of the world , so that if one man had n't produced a given idea at a given time , someone else would probably have done so not much later . I sat not long ago in a room in the great Mellon Institute in Pittsburgh , famous research center . Before me were filing trays containing numerous cards , and each of these cards recorded one important recent development in chemistry . There was a separate tray for each important country throughout the world , so that at a glance one could make a quantitative comparison of the work done . The number of cards for the United States was many times larger than that for Germany . Assume if you like that part of the work done in Germany is so secret it does n't even get into the Reich 's own scientific journals ? an unlikely assumption . Even so , America is far in advance . Remember , too , that there is a " cultural lag " in this matter . Work done today may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has now disappeared . Said one of America 's greatest astronomers , who is also famous for the breadth and depth of his interest in other aspects of science : " Search the records of history and you will find that most of the great discoveries have been made by young men , often between eighteen and twenty-three or twenty-four . In Germany , nearly every man in that age group is in a government laboratory , the army , a work camp or somewhere else under circumstances that give him no chance to follow his own independent lines of inquiry . " Hitler 's ' country has hurt herself by recklessly dismissing or exiling her men of science . Whatever racial theory you may hold , no sensible person can affirm that scientific genius is any respecter of race or color . Many of Germany 's outstanding scientists of a few years ago were wholly or partly of Jewish blood or had wives in that category . Others , entirely " Aryan , " voluntarily left Germany because they did not like Hitler . Any country has done itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has lost such men as Albert Einstein , James Franck , Nobel Prize-winner in atomic research ; Wilhelm Frei , the great dermatologist ; Richard Goldschmidt , noted biologist and geneticist , and scores of other distinguished men whom I could name . No nation has ever , at any time , had an exportable surplus of brains . Has science run away with us , producing technological advance faster than we can absorb it ? And should we therefore have a " moratorium " on new invention and discovery for a few years ? To this the scientists replied with a unanimous and violent No They were quick to point out that such a moratorium in the United States would be a disaster unless it were carried out in simultaneouslyin all other countries . Probably no such worldwide promises would be made ; if they were made , they would be secretly broken as other international treaties have been Moreover the " cultural lag " affects this question . The inventions of importance today were made years ago ; those being made now will not greatly affect us for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in any case7 that we can not solve our problems by running away from them . Invention and discovery have put into the hands of mankind in the past decades almost unbelievable powers for good or ill . If they are used for ill , that is not the fault of science , but of civilization itself , of backward political leaders . As one expert remarked , it is nonsense to suppose that laboratory research has let loose terrible brutality in the world . Brutes use science ; science does n't make brutes . Until human society develops some other way of settling quarrels , people will still try to kill each other even if every weapon is abolished except the clubs of the Stone Age . Said a man who is commonly regarded as the outstanding inventive genius of the automobile industry : " To suggest a moratorium on science is utter foolishness . If you fear future advance , why not also seek to destroy what we have now ? Why not go back arbitrarily to the conditions of twenty-five years ago , or a hundred , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , not that we have too much technology but that we have too little . Unemployment in America should be a challenge to our inventors . We have the manpower ; we have the money ; if workers are standing idle , it is because we do n't have the projects ? that is , we have not invented or improved enough things . What holds us back ? " American industry needs to perform ten times , a hundred times , as much research as at present . Only a tiny fraction of the business firms of the country are doing anything like an adequate job . We are far too complacent , too easygoing . As a nation we need more intellectual curiosity , a greater driving urge to make things better . " The salvation of the automobile industry , according to this outstanding expert , has been the custom of new models every year , which brings not only changes in styles but new devices . While this has been done pal* to make last year 's car seem obsolete and thus expand the market , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a blessing . The industry has been forced to keep on the alert and by doing so it has set a far swifter pace in technological procedure than it would have done without this spur . " If I were in the furniture industry , should try ry S to turn it upside down . Furniture manufacturers seek to make most of their output look like something old ? perhaps following the wishes of their customers . But where would the automobile business be if we tried to make our cars look like those of the year 191e ? " If you have intellectual curiosity , research ean begin profitably almost anywhere . Rub your hands to gether , and you produce heat . Why ? The answer is friction . But what is friction , and why does it produce heat ? Nobody knows . The answer you get if you persist is , ' friction is what produces heat when you rub your hands together . ' One of our great automobile-manufacturing firms ten years ago put a scientist to work on precisely this question . He has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out so much else that today the company can put bearings into a vehicle and run.them hundreds of thousands of miles without even looking at them again . " I was astonished to discover these top-rank scientists deeply concerned about one problem that at first glance seems to have little to do with the world in which they live . It is the problem of " technological unemployment , " the loss of jobs that takes place when a new machine is introduced as a substitute for many pairs of hands . The point is of course that the scientists have been much criticized for inventing the machines that create technological unemployment , and resent it . In general , they vigorously denied that the total number of jobs available is reduced when new machines are put to work , or at least , they said this need not be true with intelligent planning . They mentioned as an example the fact that what might be called the " horse-and-buggy business " used to employ about a million men forty years ago . The automobile came along and destroyed the greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was giving work to six million men , plus another million in the accompanying oil industry . This story , many scientists believe , is typical . Whatever increases the power of a group of workers to produce wealth ought , in theory at least , to add to the riches available for our whole society . There are two kinds of inventions , each with a different effect on unemployment . Revolutionary ideas like the telephone , the automobile or television may create whole new industries . Others merely improve existing processes or products , and in some cases , and at least temporarily , they may cause deep distress over wide areas . In steel , the " continuous automatic strip mill " has resulted in an enormous reduction of the amount of labor needed . A witness before the TNEC not long ago said that with the mill 126 men can do the work previously performed by 4,512 . In a short time , more than 3 8 , o0o workers were dismissed because of this fact . In one town in Pennsylvania , the dismissals numbered 5,700 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families on relief , 64 percent of the total population . The scientists , on the whole , feel that unemployment of this sort is a matter that should not be left for the individual worker to solve as best he can . The responsibility lies , first , with the employer who puts in the new method . He should make every possible effort to retain as many of his former workers as he conscientiously can . ( Sometimes the employer dismisses his old workers and hires fresh ones on the , ground that they have no fixed habits of work to unlearn . ) If this is not possible , he should pay them some sort of dismissal compensation to tide them over , which should be saved up in advance out of the earnings of the business . Where necessary , the federal , state and local government units must lend a hand , to try to find some other work for these displaced employees to do , totrain them for it and to help them get into it . The morale and the trained abilities of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be tossed lightly aside . Those research experts who have studied this question deeply believe that the problem of technological unemployment is bound up with that of the distribution of goods . When the machine takes the'place of a large number of men , the result is usually a tremendous decrease in the cost of production per unit . The business firm can then do one of two things with the money : it can pass the saving along to its-customers in the form of lower prices , or it can keep prices where they were and make very much larger profits . If the saving is passed on to the customer , on the " Ford principle , " business is expanded , general prosperity is aided and thus , indirectly , jobs are created for the displaced workers . If the money is piled up in the form of larger profits , the total volume of business is not so likely to be increased , the circulation of goods and money is not speeded up , and the additional , jobs are not created . What the experts call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that do not come down as fast as they should ? gum up the wheels of industry . Laymen like myself worry a good deal about the technological lag in defense . We remember the hair-raising stories from the last war telling how the British army refused for years to adopt tanks , steel helmets and other devices . We recall the Wright brothers ' long effort to get the war departments of various countries even to look at their airplanes , still less to adopt them . Colt had a dreary struggle before he , got anyone interested in his repeating revolver , and there are scores of similar incidents . Naturally , we ask ourselves whether new ideas today are getting adequate attention . The scientists make no fiat promises in this regard ; there is always a human factor to be considered . The army and navy between wars do not have a great deal to do , and there is an inevitable tendency to get somewhat tangled up in their own red tape . The experts believe , however , that the preparations this time are better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better than they now are in any other country . The National Defense Research Committee is aiding the National Defense Advisory Commission . Its small membership list includes key scientists of the whole country . The National Inventors ' Council takes care of the individual who has an idea for a new weapon or a new type of defense , and sends it in . The men who do this work have an enormously difficult task . Out of every thousand ideas all but about five are crackpot schemes . It requires great mental discipline to reject perhaps 900 proposals and still keep your mind suffi sufficiently open to see that the nine hundred and first is a work of genius that should be adopted at once . Let me return a moment to the great research expert of the automobile industry whom I have quoted above : " The layman does n't understand that there is a tremendous time lag with every invention between the brain of the inventor and the wide-scale use of the device . It is highly probable that no important new inventions of any kind will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; all his devices are old and familiar ones , though perhaps used in new ways or on a larger scale than is customary . " In civilian life , the average lag between the beginning of a new idea and its general acceptance is great . The shortest term I have heard mentioned by any competent expert is ten years , and I think myself it is nearer to twenty-five . Much of this time is often used up while the inventor and his associates are trying to find out what the new device or product is really good for . For example , the Diesel engine has found wide acceptance in America only in the last few years , yet the invention itself is more than forty years old . It , did not become important until a determined effort was made to think through the problems afresh and in terms of this country today . Those problems are rarely the ones the layman sees , or thinks he sees . That is why the public and the technicians are so frequently at cross purposes in a time of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In one field , science is playing an enormously important role in national defense . The health of the nation is a crucial matter in determining what we shall be able to do not only in our armed forces but behind the lines in the factories . The United States Public Health Service has some exciting plans in this connection that can not yet be revealed in have been made in conquering certain diseases , including , by the way , the venereal infections in which medical science has lost much of its interest , because it considers that the whole problem has been solved . Sulfanilamide and its derivatives have enormously reduced the menace of pneumonia , streptococcus infections and other ills . A vaccine recently developed by the Rockefeller Foundation holds out the hope of immunity against most types of influenza . But much remains to be done , including some desirable actions that are perhaps only possible under the pressure of national defense . It would be an excellent thing , for example , if we were to follow the lead of Great Britain and require our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calcium . Great efforts are still needed in the way of teaching our whole population to lead a sane and natural life . Strictly speaking , science has no purpose except finding out a little more about the world ; yet scientists in their own minds have definite ideas as to the meaning and directions of their work . Are they primarily concerned to rectify the mistakes men have in the past imposed upon themselves through their ignorance ? Or to advance to new plateaus of achievement ? What are the worst of these past mistakes , and what is science doing to correct them ? These are some of the questions I shall discuss in my third article .                     