@@487493

THE " Education of Henry Adams " has long been one of the great documents of American intellectual history . The generation after the First World War , shaken by the early stages of historical shock , found in it expression of their own profound anxieties about the course of history Its mood of controlled disillusion , sketched with feeling , developed with wit , and cul , minating in historico-scientific mysticism , transmuted post-war uncertainties and resentments into a set of aristocratic images and philosophic tableaux . The very style of Henry Adams 's life had a deep fascination for later victims of alienation and expatriation . Construed symbolically , " The Education of Henry Adams " is properly a great and revealing document . But scholars have long been uneasily aware that it could not be taken too literally as the exact record of the life of one Henry Brooks Adams ( 1838-1918 ) . There were the obvious incompatibilities : Adams 's complaint , for example , that Harvard In 1858 had taught him nothing about Marx 's " Capital , " ? an item @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of note , since the first volume of " Capital " was not published until 1867 . And as the volumes of Adams 's letters have been published , new discrepancies have emerged . He seems to have profoundly enjoyed periods of his life which appeared in " The Education " as arid and joyless wastes ; he seems to have learned a great deal from experiences which " The Education " passed over without mention . Ernest Samuels has at last done the necessary job of reconstructing the young Henry Adams and distinguishing him from the hero of the autobiographical novel written by the ancient ironist . " The Education " portrayed Harvard as a " negative force " in his education ; the years at Cambridge were " wasted . " But Samuels shows a youngman in a state of active intellectual curiosity , even occasionally , perhaps , of excitement . " The Education " surveys the Civil War years in Britain with urbane gloom : " He knew no more in 1868 than in 1858 . . .. He could see only one great change , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrates otherwise . " The Young Henry Adams " reveals a bright , ambitious youth , excited by life in Britain , actively engaged in the liberal politics of the post-Civil War period , even finding zest and challenge in his Harvard teaching career  --  a young man in whom sardonic withdrawal is an occasional dyspeptic deviation rather than the whole accent of life . The guiding motive in Adams 's career , as we see it develop , was plainly his fascination with politics . This fascination was certainly connected in great part with the family expectations of the Adamses . Yet it is not clear that it differed too much in quality from the feelings of any bright young man , too intellectual for the hustings but under the spell of political ideas and figures . When he returned to Cambridge in 1871 , it was very much like a young New Dealer going back reluctantly to teaching : " There are few of my political friends left in power now , and these few will soon go out . This reconciles me to going away , though I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even his teaching years at Harvard , the years starkly labeled " Failure " in " The Education , " permitted him not only success as an instructor but also scope for his interests and plans as a political reformer . Mr. Samuels , indeed , provides valuable new material on Adams 's purposeful employment of the North American Review in the interests of the Liberal Republican group . In these years Adams retained his political illusions . On proposing that his able young assistant , Henry Cabot Lodge , be allowed to con- duct a rival course in history , he could write , " His views , being Federalist and conservative , have as good a right to expression in the college as mine , which tend to democracy and radicalism . " Mr. Samuels ends his narrative in 1877 , when Adams resigned his Harvard job and moved to Washington . Here the historian once again placed himself face to face with the challenge of politics . But Adams 's ideas  --  primarily a revival of private morality in a commercial world  --  were inadequate to the challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficient political system for the new industrial order , " Mr. Samuels well says , " he was to drift steadily into the camp of the philosophical idealists who denounced the reality which their ideas disabled them from changing . " The metaphysical bent of mind which made the young Adams prefer Agassiz to Lyell would eventually swell to climax in what Mr. Samuels rightly calls the " most brilliant casuistical treatment of modern science " in American literature . My chief regret is that Mr. Samuels stopped his narrative so soon . The years after 1877 were , of course , the years of Adams 's greatest productivity . But one can be grateful to Mr. Samuels for a deft and competent analysis of the young Henry Adams and hope that another volume will carry the story on through the years of Adams 's creative maturity . ARTHUR SCHLESINGER , JR . The People 's Archbishop WILLIAM TEMPLE , ARCHBISHOP OP CANTERBURY . His Life and Letters . By F. A. Iremonger . Oxford University Press . $6.50 . N ORMALLY , the biography of a dignitary of the Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rather special audience in the United States . But William Temple was more than the leader of a religious community : he was a national leader who throughout his too short life strove to revivify the church by stressing the social content of Christian teaching and the social responsibility of Christians . His labors in behalf of adult education and social reform , which won him the title of " the People 's Archbishop " will long be remembered . 728 The NATION Temple 's voluminous writings included a number of philosophical works  --  the subject of a special chapter by Professor Dorothy Emmet . But he was more man of action than scholar , and very much the extrovert . Deubt never seems to have troubled him , as it did so many of his generation , though his ordination was delayed by momentary hesitation in accepting the doctrines of the Virgin Birth and Bodily Resurrection . This difficulty overcome , he never seems to have experienced any further inner conflict . " Exuberant self-confidence in action " and " an equally exuberant certitude " in thinking  --  traits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Oxford  --  marked his whole career . It was as a determined reformer that Temple adopted his chosen profession . The Church of England , which through most of the nineteenth century had slumbered as an adjunct of the Tory Party and a comfortable haven for younger sons of gentlemen , seemed to him to be in a low state . Suffering from narrowness of spirit and intellectualpoverty , it held itself aloof from the pressing social problems of the day . The stony path of the reformer was somewhat smoothed for him by the fact that , as son of a former Archbishop , he entered the church under influential auspices . But even without that advantage his brilliant and ranging mind , his tremendous vitality and capacity for work , his gifts of expression , written and spoken , and his personal charm would have overcome all obstacles . As it was , nothing could stop his rapid advancement . At the age of forty-one he became Bishop of Manchester and eight years later Archbishop of York . In 1942 , when the Archbishopric of Canterbury fell vacant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he noted , his Socialist ideas had offended many . He died , worn out by incessant labor , less than three years later . The author of this biography has naturally devoted many of its pages to Temple 's role in what may be called , without invidious intention , ecclesiastical politics . On this subject I am notqualified to comment , but the interested reader will find full particulars of his fight for self-government in the church , of the controversy over the revised Prayer Book , and of his active promotion of Christian unity at home and throughout the world ( the Oecumenical Movement ) . Of wider interest is Temple 's work as a Christian social reformer . At an early age he became associated with the Workers ' Educational Association and served as its president from 1909 to 1924 . In that capacity he did much to forge links between the adult-education movement and the universities , links which have been of great value to both . To Temple education was the key to freedom and progress . " There exists , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of slavery quite as real as any economic form . We are pledged to destroy it . . . . If you want human liberty , you must have educated people . " But he did not believe that education alone could bring about a higher social order . " If Christianity is to be applied to the economic system , " he December 25 , 1948 said in 1908 , " an organization which rests primarily on the principles of competition must give way to one that rests primarily on cooperation . " That was a text on which he preached all his life , and some of his elaborations on it got him into hot water , as in 1942 when his suggestion that credit should be socialized led to a violent Tory explosion in the correspondence columns of the Times . Nevertheless , Temple was not one of ; those clergymen who use the pulpit simply as a handy rostrum for political propaganda . He was a Socialist because he was a Christian , and he protested when reporters quoted his views on economic matters and omitted his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instilling in professed Christians a greater sense of social responsibility than in converting unbelievers . But if many who listened to him remained unable to share his religious faith , they at least conceived a greater respect for it . KEITH HUTCHISON The Social Sciences THE PROPER STUDY OF MANKIND . By Stuart Chase . Harper and Brothers . $3.50 . THIS is the most ambitious and the 1- best of Stuart Chase 's many useful efforts to spread knowledge of science and technology . It was planned as an outline of the major contributions which social science can make toward helping men to live in the world , and with one another . But it is more than just popularization , because Mr. Chase has made significant contributions of his own to the evaluation of social science as science and in pointing out limitations as well as achievements . In so doing he has almost completely conquered his own greatest former weakness , which was a tendency to go overboard for new ideas before they were fully validated . In this book , for example , he displays considerable enthusiasm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance against the debacle of the election forecasts by pointing out such weaknesses of polls as the occasional discrepancy between what people say and what they do . He also mentions the danger of disregarding " do n't know " answers . On the other hand , as he pointed out recently in The Nation , it would be ridiculous to consider public-opinion research wholly discredited because of an error of prediction which was actually quite small in percentage . Mr. Chase has also become somewhat skeptical of economics as a science in its present state of development , though he notes that economists have produced a number of useful techniques for dealing with specific problems like depression and inflation . Commenting on the economists ' failure to develop universally accepted principles , he asks , " Can one imagine , for instance , a group of astronomers rubbing their hands and saying , ' Splendid , Halley 's comet never came around the way he said it would ' ? " There is a devastating list of fifteen occasions when a majority of economists subscribed to major predictions which went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was himself caught in some of these errors . At the same time the case for using the knowledge and techniques of social science in seeking solutions for the world 's most pressing problems is proved beyond reasonable cavil . As Mr. Chase says , social scientists came into their own in World War II in such diverse fields as selecting the best men to train as airplane pilots , resolving the violent social tensions in a Japanese American relocation center , preparing plans for dealing with natives during the invasion of Okinawa , predicting the reaction of German civilians to bombing . He pleads eloquently for an equally intensive use of social-science teams in solving the problems of peace , investigating such basic questions as " What is freedom  --  in terms of our culture and other cultures ? " Social science can provide at least partial answers to these 