@@485412

FOR five years Lord Templewood , the former Sir Samuel Hoare , rendered Franco great service by helping him keep up the farce of neutrality before the world . At the moment of his retirement as Ambassador to Spain , His Lordship has at last rendered service to his own country and to the United Nations . Speaking in the House of Lords , he astounded his aristocratic colleagues with a description of how he , the representative of His Majesty 's Government , was besieged by the Gestapo in Madrid . Some of his words are worth quoting : " I had many instances in my own experience of this non-military occupation . I had the Gestapo living in the next house looking over a wall watching every movement I made and constantly trying to suborn my domestic staff . " And further , " I saw what was more sinister ? how the Gestapo would seize some man or woman in Spanish territory and take them over the frontier to death or torture in Germany or one of the occupied countries . " By making these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have relieved his conscience , the conscience of a member of the British ruling class . But his frank statement hardly closes the matter . It still leaves room for a good many questions and for a good deal of analysis . The first question that comes to mind is this : - Did the Ambassador inform his government in due time about the undignified situation to which an envoy of a great and proud nation was subjected in a " neutral " country ? If the British government was informed , how could the Prime Minister speak of General Franco as he did last summer , when he insulted the entire democratic world with his enthusiastic pro-Franco declarations in the House of Commons ? Let us accept , if without any great conviction , the old argument that continued appeasement was necessary to keep Franco out of the war . Since 1943 , when the military situation no longer allowed Germany to send ' an army through Spain , the argument of military expediency has been gradually losing any strength it may once have had . But , to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British and American governments were justified , on military grounds , in eliminating any chance that Franco might make conclusive arrangements with Hitler . The least we could have expected from a British Prime Minister who " had not come to preside over the dissolution of the British Empire " was enough imperial dignity to refrain from praising the man who allowed the British Ambassador to be treated as Lord Temple . wood was treated in Madrid . The second question is this : Why did Lord Templewood , in recounting the activities of the Nazis in Spain , not tell the whole story of their operations within the Spanish police , in the Spanish radio systems , and in every department which could aid Hitler in his war against the Allies ? Why did he say nothing about the work of German officers and Gestapo agents in the Spanish ports , where German submarines were launched in order to attack Allied convoys in the Atlantic and kill British and American sailors ? Perhaps he reserved the most exciting part of his story for the book he may be writing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Failure of a Mission " ? the second in the series begun by Sir Nevile Henderson . In all justice , one volume should be saved for former Ambassador Hayes , the last chapter of which will eventually be written by Norman Armour , our new representative in Madrid , on the day he resigns . In that way the whole record of appeasement will have keen transcribed by its protagonists , and later generations will learn to what depths of absurdity and hypocrisy Anglo-American diplomacy sank in its effort to save the social order so dear to Mr. Churchill , Lord Templewood , and Adolf Berle . EVerything that is now coming to light  --  and much more ? has been told innumerable times by Spanish Republican leaders and in these column ' s . But the stories of Nazi penetration in Spain were dismissed as " pure leftist propaganda " by our State Department , and even some American liberals resented it when The Nation and a few other publications said exactly what is being said now by Lord Templewood . But if anyone has any doubt about Franco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio these days . Let him see with what joy they are commenting upon the German offensive in Belgium and France . There is only one policy for the Allies to follow : break off diplomatic relations with Franco at once . Therefore we appeal to all readers of The Nation , to every progressive in New York , to come to the mass-meeting for Republican Spain at Madison Square Garden on the evening of January 2 . Exit 78th Congress MIDST the grim news from the war and diplomatic fronts of Europe , the passing of the Seventy-eighth Congress provided one of the few notes of cheer in the Christmas season of 1944 . It is not easy or safe to pass 1 ! blanket judgments on contemporary happenings . Historians , of the future may dispute the current judgment that the Seventy-eighth Congress was the worst since the Constitution went into effect in 1789 . But certainly no Congress has failed more signally to meet the responsibilities and opportunities that have been presented to it . If it has avoided disastrous steps , ' it has done so by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President has intervened on several occasions with adroit vetoes of particularly 0 dangerous legislation . When the late Congress first assembled in January , 1943 , five primary tasks lay before it : ( 1 ) enactment of an adequate man-power policy so that America might meet the rising needs of war production without undue disturbance to essential civilian output ; ( 2 ) formulation of a sound program for financing the war as much as possible on a pay-as-you-go basis so as to avoid inflation and disastrous post-war readjustments ; ( 3 ) strengthening the feeble legislative basis for the country 's price-control and stabilization mechanism ; ( 4 ) widening and strengthening the country 's social-security provisions along the lines requested by the President ; and ( 5 ) laying the groundwork for a comprehensive , long-range program for the provision of full employment in America ' after the war . Readers of The Nation will recall that these issues were stressed in its editorial pages at the end of 1942 and ' the beginning of 1943. ' 787 Merely to recite the list is an indictment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these obligations . What man-power measures have been taken have been adopted without Congressional sanction . When the President specifically asked for a national-service act , the request was pointedly ignored . On the anti-inflation , front the record of Congress is even worse . Repeated requests for a $16,000,000,000 tax bill ultimately led , after incredible delays , to the passage of a measure that at best was calculated to yield $2,000,000,000 ? and that meager gain was more than offset by two postponements in increasing the social-security tax . While failing to provide adequate finances , Congress repeatedly yielded to special interests and passed bills which , had they become law , would have wrecked the entire stabilization program . Although under pressure of Presidential vetoes it finally provided some funds for subsidies , these funds were inadequate to roll back food prices or to hold the line firmly enough to prevent demands for higher wages . Only the difficulties of obtaining agreement between the House and Senate prevented the enactment of a number of special-interest bills which would have completely destroyed the stabilization program . Throughout its two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's request for an extension and strengthening of our social-security system . The Wagner-Murray-Dingell bill , embodying most of the Administration 's ideas , was never even accorded the courtesy of a committee hearing . Congress 's general irresponsibility toward the war and the peace was demonstrated particularly this past fall by its refusal to make provision for the orderly demobilization of war workers and federal employees , thus encouraging the exodus of workers from war plants when it looked as if the end of hostilities in Europe might be near . Having killed the National Resources Planning Board , which was the one agency equipped to undertake long-range post-war planning , Congress blithely ignored the problems of - demobilization and reconversion except for passage of the reasonably good " G. I. Bill of Rights " and an extraordinarily feeble bill covering the disposal of surplus war materials . In its final session , just ' ended , the Seventy-eighth Congress did nothing to mar its unenviable record of inaction . Apart from passing a deficiency bill restoring crop insurance , and embarrassing the Administration by freezing the social-security tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was decisively rejected in the Senate , while the bill authorizing $500,000,000 in post-war river and harbor development was allowed to die in conference after having been passed by both houses . Other vital measures , such as the provision of a permanent Fair Employment Practices Commission and the anti-poll-tax bill , were not even brought up for a vote . Fortunately , many of the leading obstructionists in the Seventy-eighth Congress will not be members of the Seventy-ninth . The list of absentees is not as long as it might be , but there can be no question that the removal of men like Reynolds , Clark , Nye , Gillette , and Davis from the Senate , and Dies , Starnes , Kleberg , Fish , and Day from the House will facilitate serious consideration of the problems which the last Congress refused to face . The Democratic majority 788 in the new House may be large enough to prevent reactionary Democrats and the Republicans from blocking Administration proposals without regard to their merit or urgencY . The new Congress has a peculiarly difficult task . It must not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the peace but discharge , as best it can , the responsibilities which the Seventy-eighth Congress refused to assume . We trust the lessons of the 1944 election will have been carefully , studied and assimilated by its members before they assemble on January 3 . The Supreme Court and Racialism W E FIND the weak handling of racial issues by the United States Supreme Court deeply disturbing . The majority of opinions in the cases involving anti-Negro dis-crimination by the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Engineers are unworthy of the court . So basic an issue called for the dear affirmation of fundamental constitutional guaranties . The opinions , while upholding Negro rights , were turgid , legalistic , and evasive . The cases called into question contracts between the Brotherhood and certain Southern railroads depriving Negroes of jobs and giving those jobs to white men . The right of the Brotherhood to act as an exclusive collective-bargaining agent derives from a federal statute , the Railway Labor Act . And the Fifth Amendment gives the Supreme Court ample leeway to end -a situation in which this exclusive bargaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ membership and bargains away their rights . Something more was called for than the court 's two meek little sentences on the Negro issues " Here the discriminations based on race alone are obviously irrelevant and invidious . Congress plainly did not undertake to authorize the bargaining representative to make such discriminations . " The round-robin-hood's-barn reasoning of the majority merely serves to widen the area of judicial interference in labor contracts without strongly and squarely outlawing racial discrimination in such contracts . The Nation is glad that one member of the court , Justice Murphy , spoke out manfully against the queasy attitude of the majority . " To decide the case and to analyze the opinion solely upon the basis of legal niceties , " he said in his concurring opinion , " while remaining mute and placid as to . the obvious and oppressive deprivation of constitutional guarantees , is to make the judicial function something less than it should be . " Justice Murphy declared that " no statutory interpretation can erase this ugly example of economic ' cruelty . against colored citizens of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virulent today to permit the slightest refusal , in the light of a constitution that abhors it , to expose and condemn it wherever it appears in the course of a statutory interpretation . " We - note that Justice Black concurred only in the result . We hope he shared Justice Murphy 's feelings . - We find ourselves equally disturbed by the Korematsu case in which- a badly split court handed down no less The NATION than five separate opinions , one by Justice Black for the majority , a concurring opinion by Justice Frankfurter , and separate dissents by Justice Roberts , Justice Murphy , and Justice Jackson . The case involved an American citizen of Japanese descent found guilty of violating a military exclusion order in California , The case had difficulties obvious enough to discourage dogmatic lay . judgment , but certain points made in the individual opinions merit closer public attention . Justice Roberts made the point that Korematsu was actually subject to arrest under two conflicting military orders , one requiring him to stay where he was , the other requiring him to leave , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the real purpose of the military authority , which was to lock him up in a concentration camp . " Justice Roberts thought the court should have addressed itself to " the actualities of the case , " instead of setting up " a figmentary and artificial situation . " Justice Murphy did not see why Japanese , like German and Italian Americans for speed , " nearly four months elapsed after Pearl Harbor before the first exclusion order was issued ; nearly eight months went by until the last order was issued ; and the List of these ' subversive ' persons was not actually- removed until almost eleven months had passed . " Justice Murphy says " there was no adequate proof " that the F. B. I. and military intelligence did not have the situation well in hand and points to the excellent record made by Japanese Americans . " I dissent , therefore , " he said , " from this legalization of racialism . " Justice Frankfurter , concurring , took a middle position . He felt the military had ample power in time of- war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to approve what they did ; " that is their business , not mine . " This judicial abnegation at least has the virtue of meeting the basic point raised by Justice Jackson 's dissent . " Much is said , " he declared , " of the danger to liberty from the army progratn for deporting and detaining these citizens of , Japanese extraction . But a judicial construction of the due-process clause that will sustain this order is a far more subtle blow to liberty than the promulgation of the order itself . A military order , however unconstitutional , is not apt to last longer than the military emergency . . but once a judicial opinion rationalizes such an order to show that it conforms to the Constitution . . . the court for all time has validated the principle of racial discrimination in criminal procedures . . . The principle then lies about like a loaded weapon ready for the hand of any authority that can bring forward a plausible claim of an urgent need . " In the light of that sound observation , we shudder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It should be noted to begin with , that all legal restrictions which curtail the civil rights of a single racial group are immediately suspect . That is not to say that all such restrictions are unconstitutional . It is to say that the courts must subject them to the most rigid scrutiny . Pressing public necessity may sometimes justify the existence of such restrictions ; racial antagonism never can . " The italics , and the forebodings , are ours . We do not feel that these forebodings are made groundless by the unanimous ruling of the court in the Endo case , and its dictum that " loyalty is a matter of the heart and mind , not of race , creed , or color . " We are glad that the court freed Endo , a Japanese American of unquestioned loyalty , from detention , but we share the doubts expressed in their separate concurring opinions by Justices Murphy and Roberts and suspect that here again the majority evaded the basic issue . We fear that these Japanese cases are the thin edge of the wedge by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . Hard or Durable Peace ? E LSEWHERE in this issue , Oscar Lange takes exception to certain aspects of the " Plan for Germany " which The Nation outlined on October 7 . Professor Lange is no extremist but an informed student of international affairs , a friend of the Soviet Union and an acknowledged liberal . We think his views deserve careful consideration . We do not feel , however , that they call for a modification of our position . Professor Lange is right in asserting that our first concern is a durable peace and the building of a stable international order ; we believe that this is what most Americans are fighting for. , A " hard peace , " a " soft peace " ? these are emotional and not definitive terms . They represent an attempt to trans -- fer primitive punitive concepts from an individual to a collective application . Suppose we admit the collective guilt of the German people , does that mean that a " hard " retributive justice must be visited . on all Germans alike  --  soldiers and civilians , men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on rich and poor , on the Nazi functionary and the anti-Nazi prisoner whom he tortured ? Such a retribution , while satisfying an understandable desire for vengeance , can hardly provide the ; basis of a lasting peace . Let us by all means be hard where punishment can be closely related to the crime and the criminal . Let us seek out and punish with the utmost severity the Nazi criminals re-= ' - ' sponsible for destroying democracy , for torturing thousands of their countrymen , for plunging the world into war , and for glorying in brutality the like of which the world has never before seen . And let the accusers and the judges be those who have felt most directly the scourge of Nazi ruthlessness . . But let us not abjure the very essence of democratic faith by indulging in racial myths such as Professor Lange suggests . In a. sense fascism and Nazism represent a kind of " people 's imperialism . " ( It should be noted that Professor Lange in his analysis names both Italy and Germany  --  two widely different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call of fascist-dominated lands . ) For Nazism and fascism are phenomena of a revolutionary era , the toxic products of social disillusionment and economic decay . They are virulent in those countries where democracy is most- immature and where primitive traditions of militarism are strongest . They have been most virulent in Germany , and therefore we admit that Germany deserves specially drastic treatment . But to lay the blame primarily on the German common people and minimize the role of the army , the feudal landowners , and the industri alists who financed the rise of Hitler as a bulwark against socialism is to distort history . And even with this powerful backing it is doubtful whether Nazism would have triumphed over popular opposition but for the refined terrorism of the police methods of a modern dictatorship . And beyond that , as every student of modern history knows , Hitler would not have got his way in Europe , would not , in fact , have been able to pitch Europe into war , had not the great democratic powers outside proved first complacent , then timid rabbits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showdown that they dreaded communism more than they feared Nazism . It is well to remember that ' fascism has roots and that it has flourished in many soils . Its eradication is only begun with military defeat and with those precautionary disarmament steps aimed to prevent new aggressions . Professor Lange 's solution has a deceptive simplicity : Germany could be utterly destroyed and the roots of facism left undisturbed . In fact , if the proposed economic destruction of Germany should produce the chaos , mass unemployment , and industrial disruption which many envisage , we would ' not only have left the roots but tilled the soil for a new and more terrible fascist crop . And who then but our sons and daughters would be the victims of the " hard peace " ? What then is the alternative ? We return to our original proposal . We believe that the last vestiges of the Nazi state should be destroyed , that all Nazi functionaries should be removed , and that there should be no temporizing with the pre-Nazi reactionaries who will doubtless come forward and offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that the power of the great German industrialists , cartelists , and-landowners must finally be broken . We believe that Germany must be disarmed and kept disarmed by the combined action of the United Nations . This will not require dismemberment of Germany or the removal of its industries . The apparent security advantages of such measures would be offset by the necessity of long-term occupation and Allied policing , by economic dislocation , and by the " rise of frantic agitation on the part of nationalist groups interested solely in preparing the ground for a new war of ' liberation . ' " Ultimately , Germany will be rendered " safe " only by the rise of its own democratic elements and by the rebuilding of a European community designed , not to perpetuate anachronistic monarchies or predatory economic tyrannies , but to serve the needs of the people themselves regardless of race or nation . And this European community will develop only if the United Nations remain united , pledged not merely to guard against new aggression butlo cultivate a true democracy . Alas , that the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope for democratic and economic renaissance after military victory . When it comes to settlement for Germany , we fear that it will be neither our plan nor Professor Lange 's which will be adopted . For if our present policies hold , it will be anti-Nazi German workers who will be shot and " good " German reactionaries who will be installed by Allied arms . If this happens the peace will fail not because it is soft but because it is conceived and enforced by tories who have learned nothing and forgotten nothing since 1918.                     