@@494135

THE NEW REPUBLIC fl Journal of Opinion VOL. 103 , NO. 26 NEW YORK , MONDAY , DECEMBER 23 , 1940 NUMBER 1360 Cracks in Hitler 's Walls The whole picture of the war is beginning to change before our eyes . It is too soon to say that the Axis powers are losing ; but it is not too soon to predict that if they do lose , the turning point has already been seen . The British success in Egypt and now in Libya , the Greek advance in Albania , have sent an electrifying whisper of hope around the world . Turkey has been heartened to resist Hitler , and behind Turkey , and far more important , Russia herself . The myth of Axis invincibility is shattered . Petain senses it in his old bones , and feels strong enough to shift his course a little away from the Nazi line . There are patriotic demonstrations in Denmark and sabotage against Quisling in Norway . In Africa and Albania , Il Duce 's soldiers surrender in such numbers that it seems more like mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Italy ; it is clear that Mussolini 's flock has no stomach for a war of conquest which can only end in making Hitler , the big end of the Axis , bigger than ever . To be sure , there are bitter and anxious days ahead for the democracies ; ultimate defeat is still quite possible . Nevertheless , the situation has brightened more than anyone would have dreamed that it could , a few weeks ago . Defense Is Lagging The American people are gradually discovering what The New Republic and some other journals have been saying for months : that our defense program islagging badly at the very moment when England , awaiting a possible final great effort at invasion in the spring , needs our aid most of all . The outline by now is fairly familiar : manufacturers refuse to expand their plants because they want to return to an economics of scarcity when the emergency is over ; army and navy bureaucrats are suddenly confronted by jobs far too big for them ; there is division of authority , duplication of effort , confusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward autocratic and insolent industrialists , far too much poisoned with the doctrine of business as usual . Britain 's needs are becoming more desperately urgent , and if they are not supplied we shall have to face the Axis alone and without sufficient preparation . What did the people elect Mr. Roosevelt for ? Many assume that this country will not take hold of its job unless war is actually declared . We do not see why it is not possible for the President to convince the country that the best way to avoid such a step is to act now just as if we were producing in wartime . If he declares a full emergency and proceeds to exercise the necessary powers , the country will back him up . Vichy The air is full of explanations of why Laval fell . We are told : ( I ) that he plotted to overthrow Petain and head the state ; ( 2 ) that he had been too tender toward the former government leaders who are still awaiting trial for their " treason " ; ( 3 ) that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tool ; ( 4 ) that Laval was Mussolini 's man and that he was deposed 852 to show that Hitler was cross with Il Duce . Whatever the reason , the change means little in practical fact . Flandin , who takes Laval 's place , is just as much pro-Fascist . France is still almost entirely at Germany 's mercy in the final test . It is not improbable that Hitler pushed Laval forward to create conflict between him and Petain , hoping thereby to destroy the French people 's confidence in all their leaders and create even deeper chaos than exists now . There is no doubt that Hitler wanted to help Mussolini by using the French navy and the French naval bases . Petain may still be forced to yield to an ultimatum ; but it is heartening that he has felt strong enough to resist to the present extent . It is important to remember that while the French democratic flame has wavered , it has never gone out . A British victory , or even a decisive turn in the fortunes of the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stand ? " I am here to serve my country . That country is Marshal Petain incarnated . There is not any second France . " Thus , General Weygand in his interview with Jay Allen in North Africa . After this indirect rejection of General de Gaulle 's " Free France " he criticized the British and American press for hinting that all was not well in his relations with his chief . But at no time did he suggest that his loyalty was to anyone save Petain , and France as represented by Petain . There is no reason to doubt Weygand 's remarks as to where his duty lies . But there is equally no reason to elaborate them . They may have been disappointing to optimists in England and the United States , but there was nothing in them to encourage Hitler 's hopes that Weygand would support the " New Europe . " One might say that the only measure of North African " loyalty " is in Petain 's own attitude toward Nazi pressure . For the Nazis have not left a truncated , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The , Vichy regime exists mainly because it is the only link between the Nazis and the French colonies . Weygand is Petain 's only card ? and a strong one . We should bear this in mind in view of present rumors that Hider will occupy the whole of France . It seems probable that he will do so only if he believes that such an annexation will prove more valuable than retention of the French colonies . Is Britain Appeasing Spain ? Many Americans have been puzzled by British policy toward Spain . Sir Samuel Hoare , one of the great appeasers and co-author of the infamous Hoare-Laval plan , is British Ambassador in Madrid , and when it was announced that Great Britain would sign a trade treaty , give Spain credits and let food through the blockade , it seemed logical to fear that he might be doing more work of his familiar pattern . The New THE NEW REPUBLIC Republic a few days ago asked a well informed Englishman in London to explain the Spanish policy , and this is his cabled reply , received just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation in the Mediterranean explains British policy toward Spain . Until Crete was available and before the Taranto exploit , Italian tonnage was numerically superior to the British ships available and had better bases . Hitler was negotiating with Laval to obtain the cooperation of the French fleet . If Franco had opened the Pyrenees for the passage of the German army against Gibraltar and given Spanish forts for use against British shipping , the latter 's navy would have faced an almost impossible task . Hence the diplomatic efforts to delay or prevent Spain 's entry into the war . These indicate an acute local anxiety rather than a general tendency to revert to appeasement , of which there is no sign in any other direction . Whether our correspondent is right , remains to be seen . It is disturbing to note that a few days ago , in complete violation of the agreement establishing Tangier as an international zone , General Franco dissolved the international administration , dismissing all British , French and Italian employees , including the police force . The Spanish authorities are now in complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps which had previously whittled away the international supervision . It is reported that Tangier is being fortified , that a fully staffed naval base has been established and that at least two Italian submarines are using the harbor . Spanish Republicans in Danger While England is appeasing Franco in this strictly limited sense , Franco is certainly not appeasing world opinion . A few weeks ago he executed a group of leading figures of the Spanish Republic without the least compassion . Among them was Luis Companys , former President of Catalonia . About ninety prominent Catalans and Spanish Republicans , who were refugees in France , have recently been handed over by Petain to Franco and are locked up in Montjuic Castle . On the list are Nicolau d'Olwer , former professor of Greek at the University of Barcelona ; Professor Bellido , an . outstanding Catholic ; Pedro Rico , a Moderate Socialist who was Mayor of Madrid ; and Sra . Federica Muntseny , one of Republican Spain 's distinguished women , Minister of Public Health under Caballero . It is obvious that the lives of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing that could prevent Franco from acting the butcher would be the realization that the eyes of world public opinion are upon him . Friends of Franco Over Here What Franco has been doing makes all the more odd the actions of the little group of men in the American State Department who have been trying to DECEMBER 2 3 3 1940 get for him an American loan of anything between a hundred millions and a quarter of a billion . Who are these men ? Drew Pearson and Robert Allen , in their syndicated column , have charged that they inclUde Alexander W. Weddell , American Ambassador to Spain , and Breckenridge Long , Assistant Secretary of State . Tabitha Petran , writing in PM , says that Avra Warren , chief of the Visa Division , is another of the State Department functionaries who belong in this general group . We do not know whether there is truth in the charges these various journalists make . We do know , however , that it is important , both for the sake of the officials concerned , and for that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughly and the results made public . Mr. Pegler Makes a Slip Westbrook Pegler , the Roman Catholic columnist , follows the line of his Church in most matters in a reasonably faithful manner ; but sometimes he either gets ahead of it , or lags behind it . In a recent column , he bitterly attacked those organizations that are bringing political refugees from Europe to the United States , for one of which The New Republic and The Nation gave a dinner in New York City a short time ago at which more than $3,000 was raised . Any group of such refugees , says Mr. Pegler , is sure to contain some Nazi spies , and also some Communists ; if a man denies he is a Communist this means nothing , since they are all habitual liars ; keep them all out . Mr. Pegler is wrong on his facts , if anyone cares . The State Department and the President 's Advisory Committee on Refugees are so strict in checking over applications among political refugees that it would be very difficult for a disguised Communist to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and none of the leading groups engaged in this work has any such desire . But beyond this , Mr. Pegler is badly behind the times ; has he never heard of Stalin 's pact with Hitler in August , 1939 ? A Communist in France is in no danger from Hitler ; it is the anti-Nazi liberal whose life is threatened , and these are the people to whom aid is being given by American groups . Mr. Pegler 's liaison work is evidently not very good ; there are plenty of officials in his Church who could have explained to him what is happening in Europe . Our Aerial Voodoo The Associated Press reports that the army 's famous secret bombsight is to be hidden away in a concrete , burglarproof building at Bowman Field Airport . This repOrt comes at a time when some of the priests of the secret weapon are beginning to shift nervously in their robes and wonder if they were right in chanting quite so loud . The question that is being asked is how effective such a bombsight will be under actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painted a brilliant picture of a flying fortress hovering some miles above the ground , while its incomparable sight , permits sure hits on a factory the size or a pinpoint . This may be fine , say the skeptics , in the clear air of California , or possibly in the North African war zone . But how will it be in Europe , where the fortress must aim from above a maze of anti-aircraft fire , flaming onions , balloon barrage and the murk and douds of European weather ? For accurate bombing in Europe , say the skeptics , a low altitude is essential . No bomber can hope to pin his faith on a magic bombsight , since however good it may be , conditions can not permit this special use . Can any expert help us out in this matter and tell us just how much public faith in this secret weapon is likely to be disillusioned ? Three-Cent Verdict in Chattanooga An afternoon newspaper in Chattanooga , Tennessee , signed contracts with forty-two local advertisers forbidding them to buy space in any other afternoon newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two of its officers were found guilty in a federal court of violating the Sherman Anti-Trust Act , whereupon Federal Judge Leslie Darr fined each defendant one cent . It is difficult to understand the judge 's attitude in this case . If he felt no crime had been committed , as he seems to have done , why did he waste the government 's money by letting the affair be carried to its conclusion ? Why did he not interrupt the case with an instructed verdict ? His action virtually invites other newspapers all over the country to follow the same course , and to put competing papers , or possible competitors , under a grave disadvantage . These contracts were signed at a time when it was known that Mr. George Fort Milton , a distinguished Chattanooga publisher , was planning to start a new afternoon paper in that city . The defendants did everything they could to make this impossible . Judge Darr seems to have thought their actions constituted only a friendly little three-cent joke ; others with more intimate contact with journalism than the judge possesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an interesting speech that Captain Ricken backer made before the Economic Club in New York City ? interesting because it revealed the honest confusion of American business men in the world crisis . The speech was divided into two parts ? let us call them A and B ? that pointed toward diametrically opposite conclusions . Part B was a solemn warning to other business men that they would have to change , their ways . " I say to you , tonignt , that you of this generation are enjoying libertieS at this mothent that you will never enjoy again as long as you live . you are enjoying a standard of living that you never again 8 54 will enjoy , regardless of the outcome of World War Number Two . . . . I say to you and the rest of my fellow Americans , we had better prepare today to die fighting rather than to fight dying . " These are bitter words , and more grimly pessimistic than the situation justifies , since Captain Rickenbacker fails to take into account the greatly increased productive powers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a better planned society . But Part A of his speech applies only to his own industry , air transport , and its mood is strikingly different . Here Captain Rickenbacker tells us that it is a mistake for this country to manufacture airplanes for defense , since they will soon be outdated . Instead we should manufacture transport planes , and we should subsidize the air lines by having them carry all the first-class mail , and by establishing air service to every town in the country with more than 2,000 population . In other words , while all the rest of Americans make sacrifices , the air-transport lines are to flourish at the expense of the government . Your business , gentlemen , must immediately be put on a wartime basis . My business goes on as usual , only with bigger profits . News Notes of a Week The Nazis made their first return of French property when the ashes of Napoleon 's son were reburied in Paris . The Germans announced that the son was " the victim of the reactionary spirit . . . which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ port of Valona was reported bombed into uselessness as an Italian debarkation point . . . German raids on Sheffield and British raids on Berlin were the high points of European aerial activity . . . . The British liner Western Prince , with a valuable cargo of bombers and war equipment , was torpedoed in the Atlantic . . . . The British Parliament again showed concern over Atlantic convoys , but was heartened by the report that shipping losses for November were ioo , 000 tons under the preceding month and well below each of the three months before that . . . . London reported the last of the Italian troops swept out of Egypt and estimated the number captured at 75,000 . Equipment valued at millions of dollars was reported seized around Sidi Barrani . . . . Hitler set out on his umpteenth secret mission , with most guessers predicting a heart-to-heart chat with II Duce . Washington reports mentioned Anglo-American disagreement on the site of proposed American bases in Trinidad . . . . The Duke of Windsor discussed the question of bases with President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request for a defense deficiency appropriation of not less than a billion dollars was reported being sent to Congress at the beginning of January . . . . The President announced new restrictions on exports to Japan of iron ore , pig iron , ferro alloys and certain iron and steel manufactures .                     