@@491219

0N THE food front we Americans have received it surprising jolt . For years we have listened to a seemingly endless debate over the problem of farm surpluses ; then suddenly we are plunged into shortages requiring a system of rationing that is going to get considerably tougher before it gets better . Yet farm food production in 1942 was the greatest in all our history . Why the paradox ? One reason , of course , is that a lot more hands are reaching into our pantry shelves . They are the hands of the mounting millions in our armed forces  --  who eat twice as much meat and dairy products as they did in civilian life  --  and of British and Russian soldiers and factory workers . Furthermore , our own war workers , with bigger pay envelopes than ever before , are wanting a Larger share of the choicer foods , such as dairy products , meat and canned fruit and vegetables . But that is n't all the story . Price ceilings , freezing moat foods at the levels of last March , wrenched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are usually uneven , for seasonal and other reasons ; ceilings froze these differences , and food supplies tended to flow to the localities with the best prices . That situation is being ironed out now by applying proportional dollars-and-cents ceilings . Occasional transportation jams have contributed to the shortages . So has hoarding , often incited by reports ? coming out of Washington itself  --  of impending shortages and rationings . Some of our food troubles may be remedied in part during the coming season , some may become more acute . It all depends on weather , luck , good management , the supply of farm labor , transportation and a number of other items . Figuring large in the story is the role of Uncle Sam as a grocer who now operates the biggest food business the world has ever seen . His daily turnover is more than $5,000.000 . Finding and shipping the huge stocks of food necessary to the operation of a global war is in itself a major feat . Add to this the emergencies that arise almost daily and you get a business with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their orders weeks in advance to give the new Food Distribution Administration sufficient time to fill them . Yet a maze of complicated situations is constantly operating to toss new problems into the lap of the world 's largest groceryman . For example , Washington woke up one morning with the news that Rommel 's Afrika Korpe had broken before the hammer blows of the British 8th Army at cry of U. S. food planning goes into mo-tion . From the second-line depots at Chicago , Kansas City , Omaha or St. Paul , freight cars start rolling eastward to replace the stocks removed by the ( Continued on Page 781 emergency . In Washington , card files are shuffled . Cards representing food on shipboard go into the final file . Cards representing food held in central depots go into transit files . Other cards representing packers ' or processors ' stocks go rinto the central-depot files . In this way FDA knows how much food is on hand and exactly where each pound is located . The system guarantees the continuous shipment of the oldest food stocks , thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is interesting to note the difference between shipping in 1917-18 and that of the current year . During that period we shipped bulk foods to Europe  --  wheat , beef and pork in whole careeeses ; eggs in their shells , and citrus fruits in crates . In this war , shipping demands are greater because of the vast hulk of mechanized equipment needed . So food processing has been organized . We can not afford to ship bones , water and waste material , Today , three and one half ounces of egg powder represent a dozen eggs . Three ounces of milk powder represent four gallons of milk . Oranges are squeezed , their juice reduced to a concentrate . Vegetables , the overwhelming bulk of which is water , are reduced to dry flakes . Reef for the armed forces is boned , quick-frozen and packaged , constituting a saving of 60 per cent of shipping space over that of 1918 . Pork goes overseas as cured , boneless meat or sausages . There Is hardly a week that does not bring some new challenge . Let us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stringent food shortage and that there is little available shipping on the Atlantic Coast . But out on the Pacific Coast four Liberty ships have just been commissioned , earmarked for Atlantic service . The Department of Agriculture would then leap into the picture , and the ships would be loaded at a West Coma port from an emergency depot . The ships would then go through the Panama Canal and make a call at Puerto Rico to unload before reporting to an Eastern port for a European cargo . ( Continued from Page 78 ) that it went rancid on their hands . In this case , FDA had to step in and freeze butter stocks . When the national shortage becomes acute , they release such stocks gradually , feeding them out in such a manner that we have a type of rationing by the retailer as he tries to make reduced stocks spread around among all his customers . As a rule , such unofficial rationing is a certain omen of actual rationing to come , as come it will in butter and other fats . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with critical shortages of war materials . For instance , we need rubber . To supplement the rising production of synthetic rubber , we need a lot of natural rubber . In the jungles of Brazil is wild rubber  --  just how touch no one seems to know . So to Brazil go our medical groups to combat jungle fevers and disease. ; interfering with rubber production . Up the Amazon and its tributaries go the parties exploring for new sources of rubber . Food must go with them to feed medical and exploration staffs , and more food to raise the efficiency of native rubber gatherers . Food requirements there have been worked out by experts . It must be packaged to meet jungle requirements . It must be of a nature acceptable to Brazilian tastes . Our troops moving into Liberia , into Central Africa are opening new transport and communication lines . They have to have jungle rations . To build airfields and depots they must hire masses of native labor . To get the maximum efficiency from native labor , they have to provide special foods . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new problems posed by the Russian demands . The Soviet mission came to FDA with unpronounceable requirements . To keep the tough Russian soldier in fighting trim through a winter campaign requires foods of high protein value ; stuff that will stick to his ribs and sustain him through subzero weather . The Department of Agriculture has not only got to round up the basic foodstuff but has also to go into a huddle with packers , millers and processors . One of the results is pork sausage spiked with high-protein soybean meal , providing a ration with the highest possible sustaining power . To spread further critical meat sup- the department , in conjunction with firms like General Foods , has developed a new kind of porridge for the Russians . To a base of either oatmeal or whole wheat is added soybean meal , dried milk , sugar and salt . This porridge has been shipped in enormous quantities to Russia . It firrives at the front lines requiring only water and cooking to become the nearest thing to a meat substitute it is possible to get from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utilize our resources to supply food to Britain and Russia , the public should understand clearly what is being accomplished by this strategy . The pork and cereals we Rent to Russia will save thousands of American lives as the Russian offensive , rolling with a power partly provided by America , relentlessly saps the Nazi might and cuts down the striking power that American soldiers must face in the coming months. ? The same holds true of Great Britain . Consider the miracle that line been wrought in those islands , partly through the supplies of American foodstuffs . The turn of the tide in England came in May . 1941 , when the first shipment of food under Lend-Lease arrived in Britain . That shipment , containing 4,000,000 pounds of eggs , 120,000 pounds of cheese and 1000 tons of flour , was like a shot in the arm to the British people . With the flow of food came a sharp upturn in British output of armaments Now , with British fighting planes and bombers , tanks and guns giving battle to the enemy on many fronts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as production in Detroit or Pittsburgh . American food is partly responsible for the incomparable British industrial record  --  the highest per-capita output of planes , tanks and guns in the world . As we watch the figures of our food shipments to England , it is worth our while to take a look at what Britain has done for herself . In 1939 she imported 60 per cent of her food . Today she has reversed that figure . Sixty per cent of her food is home-grown . And she has done this while nearly every able-bodied man was impressed into the armed forces or heavy industry . The farms of Great Britain today are being run by older men , by boys between the ages of fifteen and seventeen , and a Women 's Land Army of 50,000 . Unfortunately , our own farms are going to be in a somewhat similar situation this year , but the results are not likely to be the same . Our agriculture is immensely more diverse and , because of its diversity , is subject to many more weather hazards . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and workers . This is the spot where an ominous shadow looms up in our food picture . Just how good is the outlook for the American consumer ? The demands of our armed forces and of our friends abroad will not grow less , but larger , especially as we begin taking over occupied countries . An unofficial estimate is that eventually they may be nearly twice as great as in 1942 . That means roughly they will take one fourth of America 's meat production , one third of the lard . close to one third of the billions of eggs laid by American hens and possibly one half of the canned vegetables and fruits . Food Administrator Wic kru-d has already reserved 30 per cent of all our 1943 creamery butter for this rise . These supplies will be taken out before the share left for civilian needs is allocated . How slim or how adequate that share will be depends on this year 's total farm output . Washington has set a high mark for that output  --  higher in the aggregate even than that of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food products have been revised upward . The 1943 goal calls for 25.7 billion pounds of meat , a step-op of more than three and a half billion pounds over last year . Nearly a billion pounds more dressed poultry and above half a billion dozen more eggs are asked for . Also more potatoes and as large a pack of canned vegetables as can be processed . About the only major exceptions are wheat , of which alone we have a surplus , and dairy products , where it is figured we have reached the limit . All that called-for production would be very comforting , if we could be sure that it was going to become a reality . But there are some large question marks . The trouble with our food situation is that official Washington , like Caesar 's Gaul , is divided into several parts , and they have n't meshed . One part has been forehanded and discerning in regard to our food supply , some of the other parts incredibly remiss . The Department of Agriculture correctly anticipated the heavy demands to come and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other key products . When we were plunged into war , it got its warproduction program under way before anyone else . But it was not in a position to assure two highly important factors in farm production  --  manpower and machine power . Other agencies had authority over these , and they were more concerned with equipping the armed forces with men and weapons . Agriculture was not classified as a war industry . During the twelve months ending last September , 900,000 farm workers and ( Continued on Pogo 82 ) ( Continued from Pepe 80 ) operators took jobs in war industries and nearly 600,000 went into the armed forces . More have gone to both , since . These were chiefly men between eighteen and forty-four years old  --  the type with the strength , experience and skill to do the many difficult jobs on the farm . Their places have to be filled , so far as they can be , by older men , by women , boys and girls , by people moved from unproductive farms , and such emergency labor as can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from an increased use of power machinery . Modern machinery enabled the farmer to Make a more efficient use of labor and time . It would have provided one way of offsetting the labor shortage . But WPB allowed only 20 per cent of the 1940-41 average of critical materials for the manufacture of farm equipment this year . This came on top of a sharp cut last year , and today new farm equipment is being rationed out in pitifully small amounts to farmers in some 3000 counties . WPB has recently accelerated the manufacturing program , but the action comes too late to have much effect on spring soil preparation and planting . The manpower drain also ire being checked , but here , too , action comes too late to do anything more than keep the situation from becoming worse . If any serious food shortages develop here at home , these two failures to protect the farm supply line will , barring the weather , be most responsible . They have already been reflected in dairy production . A recent Department of Agriculture summary stated : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tending to reduce production . Some one hundred and forty billion pounds of milk would be Salarko shied abruptly as a jack rabbit bounced out from under his feet , and Elmer steadied him with a quick hand and a tight smile . It satisfied something in Elmer to ride a Thoroughbred . But he did n't go in for raising them . Jessie did . And that bothered Elmer . He thought that raising Thoroughbred horses was a gamble . Elmer was no gambler . Sometimes he thought that that was one reason he 'd never quite got worked around to proposing to Jessie . He liked to be pretty sure of it thing before he put his hand to it . And how could you be sure that a woman would take to the idea of marrying you if she was always laughing ? Marriage was a serious undertaking . But he loved to hear Jessie laugh . He loved to drive into her ranch and hear Jessie yell at him , " Hi , beef baron ! " You had to admit he was a kind of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastern Oregon , and operated it at a nice profit . And he 'd worked the thing up from the saddle , starting as a thirty-dollar-a-month cow hand . Jessie 's ranch was bigger , but it was n't exclusively cattle . There were all her fancy horses . Maybe one reason he resented those hlue-blooded horses was that they underlined something in Jessie which Elmer could n't quite get a halter on . But he could n't keep away from her . He 'd roll into her ranch , wait for her to yell , " Hi , beef baron ! " and then he 'd crack back , " Hi , Mrs. Midas ! " He never could resist that crack . After all , Jessie might not have had that whacking big ranch and all her blooded horses and the fine stand of beef cattle if her folks had n't been smart from way back to Custer 's Last Stand and left her more money than anybody else had in all Eastern Oregon . All at once Elmer felt the blood pounding in his ears . His heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed to meet all of 1943 requirements . Such production can not be attained . " The goal has been set at one hundred and twenty-two billion pounds , three billion less than last year 's unattained goal . The uncertainties also are making farmers hesitant about 1943 plantings , especially of crops that will require a large amount of hired labor to harvest . These include , especially , commercial vegetables and the important canning crops . The seriousness of the situation led the National Canners Association recently to report : " If the industry is to meet the requirements of the Government and provide any surplus for civilian use , it will be necessary in many , and perhaps ail , food-processing communities to enlist workers who would not ordinarily be considered as field , orchard or plant labor . " A many-angled nationwide program is getting under way to provide such workers . All this does n't portend so well for the civilian consumer . It may turn out as bad as it looks , and again it may not . Farmers performed a miracle of production last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no question of their willingness to work just as hard and just as long hours again . Given favorable weather and enough emergency help at critical periods , they may make some of those increased goals . In fact , early reports indicate the production of hogs may actually top the figure set for it . But we have let our margin of safety in food production become very thin . Everything will have to work out favorably if the total approaches that of 1942.                     