@@492306

HE woman who ran the boarding house was just as eager for world peace as anyone else . But her house was on a elite street in Milwaukee , and she could n't see any international influence in her bathtub . To her , the tiff with the new boarder was a strictly domestic issue . He had wakened the whole house by taking a shower in the middle of the night , and she had sent him packing in the morning . What if the fellow had come all the way from Guatemala ' ? Suppose he was on a mission approved by the State Department ! Did that give him any more rights than the other tenants ? The landlady 's answer was an angry . verging on an isolationist , " No . " From the purely democratic standpoint , she was right . Nevertheless , because of her , there are people in Guatemala today  --  friends to whom the scorned boarder has written letters  --  who suspect that baths are socially reprehensible in the great Midwest when taken after dark . Although this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blow the country 's foreign policy in any particular direction , it is typical of countless little everyday occurrences which do brew our national flavor in the mouths of strangers . The Milwaukee landlady is only one of millions of Americans who unknowingly shape our future in the world without moving from their own doorsteps . The diplomacy they improvise at home is making friends and enemies among hundreds of young men sent here from everywhere to learn the secret of our industrial power  --  the , power that won the war . Before the Nazis set 1 he torch to civilization , it was safe to assume I hal a Chinese on an American city street was a laundryman , a Turk was a hawker of rugs . a Greek ran a restaurant , a Brazilian was tied up in coffee , n Central American dealt in hananaa , and so on . Today 's visitors are different . They may he farmers , bridge builders or electrical engineers , regardless of their origin . All of them are related by one bond  --  they seek technical skill . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learn the fundamentals of modern industry the hard way  --  by actually working on the job , getting their hands dirty . Well he Graded on Our Manners AT the end of a year or two as wards of a war-born A agency called the International Training Administration , these industrial Rhodes Scholars go back home to use their new knowledge to build their own lands . What we say to them , how we treat them , what we teach them , help decide what their peoples and their governments think of us after they return to spin fireside yarns about the fabulous Yankees . The unhappy incident at the Milwaukee hoarding house is at one end of the scale . At the other is the scrambled phrase written home in unwieldy English by a youth from Mexico . His considered pronouncement on America and A mericatis was : " 1 urn marveloused . " Usually the State Department is extremely chary of approving anything outside its own neatly fenced yard . But a department official , enthusing over the work the ITA hits done , says , " Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign affairs . " Although far removed from our traditional avenues of diplomacy , this industrial-training experiment is more deeply rooted in American life and thought than any tenet of foreign policy since the Monroe Doctrine . The argument behind it runs like this : In building our war machine , we put more people to work than ever before . To keep enough of them at work to maintain prosperity , we must sell more goods than ever before . Much of these goods we ourselves can buy here at home . But the rest we must sell abroad . Our best foreign customers in the past have been industrial countries . And less than half the world is now industrialized . So our richest prospects lie in encouraging industrialization of backward lands . In other words , we should begin by selling machines . Now . our machines are the world 's best . They are also the world 's cheapest , in the long run , if they are ? kept in good repair . But they are too expensive to compete with foreign makes if smart mechanics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take that into account was one reason why our foreign loans backfired after the last war . It . was natural enough , for we as a people are not good colonizers . Our life is too comfortable for most of us to give it up for long and those who do go away to work get into the hair of their hosts by insisting how much better it is back here . ( Cow inurri on Puge I() 44 January 1.1417 ( Con ll inlan ' from rate : 44 Instead of sending reluctant American mechanics out to teach foreigners how to take care of the mechinee we went to sell them , it is more profitable to import the would-be mechanics and teach them where they can see and experience the advantages of democratic life . Then , when they leave , they will be individual outposts of a peaceful , voluntary empire of know-how . This empire is no dream . Its capitol is firmly anchored in 6000 square feet of floor space at 1419 H Street . NW , in Washington . Already more than 2300 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to China . Hundreds more are at work today in farms , factories , highways , railroads and airlines all over our country . By the end of 1945 their eager feet had carried the duet of twenty-five different inhds into 330 cities , towns and crossroads villages of 46 states ; their training at that time involved the resources of 383 corporations with a prewar capital investment of $20,000,000,000 ? making the fate of the empire a direct selfish interest to 5,700,000 stockholders . Since then the number of ruins has jumped to 644 , adding millions more in money and people . And , in answer to a questionnaire late in 1946 , American industry said it was ready to train at lease . 1000 young foreigners every year . The empire was not planned that way . It just grew , from a memorandum that came to the desk of Nelson Rockefeller when ha was Co-ordinator of Inter-American Affairs . In those days , oho Nazi invasion of Brazil from Africa was dreaded as fearfully as the invasion of England from the coast of France . We needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they were not convinced of our sincerity . What could we offer as a sign of lasting friendship ? The Germans had built their economic empire in South America by indoctrinating Latins in Germany , the memo to Rockefeller said . Why could n't we perform the American counterpart of their maneuver by teaching young Latins the technical skills their homelands lack ? The idea was not new . It had been pioneered successfully at the turn of the century by Inventor Thomas Edison , and later copied by individual United Staten limas to widen their export markets . The memo that reached Rockefeller 's desk in 1941 proposed to make all industry a partner in the training scheme , beginning with two young men from each of the twenty other American republics . These forty Inter-American trade scholars would be chosen in open competition based on technical alertness. sound physical health and the ability to speak enough English to got along . The judges would be Latin and Yankee businessmen in each country , advised by the United States embassy . These same businessmen would decide what kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that particular land . The scholars would spend two years in the United States without a penny of cost to themselves . Their travel would be paid by the United States Government , and the farm or factory which employed them would pay an apprentice wage , usually $150 a month . Their only obligation would be to return home and apply their new skills . Rockefeller liked the idea . But would business ? Obviously , a salesman was required . Elliott S. Hanson , a sell-made industrial missionary from United States Steel , went to work without even a desk to prop his feet on . The Foreign Trade Council queried 397 companies for him , and came back with 300 different jobs . The first forty trade scholars could take their pick . The trade scholarship was the most popular thing that ever hit Latin America . In tiny Ecuador alone , 400 applied for examination the first day the newspaper 's announced the competition . After a whole year of weeding , the first scholar reached Washington in 1942 . He was a Costa Rican farmer 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mastering the mysteries of hybrid corn , potatoes and powdered milk . Pint-sized Mario , who had gamboled through life on his dimples and charm , encountered hard work for the first time as a hand on Henry Wallace 's experimental hybrid-corn farm at . Johnston , Iowa . The shock was severe . He almost passed out from ten-hour days of planting , thinning and husking . He could n't get used to Iowa 's drinking water , he mimed the ever-present rice of his Costa Rican meals  --  although he liked fried chicken , roasting ears and ice cream  --  and the scorch of Midwestern summer almost did him in , it was so much different from the con , stank seventy-to-eighty-degree climate of his home plateau . On the most sizzling nights , he went to bed early and pulled the sheet over his head to keep out the heat . Through it all , he was so undeviatingly affable that everyone called him " M ike " ; soli-appointed guardians popped up everywhere to put him back on schedule when he casually forgot a bus , missed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Solely to please him , rschoolmen at Ames created two new scholarships specifically for Costa Ricans . An Iowa sculptor modeled a bust , /Ma gift to the Costa Rican nation . Fellow farm bands oven toted Mario 's pocket money for him because he did n't care to be bothered with it . Mario did not realize how much the openhanded plains people spoiled him until he left Iowa for Maine , to study potatoes . " I have never seen so many rocks in my Life , " he wrote from the bleak New England countryside , following up this observation with loud objections to doing farm chores like chopping wood , digging fence poritholea , pulling weeds and cleaning pigpens . " Anyone could be doing that , " he noted with wounded pride in one of his required weekly reports to Hanson 's red-haired shadow , ITA Vice-President George Butler , " without being a university graduate . " He got himself into so many embarrassments that he finally wrote , in disarming candor , " I am confident that in the future we will have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' headache ' of your office . " Mario overestimated his own nuisance value . He was only one of many headaches . Other scholarship winners were landing in the country at irregular intervals , demanding last-minute changes in the work arranged for them , complaining that the apprentice wages were ton tow , objecting that work was too hard , and asking rest trips to New York , Washington and Hollywood . Many failed to write home , leaving Hanson 's softhearted ussistants , Lillian Spector and Eloise de la 0 , to answer frantic cables from their mothers . A few were drafted into shotgun weddings . As a headache , Mario proved to be his own aspirin . The farm chores he did n't like toughened his staying power , and he went home after two years to fight stubbornly against political inertia and rural backwardness . Elated at first over his appointment as chief of a new experimental division of Costa Rica 's agriculture department , he came down hard with the discovery that his division had no money to pay for experiments . It could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It could not even get land an which to work . The farmers , furthermore , were set against change . Unable to buy , Mario borrowed , first , his father 's farm , to serve as a model of corn and potato growing and dairy management ; then , a strip of a young friend 's land along the main highway , where passers-by could not escape the experiments if they tried ; then , seed , from another friend , on the promise of repayment from the new crop ; and , finally , the first potato planter ever used in Costa Rica . The planter , bought by Mario'a father , was intended to be pulled by horses . Mario redesigned it , adding some new parte to make it work behind his slow-plodding native oxen . The farmers pretended not to he interested us Mario and his trade-scholar aide , Oscar Benavidem , trained in soil analysis and fertilizers , went methodicallyabout testing , preparing theground , planting and spraying . As they travel their country today , however , Mario and Oscar notice , here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contours of the hills . And the farmers are beginning to ask where to buy theme machines . " You must bring part of your country with you and-take part of our country home with you , " Hanson told the first trainees . The swap has produced a hodgepodge of spare parts that would delight Rube Goldberg . From Peru , Carlini Oneto brought elbow grease in quantities that would amaze those who think Latins are inevitably lazy . Carlos was assigned to a Goodyear rubber plant in Akron , Ohio . He worked five solid months without a single day 's rest . Of fifty-six men who enrolled in the company 's toughest training course , he was the only outlander . Although he lost seventeen pounds in the process and just missed a nervous crack-up afterward , be was one of only four who came through . From Panama , Carlos Quistgaard brought the gay sound and fury of youth back to the home of a Mount Vernon , Ohio , clothing merchant and his wife . Their three children had grown up and gone , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he Wright see what Buckeye small-town life is really like . Such " adoptions " are encouraged by the Cooper-Bessemer Corporation to steer its trainees away from the notion that our civilization consists exclusively of night clubs , screaming headlines , jitterbugs and Hollywood divorces . The conviction that his people and our people can be friends went home with Abraham Benveniste , of Argentina . His only disappointment was that Yankees did not learn more about his country in their schoolbooks . He could not believe his ears when someone asked him , quite aerie usly , who was president of South America . Alvaro Chavez , of Costa Rica , took home the melancholy wisdom that goes into a jack pot on a slot machine . He remembers vividly that after playing a dollar in nickels to hit the cornucopia in a gambling joint at Las Vegas , Nevada , he reaped a harvest of eighty cents . Fortunately , his loss was no greater , for he was crossing the country on a bus and had little pocket money . As it was , he could not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he discovered beat beneath the brusque exteriors of Norte Ameritanos . A tour of the Carlsbad Caverns had enchanted him , and it was not until hours later , when the caves were closed for the day , that he realized his bus ticket was gone . Utterly forlorn , he appealed to the New Mexico police . They reopened , relighted and retoured the caverns with him to find the missing piece of cardboard . The warm generosity of the New Mexicans was like a breath of home to Chavez . He went back to Costa Rica wishing he could forget what happened at the California trinnery where he had worked . The labor unions there had forced him out before his promised training was complete . The excuse was that he , the only stranger in the place , was dangerous foreign competition . An almost superstitious awe of our size , power , speed and efficiency is shipped home under the skin of every ITA trainee . That name human package curries n profound respect for the way our political parties function without tieing the Army , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ng war . But with each trainee we also export what Alarico Valdetarro , of Buenos called n " strange mixture of anger , sorrow and confusion " which comes from observation of race discrimination . Alnrico'it notebook records this as " a poor first impression of a democracy at work . " The long-range results of the training system will not appear for five or ten years . But a few kinks are already obvious . The techniques taught to some trainees have been too advanced for use back home . Other men have gone back well trained , but unemployed . Politics in the choice of some has exiled them when the old regime fell . These are causes of serious irritation , and should be removed before they can mar the excellent record of scholars who have gone home and produced millions of dollars ' worth of orders for United States machines to modernize the Western Hemisphere . The top-ranking " diplomat " of the empire of know-how , rated by accrued profits , is Afranio Ferreira , of Brazil . In Peoria , Illinois , he learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment . After returning to Brazil , he joined the Le Tourneau organization . With shipments of its machines then stalled by war , he set out to survey what markets there might be in the vast half-empty , half-jungled wilderness north of Bahia and east . of Manaos on the Amazon . He came back with $75,000 in immediate orders and prospects of much more from new dealers whose appointment he recommended in Pernambuco , Maranhao , Belem and Mantios . Having older outlets in Brazil 's other main cities , Le Tourneau Export Manager Paul Fulford figured that country was adequately covered . And Ferreira , too good to be kept sitting around waiting for future expansion , was sent to Portugal . In Lisbon , Ferreira helped swing a $100,000 deal for bulldozers and related Frankenstein monsters to dig irrigation ditches for Portuguese farms . As he was winding that up , $350,000 worth of airport-building robots arrived across the border in Spain . So he bopped over there and trained fourteen Spaniards to run the machines and seven more to repair them , meanwhile signing up $150,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure on the expanding net of roads that is binding Brazil into the rising new power of the Americas . He , Oswald ? de Palm 's , piled up $200,000 worth of orders for Worthington concrete mixers and paving machines between April and December , 1945 . A tall , blond Uruguayan , Donald Pomeroy , is Technical Ambassador No. 3 . After tinkering with radios in planes and hangars of Pennsylvania . Central Airlines and in Bendix radio shops to learn how to run the radio end of a Uruguayan national air line , he found the air line stymied when he got back home . So he became it roving agent in South America for 13endix . His first job , in Peru , was a six-month installation and test of new radio compasses for Ponzigra'a west-coast fleet of seventeen passenger elsyliners . Next he laid out a complete navigation and communication network or LAN , the national air line which blankets Chile . As a result of his work , Bendix is considering revision of its foreign contracts to require every dealer to hire a trained technician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ globe . It would ben distorted picture which showed the diplomacy of know-how only in terms of immediate orders for goods . Like more conventional internationnl relations , it frequently takes the long way around , by raising living standards which later will bring more purchasing power as well as better preparation for democratic government . Raul Orden , of Uruguay , is such a diplomat . Raul is installing switchboards and transformers on the Rio Negro hydroelectric-power project , which now is beginning to light . the outskirts of Montevideo . A Guatemala trade scholar , Roberto Saravia , is manager of ri milk-pasteurization plant which gives free laboratory service to all the dairy farmers of his little nation . Luis Cali has opened his own welding school in Lima , Peru . Paul Rey keeps the meters of Haiti 's electric company running smoothly , and has complete charge of care Of electrical appliances all over the island . In Chile , Orlando Salgado is pioneering the sale of United States machine tools to South America . Collectively , these young men are a dynamic force moving into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first young generation to cross the Andes and make friends with their neighbors . Many of them consider themselves the advance guard in a movement toward a federation of South American states , and a union of the Central Americas . Backbone of the industrial realm in the beginning , the trade scholars today are a mere handful of the total trainee population . The idea that brought them to this country was too good to hold down , and popular demand forced Hanson to cut the ITA away from the Office of Inter-American Affairs and set it up as a private institution on a global pattern , As such , it is free to act as agent on a nonprofit-fee basis for governments , corporations , organizations or individuals who want to train young men . The only proviso is State Department approval for every project . Where the training company is willing to pay an apprentice wage in return for good will and labor performed , the sponsor pays only the travel costs . Otherwise , the sponsor pays all ? $2500 to $3500 a year . Sponsors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , twenty-seven domestic and seven foreign corporations . Training subjects range from leper nursing to merchant shipping . A mission of Paraguayan bankers has been taught how to pry Paraguay 's money system loose from its ancient dependence on the Argentine peso , thus weakening the influence of the unfriendly Argentines . During the war , thirty-eight men were brought in from seventeen nations and secretly trained to ferret out and destroy clandestine radio stations operated by Nazi agents . To take over South American air lines seized from the Germans , 700 Latins were imported and taught to fly and service planes . While Turkey waea delicate weight in the balance of Europe 's war , heilf a doz.enavin tionengineers were pulled in from there as a practical , friendly gesture . When 1100 Chinese were flown over the hump to India and shipped here to train for the expected mainland knockout blow against Japan , the State Department and the Foreign Economic Administration automatically turned to Hanson . Washington had never been anything quite like the first 600 of those Chinese . They descended , en masse , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Union Station . Told to stop bowing and to shake hands instead , they frequently grabbed the waiting palms of street-car and bus drivers . Because any attempt to strengthen China will ultimately depend on that nation 's ability to redesign its ancient crazy-quilt pattern of farmland , many of the Orientals were sent into the Midwestern " bread basket . " In Kansas , Nebraska and Minnesota , farmers kept them hopping to as many as eighteen meetings in fifteen days to talk about Chinese life and customs . In Milwaukee , Allis-Chalmers woke one day to find itself employing the grandson of a mandarin , Shih-Chung Sung . Landladies who did n't dream of his illustrious ancestry turned Sung away because he " looked too foreign , " but he liked Milwaukee , anyhow , for its T-bone steaks . The training of the Chinese has staggering implications for future trade . Billions must be spent if China is to have even a simple skeleton of industrial growth . Elsewhere , the expanding boundaries of know-how may work a profound change in the world 's pokticai organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bastion of the British Empire to train technicians in the United States . Britain 's most opulent market , India , has been negotiating with Hanson 's office for months . Feelers are also out from South Africa , New Zealand , Greece , Syria . Palestine and Lebanon . Turkey wants to send more men . Hannan 's legal brain , Ben Theeman , has contracts ready for signature with France and Norway . Inquiries have been received from Poland , Czechoslovakia , Spain , Iraq , Korea , Belgium , Denmark , Italy , Canada , Hollnitil , Newfound . land , Portugal , Switzerland , Jamaica . Martinique , the Philippines , England and even Russia . Lonely little Iceland has one trainee en route , apparently by dogsled , for he is months behind schedule . Brazil has a plan afoot for 1500 men . If the State Depart meat puts through its proposed 1947 budget to bring in two international trade scholars from each of fifty-one nations , know-how will be just about . unaniMOUK , THE FNI ) 