@@487461

December 14 , 1940 In the World War , moreover , control was tied up with certain political realities that no longer exist today . The Comite Nationale , which supervised food distribu  --  tion in Belgium , enjoyed the confidence of the British and was regarded by the Belgian population almost as a substitute for the Belgian government . Under present conditions it is unthinkable that the Nazis would tolerate such a committee . The only committee that could operate today would consist of Quislings and de Mans , and such a committee would certainly not command the confidence of Great Britain . Effective control could be exercised only by means of a large staff . If this staff were loyal to England or composed of neutrals , Germany would hardly tolerate it , if it were composed of persons loyal to Ger  --  many , England would have no guaranties Control of large-scale food distribution in all or most of the countries occupied by Germany seems , therefore , hardly practicable . Alleviation of an acute emergency in a limited region , however , offers fewer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maternity and nursing homes , hospitals and kindergartens , milk could be dis  --  pensed in schools , and food could be distributed to prisoners of war if Germany would admit supervising agencies made up of neutrals enjoying the confidence of the British . Even if control were air-tight , it can not be doubted that large-scale relief for the subject peoples would benefit the German war economy . Germany can make excellent use of well-fed skilled workers and through them of the industrial plants of the conquered regions . And it would rejoice at the chance to commandeer food  --  stuffs from the countries under its control . Its utilization599 of the increased working capacity of those countries  --  a factor of great importance which England could under no circumstances permit  --  could be prevented only if relief were restricted to persons not engaged in work , such as babies , nursing mothers , and sick persons . It is erroneous to suppose that the receipt of food might prevent the migration of skilled workers to the Reich . This migra  --  tion will take place if and when Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the argument that American supplies would increase the chances of a revolutionary uprising do not require refu  --  tation , Hitler would not permit the supplies to go through if this possibility existed . Of the high-grade foodstuffs that Europe needs to combat malnutrition this country has only limited amounts for export . Part of these limited quantities would presumably be sent to the twenty million French  --  men in unoccupied France ; part would have to be re  --  served for England , whose health requirements are much more gravely threatened than those of any other country except Poland . Thus little would be available for the occupied regions in any event The United States can not think of eliminating malnutrition from a population almost as large as its own . It can contemplate no more than relief for children , pregnant women , nursing mothers , sick persons , and prisoners of war ; the general population can be helped only in those depressed areas which are seen to be nearing the famine phase . Since it is impossible to foresee where shortages will be most severely felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arise . The Duty of the Emigre BY J. ALVAREZ DEL VAYO S INCE the fall of France the ranks of the anti-fascist emigres in the Western Hemisphere have been greatly strengthened by the arrival of men snatched from totalitarian vengeance . In spite of legal obstacles and bureaucratic red tape , it has been possible to save lives whose loss would have impoverished the common treasury of culture and art . Left behind in the occupied territory or in regions only nominally free are still many of our best fighters , who turn desperate eyes toward the sea in search of ships that never arrive . Among them are a hundred thousand Span  --  iards , men to whom the road across their own land to Portugal has been closed since the beginning of the war . They live in constant danger of being delivered over to Franco . In the past six months about five hundred ofthem have been-returned to Spain through the cowardice of the French authorities or the brutality of the Gestapo . Some have already been executed . The fundamental duty of solidarity unites those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this obligation has the same force whatever may be the nationality of the refugee  --  the title of anti-fascist being the only valid qualification . There can be no doubt about this duty ; surely every refu  --  gee who has crossed the frontier of death feels bound to lend all aid to the work of rescue . With respect to what I believe to be another duty of refugees  --  the duty of active participation in the anti-fas  --  cist struggle  --  opinions differ . Frequently people who are generously inclined to aid the refugees trapped in Europe retreat from any action that is not purely humanitarian . I have heard more than one distinguished ? migr ? argue that gratitude to this country for the hospitality accorded refugees obligates him to keep silent , to abstain from all political activity . This attitude ignores the universal character of the struggle imposed upon the world by ex  --  panding totalitarian aggression ; it fails to recognize that in this decisive period there is no zone of spiritual neu  --  trality in which a free man can take refuge without de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opened its doors , not to a tourist , but to a fighter against fascism . The present conflict between progressive forces and totalitarian insanity takes on the same character every  --  where . The outcome of the battle will have the same consequences for the people who are today fighting vigorously against the Nazi armies , for those who have already fallen under the domination of Hitler , and for those who have not yet experienced foreign invasion or seen treason successful within their own country . If it is incorrect to speak in a restricted sense of " the Battle of England " ? as it was incorrect to speak of " the Battle of Spain " three years ago , as if its outcome affected only the armies which faced each other on the battlefield  --  it is equally unrealistic and dangerous to believe that the active assistance of the United States in the defeat of fascism is a family question involving Americans only . The battle for democracy is our battle  --  the battle of the Spanish people , the French people , the German people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  tary encounters take place over England or over a coun  --  try where air-raid warnings have not yet been heard . Time is short , and the chances of winning the war against Hitler are still too problematical for anybody to allow himself the luxury of relying only on the gallant efforts of the RAF or the Greek infantry to bring about victory . Behind this year of war which is drawing to a close lie four years of costly errors for which no demo  --  cratic country can honestly disclaim responsibility . The people who brought about the present situation still exercise their dangerous influence in circles where for  --  eign policy is made . Under ordinary circumstances the question whether Lord Halifax should continue to hold the portfolio of Foreign Secretary would be one which concerned Brit  --  ish subjects alone . But if the Battle of England is our battle , we who carry the responsibility for the death of half a million Spaniards are morally obligated to de  --  nounce the stupidly childish policy of appeasement of Spain which today dictates the position of the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Munich " are scarcely entitled to ignore the advice of those who from the first day clearly understood that tem  --  porizing with Hitler , Mussolini , and Franco must in  --  evitably end in a total war fought under the worst possible conditions . Anti-fascist emigres have a knowledge born of experi  --  ence and a fighting spirit which should be used in the common cause . We do not seek to intervene in the in  --  ternal politics of the country which has received us We ask only to take our rightful place in the general struggle against Hitler , on the outcome of which de  --  pends the fate of our own people . In a word , instead of remaining inactive , simply as tolerated guests , we have the duty to participate in this last great battle . And there can be no doubt that this is the last . The margin of errors which can still be rectified grows smaller every day . A few more grave mistakes , and everything is lost ; 1941 may be the decisive year . This war is as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not permit us to sit back and wait for the day when fifty thousand planes will take the air above the countries dominated by Hitler . The need to help England with the greatest possible speed and de  --  termination is obvious . But the military effort must be reinforced with political effort . Not by arms alone , but by revolutionary politics and diplomacy can Hitler be defeated . The people who today are living under Hitler 's ter  --  ror  --  including the German people  --  must be led to re  --  volt against his intolerable despotism . As I write these lines I think of Spain . For in fact Hitler and his Gau  --  leiter , Franco , are the same . I cherish the belief that this war , which actually began in Spain , may end in Spain with a victory for democracy . From France , from Hol  --  land , from Norway , through a hundred apparently in  --  significant details , comes a message of hope . Even the Italian reverses in the eastern Mediterranean can be explained only by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who seem to be more interested in defeating Mussolini than in advancing on Athens . More than an orderly retreat , it is mass desertion , clear sabo  --  tage in the classic form through which an army in oppo  --  sition to the policy of the nation expresses its resistance . The possibility of a revolutionary uprising in the occupied territory and in the countries within the Ger  --  man sphere of influence is no mere refugee invention . It is a reality for a not too distant day , provided that British-American policy does not apply the balm of ap  --  peasement . Unfortunately there are many types of appeasement , just as there are many types of typhus Not long ago it was reported from London that certain elements close to the Foreign Office look upon Salvador de Madariaga as the man who might reconquer Spain for the democracies . The idea is grotesque . It is an insult to the British aviators who are risking their lives at this very moment , an insult to the heroic people of London and to the half-million Spanish fighters who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seflor Madariaga is a Spanish joke in exceedingly bad taste . We might as well try to make a revolution in France with Sacha December 14 , 1940 Guitry , if that entertaining comedian of the French bourgeoisie had left his country out of personal dislike for Laval or Bergery . But the everlasting appeasers will go on looking in every hotel , bar , and university of Eu  --  rope and the Americas for archdukes and charlatans to whom they can safely confide the rebirth of a Europe that must go farther to the left . Here is where the political duty of the emigres be  --  comes tangible and immediate . They must contribute to the revolutionary process in every way possible . But in order that their intervention in the general struggle against Hitler may be efficient it must be preceded by a union of all true anti-fascist forces in a single fighting front . That can only be achieved by the formation  --  here in the United States where its action could exert the broadest influence  --  of a sort of Central Council of the Emigration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries who have a record of struggle and a courageous vision of the Europe of tomorrow . There is no time to wait until the divergent tendencies within the national refugee groups crystallize in a single aim . Each national group carries within it the poison of its own internal quarrels . Nothing divides men more sharply than disillusion and defeat . I have lived through the tragedy of three emigrations . When Mussolini came to power , Italian political refugees in Europe , with whom I was in close contact , appeared to be more interested in apportioning blame for past mistakes than in seriously fighting against the Fascist regime . After 1933 the German refugees outdid the Italians ; each of the old German parties split into three or four distinct branches601 which furiously abused one another . Then came the Spaniards , and I am not sure  --  in spite of three years of war which united the people with indestructible ties ? that we are not the worst . But in spite of differences which divide the national groups , union is possible around a program of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the people 's revolt against Hitler , and lay the basis for the new United States of Europe . To work effectively , the Central Council of the Emi  --  gration should have at its head a few men  --  it is not intended to be a caricature of the League of Nations or a new P. E. N. Club  --  whose task would be to organize political work in the different European countries in the degree to which this work can be promoted from abroad . It would be responsible for informing the American public and anti-fascists in general about the true situa  --  tion in Europe and for interpreting facts according to their real political meanings . The very existence of such a council would eliminate much of the lamentable con  --  fusion which makes possible such a fantastic proposal as the restoration of the monarchy in Spain , or some other insane project recalling the days of Versailles when little states were created at the caprice of the great powers . This is surely an idea that lies close to the heart of everyone conscious of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has been saved from the concentration camp and is free to work for a better world . But every day that is allowed to pass without putting the project into effect weakens , perhaps irreparably , our chances of ultimate victory . The Indivisible War ? III BY RALPH BATES British Labor Does Its Job AT THE present moment , when even conservative observers of the war are beginning to realize that Britain must call upon movements of revolt in the conquered countries , we hear talk of a revolution hav  --  ing already occurred in England . This article , which is based upon the view that a revolution occurs when new classes , and their parties , either assume power or indelibly set their stamp upon social effort , will attempt to estimate the effects of the war so far on the social structure of Great Britain . It will thus be a brief study of the momentum of the British Labor movement , for the deepening of democracy and the removal of con  --  servative and imperialist hindrances to the successful prosecution of the war will only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Labor Party to radicalize itself , to take over effective direction of the war , and to carry popular opinion with it . It happens that in the whole of the period following Versailles the British Labor Party has very adequately summed up , and represented , both in its strength and its weakness , the British dissent from the conservative view of society . The Labor Party has always clearly recognized that peace and prosperity would not be achieved under capitalism , but it has sensed rather than perceived the dynamic of European history . The weakness of the party has been that it has not developed a body of theory . Yet that has also been a source of strength . By refraining from those ill-executed somersaults which have charac  --  terized the so-called Marxists of Britain , the party has never isolated itself from mass opinion .                     