@@475956

ONE morning the American public woke up , rubbed its eyes , and found Harry S. Truman elected . Newspapers and magazines broke out in a masochistic orgy of selfaccusation ; one or two papers furnished comic relief , having actually proclaimed Thomas E. Dewey the winner . But the laughter of most rival editors sounded hollow since they , too , had been celebrating the Republican victory for many months . For a while there was much soul-searching and beating of journalistic chests in the market places of newspapers and magazines . But having rent their slick paper and sprinkled the ashes of newsprint on their heads , the high priests of public information soon continued along their familiar path of expert self-assurance . The teleprinters ticked ; the typewriters clicked ; manuscripts arrived in the mail ; and editors " pointed up " the news as they thought it showed trends and fitted into patterns . Then ? one morning we again woke up and found the Chinese Nationalists defeated . We did not know exactly how it had happened or when it had started to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of a lost cause ; amid the lack of solid information they had grown accustomed to regard the losing cause as a winning one . On another morning ? about the same time ? we woke up to be told that the Greek partisans had increased in number by some six thousand or more . This seemed a little strange , because we had been reading mainly about determined offensive actions and decisive victories by the Greek government forces . A little later we found ourselves confronted with the puzzling Dutch blitz on Indonesia , and we had to admit that we knew little about the facts behind that new war . We began to pick up a few crumbs about difficulties in Turkey , but the information was incomplete and not very enlightening . We started to receive a trickle of disquieting reports from Japan , where democracy was long understood to have sprung full-grown from General MacArthur 's braided cap . It seemed odd and remained unexplained that the recent election there showed the extreme left and right wings in a disturbing ascendency . America today has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ media of information . The public is more sincerely interested in world affairs than ever before . Events in distant places affect the American reader more directly than at any previous time in history . But there is every indication that the newspapers and magazines are at tangled up in wishful guessing on many vital international issues as they were on Harry Truman 's progress ; that they are trying to fit news reports into preconceived trends and Mr. Hechinger , who wrote " The Battle for German Youth , " for Harper 's in February 1998 , has just returned from a trip through Europe and the Middle East as a foreign correspondent . theories instead of covering the news the hard and thorough way ; that they are intent on proving certain facts , and consequently are no longer able to see that the facts they would prove are not facts at all . Whether or not the press has been put in its place on domestic issues by the election fiasco remains to be seen ; but internationally it is evident that the air bubble of editorial omniscience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within two years I have returned from extensive tours of Europe and the Middle East . For the second time I am delighted at the growing and sincere interest of the American people in foreign issues . But more than ever I am shocked to find that most of the people 's fundamental questions remain unanswered , are answered in an inexcusably incomplete way , or are met with dangerous half-truths . Many of these questions could be answered by the majority of American correspondents abroad . To them the answers come in everyday experiences , in talks with the ordinary citizens of many countries , and at meetings of the leaders of many nations . But too little of the information at their disposal gets through to the American public . T HERE is probably no single simple and satisfactory explanation for this failure of the press . The communists in Eastern Europe kept telling me that the " big business monopolists " control the American press and rob it of its freedom . I spent hours with them arguing and rejecting this inscllent accusation by those who have made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It therefore may seem a strange undertaking to blame American journalism here after having defended it abroad . But it is precisely because our press is free , and because the American people ? in contrast to the peoples of the communist countries ? are not creatures of the state but play a vital part in the shaping of their international action , that the shortcomings of our media of information are matters of general public concern . If our press guesses wrong on the President-to-be , the consequence may not be more serious than the amount of lost bets and the redness of some faces . But if the American people , inaccurately informed , underwrite a mistaken foreign policy in some vital theaters of worldevents , the losses may have to be paid in lives and the redness may be that of spilt blood . Time and again , when I tell of my findings abroad , I am asked , " Why do n't you fellows write about all this in the papers and magazines ? " And more often than not correspondents and editors will shrug their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it 's interesting and true and important , but it 's not what they want . " To the correspondents , " they " are die editors ; to the editors , " they " are the reading public . T HERE is a pronounced tendency among editors , especially of the popular journals which reach the largest number of readers , to select for publication those facts and ideas which fit a pre-conceived pattern . In part this may he based upon a notion of what will be popular as when an editor is guided by a survey of readers ' reactions which tells him that " sex , sports , and human interest , " in that order , dominate the public mind . He therefore rules out some article on foreign affairs because it lacks a sufficient quota of sex , and regards with a more hospitable eye tidbits about divorce in Britain , bathing suits in France , or love life in Germany . In part the editorial pattern may result from a wish to publish what will cheer and comfort the readers , assuring them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revising their ideas . And in part it may also result from a natural but oversimplified kind of loyalty of the editors : a feeling that because we Americans believe in free enterprise , any news from any part of the world which suggests that the local supporters of free enterprise are corrupt , or that socialism is locally successful , must be suspect ; or a feeling that because we believe in the general principles upon which our American foreign policy is founded , and because those principles and that policy are now challenged by Soviet Russia , anything which suggests imperfections or failures in American performance abroad is also suspect . Add to these feelings a natural preference on the part of many editors for printing what coincides with their personal convictions ? convictions sometimes based upon ideas they picked up in sojourns abroad in an earlier and simpler day , or else upon well-staged " briefings " by officials on carefully arranged personal tours of the areas ALL THE NEWS THAT of conflict ? and you have the pattern into which many items of news ? important news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence of this pattern may prevent the American people from learning things which they need to know if they are to play an intelligent part in the formulation of future American policy . Since the chief focal points of recent international tension have been Germany , France , the " Iron Curtain , " and Palestine , let me try to demonstrate the danger and , at the same time , indicate some of the most widespread misconceptions as they appear on the scene . II SINCE my return from Europe I have seen any number of well-written , emotional stories on Germany . Typical of these is the story of " an average family " in Munich or Frankfurt or Heidelberg or an unidentified village . The setting is an unheated , bombed-out room or a frugal , impoverished farmhouse . The cast consists of a hard-working , honest father ; a kindly , scrubbing , and cooking hausfrau ; a little girl with blonde braids ; a teen-age boy who has barely escaped falling in with a gang of war-created delinquents ; and an older brother who divides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of the family and studying to become a lawyer at the university . It is pointed out that the youngsters are not wearing any shoes , an observation which is meant to underline respectable poverty without reference to the fact that the neighborhood kids never liked to wear their shoes in summer , even before the tragedy of the lost war . The story tells how the Mailers or the Schmidts or the Hofmanns have never been Nazis , although " Papa " had been forced to join the party in order to hold his job in the factory or to be permitted to take his cows to market . In fact , he has never cared about politics one way or the other ; he is " nonpolitical . " In passing , Herr Muller adds he has always " been against " communism , but in a totally " nonpolitical " way , of course . There is a short but emphatic account of how Herr Muller had actually saved the life of a Jew , unnamed , by making a daring remark at a certain meeting at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The older son had been a member of the Hitler Youth , had hated every minute of it , and has since learned to play baseball under the auspices of the American Army . He is therefore now a staunch democrat . An accompanying picture shows our family saying grace over a scanty one-pot meal and half a loaf of dry bread . There are several variations to this story , but they fit easily into the framework . All of them exemplify what the profession calls " human interest " and what the pattern regards as " Germany ? Which We Have Succeeded in Making the Outpost of Western Democracy . " Now there is nothing drastically wrong with that story if one has plenty of other information to gauge it by . Probably it is possible to find several families like the Mailers . What is dangerous is the succession of halftruths which it suggests . Some of the half-truths are documented by these facts : There are many British families who have been doing with less for longer than most Germans ? and are getting only a fraction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Czech , and Polish children without shoes ; there are Germans who were not " non-political , " but fought the Nazis and the communists actively ? and are now worse off than the Mailers ; and finally ? I received the best meals of Europe in German restaurants after informing the headwaiter that I had no ration coupons , and I saw Germans about me doing the same , while austerity-ridden Englishmen continue to submit to the prescribed diet . These are still not all the facts , but they add perspective to the " human interest " story . I spent my first evening in Frankfurt at the Press Club with a group of newspaper friends . In the course of it I heard a number of first-rate stories illustrating political and economic conditions in Germany . The correspondents pulled no punches , and incident after incident furnished a true background picture of recent developments . At one point I interrupted to query one of the reporters as to the date on which a particularly interesting episode had appeared in the paper he represented . He laughed . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nobody has written it . The desk would n't be interested . " It was not a nice story about Germany . " But it 's true , " I said na ? vely ; " And it 's got reader interest besides . " My friend shrugged : " All right . Then why do n't you go ahead and write it ? " It was a simple story . During the war a certain Colonel of the German General Staff had been writing all the official training manuals for the Wehrmacht and embellishing them with Nazi introductions . Every German soldier not only had to study and memorize the contents , but pay for his copy . The Colonel collected the royalties . After the war the Colonel went out of business ? temporarily . A little later he met an American officer in the counter-intelligence branch who became his friend and gave him a letter of recommendation . Eventually that letter led to an assignment to write a training manual for the German Railway Police under the auspices of the First U. S. Military Police Service Group . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services , and the Colonel proudly referred to the postwar booklet as " The New Edition . " The Colonel himself , however , was not so very new . When a German reporter went out to his estate near Frankfurt , the officer talked about the need to start training German soldiers . He suggested that the reporter accept a pig as a gift to his newspaper 's office , but the young journalist remembered the days when he had cursed the Colonel 's training manuals . He had been a private in the IVehrmacht . After that the interview had been brief , and besides the Colonel was entertaining important guests , including the local chairman in charge of railway denazification boards . The Colonel himself had not yet been denazified . He had not been denazified by the time I left Germany . His case had been up for trial three times . Twice it was called off for various technical reasons . The third time one of the most capable prosecutors had prepared the case , and the date had been set . But on the evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prosecutor 's backyard . The charge was " unauthorized possession of arms . " Arrest and imprisonment followed . The Colonel 's trial was indefinitely postponed . When I looked into the story , the German reporter , an anti-Nazi , thanked me personally . He had tried to tell several American correspondents about it , but they had shown no interest . I 11AD been in Germany for several weeks when the currency reform changed the entire economic picture . It was front-page news , and deserved that place . But most reports featured only a glorious half-truth . It was said correctly that shops were filled with merchandise overnight ; that formerly empty windows displayed a wealth of goods which had been kept under the black-market counters before ; and that restaurants offered normal ? often even luxurious ? menus . The cigarette was deflated . The reform had been a brilliant success . All this was true ( including the untold fact that the German masses , who had become the chief object of American pity , had been starved deliberately by their own farmers , manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But another part of the story was vital , though generally overlooked . While the shops were filled with tantalizing goods , those who were most in need of new clothes and additional food found it difficult to buy . Professor Erhard , economic chief for Bizonia , had kept wages frozen while , at the same time , decontrolling most prices . Textiles went up as much as 500 per cent ; many food items rose anywhere from 100 to 300 per cent . For the first time shoes were again available , but a worker had to give up almost two weeks ' pay to buy one pair . This situation was aggravated by the technical handling of the reform itself . All private and industrial holdings were converted at the ratio of ten to one . It made no difference how much you owned ; the rate was rigidly fixed ? not unlike the " adjustments " made within the Soviet Union less than a year ago . The German who had amassed 100,000 marks , either during the Nazi period or in the black market , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The great mass of small savers found themselves 0 almost penniless . The politically least dangerous , traditionally most stable , and potentially most democratic elements of the working and middle class were economically wiped out . In the press little was reported about the debit side of these economic moves . Most stories emphasized Germany 's return to a freeenterprise economy , and this was interpreted as another step in the democratization process . Completely overlooked was the fact that GerALL THE NEWS THAT man industrialists and big business men were for the most part accustomed to doing things that would have classed them as common criminals in the United States : the great majority of them fail to pay their income taxes . Does this sound fantastic ? The truth is that even at this time the tax laws in most parts of Germany are so lax that it is more profitable for industry to pay token fines instead of the tax . This process is simplified by an all-time low in " public morality " which makes tax evasion a national sport . Not eligible for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find their contributions deducted on a pay-as-you-earn basis . If these vital background features had been reported in the press , there would be few Americans ready to picture the German industrialist as the twin-brother of his American counterpart . R ECENTLY a newspaperman returned to the States after four years ' service with Military Government . He went back to his former paper , where he is known as a reliable journalist . As one of his first jobs he prepared a series of critical articles on progress in Germany . When he submitted them , the editor shook his head . " Our policy is not to sponsor crusades , " he said . The veteran reporter could hardly believe his ears . " But this is no crusade , " he answered . " These are facts , names , events . " The answer was still " NO . " The story could not be made to fit into the pattern which had ? perhaps unwittingly ? been created in the editor 's mind . All this should not be interpreted as a plea for a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans . The question is not whether American policy toward Germany is right or wrong . The question is simply whether reporting and editing should be influenced by the pattern of that policy . The issue is not whether to love , hate , or pity the Germans as a matter of policy ; the job of reporters and editors is to find out what the Germans are doing , saying , and planning , and how our policy affects world issues . There is a certain significant humor in the fact that so unimportant a woman as Use Koch succeeded in spoiling the editorial pattern for a moment . She did so by pitting two journalistic forces against each other : the pattern versus the nebulous theory of " what they want . " Since Frau Koch represented sex , perversion , and the most sordid kind of human interest , the pattern broke under the stress of gruesome lampshades and pseudo-seductive bathing-suit poses . Those of us , including myself , who jumped on the Koch bandwagon of sudden reader interest ( read : editors ' interest ) felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German problem " when we only had to go to the bar at the Frankfurt Press Club to hear far more significant tales of re-nazification night after night . But we quickly realized that the pattern had not been seriously disturbed when our hints that a score of Ilse Koch 's co-defendants had been treated with similar clemency were obviously regarded as " not what they wanted . " III ' , THOUGH the pattern is most clearly evident in press and magazine reporting on Germany , it is by no means confined to that country . It extends to France . French politicians are portrayed as stubborn opponents of real European unity because of their opposition to German control of the Ruhr industries , which otherwise , we are told , would long ago have become the center of European recovery . And the strength of communism in France is cited as a reason for distrusting the French generally . ( French communism is a real menace , but so is Italian communism ? and yet there has been no similar wave of anti-Italian feeling . ) To put the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first have to spend sonic time in the French zone of occupation . He would have to see the desperate effort at sincere and honest re-education into which the French are sinking more money than they can afford . He would have to listen to the testimony of non-Nazi German educators upon the accusation that the French are " colonizing " in German schools . He would have to witness the honest gratitude of German college students in the French zone whenever Military Government helps them to assert themselves against the often dictatorial hostility of German politicians and petty officials . From there the reporter should move into Paris . He should discard his American economic superiority long enough to realize that the exquisite shops in the world 's most glamorus and beautiful city are not an indication of the average Frenchman 's lot . He should stop to think that the army of black-marketeers who follow him from street corner to street corner with offers of favorable exchange rates are neither convenient nor amusing curiosities , but the symptoms of weakness and disease . And he should try to realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence of two terrible wars against German aggression . The danger of communism in France is undoubtedly real : but the patternized thinking of the press has been of little help in creating the desperately needed understanding of that danger . When a wave of strikes swept through France late in 1948 , the reports conveniently labeled them as " communistinspired . " I stopped in Paris at the time , and I asked a high-ranking French official about the communists ' part in the economic disorder . The answer was blunt : " The strikes would have started if we had no communists in France at all . Of course the Reds jumped on the bandwagon ; but the real reason was and is the inability of the worker to keep up with rising prices . " A Communist apologizing ? The official was a confirmed Gaullist . To report these facts means to disrupt the simplicity of the pattern ? in this instance the theory that communism is The Evil , something to be fought in itself rather than in its causes- By fitting the news story or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press deprives the public of the truth that armed Gaullists on the right and armed Communists on the left both thrive on the economic distress of the masses and the justified fear of a strong , totalitarian Germany . The incompleteness of the editorial pattern has led to rude awakenings in the past ; it seems entirely possible that in the future a baffled American public may find itself confronted with an armed clash between the French extremes of the right and the left . That would be civil war ? a tragic repetition of the Spanish conflict in the heart of Europe ? with all the possible implications of aid from East and West . Surely the news from a country which may determine the future issues of peace and war , democracy and totalitarianism , poverty or prosperity in Europe should not be forced into any pattern of reporting . WHEN I flew from Frankfurt to Prague , two American girls were the only other passengers on the Pan American World Airways clipper . At the airport they suddenly became almost panicky because a Czech customs official took their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amused hostess about " that Russian " who had walked off with their papers . I tried to assist the hostess in convincing the girls that the man was as Czech as Pilsener beer and that there were no Russian soldiers in Prague . Their suspicious look told me that I was probably a Communist , intent on whitewashing this Iron Curtain country . A few days later I saw the two American girls again . They seemed to be quite happy and to feel that things really were not so bad in Prague . Their hotel was comfortable and the secret police had taken no interest in them . Ironically , I was now deeply depressed ? even though my hotel was comfortable , too , and the officials had been exceedingly correct toward me . For although there was no shooting or terror in the streets , I found that things were far worse than even the most alarming newspaper reports could have made me believe . Freedom was dead . But while the Communists had undoubtedly been the killers , I felt that in a negative way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my last visit to Prague in 1947 . When I had returned to America I had reported that Czechoslovakia was a free country , that the people could do as they pleased , that they could buy the books they wanted , and that the press was uncensored . These observations caused some eyebrows to be raised . There were suspicious glances , and occasionally there were even polite doubts whether I had seen correctly and judged properly . The accepted " pattern " then was that Czechoslovakia was already " behind the Iron Curtain " and host to the free world . Most of the press found it unnecessary or unwise to point out that the non-communist parties , including the Socialists , were basically democratic although they may have disagreed with the American economic system . Nobody will ever be able to determine whether a more accurate American knowledge of the aims of the non-Communist left in Czechoslovakia would have stayed the hands of the Moscow-employed traitors in Prague in February 1948 . Nobody can tell whether President Eduard Bend , confronted with the brutal ultimatum of his Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war it there had been hope of any ? even moral ? support for his loyal National Socialists from the United States . What is certain , however , is the fact that the Czech president in his desperate plight must have known that the American people had declared Czech democracy dead and Iniried while the Soviets were ready to endorse their dictum with the might of the Red Army . It could easily have been true that the acceptance of an " inevitable pattern " may actually have helped to make the pattern inevitable . A Czech liberal summed it up sadly on my return visit a few months ago . " Democracy died unattended in the corner , " he said . Today Czechoslovakia is full of the most heartbreaking " human interest " stories . I visited a university professor who , less than a year ago , had been shrugged off as just another left-winger by American observers . Now he is a shadow of his former self ? as anti-Communist as ever , but even more convinced that the West has betrayed him , too . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professor 's son was imprisoned without charge . The father was told that he could free his son by sticking to his job . He made the human decision , and in the safety of the United States his friends denounced him as a traitor . An American newspaper pointed its headline accusingly and said that the professor merely proved the " pattern . " I wonder . . . . ISRAEL was one of the last stops on my tour . Now I find that the new state is the most recent addition to the victims of patternized reporting . With almost comic regularity I am confronted with the question ? put as inevitably by Jews and non-Jews , Zionists and anti-Zionists , alike ? of " Russian influence . " By innuendo and by strangely " selective " reporting , considerable segments of the press have succeeded in creating the impression that Israel is openly or secretly attracted to the Soviet Union . Since it must be assumed that Russia is interested in the Middle East , it is automatically taken for granted that the Israelis may enter an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long antiZionist record . Once again certain scraps of information are accepted to document the pattern . A group of Israeli soldiers in a bar at Haifa are singing partisan songs , and the story at once implies that these are satellite soldiers . A second thought would tell that these men fought in the ranks of the partisans , or even of the Red Army , against their most deadly enemy , Hitler , and that to them these songs arc hymns of freedom rather than expressions of political dogma . I had previously spent many weeks with some of these people in the overcrowded , inhuman displaced persons camps all over Germany . Last October I joined fifteen hundred of them on a former Hudson River excursion boat at Marseilles , and we crossed the Mediterranean to Haifa under conditions which are best left to the imagination . Most of these refugees had come from Poland or points further east . Would they have chosen the years of miserable camp life and the long and indescribable trek if they had been looking for a political system that was theirs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about " those Communist arms the Jews have been using. - It is true that there have been arms shipments from Czechoslovakia , but they were paid-for deliveries by the Skoda works to a well-paying customer , and the Czechs insisted on cash payment ? in American dollars . " The Jewish Marshall Plan to Czechoslovakia , " a government wit in Tel Aviv called it . It is true that the Israelis used Messerschmidt fighter planes of Czech manufacture ; but one evening , when we were dangerously close to the Egyptian lines , we scrambled out of our car as an Israeli force bombed with -- American 11-17 's . This sort of thing is confusing to those who like to fit things into simple ideological patterns ; and the confusion is deepened by the reverence with which battle-hardened Israelis speak of the late Colonel Marcus of West Point , and by the further fact that the British Ministry of Food has been authorizing the purchase of Israeli oranges and concentrates on a large and growing scale . There must have been some surprise among readers of many American publications when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the total vote . For minds which work in tidy policygrooves it is difficult to explain that the majority party in the Israeli government is of the moderate British Labor type , but that its leader , Premier David Ben-Gurion , has frequently spoken out against nationalization of industry . It is even more difficult to describe a co-operative , communal settlement without giving the impression that it is communistic . And when it comes to recording that successful free-enterprise industrialists in Israel actually invest some of their surplus profits in the central trade union organization , one realizes that a pattern-minded editor will simply be bewildered . One afternoon I spent several hours in Tel Aviv with a minister of the Israeli cabinet . We talked about political and economic problems and the conduct of the war . When I finally got ready to take my leave , the minister said with a smile , " Do n't you want to know how many Russian spies there are on every refugee ship and whether our army girls go to bed with their male fellow-soldiers ? " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unlikely that the British could have survived the past war if Churchill and their press had not told them all the harsh realities in their hour of crisis . Whatever powers are delegated to the government of a democracy , ultimately that government can act only as wisely and maturely as the public mind permits . In every public and private debate and discussion since my return from abroad I have found Americans ready to accept and absorb far more serious and less sugar-coated accounts of international events than they have been offered . They do not want to wait for the sordidly sensual story of Ilse Koch to learn of the dangers of re-nazification . They do not insist on the stock villain of the commissar to take in the full tragedy of Czechoslovakia . They can cope with the new reality of Israel without putting it on the Eastern side in the East-West game of chess . They can be expected to sympathize with those who suffer injustice and misery without wallowing in an indiscriminate mush of " human interest . " And they can be counted on to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into an oversimplified pattern of black and white . In the movies Americans have long applauded that cussing , shirt-sleeved reporter who pushes the politicians aside with a gruff , " I do n't make the news , Bud . I just write it . " They might actually welcome a return to something like that . American journalism at its best has set some high records of achievement in hard , factual reporting . American publications have expressed their aims in some catching mottoes , but they have never boasted of printing " All the News that Fits the Pattern . "                     