@@485312

EVER SINCE THE SURRENDER OF ITALY A handful of monarchist generals have been trying to polish up the royal crown , reupholster the throne , and patch the motheaten ermine , but the little King looks shabbier than ever and behaves worse . All the same , the most recent scheme to popularize the monarchy took in so trained an observer as Herbert Matthews of the New , York Times . For the first time an Italian force was thrown into action against the Germans . Picked with care , this shock unit went into battle under the cross of Savoy , the royal emblem sewed on its uniforms and painted on its vehicles . The men made a brave enough showing but were badly mauled and suffered heavy losses . Nevertheless , wrote Mr. Matthews , they had showed fighting spirit under royalist leadership , and the Italian liberals would have to swallow their notion that a political change was essential before the army would throw itself into the struggle . But Count Sforza quickly pointed out that the military forces raised by the democratic parties have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in the King 's name that " our most valorous soldiers were sent to their deaths . . . in the service of Hitler . " The Italian Committee of National Liberation condemned the King as " one of the gravest obstacles to the rebirth of the nation " ; anti-royalist meetings in the University of Naples were broken up by Fascist-appointed officials  --  backed , we regret to say , by the AMG ; and Signor Croce raised the possibility of a formal trial for the King unless he abdicated quickly . IN THESE CIRCUMSTANCES IT WAS NOT THE liberals but Mr. Matthews who had to do the notion-swallowing . Four days after the dispatch cited above he reported anti-monarchist sentiment so widespread that " barring Allied support , it looks as if Victor Emmanuel 's days as king are numbered . " Unhappily it looks even more as though that support will be forthcoming . The Badoglio regime has been vested with a greater degree of authority , and in violation of pledges made at Moscow the Allied governments , through AMG , are threatening a drastic curb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Liberation , whose scheduled conference in Naples was canceled by Allied authorities , has protested vigorously , and a joint decision by London , Wash- and Moscow is awaited . The moment is ideal to get behind the plea of the Committee for a Democratic Foreign Policy for suspension of the authority of the monarchy  --  as in Sicily  --  and recognition of the Committee of Liberation as an interim administrative agency pending the decision of the Italian people . HAS THE ITALIAN FRONT BEEN RELEGATED to a minor place in Allied strategy ? Certainly our progress there has slowed down to an extent which does not seem entirely attributable to the difficulties of the terrain , the weather , or the stubborn resistance of the enemy . These are obstacles not to be despised , but with the Anglo-American forces believed to be available in the Mediterranean at the time of the invasion of Italy , our overwhelming naval strength , and our marked superiority in the air there can be little doubt that Rome could have been captured by this time if the high command had considered that objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt has been made to outflank the Germans by means of amphibious operations has suggested to some commentators a reservation of landing craft for more important work elsewhere . The use of Italian and French troops as reinforcements for the Fifth and Eighth armies may mean the transference of some British and American divisions to other theaters . In this connection it is natural to think of preparations for the coming western front , but an invasion of the Balkans  --  so often prematurely anticipated that amateur seers no longer like to refer to the subject  --  can not be entirely ruled out in view of General Patton 's visit to Cairo . Meanwhile the Yugoslav Partisans continue to pin down a very considerable German force . Supplies are being shipped across the Adriatic to this gallant and effective army , though not yet on anything like an adequate scale . One recent cause of delay may have been the devastating German air raid on the Adriatic port of Bari , in which , according to some accounts , as many as seventeen Allied ships were destroyed . The success of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It still has a high nuisance value . WINSTON CHURCHILL CAN ILL BE SPARED AT this stage of the war by either Britain or the United Nations , and it is good to learn , as we go to press , that he Is on the mend . He showed the courage with which he has fought germs and Nazis alike by carrying on with the grueling round of conferences which began at Cairo , despite the fact that he was far from well when he left London . Before he took to his bed he had shared in the formulation of decisive plans for the achievement of victory . We wish him now a speedy and complete recovery so that his leadership will be available when the- time comes to translate those plans into action . WITH EVERYTHING ELSE flAS ON HIS mind , President Roosevelt must now decide whether Negro firemen shall function in the locomotive cabs of Southern railways . Evidence taken by the Fair Employ- - meat Practices Committee shows that the roads of the country need 850 more firemen and that many now employed are dangerously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the FEPC to cease their disaiminatory practices because , they say , to execute the order would be to violate their agreement with the union and-thus to " impair the whole war effort . " The President is in an extremely difficult position . The FEPC , created by , him rather than by Congress , lacks statutory authority . Using his war powers , he might take over the roads in order to force compliance , but it is unlikely that public opinion would indorse so drastic a solution . He - could cancel war contracts with the affected roads , but not without almost crippling the war program . A likelier course would be to throw the weight of the Administration behind the Marcantonio bill to give the FEPC statutory power . But a far better solution would be a reversal of policy by the Railroad Brotherhoods , which are at this moment planning a nation-wide strike for higher wages . If white railroadmen are entitled to what they deem adequate pay , surely Negro railroadmen are entitled at least to jobs . a THE CALL OF THE BROTHERHOODS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Administration 's efforts to hold the line against inflation . This challenge comes at a time when , as Chairman William H. Davis of the War Labor Board has declared , there seems to be an excellent chance of winning the home-front battle if the line can be held for another ninety days . Since a general railway strike at such a critical stage in the war is unthinkable , most observers assume that the Administration will be forced ' to give way even to the extent of scrapping the Little Steel formula . The recent action of the Senate in voting an eight-cents-an-hour increase to non-operating railway employees against the recommendation of Price Stabilizer Vinson suggests that Congress is prepared to throw over the Little Steel formula if the Administration is not . - There is , of course , a feasible alternative . Congress could even at this late date rally to the support of the OPA 's efforts to reduce the cost of living to the level of September 15 , 1942 , thus drawing the teeth of the brotherhoods ' assertion that they are striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the many . " If Congress continues to legislate inflation for the few in disregard of its plain duty , the Administration has no choice but to fight a delaying action on railway and other wages in the desperate hope that the people will force Congress to its senses . ON THE SUBSIDY FRONT THE PROSPECTS FOR a compromise that will prevent an abrupt shattering of the stabilization , program have substantially improved . Passage of a special resolution extending the life of the Commodity Credit Corporation for sixty days will give consumers and the general public more time to convince Congress that anti-subsidy legislation would be not only bad economics but bad politics as well . The crucial question of how much money will be voted for food subsidies remains , however , to be thrashed out . For an effective job , achieving a sufficient reduction in the cost of living to permit the Little Steel formula to be retained , at least $2,000,000,000 will be required in 1944 . The prospects are for a much lower figure unless constituents get in some good work on their Congressmen during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important tax front is extremely discouraging . Although the Senate Finance Committee added $144,000,000 to the House bill and eliminated the special 3 per cent levy on low incomes , the bill it reported to the Senate is utterly farcical as an anti-inflation measure . The Senate Finance Committee , like the House Ways and Means Committee before it , seemed far more concerned with extracting the last drop of revenue from the low income groups than with drawing off the excess spending power in the hands of the middle and upper income groups . Hence the reimposition of the notorious victory tax and the elimination of earned-income credit , with no increase in the rate on corporations and a reduction in the $10,000-a-year brackets . SA FARSIGHTED POST-WAR FARM PROGRAM for returning veterans was presented to the Cooley committee in the House of Representatives last week by Russell Smith , legislative representative of the National Farmers ' Union . It calls for the establishment in the Department of Agriculture of an " RFC for family farmers , " . with special authority to assist veterans after the war . Veterans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of farmland which had been acquired by the government for war purposes , and there would be a revolving fund to enable them to get started . Loans would also be provided for family-farm cooperatives . The National Farmers ' Union presents its plan as a means of reversing dangerous trends in American agriculture . The family farm is in danger of dying out . From 1910 to 1940 the number of farms containing 1,000 acres or more increased more than 100 per cent , and the aggregate number of acres in farms of this class rose in the same period from 167,000,000 to 364,000 , - 000 acres . At the same time the number of small family farms decreased . Since the New Deal there has been a slight downward trend in farm tenancy , and if this could be continued and the number of family farms increased , the basis of post-war democracy would be strengthened .                     