@@491910

EW days after the invasion of Southern France last August , a routine message from a bomber-group commander arrived at the United States Army 's Psychological Warfare Branch Headquarters in Naples reading : " Dropped over specified targets today were two million nickels . " The pilots of the Army Air Forces were n't trying to bribe Hitler 's supermen with showers of lollipop money . It happens that a " nickel , " in the language of psychological warfare , is a handbill , leaflet or proclamation dropped on the enemy , recommending his immediate surrender , and giving sound reasons for same . Sometimes a " nickel " ? nobody knows how the name originated  --  is addressed to civilians of an occupied country , telling them how they can , when D day comes , speed their own liberation by sabotage or armed resistance . The nickel , or message , may merely give such civilians news of the war  --  honest news . The people of Southern France heard within thirty-six hours , for instance , about the Normandy landings , through a special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper published in Algiers . Pants SE LIBERE ? was the joyful headline on the first page of the August twenty-fourth issue . All this is part of a relatively new tactic of war , the psychological offensive , once  --  hut no longer  --  known to scoffers as the " baloney barrage . " It was originated , more or less in its present form , by the United States in the last World War . It was developed to terrible effectiveness by the Germans during their conquest of France and the Low Countries . After an inexplicably slow start  --  considering its history  --  psychological warfare was taken up in a big way by Allied Force Headquarters shortly before the landings in North Africa in November , 1942 . Now it is saving lives on every front in the European Theater of Operations . And as our forces move closer to Tokyo , it will be equally effective against the Japanese . In the Army , the Navy , the Office of War Information and the Office of Strategic Services preparations are under way for the mental and spiritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well they worked in North Africa and Italy , leaflets were used by the hundreds of millions before and after the invasion of Normandy on June sixth . Proclamations were issued by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , translated into German and signed by him . The operation began on May twentieth , but most of the leaflets were dropped after D day on France and Germany itself . They covered the escape routes of the retreating Nazi armies . They pointed out surrender procedure , warned French citizens of approaching bombings and called on the friends of democracy to aid in the fight . Two billion nickels  --  at a conservative estimate  --  have thus far been dropped from aircraft or lobbed over enemy lines in specially designed shells in all the war theaters . This was only one aspect of psychological warfare , of course . Radio was used from the beginning . Sound trucks with power amplifiers got as close to the enemy as possible . From them , American soldiers , speaking perfect German , harangued the Nazis on their desperate plight . These " Schweinheils , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , brought about a substantial number of surrenders . Among the best psychological weapons were surrender passes , first used in North Africa . These were dropped by the million and also circulated behind the lines by friendly natives . They proclaimed the hopeless nature of the Axis struggle . They disabused the enemy troops of the fear , spread by their officers , that they would be tortured or shot if they fell into Allied hands . Each leaflet contained a pledge of safe conduct , promising that the soldier who carried one would be honorably treated , well fed and given medical aid if he needed it . In first using surrender passes , our psychological warriors made one slight mistake . The leaflets gave the impression that they were like tickets to a ball game  --  each good for one admission . A black market developed among the natives who had been helping in the distribution . " What 's today 's surrender-pass price ? " Arabs were overheard saying . The wording was quickly changed , so that each pass guaranteed safety for any number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Italy . A large number of prisoners were questioned about the effectuality of surrender passes , and their testimony leaves slight doubt that they worked . Officers of Lt. Gen. Mark W. Clark 's 5th Army reported that " on Mt . Camino many soldiers . . . had picked up leaflets , and they have been carrying their Passierscheine in their pockets , eagerly awaiting the right moment to come in . " They added that a German Lieutenant Asselhofen , killed on Mt . Camino , had threatened to shoot any soldier attempting to desert . Another report described the questioning of prisoners between the end of November , 1943 , and early January . " Allied treatment of prisoners of war , " this said , was constantly pictured by officers as harsh and even savage , but , as the figures show , without convincing many . This is largely ascribed to our leaflets , which were , in the main , believed ; 112 of those interrogated had seen Allied leaflets at the front  --  representing about 40 per cent of this group of prisoners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was reported in The Stars and Stripes . A German prisoner was quoted as saying that he had obtained his pass " a long time ago . " He somehow had hidden it throughout a transfer to the Russian front . Trapped in Lorient , France , after the invasion , he had finally been able to use it . The father of modern psychological warfare was President Woodrow Wilson , who originated the tactic when he enunciated his Fourteen Points . He ordered that the soldiers of the Kaiser 's armies should be told that the war was against the Imperial German Government and not the people of Germany , Lacking radio , the psychological officers of that earlier war used balloons to float leaflets across no man 's land . Others were thrown out of aircraft and fired from guns . How effective they were in breaking the morale of the soldiers was emphasized in due course , in the pages of a book called Mein Kampf . The innovations Hitler developed as his conquest of Europe began were typical of his twisted genius . Before France was invaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who roamed the streets spreading rumors that army casualties were enormous . Soldiers received post cards saying their wives had run off with British soldiers . Comic strips fired into the Maginot Line spread further discord between French and British . Prior to the penetration of the French lines , showers of leaflets shaped like coffins floated down from the Luftwaffe . " Frenchmen ! " they proclaimed . " Prepare your coffins . " After Pearl Harbor , psychological warfare was launched by several civilian agencies . Little coordination was achieved , however , until the Office of War Information came into existence in June , 1942 . Since then , psychological experts of the Army and Navy and representatives of the British and French have all been working together . It has been a first-class example of civilian-military co-operation . The pioneer of co-ordinated psychological warfare was a seasoned cavalryman , Col. C. B. Hazeltine , a West Pointer who had taught military tactics to many of the generals now in command in Europe and in the Pacific . On November 5 , 1942 , Colonel Hazeltine was summoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where he was handed a stack of papers . They contained correspondence between the British War Ministry and the American War Department , between the officials of OWI , the Office of Strategic Services and other agencies . They recommended that civilians should not conduct psychological warfare in a theater of war unless welded into one unit headed by an Army man . " You 're elected , " said General Eisenhower to Colonel Hazeltine . The cavalryman was horrified . " Why not make me head of the Medical Corps ? " he asked . Eisenhower brushed aside his protests that he had no qualifications for this newfangled kind of war . Being a soldier , Hazeltine took a plane for Gibraltar the next night . This was D day minus two . The Central Task Force was already steaming toward Oran . The Algiers force was also under way . When he arrived in Algiers . Hazeltine located about fifty psychological warriors scattered up and down the north coast of Africa , most of them working on their own hook . Colonel Hazeltine had the over-all job of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy and the resistance forces . His staff grew from forty-eight to thirteen hundred . Meanwhile , the smaller staff which was to shower leaflets on Tunisia was being assembled . A mobile printing plant , consisting of a German press ( Coniennod en Page 78 ) Cori tinHed from Page 19 ) mounted on an Italian truck which had been repaired by American ordnance men , was all they had at first . The months between January , 1943 , and the collapse of organized Axis resistance in North Africa in May were tough . Colonel Hazeltine found that nobody cared about his Psychological Warfare Branch when he had it organized . Gen. Jimmy March 31 , 1945 Doolittle 's air force finally consented , with great reluctance , to drop a few pamphlets  --  chiefly surrender demands . The results were striking . Italian prisoners admitted they had not been told that the United States was in the war . During the Sicilian campaign , Lt. Gen. George S. Patton , another friend of Hazeltine 's , was converted . That Patton believed in such sissy contraptions as leaflets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 70,000,000 leaflets were being showered on Tunisia . A haphazard little staff of civilians and soldiers wrote them . They were translated by refugees , American soldiers who knew Italian or German , or anybody else who could be found . An outstanding pioneer in charge of leaflet production until after the liberation of France was T /Sgt . Harold Salemson , a tall , dark-haired soldier who , in peacetime , had been a Hollywood correspondent for French newspapers . With Africa swept clear of Axis forces , the objectives of leaflet warfare were Sicily and Sardinia . By now the printing was being done in Tunis and Algiers . Colonel Hazeltine still had trouble persuading air commanders to drop the nickels . Pilots profanely protested against risking their necks on such foolishness . But in the end 15,000,000 leaflets a week were being dropped on Sicily and Italy . Gen. Sir Harold R. L. G. Alexander , the British commander , endorsed the efficacy of leaflets . PWB had arrived . The role played by leaflets in the surrender of the island of Pantelleria had been convincing . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been raided eighteen times by aircraft . Demands for surrender were dropped , but these were at first ignored . It was specified that willingness to give in should be indicated by white flags over the fortress and a white cross spread out on the airfield . Then leaflets were dropped telling the men to demand that their commander abandon the futile struggle . After one more bombing , the original instructions were carried out . The captured commandant was asked whether the leaflets had any effect . He pulled one from his pocket and described how his men had knelt in prayer in front of his headquarters , asking for surrender . Italy was crumbling fast and Colonel Hazeltine 's men would not have time to carry out all their plans . Leaflets were dropped , however , telling the people of Rome that the Allies would not bomb the Vatican . Reports of any raids , they were warned , would he false German ones . One trick was to print millions of post cards , exact copies of Italian ones . These were addressed to Badoglio , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanded an end of the war . The idea was that they would clog up the Italian postal system . But the armistice came first . Following the armistice , the Tunis print shop became , for further propaganda purposes , an outpost of the royal house of Savoy . T/Sgt . Salemson , to his astonishment , had to find a cut of the imperial crest to adorn future publications aimed at Italy . All this was training of great value for the more important offensives which lay ahead . C. D. Jackson , of OWI , left Algiers for London , taking with him a number of key men . It would be his job to get ready for the Normandy landings in June , 1944 . Brig . Gen. Robert A. McClure was in command at what was called the Psychological Warfare Division of Supreme Headquarters in London . Much of the planning was done by British experts who had long been familiar with every part of France . Not long after D day , Normandy , reports from inside Germany showed how effective the leaflets had become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telling them that all enlisted men and noncommissioned officers must be given " convincing counterarguments well ahead of time " to protect them against this horrid democratic propaganda . Intercepted Berlin broadcasts directed the German army newspaper , Front and Helmet , to warn its readers against the leaflets . Others told of prison sentences for civilians found with them . Still another broadcast shrilly called them " soul poison " for the German people and " very dangerous " to the Nazi state . Leaflets , hurriedly printed in London , were addressed to specific German divisions as intelligence reports gave their locations . These told of their hopeless position . Despite all the countermeasures , more than half of the German prisoners of war had leaflets or admitted reading them . The newspapers dropped almost daily gave them their only news of the outside world . It was thus that they first heard of the attempt on Hitler 's life . Most of them did not believe it , they said , until it had been confirmed by the High Command . For the invasion of Southern France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dystel , of OWI , a magazine editor , became its chief . Dystel had never been abroad and spoke no foreign language . He had no experience in psychological warfare . But he could talk to the brass hats . He could work with temperamental writers and translators . With T /Sgt . Salemson as his editor , he was to publish pamphlets in six languages as well as daily newspapers in French and German . Dystel created a hard-hitting , efficient team out of a group of twenty American , British and French army officers , American enlisted men , German and French refugees , and American civilians . He had to use presses of foreign make in Algiers and Bari . He had to get paper , ink and illustrations . Above all , he had to keep what he was doing a complete secret . One slip would have given away the invasion plans . Dystel 's team included the wife of a former German naval officer who had escaped . A key man , Lt. Albert Little , subsequently in charge of printing in Algiers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was without experience in running a plant . Lt. George Sleicher had been an advertising art director in New York . Rank was thrown overboard at the start . T/Sgt . Salemson , as editor , had to boss the lieutenants . " You 'll have to ask the sergeant ; he 's my boss , " Little or Sleicher would tell astounded British and American colonels at conferences . The ticklish job of keeping the whole thing secret was handed to Lt. Col. V. L. Armitage , a quiet Britisher who had done espionage work in the last war , On August thirteenth , two days before the Riviera invasion , came an incident which still brings shudders to Dystel , Salemson and the rest of the team . By this time , the leaflets were being printed in Bari as well as in Algiers . They had to be flown to Corsica , where the AAF would take off to drop them over Southern France . They were carried to the airport by truck , packed in leaflet bombs . A particular batch proclaimed to German troops the invasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in large letters DIE FRONT IN SUDFRANKREICH STEHT ! - " The Front in Southern France is a Reality ! " On the back were details of the air sorties , the parachute troops and the ships involved . It ended : " In this hour , the fateful question for you is : Death or being made a prisoner of war , " The leaflet bombs were sealed with tape , and T/Sgt . Salemson , in charge of the truck , inspected each as it was transferred to the plane . A brisk wind blew across the airport . The tape on one bomb became unfastened and a couple of hundred leaflets blew away . Salemson yelled for the security guard which had been posted around the plane , and they scrambled after the vanishing leaflets . They managed to get all of them back , but in jumping from the plane , the sergeant gashed his leg badly . The psychological warriors had learned a good deal from their Tunisian and Italian campaigns when they started to prepare for France in mid-February of 1949 . But problems enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began work in Algiers . First it was necessary to get a plant-no easy matter in Algiers . The most suitable one was the Imprimerie Imbert , but M. Imbert was publishing a number of magazines as well as ration cards for the Algerian govern-ment , and feared a permanent loss of patronage if Dystel took his shop . It was not until early May that a satisfactory deal was made with M. Imbert . Work began immediately on the first issue of Courrier des Nations Unies , then a four-page weekly newspaper addressed to the French people . Production troubles were multiple . French printers were accustomed to work from 8:00 to 11:30 in the morning , take two and a half hours for lunch , and knock off at five o'clock . They had no taste for three eight-hour shifts , which twenty-four-hour operation made necessary . A few skilled printers were found among British enlisted men . Since French civilians could not be entrusted with material which had to be kept secret , the poor ' Pommies were worked to death . Yet the work went un . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . French members of the committee were of vast assistance in advising on how to slant material for the civilians of France . The Mediterranean Allied Air Force now was dropping about fifty tons of leaflets a month . This consisted largely of the French newspaper and a second one , called Landser-Post , for German troops . Meanwhile a comprehensive plan for D-day publications was drafted . It included : A proclamation to the people of France , signed by Gen , Sir Henry Maitland Wilson , telling of the invasion . Two instructional leaflets on keeping off the roads and on gathering information of value to the Allied forces . A sabotage leaflet addressed to transport workers . Leaflets bearing surrender passes for German troops . Leaflets with surrender passes for foreign conscripts in the German armies . These were to be printed in German , French , Russian , Polish , Czech and Armenian . It became clear that the Imbert plant could not carry the load . The British military printing press at Bari was selected as the safest place for getting out secret documents , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to both Bari and 7th Army Headquarters . The plan for D-day publications had been approved , but objections were raised to a proclamation , on the ground that the French might see in it implications that they would not be allowed to govern themselves . Then Gen. Sir Henry Maitland Wilson took exception to the draft written for his signature . General Wilson rewrote it himself , and left on to secret military mission . At this point , while the presses waited , no one could find a facsimile of his signature . A British army colonel finally dug one up after ransacking a dozen crates . Dystel 's unit rushed 3000 copies through , and they were taken to France , to be tacked on walls . Translator troubles came next . Intelligence reports told of the large number of Russians , Poles , Czechs and other conscripts in Southern France . The French leaflet section had nobody familiar with Russian , so a Sergeant Chukayeff , of the American Army , a White Russian from San Francisco , was borrowed to write the leaflet calling on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be hand-set in Russian characters to make it legible to Russians . The worst headache was the appeal to , thc Armenians . The nearest type was in Cairo . The copy had to be flown there , set , and the type flown back to Bari-all this under the classification of " top secret . " Nobody could read the Armenian leaflet when it was done . For all anybody knew , it might have been a quotation from Alice in Wonderland . Everything turned out all , right , though . " Attention , all of you , was what the leaflet said . " Far from your home , foreigners in a strange land , despised by your so-called brothers-in-arms . You are not German . What , then , are you worth in Hitler 's eyes ? . . . He does not trust you to win battles , You only serve to cover his lines in the rear and to DIE . ARMENIANS ! Do NOT SACRIFICE YOURSELF FOR HITLER ! " The Armenians , located on the Hyeres Peninsula in Southern France through intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , bearing leaflets , were among the first troops to surrender . A total of nine leaflets was printed for dissemination between D day , August fifteenth , and D day plus 8 . They were written , translated , set and printed , a total of 29,500,000 of them , at the Bari plant between August second and August sixth . None of the soldier printers at . work on them was allowed to leave the plant until after news of the invasion broke . Each was promised a full set as a souvenir , to minimize the temptation to hide them in his clothing . The first shipment of finished leaflets was made by plane to Corsica and Sardinia on August eleventh . All shipments had been completed by noon on August fourteenth . Equally elaborate plans had been drawn up for the days immediately following the invasion . Distribution of newspapers and leaflets in Southern France had to be drastically curtailed after D day , however , and fur the best of reasons , The Wehrmacht retreated so fast that it could not be reached . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based in Corsica and Sardinia to locate the enemy . Even fighter bombers with the 7th Army had trouble . " We went from D to D day plus 70 in three days , " somebody accurately summed it up . Hitler 's own psychologists were not , obviously , idle all this time . Some of the German leaflets were pornographic comic strips warning G.I. Joe that his girl , back in the States , was hulling around with 4-F Charley while he was fighting a useless war . The Germans harped on the Russian menace , sometimes cleverly . They published almost exact copies of PWB 's French and German newspapers , even including attacks on Hitler . But a caption or two would be changed , giving an anti-Communist slant . One leaflet was headed , SOMETHING TO MAKE You THINK ! and was addressed to American and British soldiers , It began : " Is your heart in this fight against German troops ' ? Do you believe in fighting between people so much like each other ' ? We Germans do n't ! We know we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our way of living and everything we hold dear , and to make the world safe from Bolshevism . " This particular leaflet pledged safe passage through the lines if shown to a Germ m a n h tl do ireyr . of Germany 's progress with psychological warfare in World War II is , in fact , singularly like the history of Germany 's progress with other modern strategic and tactical weapons . For example , the Germans borrowed the airplane from its inventors , developed it into a weapon as terrifying as any ever used , and now face the destruction of their armies largely because the Allies rule the air . That 's going to be the psychological-warfare story , too , those conducting the offensive against the Vaterland are convinced .                     