@@475019

somE day peace will come and with it a peace conference . That conference will have to decide what is to be done with Africa , or rather that vast portion of the Dark Continent that lies south of the Sahara . In this region imperial power is waning , losing ground , and becoming more enlightened as it falters . The power of local whites is increasing and , as it increases , threatens to plunge the continent into violent and bloody strife . The problems of Africa are many , but two are especially acute . One is the race question , which steadily becomes more inflamed and has reached a point where in a great part of Africa white supremacy is established not only by custom but by law . The other is the position of African exports in the world market . The props were knocked from under most of these exports by the world depression and nothing has yet occurred to put them back again . Nevertheless the future of Africa must be decided and there are people who have opinions on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Jan Christiaan Smuts , the Prime Minister of South Africa , in an article in Life last year , " that the United States of America should in the future have a direct say with the mother countries in the settlement of general colonial policies . . . . " This was an invitationpart in governing the British and other colonial empires . Mr. Smuts suggested a redefinition of colonial responsibility to make that possible and some reorganization of colonial administration to make it effective . Such an offer amounts to tendering the American people a pig in a poke . Outside a narrow circle of specialists , little is known in this country either about Africa or about colonial problems in general . Too many of those who speak and write on colonial affairs are more concerned with indicting the colonial powers for their terrible sins and demanding freedom for the " oppressed " than with trying to understand the actual problems of colonial areas and peoples . Those problems are paralyzing in their magnitude and complexity . They have been studied and restudied . What should be done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it hauls all hands up short to-day . To offer the Americans a direct say in this problem may be an astute diplomatic move to shut off idle criticism of the various " mother countries " who now carry the tremendous burdens of colonial administration . If for emotional criticism we substitute some understanding , the gain will be great . And if , after we understand to some degree , we still want to get into this African tangle , then we 'll know what it is we 're getting into . I suspect world problem we 'll decide to let alone . We are hardly likely to go along with the Union of South Africa as far as policy is concerned . Its policies are not our kind of policies . But they are of crucial importance in a major colonial area ? that of the continent of Africa south of the Sahara ? and the people who boss the Union of South Africa know exactly what kind of policy they want . I hope that something is done for this vast area after the war , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summoned to the task . I hope the facts are faced . THE African colonial area is arbitrarily divided among several nations . The political geography of Africa is the consequence of the accidents of exploration , fulsome claims based on tiny coastal settlements , and compromises of conflicting claims made by men ignorant of the physical realities of the continent . It is climatically various . Its resources are considerable , though often grossly overestimated . Africa suffers from poor soils , soil erosion , endemic diseases , and terrible plagues like locusts and the tsetse fly . Its indigenous people , not as numerous as sometimes assumed , are only now beginning to stir politically . There are white settlers within the area who look upon it as their permanent home and bedevil race relations in trying to make it so.policy of race relations which is a bird of ill omen to the natives . This policy appeals strongly to the white settlers wherever they have a real foothold ? in that part of Africa which is ironically called " white man 's Africa . " There is another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceded to be " black man 's Africa . " But because it is contiguous with " white man 's Africa " what happens to it in the long run is bound to be influenced in considerable degree by what goes on where the white settlers have a strong position . This white-black struggle fissures all the problems of colonial Africa ? economic , political , educational , cultural . If you arc a white man living in Africa you think in terms of the " problem of the blacks " ; but if you are a black man you are beginning to think in terms of the " problem of the whites . " Whoever you arc you are n't comfortable ; but if you are sensible you are considering ways and means of achieving profitable co-operation between the races in solving Africa 's immense problems . First let us survey white man 's colonial Africa . It shapes up this way , reading from north to south , from the southern boundary of Ethiopia to the Union of South Africa along the eastern , or Indian Ocean , side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with separately later . ) This table makes clear that in every division of the area , and in the area as a whole , the whites are a tiny minority . In the extreme south there is an autonomous nation , the Union of South Africa . This country leads the way in defining a Not all of them are bona fide settlers , for some are government officials . This further shrinks the numerical significance of the people who claim this area as home Yet they call it " white man 's Africa . " All the territories are British save Mozambique , which is Portuguese . Tanganyika is a former German territory held by the British as a mandate . The High Commission territories are geographically associated with the Union of South Africa and are ruled by the United Kingdom High Commissioner to that dominion , hence their collective name . They are in effect native reserves . Southwest Africa is also associated with the Union . It is former German territory held as a mandate from the League of Nations . The geographical peculiarity which ties these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast plateau three thousand feet above sea level extending from Southwest Africa northeast to Abyssinia . It is on this plateau that white men are supposed to be able to establish themselves permanently , but this allegation is " not proven . " In Lord Hailey 's invaluable African Survey it is stated that it is an " open question , until further knowledge has been gained , whether the tropical portions of the three-thousand-foot plateau are suited for the permanent residence of a European population . " More emphatically negative is the verdict given by Clement Gillman , long chief engineer of the Tanganyika Railways , who stated in The Geographical Review for October , 1942 : " East Africa , and more particularly Tanganyika Territory , is not a ' white man 's country . ' But the fact that , in Kenya at least , the attempt to turn it into one has advanced far can not now be overlooked and must probably be taken as an example of how historical events , based on the will rather than the insight of man , influence the geographical pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the issue very neatly . It is not white man 's country , but white men are there ? in the midst of a sea of blacks , as the population figures dramatically show . The situation poses vexing issues of policy . The entire white man 's area is really a vast economic bloc , though it is not very highly integrated at present , for it is dominated by production for export , and the lines of traffic along the developmental railways run to the nearest seaport . Nevertheless the railways are tied together , in so far as they join at all , and the trade of the landlocked colonies naturally flows through the territories of their neighbors on its way to and from the sea . This is what brings Mozambique into the bloc , for its ports of Beira and Lourenco Marques are outlets for landlocked British colonies , and in the case of the latter port , even for a part of the Union of South Africa . One of the reasons why the British took Madagascar from the Vichy French was to guarantee that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As is true throughout Africa , the basic activity of the natives is agriculture , usually on a subsistence , but occasionally on a commercial basis , supplemented or , in some place ; supplanted by grazing . The whites are engaged in mining , the principal object of capital investment in Africa ( the colonies lacking mineral resources have received little foreign capital ) and in commercial agriculture . A wide variety of temperate- and tropical-climate products are grown for market , ranging from wheat , tea , and coffee to sisal . The minerals produced include gold , copper , lead and zinc , and chrome , The whites also direct all European-style transport , by land , water , and air , and they are the principal traders , though immigrant Indians play an important role in trading in some of the colonies . The white enterprises are usually manned by whites only for skilled labor and management , while practically all the unskilled work is done by natives . The natives are not uniformly distributed within the area , and this leads to a traffic in laborers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those of Iow population and tremendous demand . The density of the population ranges from 1 per square mile in desiccated Bechuanaland to 8.6 in Southern Rhodesia , and to 42.6 in Nyasaland on the shores of Lake Nyasa . But the ratio of whites to blacks is often fantastic . In Southern Rhodesia , which has the largest white population outside the Union , the ratio is about 20 natives to 1 European . In Northern Rhodesia it is 130 natives to I European , in Kenya 200 to I , and in Nyasaland 880 to 1 These observations imply several of the problems . In the complexity of native Africa with its three great peoples ? the Bushmen , the Negroes , and the Hamitestheir seven hundred languages , their extremely various customs , and their widely differing habitats , no single economic , cultural , or political policy will work . But this initial admission is far from exhausting the question , for it fails to take account of two major considerations : first , how much weight is to be given to white interests in those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second , how to bring the blacks forward in civilization to the point where they can reasonably be expected to stand by themselves under the conditions of the modern world . The answers given to these two questions will determine the solution of the other problems and thereby deter- The table makes clear the national ownership of the colonies . The mandated areas are uniformly former German possessions , often split between two powers . The division of Africa , as shown in this article , takes account of the predominant character of the country , not of the particulars which may draw in exceptional numbers of whites , like the copper mines in southeastern Belgian Congo bordering on Northern Rhodesia . The important point is this : that while white man 's Africa is looked upon as a possible homeland for white men ( and the multiplication of a permanent white population is therefore desired by policy ) , black man 's Africa is not . It perhaps illustrates the general consequences of the difference to state that two of the three colonies in which the black man is usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Seals Act , 1934 . With these two acts the Union has assumed a degree of legally defined independence exceeded only within the Commonwealth by Eire . This fierce independence has had fateful consequences in race relations . The Union is also to be associated with Eire , rather than the rest of the Commonwealth , in that it has a strong political party which aspires to establish a republican government . This party is led by Dr. D. F. Malan , and is founded on a Boer nationalism which has in its complex composition a powerful dose of anti-British sentiment and some Nazism . Since the recent death of J. B. Hertzog , Dr. Malan is the most aggressive nationalist leader in the Union . Indeed , Malan has long out-Hertzoged Hertzog . On January 23 , 1942 , he published a draft constitution for a republic in which the Dutch are to be the master race and even the English language will continue to exist by courtesy only ! The Union 's economy was originally based on extensive agriculture and grazing , but since the discovery of diamonds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gold mining is the basic South African source of wealth . No matter where one begins a study of the South African economy , sooner or later one comes back to gold . To-day agriculture and grazing are both artificially sustained by tax monies derived from the gold-producing industry . The bulk of the manufacturing activity is also fundamentally tied up with gold production . All students agree in calling the South African economy one of the most rigid , artificial , and precariously balanced in the world to-day . If the foundation of gold mining were pulled from under it , it would collapse in a chaotic heap ? though greater emphasis on base metal production during the present war may , if continued into the peace , somewhat lessen the dependence on this one element . The Boer farmers and graziers never admitted the equality of whites and blacks in South Africa in any respect whatever . They do not now . They explicitly deny the equality of man , both in church and state . One of their fundamental reasons for wishing to escape British rule was to avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natives . The center of British liberalism in South Africa has always been the Cape Province . The history of race relations in recent years has been the progressive conquest of Cape liberalism by the reactionaries in the north of the Union . This northern reaction has had three bases , precariously coalesced under the leadership of J. B. Hertzog : the Boer nationalists , some of the great employers ( chiefly British ) , and the white trade unionists ( both Boer and British ) . The trade unionists have substituted racial supremacy for working-class solidarity . The great successes of this movement in writing the legal code of race relations in the Union came in the late nineteen-twenties . It is this code that inspires grave misgivings as to the future of Africa . The structure of race relations in the Union is , therefore , something that must be understood . It has been formed , over the years , by the employment of blacks as unskilled laborers in the mines and on the farms : The labor force is divisible into five grades , with the natives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the skilled and white-collar ' European workers , next the unskilled European workers , then the Asiatic followed by the Colored workers , and finally the large body of unskilled native ( Bantu ) workers . " The Asiatics are immigrant Indians , chiefly concentrated in the province of Natal ? in which Gandhi made his reputation as a lawyer ? where they were originally brought as indentured laborers on the sugar plantations ; the Colored are mostly persons of mixed stock ( black , Malay , European ) , descendants of slaves , and are chiefly concentrated in the Cape Province . This stratification of labor is reflected in an equally remarkable differentiation of wages . Wages for skilled and white-collar whites are very high indeed , but then there is a precipitous drop down the scale to the unskilled whites , and still farther down to the pittances granted the natives . The inevitability of this rigidly graded labor system is perhaps not to be questioned . Given a community in which only a relatively small white labor force is available , together with a large number of workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admit that the subordination of the blacks to the whites , under the conditions prevailing when South African attitudes were formed , was difficult to escape . But the consequences are appalling to all concerned . The stratification of South African labor is not only sustained by tradition however . It is also enforced by law . It is the placing of the traditional relations on a legal basis that is the most disheartening aspect of the South African situation . Tradition reinforced by law creates a condition which leads to perpetual racial tension and may lead to violence . The catch-cry in the Union is segregation . All the legal finagling is to that end . But segregation actually falls down all along the way . Native reserves can be and are established but they are too small , mostly too poor , and generally too inefficiently utilized for production ( through ignorance ) for the natives to develop a self-contained life of their own in them . The possibly protective aspects of segregation have been overwhelmed by the repressionist elements . For the white South Africans do not want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not exist without black labor . So the natives not only must leave the reserves to work in the mines and on the farms to live at all ; they must also leave them to save the economy of their white oppressors . For better or worse the two groups are in partnership , no matter how uneasy it has become . The natives are allowed to undertake only unskilled labor . The Mines and Works Act of 1926 is the basis of the so-called " Color Bar " policy under which the natives " are precluded from acquiring certificates of competency to fill certain positions in the mining industry . . . . In actual practice , however , there is a ' Color Bar ' which is enforced by labor unions and which in effect excludes natives from certain grades of work in other industries as well . " This Act is supplemented by the so-called " Civilized Labor " policy , or the policy under which , even at the unskilled level , whites are employed at wages which allow the maintenance of white living standards , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definition of civilized and uncivilized labor : Civilized labor is to be considered as the labor rendered by persons whose standard of living conforms to the standard generally recognized as tolerable from the European standpoint . Uncivilized labor is to be regarded as the labor rendered by persons whose aim is restricted to the bare requirements of the necessities of life as understood among barbarous and undeveloped peoples . The policy was established in an effort to provide a place in the economy for the so-called Poor Whites who had fallen out of their economic places , chiefly in agriculture , and could not , in the interests of white supremacy , be allowed permanently to sink to native levels of living . The place provided for them was made at the expense of the natives . The natives are thus kept in the lower levels of employment and can be booted out of even these if necessary to provide places for whites displaced elsewhere by misfortune or incompetence . Under this system the natives arc merely to exist as useful hewers of wood and drawers of water for the economically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a premium paid for having the white skin of the master race . Theoretically , the natives are supposed to make progress within their reserves , and chiefly with funds assembled by taxation they themselves pay . This is the logic of segregation . They are to be of as little expense to the whites as possible ; and , when employed by whites , to be available at a rate sufficient for " barbarous and undeveloped people " ? interpreted as very low indeed . But there is no adequate economic base for fruitful taxation in the reserves . The natives are too preoccupied with keeping themselves alive , even at a level of constant malnutrition , to produce a taxable surplus of any magnitude . The natives simply can not pay the taxes needed to advance themselves hi civilization . The natives have a feeble voice in their government , through four white Senators , nominated by the white Governor-General , which they elect to the Union 's white legislature ; and through a Natives Representative Council on which there are 12 elected and 4 nominated native members out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Under the Representatives of Natives Act , 1936 , an absolute separation of native and white electorates was prescribed , a further installment of segregation . But of course four Senators are a permanent minority in the white legislature . And the Council has advisory powers only . Moreover , it has been told in unambiguous terms that the final decision is , and must remain , with the white overlords . In 1925 , when the matter was closely studied , the ratio of white skilled wages to black unskilled wages varied from 8 to 1 to 3 to 1 , depending on the industry studied . The difference has nothing to do with productivity . It arbitrarily gets worse as one moves north . In Southern Rhodesia " 850,000 natives possibly possess at the present time 19301 a spending power equal to that of 80,000 Europeans . " According to Lord Hailey 's African Sur-vey : . . . the exceptionally high wages of skilled craftsmen if we accept the Economic and Wage Commission 's 1923 figures are derived not from a high general level of production , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for that class to raise their own incomes by depressing those of others . The classes that have suffered have been , beyond question , the unskilled Europeans and the natives . The " Civilized Labor " policy has since then partially saved the unskilled Europeans from the effects of this policy , but only by piling even more of the burden on the backs of the natives . High white wages are therefore based on low native wages . That is why the white trade unionists have , since 1912 , supported the segregation policy . That is also why the South African policy should not be allowed to move north . It means that the whites play the master race in a peculiarly vicious way . It means the end of hope for the natives . IV HE essence of the problem in black man 's Africa is different . There is little possibility that any attempt to build segregated civilizations ( which nevertheless are indissolubly linked ) will be undertaken . The problem is , rather , to advance the interests of the natives in countries peculiarly their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies are represented ? France , Belgium , Portugal , and Britain ? whereas white man 's Africa is predominantly British ; but if one common element exists in the various policies followed in black man 's Africa it is this : that the interests of the natives shall be paramount . This is the antithesis of the Union 's policy where the interests of the whites are paramount . The implementation of the policy differs from place to place ? of necessity and because of differing national outlooks . There are signs though that the most marked divergencies are now a thing of the past . The British seem to be setting most of the examples in policy , but considerable opportunities for exchange of experience among the powers now certainly exist . Even French and British policies appear to be converging in so far as the Free French are able to modify the French approach . It is within the reahn of possibility that a working agreement could be worked out by the British , French , and Belgians , though the Portuguese might stand to one side , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But no final answer to the basic problem of giving the natives a secure place in the modern world has been found . To do that a strong foundation for their economic life must be provided . No colonial power has yet discovered that foundation . In so far as the natives are brought within the orbit of the world economy they share the insecurities from which that economy suffers . And that the natives of Africa shall enter the world economy , even if only on the periphery , seems inescapable . Conditions in black man 's Africa are best precisely in those colonies where production for market is most elaborately developed , and were at their very best when the world market was healthiest in recent times , from about 1911 to 1929 . But even the best is not very satisfactory ; it simply points the way that must be followed , and can be successfully followed only when an expanding market for African exports appears . To-day Africa south of the Sahara accounts for only about one-twentieth of world trade and the Union is the predominant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the absence of a world market Africa will continue to stagnate , and stagnation means retreat . As black man 's Africa so often illustrates , there are problems enough in training the natives for market production . If the markets are abnormally unstable , limited , or shrinking the effort is hardly worth the trouble . But once get an expanding market of reasonable stability and the way forward is clear . With rising native productivity there will be increased capacity to pay taxes , which will mean more elaborate social services , rising living standards , and political progress ( if the proper governmental forms are found ) ? all contingent upon the willingness of the guardians , or trustees , of the colonies , the white colonial nations , to lead the way . Additional tax revenues , or other sources of income , are basic to real progress in Africa , for without them the indispensable services ? health , educational , scientific ? can not flourish . W. K. Hancock says , " Africa has been cursed for centuries by economic stagnation : economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! HE British have the largest stake in Africa by any criterion used ; territory , native or white population , or capital investment . They are intimately attached to the only autonomous nation run by whites south of the Sahara . They are masters of white man 's Africa . While it should not be forgotten that France , Belgium , and Portugal hold important territories , Britain is really the most powerful single colonial nation . Her policies are of crucial importance . To concentrate attention on her policies and difficulties will give a tolerably accurate idea of the difficulties of other colonial nations as well . The policies are good , especially in their verbal formulation . The difficulties of executing the policies are enormous . The two decades of uneasy peace , 1919-1939 , were a time when continuous economic progress could not be counted on to underpin general social and political progress . Increased production , which took place in many African areas , did not lead MAGAZINE to increased stability , but to chaos . A defensive elaboration of " controls " of one kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than facilitate movement upward to a higher level of welfare , especially for the natives . The cocoa trade , in Gold Coast for example , had previously been sufficiently competitive to give native cocoa farmers a chance at a good market price . The thirteen companies which bought ninety-eight per cent of the crop alleged that they overpaid the producers . They then entered into a private " quota agreement , " directed from London . Only a clever Syrian speculator named Raccah stayed outside . Thereafter most of the native farmers had to take a fixed price . The Imperial authorities eventually refused legal sanction to this gross holdup . Where whites and natives were engaged in competitive commercial production , as in Southern Rhodesia , the control laws were rigged to penalize the natives and bolster up the white economy . The other great failure was of quite a different order . It was a failure of will ? a slackening of the Imperial capacity to rule . While verbal statements of policy remained on a high level , execution of policy was on a much lower level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the really critical area of the continent . The Imperial servants collided with the aspirations of the local residents . The latter were seeking to assert the Union 's policy . Too often the Imperial representatives gave way , showing , as W. K. Hancock says , " loss of confidence " and " slackening of purpose . " Referring to the situation in the Union , he comments that the segregationists " steadily wore down the will " of the liberals , and adds : " Within Great Britain the will to exercise Imperial oversight diminished with the diminishment of power to exercise such oversight . " This was disastrous , he asserts , because of the far-reaching character of the Union 's ambitions . The segregationist drive leaped over the political frontiers and warred on Imperial liberalism in Imperial territories . It is in the light of this situation that statements of imperial policy must be read . Here is a famous statement of it from a White Paper of 1923 : Primarily Kenya is an African territory , and His Majesty 's Government think it necessary definitely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ African natives must be paramount , and that if and when those interests of the immigrant races should conflict , the former should prevail . . ; In the administration of Kenya His Majesty 's Government regard themselves as exercising a trust on behalf of the African population , and they are unable to delegate or share this trust , the object of which may be defined as the protection and advancement of the Native races . It should be noted that the Imperial authorities here repudiate the idea of white man 's Africa as applying to Kenya in so far as it means the subordination or segregation of the natives . But they have often retreated in actual practice . Not always of course . In 1930 the leaders of the white community of Northern Rhodesia ( where the ratio is 1 white to 130 natives ) unequivocally stated their position to the Colonial Office in London : To British settlers the paramountcy of the native appears to be incompatible with justice . To subordinate the interests of civilized Britons to the development of other races , whose capability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary to natural law . To which Lord Passficld ? better known as Sidney Webb ? replied : I have to request that you will inform the Signatories that I have received and examined their representations ; and that it is unnecessary to discuss them since the views expressed are wholly irreconcilable with the considered policy of His Majesty 's Government . This is an admirably clear declaration . But the local forces are strong and well supported by the Union ; and they continue ? and will continue ? to fight on for the general application of the segregationist policy . An important subterfuge to gain the end is to argue for greater local autonomy . Jan Smuts was therefore rather disingenuous when he suggested in Life that " a change involving decentralization so far as the mother country is concerned and centralization with larger powers so far as the colonies are concerned , would be awelcome advance in the direction of colonial freedom and responsibility , which is the general trend of colonial development . " If applied to white man 's Africa , where amalgamations have been suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Conference for dealing with common problems , this would lead to disaster . The only escape would be for the Imperial authorities , and any outside collaborators in colonial trusteeship , to stiffen their will with regard to policy on race relations . This would force a showdown , but a showdown would be far healthier than continued , slow retreat from the principles of justice to the natives . The natives can advance in civilization only in so far as the economic underpinning of their lives is secure . The future of native Africa turns upon the future of international trading relations and that , in turn , depends upon the condition of the national economies capable of absorbing such African exports as palm oil , cotton , cocoa , and whatever other products the natives themselves can be trained to produce . Rising native standards will increase domestic consumption , but external outlets are indispensable . Africa needs better agriculture and animal industry , better transportation , and many other things , but it can not hope to support them out of its own resources . To start @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the British 1940 Statement of Policy on Colonial Development and Welfare it was explicitly stated that " . . . the old principle that a Colony should have only those services which it can afford to maintain out of its own resources . . . now calls for revision . " The British government proposes to appropriate money to get the new policy started off . But the policy is so far no more than a promise and even the promise is dulled by the manifest weakening of Imperial power and determination . With a strengthened economy , and good feeling between the races , Africa would have a chance to pull itself out of the stagnant bog in which it has been struggling for centuries . But if the facts of African history are candidly recalled , only fatuous optimists can be completely hopeful .                     