@@487510

THE Republic 's red-and-white flag rises over the two-thousand-mile crescent of Indonesia 's verdant islands , Indonesia 's millions cheer it as a symbol of their formal independence . Many foreign well-wishers rejoice with them , happy that Asia 's most important colonial struggle has reached this stage . Some Indonesians wonder , however , whether the independence they have achieved is really the same as the dream so long pursued . They fear lest under the terms of their agreement with the Dutch , The Hague will still have too great a voice in Indonesian affairs . It was a psychological error to hold the decisive conference on Indonesia 's future six thousand miles away . As a result of Dutch control of incoming news and the immaturity of Indonesian newspapers , fewer solid facts about the negotiations were published in Batavia than in New York . When the terms were finally revealed , the Indonesian nationalists applied a simple test . The Dutch and Dr. Hatta had promised that the transfer of sovereignty would be " real , complete , and unconditional . " Was it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ANDREW ROTH is The Nation 's correspondent in the Far East , If the Dutch had tried a little harder to win Indonesian good-will , 1950 might begin an era of fruitful cooperation , for the Indonesians realize they still have much to learn on the technical , administrative , and economic side . But by first demanding impossibilities and then haggling over possibilities , the Dutch lost their opportunity to leave Indonesia as the British left India . Sultan Hamid II , one of Holland 's best friends in Indonesia , put it succinctly : " If the Dutch had drawn a bigger check on cooperation than on paper commitments , they would have got more out of this conference than they are getting . " Long before Dmitri Manuilsky attacked the Dutch-Indonesian agreement with customary Soviet bombast in the United Nations , considerable Indonesian dissatisfaction had been expressed . Even among the chief Indonesian negotiators there was little enthusiasm for the pact , simply the feeling that it was the best that could be achieved under the circumstances . Many of their young advisers felt it was a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  strongly opposes it , and Sutan Sjarir 's moderate Socialists have withheld their approval . Even more significant has been the amount of opposition among the Soekarno-Hatta government 's customary supporters . Batavia 's leading moderate nationalist paper , Merdeka , declares that the agreement can not result in real independence , and some elements December 31 , 1949 in the largest Indonesian party , the conservative Islamic Masjumi , which supports the government , have denounced it as another form of colonialism . IF INDEPENDENCE means a nation 's ability to make decisions without interference , the new Indonesia can not be called fully independent . Although the Dutch did not obtain the overlordship for which they strove , they have kept enough influence in significant areas to curtail Indonesia 's freedom of action . Through their investment of about three and a half billion guilders in key industries the Dutch can easily dominate the islands ' economy . Their administrative control is continued by the provision that the new government is to take over the whole Dutch bureaucracy for a minimum of two years . The Indonesian nationalists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ petty states , almost all of which are dominated by Dutch-sponsored feudal elements . The Dutch army will stay in the islands for from six to twelve months . A military mission will instruct for three years , and pro-Dutch mercenaries like the Ambonese are to be absorbed into the Indonesian army . The Surabaya naval base will remain under Dutch operational control . In addition to these sources of influences , Holland will have a base in undeveloped , oil-rich New Guinea , custody of which it has managed to retain for at least another year . Holland 's position is further strengthened by the fact that both the United States and Britain want Dutch influence in Indonesia to continue . Much of the considerable British and the smaller American investment in the region is intertwined with Dutch capital in the oil , rubber , and tin industries . If the Dutch companies suffer , the incomes of British and American investors will fall . Perhaps more important , the economic stability of Western Europe will be affected . The British and Americans are also more than a little fearful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mess of things , a la Burma , and that the Communists will seize the opportunity to make another big play for Southeast Asia . The danger will be less if the Dutch are there to act as a " stiffener . " A Dutch naval commander can be expected to keep the Surabaya base in better working order than an Indonesian commander , and Anglo-American naval forces might need that base . Similarly the oil fields , harbors , and air fields of New Guinea are more certain to be open to the Anglo-Americans with the Dutch in control . These considerations were strongly imprinted on the Dutch-Indonesian agreement by Merle Cochran , the United States member of the U. N. Commission on Indonesia . While a peaceful settlement would scarcely have been possible without the efforts of Mr. Cochran , who combined diplomatic skill with the lure of American loans , the compromise he effected between the Dutch and Indonesian claims was one that suited the Anglo-Americans . Mr. Cochran will retain his great influence as first United States ambassador to Indonesia . In furthering their own purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued Dutch influence in Indonesia would keep alive the issue of colonialism . Yet their political strategy in Southeast Asia is based on the concept that a moderate nationalist government is a better anti-Communist bulwark than a rebellious colony . Last August Dr. Hatta said : " Militarily we can control the Communists now . But we must avoid any sign . . . that we are ' selling out ' to foreigners . This will influence our attitude on such questions as leasing a naval base to the Dutch . " As it turned out , the Indonesians were compelled to lease the Surabaya naval base . And the Dutch were not discouraged by the Anglo-Americans from holding out for full sovereign control of New Guinea , subject to reexamination of the question during the coming year . This gives the Indonesian Communists an excellent opportunity to attack the new government as the stooge of the Dutch and Anglo-Americans . In short , emphasis on military strategy has crippled the Western powers ' political strategy in Indonesia . EVERY new state has some " bad years " of readjust- ment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problems of the Indonesians have been made even more difficult by the maneuvers of the great powers in the " cold war . " Moreover , while most observers will agree that the Indonesians are among the most attractive peoples in Asia , with a quick intelligence second to none , few will give them high marks in hardheaded realism or organizational ability . Additionally handicapped by inexperience , they are confronted with the tremendous task of bringing unity to a group of islands spread over an area as large as the United States . The inhabitants share an Indonesian language , the Moslem religion , and a common culture , but they are divided by regional loyalties and by differences of dialect and custom . Causes of friction were multiplied when the Dutch carved out fifteen feudal states as a counterweight to the Java-centered Indonesian nationalists . In order to present a united front to the Dutch in the Round Table Conference , the Soekarno-Hatta forces took over the leadership of this Dutch-created patchwork of states . The integration of these states with their predominantly feudal social structure poses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal-type provisional constitution the feudal leaders of these states can dominate the new government and will presumably put up a fight to retain their privileges . It is indicative of their mentality that on the island of Bali a man was recently jailed for a year without trial because he said a rajah was " dumb " ! The undemocratic Malay sultans whom the Dutch installed in East Sumatra were selected not only because they were anti-nationalist but also because they were sympathetic to the continuation of the valuable tobacco and rubber estates owned by Dutch , British , and American concerns . It is perhaps not accidental that East Sumatra was the only state that refused to sign the provisional constitution . INDONESIA 'S early prospects would be more hope- ful if its leaders and parties were better able to face up to its problems and mobilize the human resources to solve them . President Soekarno , a man of great charm and a consummate orator , is ideally suited to be the symbol of Indonesia 's emergent nationalism , but he is not a man of great intellectual depth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to recruit tens of thousands of forced laborers , most of whom died as a result of the conditions of work . Dr. Hatta , the " strong man " of the nationalist movement , is a person of stubborn integrity and is willing to take an unpopular course if he feels it is right , but he has not much faith The NATION In the people . In August , 1945 , he and President Soekarno signed the independence proclamation only after they had been virtually kidnapped by a group of Socialist youths . In December , 1948 , on the eve of the second " police action , " Dr. Hatta had capitulated to 90 per cent of the Dutch demands , partly to avoid conflict and partly because he underestimated Indonesia 's power to resist . Only the unrealistic greed of the Dutch and their inability to reverse a long-planned military operation saved him at that time from the wrath of a large section of the nationalists . The inexperience and lack of realism of the SoekarnoHatta leadership are likely to be most apparent in the economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five or ten million people be transferred from heavily populated Java to underpopulated Sumatra , and that Indonesia 's reconstruction be financed by cutting Sumatra 's and Borneo 's immense stands of timber . Either task would strain the government 's limited organizing talents . One of Indonesia 's few sober and informed economists , Dr. Sumitro , has said : " After the establishment of a sovereign Indonesia it must be our first concern to get the people back to work rather than to start building economic castles on the moon . " He realizes , if Hatta does not , that the first year of independence " will be taken up entirely by the struggle for survival , and it is doubtful that we shall be able even to make a beginning with reconstruction projects . " To tide them over these next years the Indonesians have asked for large loans from the United States . Dr. Hatta has proclaimed that , like Pandit Nehru , he would London Eventng Standard like to be " neutral " in the conflict between the two great blocs . This means that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without having to make anti-Soviet speeches . Among the younger nationalists are quite a few promising leaders . One of the best is the Sultan of Jogjakarta , who has served as Defense Minister and Deputy Premier . Despite his feudal background he is personally and politically a democrat and is tremendously popular because he led the Central Java resistance movement . He is also that great rarity among Indonesian leaders , a man of real executive ability . Dr. Natsir and Dr. Shafruddin are two modern-minded and able young leaders of the Islamic Masjumi Party . The leading spokesman of the moderate left opposition is Sutan Sjarir , intellectual and former Premier . Dissatisfied with the agreement but knowing that its acceptance is inevitable , he has refused to approve or disapprove it , hoping to organize a responsible opposition . The extreme left , Communists and Trotskyists , have a fine opportunity to attack the agreement as a " sell-out " and exploit wide popular dissatisfaction , but both groups lost their best leaders last year . The formlessness of Indonesian politics makes it extremely difficult to tell what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition to the Soekarno-Hatta government will make itself felt . The crucial unknown factor is the future alignment of the educated and nationalistic youth who during the last four years have officered the army and served in the lower administrative posts . It was by underestimating their burning patriotism that the Dutch blundered . These youths have respected Soekarno and Hatta in the past but do not feel Indonesia has received quite the merdeka ( independence ) for which they fought . In coming years they will be searching for new leaders , and the men who seem best fitted to build a " brave new world " will be able to harness Indonesia 's most dynamic element . LOOKING BACKWARD Fifty Years Ago in " The Nation " December 28 , 1899 : The extraordinary activity in polar exploration which marks the close of the century proves , probably once for all , that however enterprises of this kind may be decried by sentimentalists and deprecated by the " practical " - minded , the efforts to penetrate into the realm of the unknown will be persisted in until the final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of polar explorations have . . . the antipodal Arctic and Antarctic tracts simultaneously and about equally engaged the attention of explorers and of the learned bodies behind them . The expeditions of Peary , Sverdrup , Wellman , Nathorst , and the Duke of Abruzzi in the north , and of Gerlache and Borchgrevink , with the one now forming under the direction of the Royal Geographical Society of London , in the south , are the records for the year 1899 . No Comment T ) RETORIA , South Africa. ? City life leads many South African Negro workers to magistrates ' courts through drunkenness , assault and battery , and other misdemeanors . Since the penal code takes no cognizance of the color bar , the same penalties are meted out to whites and Negroes , regardless of their very different earnings . It follows that prisons are overcrowded with Negroes serving short terms in default of paying fines . Some shrewd Transvaal farmers saw an opportunity in this state of things At Leslie , in a corn and potato county , they . . . built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fill it . Now the farmers of Leslie holding shares in the venture have labor aplenty at the cost of is. 6d. about 25 cents per man per day . The Minister of Justice in the Nationalist Cabinet , Charles R. Swart , has . . . pictured the convicts " living in the congenial atmosphere of the countryside . " ? From a special dispatch to the New York Times , October 5 . TWO NEGRO MEN sat in Dade ) county jail behind bars for half a year even though they were not charged with violating any law . The men are material witnesses in two different cases which have not been brought to trial . . . . How did the men .. . get into jail ? It was all very legal-like . . . . Criminal County Court Judge Ben Willard .. . set bail at $500 for each man , and because neither . . . had enough money to make bond , they were tossed into the clink . That was last April. ? From the Miami , Florida , Daily News , October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another capitalist . He has a full-time press agent , a lawyer on retainer , and a psychiatrist. ? From the New York Times , October 23 . ART LESSONS for business men . Beautiful live models . Relaxing and private Call OR-56 . . . ? Classified advertisement in the Los Angeles Mirror , October 17 , CAMBRIDGE , MASS. ? The Russian dub at Harvard has changed its name to the Slavic Society . . . President Alexander O'Glolyin , nineteen , . . . explained : " Somehow the word ' Russian ' seems to have a peculiar connotation these days . " O'Globin said the club  --  or society  --  had no political leanings . Its chief function , he said , was to sit around , drink tea , eat crackers and caviar  --  and talk Russian. ? From an Associated Press dispatch , November 2 , BEING A SOCIALIST and an educated one , Nehru has read such publications as The Nation for years . It is no secret that up to his present tour of the United States he had a distorted picture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 6 . Readers are invited to contribute to " No Comment " and to " In the Wind . " Two dollars will be paid for each item . printed. ) ?                     