@@492379

PARIS . FOR more than a year now , the front pages of our newspapers have devoted endless columns to the European Recovery Program , because this is the most gigantic project  --  apart from wars  --  that we Americans ever have undertaken outside our own country . Everything about this program has dramatic qualities : its enormous size , its unprecedented nature , the controversies it has aroused , the hopes for peace which it holds out . The money we have earmarked for ERP exceeds our entire national debt of twenty years ago . Yet most people confess that they ca n't read the news about it ; they find these reports too boring . The probable explanation for lack of interest in this tremendous project is that the European Recovery Program has almost smothered itself under its own weight . We are confused by its numerous alphabetical agencies  --  the ECA , the OEEC , the OUSSP , the PAB , the ACFMP , the MACIMFP  --  and it requires mathematical genius to comprehend its astronomical statistics . Thus , the latest report of ECA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covering six months of ERP , announces that " commodity authorizations " total $1,238,000,000 , of which 53 per cent carne from the United States , 21 per cent from Canada and Newfoundland , 7 per cent from Latin America , and the balance from participating countries , " and that $2,500,000 , - 000 was released to nineteen " countries and areas " during this period . I spent a good many hours wandering through the charts , graphs , figures and explanations of this complicated report , and then I made an appointment to talk personally with Paul G. Hoffman , the man who organized the American agency which is administering ERP funds . Mr. Hoffman is a practical businessman , with a fine record in the automotive industry , and I hoped to get from him in a few plain sentences a common-sense account of just what ERP is trying to accomplish . Mr. Hoffman , however , astonished me by saying that ERP can best be described as a device to 16 enable free peoples in Europe to retain their freedom . That vague summary was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive . But now , having spent several weeks examining the structure of this far-flung scheme , I can sympathize with Mr. Hoffman 's rather grandiloquent reply . As a businessman , he knows that ERP does not make sense if regarded as a straight business proposition . He has organized a very businesslike agency to administer it . But when asked to describe the purposes of his project , he finds it necessary to employ the language of preacher and poet . Nevertheless , the present status of our great European Recovery Program seems to demand a more coldly critical attitude , because new factors now are threatening to alter the course and objectives originally assigned to it . These changes have crept into the program almost imperceptibly . But they are revealed when the ERP of today is compared with the original project which was initiated less than two years ago under the name of the Marshall Plan . The original suggestion , tentatively put forth in June , 1947 , by Secretary Marshall , was merely that the American people might be willing to aid all European countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war-damaged factories and farms , so that their citizens could become self-supporting again . There was no hint then that this proposal might split the European continent into two hostile camps or that anyone would endeavor to create a United States of Europe . There was no hint that Americans would be called upon to equip foreign armies or that all this would add up to our sponsoring a virtual revolution of our own design across the Atlantic Ocean . But all these extraneous schemes now are entangled with the purposes of the original Marshall Plan , and they are vastly complicating the problems of the European Recovery Program today . It has been said that the Russians deserve as much credit as anybody else for the expansion of the European Recovery Program . There is much truth in this statement . For it was V. M. Molotov , the Soviet Foreign Minister , who , at the Paris conference in the summer of 1947 , shouted , " No ! " to Mr. Marshall 's suggestion , and thus aroused the anger and distrust of Americans and noncommunist Europearls . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Molotov denounced the incipient Marshall Plan and exhorted all countries associated with Russia to boycott it . A few months later , a new organization , called the Communist Information Bureau , was set up under Russian direction in Warsaw , with the declared purpose of wrecking the proposed plan for American aid . This Cominform made menacing gestures before the European Recovery Program had even got beyond the stage of preliminary discussions . The immediate effect was to divide Europe into two distinct camps . Perhaps the Russians were hoping , by this aggressive maneuver , to discourage both Americans and Europeans from proceeding with the plan . If so , Soviet leaders badly miscalculated , for their hostility in the east promptly stimulated enthusiasm in the west . Even neutral Switzerland and Sweden refused to be intimidated , and co-operated in setting up the elaborate machinery required for the European Recovery Program . At that early stage , in 1947 , nobody was certain just what shape this program would take , how long it would last , how much it would cost or how it would be administered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the demand , that everybody rushed headlong into the operation . In Washington and in sixteen European capitals , harried financial experts and administrators labored far into the night figuring out the requirements of each country , the means for moving goods and the agencies to allocate and control supplies . Very quickly the administration of ERP began to take its present form . The next step was that Congress created a new agency , the Economic Co-operation Administration , to direct and control ERP 's operations . Under Mr. Hoffman 's energetic supervision , this agency quickly took over many functions which previously had been performed by other Government departments . Mr. Hoffman borrowed about 600 economists and technicians from various Government offices . Simultaneously he injected new blood into his organization by persuading dozens of prominent businessmen to take leave of absence from their own high-salaried jobs in order to help get ECA started . At the same time , appreciating that this was more than merely a business proposition , he also enlisted ALMS " Now this is what we need .. . " Italy 's Premier de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional Americans from labor unions , newspapers and universities . Meanwhile , in Europe , Averell Harriman , who once was unkindly described as " one of the New Deal 's tame millionaires , " was acting as President Truman 's special ambassador to Marshall Plan countries . Mr. Harriman has been a key figure in a series of the boldest projects undertaken by the Roosevelt-Truman administrations . Several months before Pearl Harbor he acted as " special expediter " for Lend-Lease to Britain , with independent offices in London . He led one of the first " missions to Moscow , " and later became ambassador to Russia and then to Britain . To take this new ERP job , he resigned as Secretary of Commerce . Each of the European governments had expected , at first , to make separate Marshall Plan deals with the United States Government . But Mr. Harriman and his colleagues insisted that these nations must plan jointly in a co-operative European organiza- ? tion . One of the chief purposes of American aid , as Mr. Harriman pictured it , was to bring these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Paris , flew from one country to another , and explained his novel ideas . Thus it came about that the European governments agreed to combine to form their own counterpart of the American Economic Co-operation Administration . They called their agency the Organization for European Economic Co-operation  --  abbreviated to OEEC ? and its office also was set up in Paris . This organization 's first task was to appraise the applications for American aid from each of nineteen separate administrations  --  including T'ieste , KEYSTONE . ? ' Down with the Marshall Plan ! " reads the banner of these Paris demonstrators fighting the police . Ruin of the plan is the communists ' goal everywhere . Bizonia and the French zone of Germany  --  to iron out inconsistencies among these competing applicants , and to present a coherent plan which the United States Congress could consider before maknig its huge appropriations . This task of the Organization for European Economic Co-operation was enormously complicated and difficult . For the American imagination had Jammed together , under one economic roof , nineteen countries and areas which possessed only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our plan included Turkey , whose chief claim upon us is that it is threatened by Russia ; Greece , disrupted by a bitter civil war ; former allies like Britain , France and the Netherlands ; ex-enemy areas like Trieste , the western zones of Germany , and Italy . It demanded financial co-operation from everybody  --  prosperous Switzerland and Belgium , hard-pressed Scandinavia , and bankrupt France and Italy . It compelled agreement between countries like Britain , which practices rigid austerity in all attempt to live within its means , and other countries , like France , which will not or can not accept such drastic self-discipline . Finally , it tried to induce advocates of private enterprise , like the Swiss , to co-ordinate their economic ideas with those of British Laborites and the Swedish kocialists , who believe in state ownership and controls . Notwithstanding all these apparently irreconcilable clashes of interest , a broad program was agreed upon in record time . American experts then examined this OEEC plan in detail , cut it down to aixe , and finally whipped it into shape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as thus started off , assumed that it would requirefour years and about $17,000,000,000 to put the Marshall Plan countries back on their feet . The basic idea was to pump dollars and goods into the European economy , so that the industries and agriculture of the Continent could produce more than they ever had produced before , and so that trade could flow more easily between all the European countries and between Europe and the rest of the world . During the interim period , when many Europeans still were not getting even enough to eat , a proportion of ERP funds was earmarked for foods and other necessities . These included tobacco and coffee to keep the workers satisfied . Although governmental agencies were directing this vast enterprise , it had to be recognized that Americans distrust too much Government interference in commercial and financial matters . So the ERP was fashioned to afford maximum opportunities for private initiative , both in the United States and in Europe . Our administrative agency , the ECA , was created merely as a gigantic controller  --  to see that funds would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that nobody would gain excessive profits from any ERP deal ; and to supervise the flow of goods to conform with over-all allocations . ECA today neither buys nor sells anything . It does not ship or insure goods , or even perform simple banking operations . As far as the ECA is concerned , all such matters are left to private concerns or other Government departments , and European governments are being urged similarly to encourage individual enterprise . Nobody knew at first just how far the Soviet Government would go in its proclaimed hostility to the American aid program . But it soon becameapparent that the Russians were going to do everything possible to break up our plan before it could get properly started . In France and Italy , for instance , formidable communist organizations provoked strikes and tried to make workers believe that the United States intended virtually to annex these countries . This Russian-inspired attack started an almost panicky race between our recovery plan , on the one hand , and communist sabotage , on the other . As matters worked out , the American ECA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is still a little breathless . ECA overflowed a whole new office building in Washington , two large historic mansions in the heart of Paris , and prominent offices in every participating country . In most ECA offices I visited in Europe , workmen still were putting down carpets and painting walls while the occupants were dictating reports and receiving callers . To the hundreds of Americans who were rushed to Europe to put the recovery plan into effect , speed was highly essential . Congress had promised them only four years and $17,000,000,000 to transform the Marshall Plan countries into a going concern , and every delay alarmed them . Appropriations for ERP must be renewed at frequent intervals , and its supporters feared that Congress and the American public would become disillusioned if ERP could not show quick and sensational results . The American workers brought with them to Europe a kind of missionary zeal which is characteristically American , but which contrasted sharply with the caution and reservations of their European colleagues . ( Cons. ? el me l'age. 103 ) DOES ERP MEAN WAR OR PEACE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , influenced by the history of their own country , the solution of Western Europe 's problems seemed fairly simple . Here were a lot of states which were unable to make a go of things separately . Obviously they would have a better chance of becoming self-supporting if they combined forces . We had approved a four-year aid program , and it seemed that this would inspire the Europeans to create a United States of Europe similar to our own United States of America . To the Europeans , however , it seemed that these Americans were rushing them into an unprecedented venture without giving them enough time to think things through . All these countries are old and proud , their peoPies have inherited fears and distrust of ' me another which color all their actions . Their dependence now upon American assistance made them especially sensitive to high-pressure methods , however well intended . To these Europeans , ERP was only one phase of a long-range program , and they insisted upon scrutinizing every step to analyze 48 probable effect on each of their separate countries . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EuroPeans occurred a few weeks ago during a conversation between Mr. Hoffman and Sir Stafford Cripps , the British so cialist who is commonly regarded as the brainiest man in the Labor Party . Mr. Hoffman dryly remarked that he was glad to get the British Labor Government 's plan for its first year 's operation under ERP , even though it came several weeks late . He added , with a grin , " You British Laborites are a cautious crowd . If you were Americans , you probably would be Republicans ... and right-wing Republicans at that ! " Sir Stafford smiled at the joke , but replied seriously , " You Americans do not seem to realize how unprecedented this program is . You are asking European governments to plan for a co-operating economy , something which has never existed before . You are asking us to reconcile in a few months conflicting interests which the thirteen American colonies required many years to adjust . And it should be remembered that the American colonies were much more closely bound together by race , language and traditions than most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the then president of the Swiss Confederation , Dr. Enrico Cello , made a public statement in which he warned Americans against being in too much of a hurry . Some American officials had hinted to the Swiss that we could bring powerful economic pressure against governments which would n't play ball with us . But Doctor Cello was making it clear that his prosperous nation is not overawed by ultimatums . Said he , " We Swiss know from six centuries of history how laborious and 104 THE SATURDAY EVENING POST January 29.1419 painful is the road to unity or even understanding between dissimilar races . . . . From conviction and long experience we are passionately devoted to the ideas of freedom and federalism . That is why we feel urged to utter a warning against the fallacy that the peace of the world , or even a federation of Western Europe , can be established upon the dictate or the primacy of a single power . Both goals can only be reached along the road of justice , and on the soil of understanding between free nations enjoying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had arisen because two new ideas had gradually got mixed up with the original objective of the European Recovery Program . The first additional idea was that ERP would fail if it could not produce by 1952 a United States of Western Europe comparable to the United States of Eastern Europe which Soviet Russia has been forcibly imposing ever since 1945 . John Foster Dulles is one of our spokesmen for that viewpoint . The second new idea is that , because Soviet leaders are hostile to the ERP , the ERP should therefore wage economic warfare against Russia and Eastern Europe . If these two ideas are accepted , the Marshall Plan countries will be transformed into a grand affiance against Russia , and the ERP will become an economic subsidiary to a military alliance . The proclaimed purpose of the recovery program would thus be completely altered . Neutral governments like Switzerland and Sweden would be compelled to reconsider their support of it . For , if this expanded plan is put into effect , the very first requirement would be for all Marshall Plan countries to clews trading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neutral countries never have agreed to do , not even in case of war . Switzerland and Sweden are eager to work for the rehabilitation of Western Europe , but they also want to trade with Eastern Europe . They have refused to support commercial boycotts . This injection of military overtones into a program which was purely economic at first can be traced back directly to our Congress . For it was our 80th Congress , under various kinds of pressures , which compelled ERP 's American administering agency , the ECA , to absorb the military commitments which the United States Government , under the Truman Doctrine , already had made in Greece and Turkey . Actually , the Truman Doctrine and the European Recovery Program are two distinct projects , the one predominantly military and the other predominantly economic , although American military chiefs are inclined to regard the ERP as part of their own strategy for rearming the western world . They argue that it would be foolish to reconstruct Western Europe 's productive plant without first providing this area with means to protect the enormous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armies in Greece and China which are engaged in civil wars against communist armies in those countries . This has encouraged our military chiefs to include the whole aid program in their own schemes . Since our Congress was responsible for scrambling European recovery with military preparedness , it is now up to Congress to figure out the details . The problem is much more complicated than mere appropriation of funds . As one American economist here has explained to me , " We ca n't eat our cake and have it too . This is not a question of dollars , but of scarce materials like.coal , steel and aluminum . The more of these materials we use to make guns , tanks , fighting ships and planes , the less we have for peacetime factories , power plants and equipment for farms , mines , railroads and shipyards . The entire western world does not possess enough of these materials to satisfy military desires , European reconstruction and the desires of the American consumer . " When I asked this economist for a specific example , he replied , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilian use in the United States probably would have to shut down almost as completely as it did during the war if the original ERP estimates are supported and if military plans now under consideration are adopted too . " This competition between the economic and the military demands for scarce materials really boils down to one essential question : Is war imminent between Soviet Russia and the western world ? The Marshall Plan won instantaneous popular support both in the United States and in Europe because it calmly assumed that war is not imminent . It concluded that European peoples can become self-supporting with only four years of American aid , and that their recovery will in itself be an effective deterrent to Russian expansion . Why did Moscow 's rulers move with such frantic haste to defeat this American aid program ? The fury with which Soviet leaders attacked the Marshall Plan would seem to indicate that they fear Europe 's economic recovery more than they fear its soldiers . Judging by my own firsthand knowledge of the Soviet Union , and by my observations in Europe since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Marshall Plan actually meant a challenge to their own leadership of a European communist revolution . The Russians had correctly assumed that Europe was ripe for revolution . During the two years 1945-47 they tried to persuade Europeans that the Soviet type of revolution was the only type available to them . During those two years we Americans either ignored this Russian claim or offered ineffectual answers to it . Noncommunist Europeans became fearful , confused or apathetic . The Russian " wave of the future " seemed about to overwhelm them . Then suddenly , in 1947 , Mr. Marshall quietly proposed his alternative plan . As I traveled through many European countries I could see that the mere suggestion waa having an electric effect . Probably few Americans , in those days , suspected that we were advocating a European revolution according to our own pattern , but that is what actu-* ally was happening . By proposing an alternative to a communist upheaval , we were inspiring another type of revolution . But , though Europeans were hopeful , they also were doubtful . They could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmers and clerks would continue to support so costly a recovery program after they realized that this would result in heavier taxes for them , a higher cost of living in the United States and shortages of many industrial materials needed by the Americans themselves . As time passed , however , and popular American support for aid to Europe increased , these same Europeans swung to the opposite extreme and concluded that the program must be a paying proposition for Americans . That is precisely what the communists had asserted from the beginning , and there is just enough truth in their propagenda to make it effective . Because it can not be denied that ERP has indeed provided immediate benefits to several sizable groups of Americans . It has offered markets for the surplus products of American farms and factories . It has assured more jobs for American workers and it has underwritten . profits to thousands of American businessmen-Nevertheless , nobody who has carefully examined ERP can claim that it really is a sound business proposition . All its direct benefits to Americans could be obtained ? for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States itself . Mr. Hoffman had a shrewd knowledge of popular American sentiment when he told me that ERP depends upon idealism . This project , which began by appealing primarily to our philan ' thropic sense , has now aroused the same kind of idealism which kindled our American Revolution . Today we believe that Europeans are threatened by fi tyranny more oppressive than the VP army which threatened American colonists in 1776 , and that if this tyranny overwhelms Europe , it will also threaten us . So , without quite realizing what we were doing , we have rallied to the support of another revolution . But our type of revolution , in contrast to the Soviet type , is a slow and laborious process . It can not be accomplished by force , but only by voluntary agreement . It will require years to dissolve French and Belgian fears of Get-many , British and French distrust of each other , and European suspicion of American interference in Europe 's own affairs . Not even the threatof Russia can compel Western Europeans to combine in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Recovery Program really offering an effective challenge to communism today ? Many Europeans believe so . But there seems to be a growing tendency over here to feel that the original enthusiasm may evaporate 1 our program falls under military don ' ination . For the strongest support for European co-operation has come from those who look upon it primarily as 9 substitute for war . It is this hope which has been the main inspiration both of the Europeans themselves and of the Americana who are most eager to help them . One instance of this impelling motive was expressed to me by Harry Martini president of the American Newspaper Guild , who is now working in Paris as labor adviser to ECA . He accepted this job with great reluctance , partly because his sixteen-year-old son is a high-school basketball star and he hated to miss seeing him play . But Martin ex ' plained that this same cherished son was his real reason for coming to Paris . " If another war breaks out , " he said , " my boy will be in it . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ froo that . " Martin turned down this ECA job when it was first offered to him . But he changed his mind after another trade ' union leader described the Europeso , Recovery Program as the most hopeful scheme yet devised to prevent another war . I asked Martin whether he has he " come disillusioned now , since corning to Europe , where he can see all the obstacles at close range . He replied soberly , " No , because up to this moment ERP is still working toward peace . Its results , on the whole . have been constructive and effective . I still believe that if this thing can he put over , it may prevent another WO* So long as I believe that , I 'm stayiog with it . "                     