@@494229

under the United Nations , a democratic or a semi-fascist state today ? How many political prisoners are still in prison under Darlan ? How many of the two thousand Austrian anti-fascists who were conscripted under the Vichy regime to work on the trans-Saharan railway are still conscripted ? How many anti-Semitic laws are still on the statute books ? How much restitu ? tion of Jewish property has actually been undertaken in accordance with the promises of the United Nations ? Secretary Hull states that there is no time for political considerations in war . Does that mean that there is no time for consideration of the moral principles on which democratic politics are constructed ? We must roundly damn this attitude from one end of our continent to the other . We must demand an end to the outrageous policy of appeasement , just as we must demand the application the world over of the principles of the people 's revolution which we have proclaimed . We must demonstrate that through our policy the war can be brought to a swifter and more decisive end . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the President today to press him to lead this fight , his reply might well be this : You ask me to fight , to take risks , perhaps to suffer losses ; and what do you offer me ? Faeh time that the administration has joined THE NEW REPUBLIC in your fight , Congress has beaten it to a standstill ? the Congress that you elected . How far have you ful ? filled your part of the job , in building up a liberal national legislature and a liberal press , in creating in the American people a conviction that will lead them to endorse the radical future of democracy and world government that you believe in ? Come to me when you come as part of a movement , not as an unorgan ? ized minority unable to support the spirit which it de ? mands of its leadership . We have no answer yet . We must hold our line . We must demonstrate that we too have just begun to fight . Already the powerful group of European leaders in America , deeply shocked by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common council which may speak for all of the peoples of Europe . We need to form our common council of progressives in America , so that from now on , all of our strength will be behind the blows we strike . The liberals are beginning to do this ; but our line is under heavy attack . Unless we counter attack now , the damnation of liberalism will be that in every time when the hopes of progress were raised high and torn down again , the liberals were always right in theory , but powerless . THIS WAR is a revolutionary struggle being fought in large part for security . Security falls into two parts , international and domestic . Soldiers and diplomats must deal with the interna ? tional phase , but at home masses of people in all lands seek the other type of security , and no peace can be permanent without it . This is the situation that produces the Beveridge Report , born in war-torn London , right at the turning point of the struggle . That its publication marks a historic step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinking is already evident . At the very least it is likely to become the British Labor Party 's post-war program , but - it is winning wider than party support . It gives expression to some of the intellectual ferment which is so striking a British social phenomenon at present , which has found utterance in such respectable spokesmen as the Archbishop of Canterbury , The ( London ) Times , The ( London ) Economist and others . It has immediately become a best-seller . Britain is seeking to justify her war sacrifices and to pay tribute to her dead by making a better world ? the only tribute , incidentally , in any country at any time , that can be made with clean hands to youth fallen in battle . Making a better world on the international side may depend on the United States , but a better Britain depends on Englishmen . Therefore , the Beveridge Report : produced in a battered , dingy , unconquered nation that shows its vitality in the very document . Its author , Sir William Beveridge , head of University College @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the basement of his London club while preparing the eighteen-month study ? basements having assumed a new utility since the blitz . He told me recently , with testy pride , that he is not using his precious clothes rations , expecting to make his pre-war wardrobe last through the duration . Whether accepted by the Churchill government or not , the Beveridge Report produced in this bomb-pitted land by an elbow-patched Don , constitutes a landmark , since it brings the Na ? tional Minimum for the first time in an official report into the realm of practical discussion . What is the National Minimum ? Economists have written learnedly about it for years , but the best way I know to explain it is to take the homely illustration of the free roll in the pre-war restaurant . When you sat down at Childs the vvaitrees automatically presented you with a glass of water , s couple of slices of bread and a pat of butter . There were also , of course , sugar and condiments on the table ' You got those things free before placing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tn fact that the country had come far enough to universal prosperity so that , within limits , cerlsw minima of subsistence could be supplied and the cost generalized over all patrons . That , in effect , is what the Beveridge Report pro ? poses to do in Britain . It would not give the bread direct , but it would pay insurance to buy bread . It would unify and simplify existing widespread social services ; extend them to cover new classes and new needs ; increase the rates of benefit and thereby estab ? lish " a national minimum for every citizen in every income , under every circumstance of want , but in con ? trast to the Nazi system of social security , without political conditions . " Most of the vicissitudes of man , from the cradle to the grave , would get this minimum coverage ; unemployment , health , accidents , marriage , childbirth , allowances for children and retirement for the aged ? provision would be made for all , with free medical , dental , hospital , nursing and convalescent services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , the one brief and the other taking somewhat longer to develop . The first one was emphasized to me by Sir William himself and is now amplified in his report . Social-security enlargement under a National Mini ? mum or other standard is not sufficient in itself , he says , to guarantee prosperity . The Beveridge plan would not , and does not pretend to , solve the problem of cyclical mass unemployment ? the sort of unem ? employment that lasted for ten years in America after 1929 . The technique for meeting that second problem has also been evolved , it is believed , and follows the lines laid down by Keynes , Hansen and others , for using government fiscal controls , public works and similar weapons . The National Minimum , according to its present advocate , would not of itself keep the storms of the business cycle from raging , though it might serve as oil on the immediate waves by pro ? moting business confidence through the assurance of a certain minimum standard of purchasing power on which industry could count . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ siderable is indicated in the figures of the report itself . By a system of joint contribution from government , employer and employee the new program would cost about $2,730,000,000 in Britain for 1945 , it is estimated , if it were put into effect , the government providing $1,404,000,000 of the sum . Thus the purchasing power of the typical family of four , whose breadwinner is ill or unemployed , would be sustained indefinitely at $11.20 a week , instead of receiving short-term pay ? ments of as little as $1.50 , which were in force before the war . The second point requires some emphasis at the present time . The National Minimum program , revo ? lutionary though it undoubtedly is , has been under discussion for a long , long time and no dispassionate reader can doubt that a substantial element of thought llas been tending in its direction . Probably the Bev-78 5 eridge Report is the firecracker that will finally startle the public into contemplating the matter , whether they accept it or not , and social-security extension , on a big scale , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current flood on post-war problems which deals with economics at all , discusses the matter in one way or another . In fact , the historic importance of the Beveridge Report may be in having given practical expression in an official document to the development which had already won a measure of theoretical agree ? ment among sociologists and economists , not to say business men . In America , whether the problem as a whole has been understood or not , at least the public has known what it wanted . Thus , the Fortune poll for July , 1942 , as its editors pointed out , gave a dear indication of mass desires : 74 percent urged medical care for every ? one needing it ; almost as large a number wanted old-age pensions for citizens over sixty-five ; 68 percent wanted jobs for everyone in public work if private work were not available , and 58 percent wanted un ? employment compensation during the minimum : Messrs . Roosevelt and Churchill in their eight-point program , signed at sea , declared : We " desire to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economic field , with the object of securing , for all , improved labor standards , economic adjust ? ment and social security . " Economic and political writers point out that the groping of the German masses for security played a major part in precipitating the war , and that it is an explosive force that must be reckoned with in the peace . Hitler won over the German people , as William L. Shirer comments in his column , " The Propaganda Front , " " by promising them work and giving them work . " He sees in the Beveridge Report " a major con ? tribution to propaganda at this turning point of the war . " Why ? Because " one of the main psychological forces on the Allied side has been the confident belief of the masses of the people who are doing most of the fighting and producing that not only will the scourge of Nazism be wiped out but that the United Nations , in the flush of their victory will set up ? not a perfect world ? but a better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the first specific blueprint offered in that direction . People who are startled easily will be startled now by the acceptance of this same thesis by such a repre ? sentative spokesman of American industry and trade as Henry Luce 's opulent dollar-a-copy magazine , For ? tune . In a supplement to the current issue , dealing with post-war domestic economy , the magazine comes out strongly for a widespread expansion ' of the whole so ? cial-security system as part of a still larger program of stabilizing prosperity under government direction . " Such a program ; " the editors say in a concise exposi ? tion of recent thought in the Keynes-Hansen school , " is absolutely essential to the well-being and sense of security of the American people . " Some American edi ? tors who are asking themselves uncertainly if Britain is going Communist might get reassurance , or possibly grow even more apprehensive , by reading the Fortune supplement . Fortune advocates " a greatly extended system of unemployment insurance , old-age pensions and other forms of social security . " It urges a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housing and nutrition , as well as more and better schools . . . . As a nation we can afford it ; indeed we can not afford to go without it . Since Americans want security , there is no reason why they should not have more of it in its most obvious form . " Even on the subject of insurance , the Beveridge Report is by no means unique . The report would end private industrial insurance , or so-called " burial in ? surance " widely bought by workers , and turn it over to the government . But in America the scandal of industrial insurance was exposed by the TNEC during 1939-41 . High-pressure salesmanship and instalment methods have taken millions from the working class annually , the studies showed , with 70 percent of all policies lapsing and another 20 percent terminating by surrender . In the decade 1928-37 the companies wrote and revised almost 200,000,000 such policies , but at the end of the period the total gain was only 6,600,000 . The TNEC unanimously recommended that either a fundamental change should occur or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William Beveridge urges that the government take the whole thing over . As to the need of something like the National Mini ? mum in the United States , the figures are compelling . Stuart Chase in the second of his Twentieth Century Fund books goes over the ground . Education ? Of all Americans twenty-five years or older , almost 60 per ? cent have never gone beyond grade school . Physical condition ? Of the first 2,000,000 men examined for the draft , almost rpoo , 000 were rejected as below army standards . Food ? In 194o some 45,000,000 fam ? ilies lived below the diet danger line and the average cost of the meals eaten by 20,000,000 Americans was 5 cents each , whereas the army allows 43 cents a day to feed its soldiers . Many other items covered directly or indirectly by the Beveridge Report require similar examination in the United States . Will Britain accept the report ? It will be impossible to say for some time yet . It is significant that The Times has given wholehearted support to the pro ? gram @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one can remember , the first newspaper on the breakfast table of the rulers of Britain . The latest information I get from British sources is that support of the scheme is growing more rapidly than had been expected . AMERICAN AIRCRAFT-CARRIER LOSSES ill the Pacific have resulted in an expansion , rather than a diminution , of the navy 's carrier program . Despite the fact that torpedoes and dive-bombers have sunk four of the seven ships of this type with which we entered the war , naval strategists are convinced that the carrier will play a major part in Allied victory over Japan . American confidence is based on the belief that this country 's construction capacity is so great that it will be able virtually to smother the Japanese navy under a blanket of carriers . Loss of the Lexington , Yorktown , Wasp and of one other unidentified carrier brought the navy 's program under strong attack from both within and without the Department . Advocates of the battleship , which had seemed menaced by the appearance of a new queen of the seas , sought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long-range , land-based bombers asserted that the carrier was already obsolete . The Navy Department as a whole , however , is now supporting the carrier as firmly as it once op ? posed it . It is doing this because of the situation which it hopes will prevail next year rather than because of the situation today . The navy frankly admits that its car ? rier position is critical at the present time . So far as is known , only three of the regular carriers are in opera ? tion , and only a limited number of the converted mer ? chant ships of the Long Island class . This means that the Japanese , despite the loss of at least six carriers and the recent damaging of others , are believed to have retained a substantial margin in these ships . How ? ever , this picture is relieved somewhat by the now evident reluctance of the Japanese to risk more of their carriers to American air power . As viewed by some naval officers , the battles in the Pacific will evolve into a contest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan 's carrier strength and in which the enemy strives to retain as much of this strength as possible for the future defense of his immense lines of communication . Stated briefly , Wash ? ington believes that when the United States has finally established a dear-cut superiority in carriers , as its greater productive powers guarantee that it will , the reconquest of the southwestern Pacific will be greatly simplified . 