@@475229

THE first impression : everything is brand-new here . No old houses , no old fences ; even the paving on the streets looks as if it had been put down yesterday . In contrast to other cities , no waste land between buildings . At night , neon lights like those I used to see on Times Square before the dimout began . The state capitol stands in a forest of derricks . The streetcar runs through residential districts where you see pumping derricks in the back yards of the houses . The capitol itself has derricks up to the foot of the monumental marble stairway . But you do not see or smell any oil ; everything is clean and trim . The oil puddles and the oily atmosphere of eastern European oilfields are not found here . This state has the strangest colonial history . Probably every American knows it but it was news to me and I think it is in miniature a perfect specimen of American history . Before 1889 Oklahoma was a prairie practically in the state of nature . At noon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enter the territory , whose frontiers were guarded by troops , and to take possession of homestead lots . Long before this moment some ten thousand people from all regions camped around the borders of the territory ; and at the bugle call the rush began , on horseback , in horse carts , or in any other vehicle . The strange thing is that this rush did not provoke any noticeable incidents . The first person to arrive on a lot was respected by the others as its possessor . Colonization as a sort of a sporting competition in which the winners get land as prizes is a pattern which seems strange because it was officially and legally sanctioned and because it happened not in a far-off past but in our own times . I wonder whether , in spite of the strangeness , it was not the best way of colonizing this region . How else could it have been arranged ? /f , for instance , it had been done in a bureaucratic way the doors would have been opened to all kinds of corruption , nepotism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best way of carrying out the American principle of giving everybody a chance and letting the best win . The result of this experiment is indeed a striking confirmation of the principle . What has been created here within a lifetime through individual enterprise and initiative is simply admirable . If one were not able to check its historic veracity by means of photographs and other records from the first days , one would hardly believe it to be possible . And when one learns that the big expansion started only with the oil rush in 1906 the achievement is even more astonishing : MHE University of Oklahoma in Nor- man , some twenty miles from Oklahoma City , was created in 1892 on the prairie . Every tree on the beautiful campus had to be planted . Now they already look old and dignified . The buildings are of a strange but not unsightly style with Norman elements . I wonder how the architect came to choose this style . You can not invent a style out of nothing . And there was hardly any tradition which suggested how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unfortunately I could not stay long enough to study this and similar questions in detail , but I am sure that a minute analysis of the local civilization of Oklahoma would be very revealing as to the structure and dynamics of civilization in general . Since the settlers came from every region of the Union , regionalism in Oklahoma must be a blending of all American regionalisms : a sort of anticipation of what American civilization would be if a real blending of its local elements were possible . Of course the specific natural conditions , and in the first place oil , would have to be taken into account . Plus the Indians , who are an influential element of the population here . The strange origin of this state manifests itself in its constitution , which was established in 1907 . I never saw a constitution containing so many details which anywhere else would be taken care of by simple legislation . It includes very specific provisions concerning the trade in intoxicating liquors , the procedure in criminal and civil courts , free tickets on railroads for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it contains a very strange definition of colored people : " all persons of African descent . The term ' white race ' shall include all other persons . " So that a Berber from North Africa would be colored and a Papuan from New Guinea would be white . A historical museum is rather a paradox here . How many " historical " objects could there possibly be in a state whose history embraces only two generations ? The objects displayed are partly from Indian excavations and partly they are ordinary furniture used fifty years ago . You get the impression that the inarticulate desire for hero-worship searched for heroes to be worshiped ; and since there were none , or rather since the heroes of this state were anonymous , some shabby desk or chair used by some early official was raised to the dignity of a relic . Among the Indian objects some are very interesting , such as big snail shells with ornamentations . The shells must have come from the Gulf of Mexico and thus prove that there was some connection between the Indians here and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian chief of about 1850 in colorful costume and with an artistically tattooed face . He was , nevertheless , a civilized man , said the ethnologist with whom I visited the museum . I remarked that Goering 's uniforms are much more fanciful and that German students have tattooed cheeks too , only much less artistic . The Oklahoma University Press , with whose manager I had a long talk , is to my mind a model of what a university press should be . It specializes in regional literature and has published among other books a series about the civilization of the American Indians which already amounts to more than twenty volumes , many of which are fundamental . CLEAN , friendly town with many high buildings , and very rational . The streets running north-south are numbered ; those running east-west are designated by the letters of the alphabet . The state capitol is apparently the result of a decision to disregard the Washington Capitol tradition . It is a high tower with a small gilt dome on top , over a square low building . People here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be world famous : To me , I am sorry to say , it looked rather like a World 's Fair building . In the evening , long discussion with several professors at the house of the head of the history department of the university . First on political problems and peace projects , and later on the theory of history . Again I noticed that what makes any discussion on this point so difficult is that , when history is mentioned , almost everybody thinks automatically of political history and is rather surprised when one refers to other branches and affirms that any theory of history should begin with analyzing the histories of language , science , the arts , religion , economics . Almost every time I try to make the theory on which I am working understood , somebody asks about the role of chance in history , and every time I give about the same answer , which does not seem to satisfy the questioner : that all historical events are at the same time natural events , so that if one is deterministic in one 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance in history ; that if history were a series of events based on mere chance , history-writing could only be mere chronology of events , nothing more ; that the history of languages , for instance , or the history of science , or the history of religion would not have any intrinsic logic if chance were considered as a determining factor ? which , as a matter of fact , no serious historian of those fields would admit . a ct:snort about regionalism with Professor S. and some of his colleagues . We agreed that regional differences are less marked here than in European countries . I proposed two explanations : one is that in Europe regionalisms are mostly survivals of independent local civilizations ; the other is that unification of national civilizations was brought about only when the local traditions were already very specifically developed . In this country , on the contrary , no local traditions had to be overcome because there were not yet any ; or rather , regional traditions most frequently had to develop simultaneously and in competition with national traditions . Furthermore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a point of time when railroads were already existent and mass production had started . However , this distinction between European and American regionalism must MAGAZINE be limited to historical regionalism and does not fit regional differentiation which is the effect of climatic conditions . Even in the most unified countries abroad , the south and the north developed and preserved regional differences of civilization for the simple reason that in the south life goes on in the open . I have definitely the impression that in this country a certain pattern of civilization was , if I may say so , imposed on all the various regions even before any regional civilization could grow . This accounts for the fact that the newcomer often notices with a certain feeling of uneasiness a discrepancy between natural conditions and actual patterns of life going on within the natural frame . I should say that few Americans ever become aware of the necessity for adapting the national patterns to the specific natural conditions of the region . Nebraska , for instance , is a cattle-breeding state . It has , if I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Why must they have a state capitol that would fit into a bazaar civilization rather than into an agricultural one ? It is true , though , that agriculture here presents a different aspect from the one a European is used to . In the agricultural institute of the university I saw cows milked by machines . If I were a milk-drinker I would probably approve of it ; since I am not , I have to confess that my approach to the problem was rather that of a disappointed aesthete than that of a satisfied hygienist . III Boulder , Colorado - PVERYTHING in this place is enchanting 14 and stimulating , the landscape as well as the campus and the people at the university . My first meeting with the president of the university , his assistant , and several professors has given me already the impression of freedom , Elan , and an atmosphere of humanism . All the residential houses I have seen here manifest harmony , good taste , and awareness of the relation between architecture and its natural surroundings . The buildings on the campus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recalling somehow the early Renaissance architecture of Tuscany , fit well into the landscape of the Rocky Mountains , which overshadow everything and would make any pretentious architecture simply ridiculous . I could hardly tell all the symptoms which distinguish this university from the others I have visited . Yet its spirit is positively different . Maybe the natural scenery is not without influence on the people who live here . Everywhere else , nature , in so far as it is not simply a hostile power , is an object of exploitation . Here it is something more and something else . The giant mountains on which you look from your window do n't yield anything but sublimity and inspiring awe . Thus into man 's relation to reality enters some element of disinterested love , of nonutilitarian admiration , of freedom from the bondages of economic conditions , and these elements tinge the entire life of people here . Another reason for the spirit found is that this university was for a long time preferred by professors and students whose lungs were not very strong , and people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the average . Maybe also the president of this university , a man of enlightened enthusiasm for his mission , is to be thanked for this hopeful state of things . Be this as it may , I have met more understanding here and understood people better after a very short time than in any other place here or abroad . In short , I think this is a model university in an ideal frame . T " president took me for a long ride to and through the Rocky Mountain National Park . The road is positively a masterwork of technology and surpasses any similar construction in the European mountains . In Estes Park we met two professors of the university who had come to spend their week-end in a log cabin . The possibility of living a couple of days in this overwhelmingly beautiful landscape certainly accounts at least in part for the high-spirited atmosphere of the University of Colorado . Here a man who wants to have a rest or to concentrate on his work for some days can easily in a couple of hours reach the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have to travel many hundreds of miles before reaching anything similar . On the way , I had a long and very interesting conversation with the president about the American educational system . He affirmed , rightly to my mind , that the state universities are not designed to train an elite of scholars , but to educate good and useful citizens . I wonder whether there could not be a division of work between the state universities and the privately endowed institutions , so that the endowed universities could limit themselves to graduate education and to the training of an elite of specialized scholars and future teachers . This would bring them nearer to the European type of universities , all of which aim at being research institutes as well as schools . In many branches of learning , research can not go on or at least is not fruitful without teaching , and the establishment of schools and traditions of science depends upon this amalgamation of teaching and research . Of course the endowed universities would in this case have to specialize in their turn , be it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best possible libraries and other equipment . No university can reach completeness in its library , for instance , in all fields of learning ; but it could be practically complete if it specialized in a certain field ? mathematics , for instance , or chemistry , or Romance languages . Such a division of work would also counteract a certain pragmatic trend of education which does not hamper the training of good citizens but does hamper the progress of pure science . That law students are not required to study Roman law certainly does not prevent them from becoming excellent lawyers and judges , but it certainly is a lack in the educational program designed for scientific jurisprudence . This university recently created a doctorate of education for which no foreign language is required . This to my mind , goes a bit too far on the way to pragmatism . I doubt whether a man can come to a real understanding of his own language without studying at least one foreign language , and I doubt whether any understanding of foreign civilizations is possible without a knowledge of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education to be entirely dependent on the literature of pedagogics which is available in his own language ? The pragmatic approach to science contaminates even those who are not pragmatists . The mathematician of this university , who had studied in Germany , complained that the philosophers and other humanists in general do not realize that there is something in mathematics besides a technique , that it is one of the most profound and admirable achievements of pure intellect of which the human mind is capable . It is a pity , I think , that a mathematician of the importance of Professor K. should be used only for teaching future engineers , without having a chance to impart to students the spirit of pure mathematics . Denver , Colorado A THE public library , whose director is a specialist in the history of Colorado , I went through the collection of books , manuscripts , and pictures relative to local history . Here again I saw photographs of Denver , Central City , and other places taken in the early days or during the boom , and again I noticed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are in Europe . What would European historiography be if we had as complete records of the early days of Athens , or Rome , or Paris , as we have of the origins of civilization in Colorado ! The custom of establishing centers for the study of regional history at the public libraries , or at the state universities , or at the state historical societies , seems to me an excellent and adequate organization for historical research . In some of these places I have seen the business and private correspondence of the early settlers , interviews with old people who witnessed the pioneer days , and so on ; to the historian such documents are of greater value than any official papers . I was very pleased to notice that in this respect the interest in political history does not prevail over the interest in other provinces of civilization . And this latter interest can be satisfied only by records which unless taken care of by local institutions would be irretrievably lost . TV Salt Lake City , Utah O N A first walk through the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deseret : Deseret Cleaners and Dyers , Deseret Loan Association , Deseret Barber Shop , Deseret Mortuary , Deseret Beauty Parlor , Deseret News , and so on . Only later , when I read the Book of Mormon , did I realize that Deseret is the name of the honeybee which accompanied the settlers in the Valley of Nimrod . Next to Deseret comes the name of Zion , which reminds one of the Old Testament derivation claimed by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints . In spite of all the more or less humorous stories about the Mormons , I think they represent one of the most consistent , though very naive , modern dialectifications of the fundamental Christian creed , a dialectification adapted to the condition of the people whose religion it was designed to provide . Of course , measured by the standards of Catholic or Calvinist theology , its dogmatic foundation and its scriptural background are rather meager , and the Book of Mormon as well as the other books of the Mormon canon can not withstand any critical analysis . The names in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sound like Hebrew , but they can not fool anybody who knows Hebrew . However , neither Joseph Smith nor the miserable and illiterate settlers to whom his prophecies were addressed knew Hebrew . None of the cultural traditions which were concomitant with Catholicism or Protestantism were present when the Mormon movement started . So there were only two possibilities for safeguarding Christianity : either to reduce it to conventional lip service , or to transform it so radically that it would be adequate for the terrific conditions of life under which the Mormons had to strive . Such a radical transformation could not be achieved through a mere reinterpretation of the Scripture . Therefore a religious revolution had to take place , and revolutions in the field of religion are achieved through new revelations . Hence the series of new revelations to Joseph Smith , which as a matter of fact overthrew the whole system of Christian faith and renounced such fundamental points of doctrine as original sin and predestination . A group engaged in a struggle so hard that it seemed hopeless could not , indeed , afford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor could they cope with the idea that all their sufferings might be in vain because they were perhaps predestined to eternal damnation . Once the consistent and rigid dogmatic system of the vested churches had been thrown overboard , lots of primitive mythical elements filled the vacuum . What makes the Mormons ' return to primitiveness in the nineteenth century so interesting and revealing when it is seen in relation to the structure of civilization is the fact that it was a manifest success . Salt Lake City is , indeed , in its totality a monument of Mormon colonization , one of the hardiest colonizations in American history . The broad , friendly , and clean streets , the state capitol overgrown with roses , the signs of economic wealth , the school system ? all these , created by the Mormons within a few decades in the wilderness of Utah , are expressive witnesses of the fruitfulness of Joseph Smith 's and Brigham Young 's original and efficient inspiration . Less than any other American reformers were they preoccupied with safeguarding imported traditions . They transformed Christianity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a new synthesis to a given set of conditions . Luther and Calvin claimed no new revelations , because the conditions of civilization to which they wanted to adjust Christianity were not substantially different from those prevailing in the early church . But the conditions of pioneer life Joseph Smith and Brigham Young had to cope with made insufficient every reform that would have respected the continuity of tradition . Today , of course , the traditions of the founders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints have in their turn partly degenerated into mere conventions because the conditions of life are no longer what they were in pioneer days . Not only polygamy but other Mormon tenets , too , do not correspond to the conditions of present-day life . But whereas polygamy had to be given up in practice because it was incompatible with the highest norms of American civilization , other peculiarities remained because of the especially strong inertia inherent in religious norms and because otherwise this church would easily have been absorbed by powerful competing denominations . When a middle-aged lady in powder-blue dress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tourists through the Mormon sanctuary in the center of the town and five or six times a day falls into identical fits of ecstasy before every relic on which she comments , when she turns down with identical expressions of indignation every critical or skeptical question , you can not but feel that her faith is out of tune with the civilization she lives in . And when she proudly mentions that she was baptized more than one hundred times as proxy for some person deceased long ago , you feel with some melancholic regret that the methods of mass production have invaded the very field of salvation . It remains to be seen whether other Christian denominations whose dogmatic systems and emotional backgrounds remained more faithful to tradition coped more successfully with the difficulty of preserving a religion whose origins and development belong to civilizations so entirely different in basis from those prevailing now in this country . Since I read in an otherwise serious paper that " Jesus started the first religious picnic " or that " He believed in a workable religion that involved happiness and fun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemporary interpretations of the original Christian idea . It is quite remarkable that in spite of the primitive character of their religion the Mormon communities are rather progressive in politics and business . No place in the United States seems more predestined to isolation than this town in the middle of the Salt Desert . Yet the people here are not and were not isolationists . The reason may be that they used to send their young men abroad for two years , as I was told . As to the importance they attributed to economic activities , it may be noted not only that they control the main business enterprises in this state , but that aside from Brigham Young University the Latter-Day Saints Business College is their main educational institution . Mins is a very different region . For hundreds of miles after leaving Salt Lake the train runs through the Great Salt Desert , with hardly any vegetation except here and there low shrubs . It gives you a feeling of hopelessness , and you have all the more respect for the courage of the Mormon pioneers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continues through the greater part of Nevada . But in the morning , reaching California , you are relieved by the signs of a more hospitable region : palm trees , colorful flowers , and friendly houses in the Spanish style . Berkeley itself makes you feel as if you were in the south , and the beautiful park in which the campus lies reminds you of some Palace Hotel de luxe in Cannes or Palermo . The first contacts with the university give you already the impression that here people look at America and the world from a different angle . Spanish and Ibero-American civilizations are nearer to their minds and hearts than Anglo-Saxon patterns , and they oppose almost passionately the monopoly conceded by Eastern historians to the Anglo-Saxon elements of American civilization . The head of the history department , for instance , an old gentleman with all the ardor and lively intelligence of a youth , approaches American history from the West and Southwest ; he considers the Western Hemisphere as a unit and therefore claims that every attempt to isolate North American history and civilization from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding of America . The " wider horizons " of American history which he has posed and indefatigably fights for are indeed not only more adequate to the history of America than any isolation , but must be considered as an approach toward the idea of a universal history . This is good because , despite all setbacks , there is in all provinces of civilization a definite trend to be discovered towards a worldwide unification of civilization . Skeptics may deny such a trend and qualify the belief in it as emotional and optimistic . I do not see why it should be optimistic to aver that there is a unifying tendency in civilization . It would be an optimistic statement only if one presupposed that such a direction is desirable ? which I would by no means take for granted . But as to the facts , only those who identify history with political history could deny them . In all the other fields the tendency is too manifest to be doubted . From tribal religions to a few world religions which are no longer considered to be irreconcilable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art and literature whose reach was confined to a more or less local public to world literature and world art ; from local economic units to world economy ? anarchic as it may be ? the history of civilization has , indeed , made headway ; and the American contribution to this process of unification is certainly one of its most effective driving powers . To recognize this trend would be optimistic only if unification did not mean standardization and automatization ; otherwise it would , to my mind , be rather pessimistic . This , I think , applies to world civilization as well as to American civilization proper . Without an adequate balance between centripetal and centrifugal forces , between centralism and regionalism , between security and freedom , the trend would , indeed , lead toward uniformity , toward an entropy of civilization , and thereby eventually to the degeneration of free civilization into a mere automatism . The ideal state is not chicken la king with federal sauce for everybody but regional cuisine available everywhere . T uE Bancroft Library is another extremely interesting and fruitful approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manuscript material relative to Western and Southwestern history . I think such regional focuses of American historical studies ought to be established and encouraged everywhere . They are , to my mind , the adequate antidote against the virus of uniformity in American civilization . If no such systematic effort is made , the trend toward uniformity will unavoidably proceed along the line of least resistance , and this line will be that of big business and mass production . Now big business and mass production necessarily draw their inspiration from markets of maximum expansion and tend toward effacing all regional differences . It is characteristic enough , I think , that east of the Mississippi and even in great parts of the Middle West you can not find any " souvenirs " of local origin ; for big business and mass production are mainly located there . The trends toward uniformity in American civilization have their sources in the East , and the opposing driving powers originate in the West and Southwest . I was very much surprised to find this observation confirmed in a field where I had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York daily newspaper west of the Mississippi , but you can find there most of the New York-made magazines ? mainly those which have no literary or other noncommercial ambition . The big New York newspapers have subscribers everywhere , of course , but they are not available at the newsstands in the railway depots or in town . People in the American provinces strongly dislike New York and do not want to get their information and opinion from there . But this is not merely the effect of resentment against what is considered the conceit of more fortunate kinsmen . Everywhere people feel that New York has a bastard civilization and does not represent America . Even in conservative circles I found an emotional dislike for New York . Rightly or wrongly New York is identified with the powers which suppress or hamper the development of regional civilization . As far as the newspapers are concerned this dislike is , to my mind , a self-deception . Identical columns figure , indeed , in all provincial papers ? the same comics , the same commentators , the same news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the mass-producers and overflow the markets with their New York-made merchandise . Another effect of this situation is that the provinces are less well informed about world issues than people in New York are . As to the magazines , their influence runs parallel to that of the movies ? that is , it mostly represents an appeal to the least desirable level of unification ( although the fact that some magazines which have a nationwide distribution stand on a relatively high level refutes the commercial idea that you must go down to a very low level in order to reach the masses ) . Here again we see the uniformalizing effect of mass production . If you do not know anything about the specific outlook of your reader or public , you surmise that it is the average bad one and you conclude that if you are to sell a maximum quantity , your product must have the minimum quality . I have noticed everywhere that whatever emerges from locally rooted production represents a remarkably higher standard than what is imported from centers that try to satisfy all regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of flower gardening , furniture , and cuisine . Wherever and whenever local civilization is the result of a specification of general trends through adaptation to local traditions and natural conditions , it is satisfactory and promising . Wherever and whenever the ultimate specifications of a style , a doctrine , a political creed are determined without reference to those local elements and imposed from the outside , they are as indifferent and fake as artificial flowers in a five-and-ten-cent store . This is true of newspaper columns , too . San Francisco , California S AN FRANC/SCO itself , of course , owing to its history and its geographical position , has an individual character which distinguishes it at first sight from any other American town . When you begin to realize the difference you are tempted to believe that it is more European than the towns of the East and the Middle West . But this proves to be an optical illusion caused by the fact that San Francisco is more individualized . The reason for this specific character is not only its age ; it is mainly that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the invasion by mass production and federal patterns began , so that it could effectually resist the trend toward uniformity . Whenever patterns were simply transferred here from the East and Middle West ? as happened with architecture after the earthquake , or " the big fire " as people here call it superstitiously ? the result was a break of unity which shocks at first sight . It is strange to observe that Chinese buildings disturb this unity less than skyscrapers and chain stores do , probably because the former are better adapted to the natural conditions than the latter . What makes San Francisco so unique is the combination of Latin traditions , geographic position , hilly topography , and the delightful surroundings . It is picturesque in so far as it does not share the rectilineal and somehow rigid lines of Anglo-Saxon Americanism . Maybe this observation provides a clue to a structural characteristic of American civilization . In Europe traditions and conventions have been interwoven into such a complex and inextricable texture that it is impossible to follow up the single threads of religious , aesthetic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No trait is simple , unequivocal , and straight . In the New World , by contrast , the number of components , and consequently the number of possible combinations , is relatively small . The Pilgrim Fathers very soon cut the umbilical cord which linked them to the Old World . Detached from their native soil , uprooted , transplanted into radically different natural conditions , compelled to cope with the hardships of life in a wilderness , they became simple , rectilineal , unsophisticated , rough , pragmatic , uncompromising . ( Many place-names in this country are symbols of this process . Ithaca no longer calls to mind here the memory of Odysseus but that of a college ; Sacramento is associated no longer with the mystery of transubstantiation but with a state capital . ) Hence the pragmatic and utilitarian approach to reality that certainly is characteristic of Americanism . Nothing , indeed , equalizes men so much as a common struggle against an apparently overwhelming danger . This uniformity accounts for the favor statistics enjoy in this country . Whereas in Europe intuition suffices on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , styles from each other , in America differences can be grasped only in terms of statistical surveys . It accounts , too , for the fact that two big political parties are quite sufficient to represent the existing shades of political conviction . Even those two parties agree on common principles , which they specify variously , but they are not separated by irreconcilable ideologies . This is the reason why freedom in this country can be more unlimited than in any European nation . Fundamentally all genuine Americans think , feel , wish the same way and pursue the same kind of happiness . The differences represent adjustments to contingent individual conditions rather than irreconcilable basic principles of conduct . One has but to compare political life here and in the oldest European civilization ? namely , in France ? to understand the totally different structure of the respective civilizations . To my mind , the fact that here all things have a common denominator must be taken into consideration if one wishes to understand American civilization . Look at American hotels in the various regions , look at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drug stores , movies . They enjoy almost complete freedom of competition , and their patrons enjoy almost complete freedom of choice between them . Yet all enterprises offer the same merchandise , the same comfort , the same publicity at the same prices . I would not be so sure , therefore , whether mass production has made people less individual or whether on the contrary it emerged because the consumers on which it depended were less radically individualized . Probably both things co-operated in bringing about the present conditions .                     