@@487516

THE appeal for unity and progress , heard faintly in the Arab countries since the turn of the century and a bit more loudly after the Palestine debacle , has been drowned out once again by nationalist reaction to the maneuvers of the imperialist powers . In the aftermath of a disastrous aggressive war a few enlightened Arabs dared to speak out in favor of real political unity as the precursor of a program of social betterment , but nothing was accomplished . The monarchs , the landowners , and the military cliques are still on top , still bickering among themselves , still conspiring , and still ready to collaborate with anyone who will help protect them against a popular revolt . Eight years ago , when the Arab League was created by the British Colonial Office , there was a slender chance - that it might , despite its dubious origin , weld the Arabic-speaking states into a bloc strong enough to withstand outside pressures , or at least ready to begin the implementation of its pledge " to achieve a dose cooperation in economic , cultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As it turned out , the only cohesive force within the League was an antipathy to foreign influence ; this was encouraged by the British and directed , according to circumstances , against the French or the Jews . The following years produced no agreement , no working plan , on any economic , cultural , or social issue . CONSTANTINE POULOS is well known to Nation readers for his informed and hewslels reports ahem : the situation in Greece . He is now The Nation 's and the Overseas News Agency 's correspondent in Israel . Even on Palestine there was no real agreement . Recently well-wishers of the league have hoped that Arab defeat in Palestine , which dealt it a severe blow , might ultimately strengthen it . The ineffectual meeting of the League Council , held in Cairo in mid-October after countless postponements , merely emphasized the disunity and aroused speculation as to the date of the league 's formal demise . It is perhaps significant that the complete bankruptcy of the league as a unifying and progressive force is revealed at a time when the Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past three decades . Egypt , relatively stable and partly Westernized , with a population almost equal to that of all the other Arab countries put together , is plagued by the same economic and political weaknesses and by the same social contradictions that are undermining the foundations of all the Arab nations of the Middle East . Last January , after the audacious penetration of Israeli forces into Egyptian territory , there was serious danger that the whole regime , induding the King , might fall . With the aid of martial law , strict censorship , and a propaganda campaign about proposed social reforms and public-works projects , the awkward moment was eased over . Although literate Egyptians did not quite swallow the official story that Egypt had emerged victorious from a defensive war against a Jewish aggressor , the country was pacified . But martial law has not been lifted . Thousands are still imprisoned as potential enemies of the state . Barbed wire still surrounds public buildings . Censorship continues . Devaluation of the pound sterling , followed by Egyp ? siecem oer 24 , 1949 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's export season for cotton , when deals for the coming year are made . Combined with considerable damage to this year 's cotton crop by pests , devaluation has caused a catastrophic decline in receipts from cotton exports , on which the country 's economic life depends . Not only is a revision in Egypt 's import program , which would require the imposition of drastic controls , called for , but also a further scaling down of the ephemeral develop-. ment plans . A nervous market and a shortage of investment capital reflect the government 's unsound fiscal program , which now allots nearly a fourth of the budget ( 178,000,000 ) to the expanding army . A few men , , like former Premier Ismail Sidky Pasha , have spoken out bluntly , saying that it was nonsense for Egypt to start building a big army before social reforms were effected . No one has dared to ask what was to be the precise role of a " big " army . Progress in Egypt , which has not been inconsiderable during the past twenty years , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ catching up with the dynasty , the politicians , and the landlords . It can be directed against the Jews , the British , or other foreigners or distracted by army circuses and promises of reform , but it can not be controlled forever in a country where the death rate is the highest in the world , where the real income per person is probably the lowest in the world , and where food rations were distributed during the war on the basis of income , the higher income groups getting bigger rations . One of the reforms promised to take the people 's minds off the Palestine war was free elections . At first , elections were scheduled for the end of the summer ; now they have been set for January 3 ; but there will be no relaxation of martial law . The Palace worked out a scheme whereby no party would win a dominant position ; the elections were to be so " arranged " that each of the three major parties  --  the Saadist , the Liberal , and the Wafdist  --  should have about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 per cent to be distributed among minor parties . This would preclude a one-party government and strengthen'the position of the ambitious young King . The plan was accepted , and the three parties , without waiting for the election , formed a government , but the W afdists at once proceeded to ignore the rules and to campaign for as many seats as possible . This episode reveals perfectly the thought processes of the ruling classes in Arab countries . There is no serious consideration of the people 's will or of their right to express it freely . Alterations in the power structure amount to no more than a superficial shuffling of personalities drawn from a small , fabulously wealthy section of the population . Reform , which means primarily land reform , can only be brought about by a change in the present distribution of wealth and power . On the character-of that change , when it comes , depends the immediate future of the Middle East . It is routine to report that mass revolt is a strong possibility in all the Arab countries of the Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep it down or to channel it are based on the promise of a " second round " against Israel . Even attempts to carry through any one of the various unification schemes ? for a Greater Syria , the Fertile Crescent , and so on  --  use the argument that they would hurt " no one except the Zionists . " Actually , of course , - the relation of the Arab governments with the new Jewish state are not a vital factor in the internal struggle for power that is now going on in all the Arab countries or in the resurgence of the old bitter enmities among the Arab rulers . The quiet acceptance of the armistice with Israel disproved the much-parroted theory that no Arab government signing such an agreement could survive . THIS is not to suggest that the failure in Palestine did THI stir the Arab people . It bewildered , frightened , and humiliated them . And it aroused a sullen Cringing for a strong man  --  a Saladin , an Ataturk  --  who would not only revenge the honor of Islam but wipe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Arab weakness . For a brief moment last spring when General Husni Zayim seized power in Syria , it seemed that the bout had produced the man . Before Zayim 's coup discontent had been rife throughout Syria . Zayim 's bold promises and his attacks on the old order caught the imagination of many people . Here , it was hoped , was the man who could lead the Arab countries out of the morass of their disunity and backwardness . It was only a mirage . Zayim 's self-centered opportunism made him an easy pawn of the big powers . General Zayim became Marshal Zayim and boasted that he would build the biggest army in the Middle East . The French , never reconciled to their unceremonious war-time expulsion from the Middle East , were glad to help . In violation of the United Nations embargo , they supplied Zayim with a considerable quantity-of arms . The Turks , anxiously looking for friends , offered encouragement ; and advice . Egypt , very much aware of Zayim 's opposi-tion r ? to any plan for a federation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new Syrian ruler . Zayim 's hatred of the Hashemite kingdoms of Iraq and Trans-Jordan , which he shrewdly camouflaged during the first few weeks of his rule , was fanned by the French , who saw in it a means of countering British influence in the Middle East . Eventually , the British , noting with alarm the increasing French influence , decided that perhaps Zayim was not so bad after all . The responsible British press described him as a " new-type dictator , " strong-armed but paternal and benevolent  --  just the type of dictator the Arab countries needed and 618 one with whom the powers could work . But by the time the British got around to changing their policy , Zayim had thanked the still unpopular French for their aid and turned to a more formidable patron , the United States . Zayim 's success in playing off the powers went to his head ; lacking Ataturk 's sagacity , he assumed the overbearing manner of Mussolini . Since his boasts and promises proved to be hollow he could win no new supporters and was obliged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had sworn to displace . The far-reaching reforms he had promised were forgotten . To obtain funds for his grandiose military plans he taxed even ordinary soldiers and minor officials . The landlords and merchants did not trust the blustering pretender . Four months after he had seized power Zayim was assassinated . The French and Egyptians were dismayed . The Turks went home . The British did n't say a word . Amman and Bagdad paid their respects to the new government , and the Americans were chagrined . The officers who killed Zayim announced that they did sr " to restore Syria'is democratic freedoms . They replaced Zayim with men from the group which had provided Syria with bad government for the past thirty years . The election held in mid-November did not alter the situation , even though the new Parliament is supposed to draw up a new constitution . ( In the last Parliament 96 of 109 members were landlords . ) It is significant , however , that the Popular Party , which has an avowed policy of collaboration with Great Britain and hitherto has always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seats , though not a majority . The NATION expansion in the Middle East , but its antiquated land-tenure system , - which reduces the farmer to a mere serf-tenant , is a serious obstacle to their development . Despite pretty promises by various Iraqi governments to encourage the break-up of large land-holdings , the extension of large ownership is going on at a rapid pace . The governments can not be expected to alter the situation since they are made up of landowners . Similarly , Parliament , which also represents the land-owning class , refuses to consider any taxation that would seriously affect its own income . The only taxes passed by the present Parliament were excise duties on the produce of animals and of trees ; these obviously raised the already high cost of food and hit the poor rather than the rich . As the gap between rich and poor grows wider , Iraq blames the Jews , the British , and the Palestine war . It persists in cutting off the flow of crude oil to the refineries at Haifa , though it has been hard hit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the oil fields . Having built up the Israeli threat to huge proportions for domestic reasons , Iraq 's rulers now fear that a relaxation of the blockade might result In anti-government agitation . There may be some basis for this fear , but the government has brought the danger on itself . What the Iraqi leaders are most afraid of is that the agitation would not be directed solely against the government 's policy toward Israel but might take on a class character . The United States shares this fear . Iraq happens to be the country that is closest at the moment to the condition of political and economic chaos which State Department officials like to label a " vacuum . " Unquestionably , the Soviet Union would be all too happy to fill that vacuum . At varying rates of speed the other Arab countries of the Middle East are approaching a similar state . The situation is extremely fluid . Washington 's apprehensions are certainly justified . Washington 's approach , though anything but clearly defined , does not as yet offer much hope . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Arab governments that the Jews are responsible for all their troubles  --  that their domestic economic difficulties are a consequence of the Palestine war and the remedy is a " second round " against Israel . Washington 's failure to reject these arguments has encouraged the Arab leaders to continue to use them in an effortto divert the people 's minds from their real problems and to use the unfortunate Palestinian Arab refugees as a political weapon . The State Department 's preoccupation with " stability " forces it into the same old rut . To the State Department mind that illusive essential , " stability , " must not be compromised by any consideration of the increasing demand - of the Arab peoples for social change . Consequently , the department feels obliged to support the Intrenched ruling class , which in every Arab country is predominantly composed of big December 24 , 1949 landowners . Lacking all sense of social responsibility , this class is bound to resist attempts to raise rural living standards or to strengthen the half-conscious desire of the poor for better health and more education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insura " mountable obstacles which President Truman 's much propagandized Point Four would meet in this region . All the Arab governments have interpreted Point Four to mean simply a chance to get United States largess on their own terms  --  the terms being , of course , that the present distribution of political power and income must not be disturbed . The London Economist recently estimated , " conservatively , " that Middle East oil production over the next ten years would yield six billion dollars to the Arab countries , induding Iran , in royalties and local expenditures . Yet It has never been suggested that some of this immense wealth be used for social reform . The Kremlin 's expansionist plans include this strategic and valuable area , and its agents find the soil fertile for working . France still hopes to return triumphant to the Levant . Great Britain clings expertly and with surprising tenacity to its preeminent position . The United States , which has by and large deferred to British interests , even to the extent of allowing British political influence to limit American economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own . No matter how much it is labored over , United States policy on the Middle East still bears a striking resemblance to the historically compromised position of the British . In arguing that Israel must make " concessions " to the Arab landlords in order to prevent political chaos in the Arab countries , Washington speaks with a ' Whitehall accent . And sometimes , as when the British supply the Egyptians with jet fighters for " internal-security reasons , " the State Department loses its voice altogether . Since no constructive Anglo-American collaboration based on a recognition of the Arab people 's desire for change can be expected , an unrealistic British policy will probably prevail . A reading of the present situation in the Middle East indicates , therefore , that Arab nationalism , which is based on a lack of self-confidence , will be effectively aroused , and that the mood of revolt prevailing in the more undeveloped sections of the Arab world will be properly exploited by dangerous demagogues . As a result , right-wing revolutions will probably take place in all the Arab countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to right-wing dictatorships , which will ruthlessly instal one-party regimes , preserve the existing social order  --  although the form of property relations and exploitation may be altered  --  attempt to blackmail the United States for dollars by pointing to the Russian threat , and prepare for the renewal of hostilities against Israel . 