@@494187

occasion for the American retaliations that had brought on the climax . In short , the stumbling-block was China . And this was in accord with all precedents . For without the documentary'evidence presented in the Hull state ? ment , it was clear to those who knew the Far East that Japan might concede everything else but not China , that she very likely would , in fact , concede everything else if in return she received American recognition , and thereby British recognition , of her conquest of China . British Malaya , French Indo-China and the Dutch East Indies were not in themselves worth a war to Japan ; China was . British Malaya , French Indo-China and the Dutch East Indies may or may not have been worth a war to the United States ; but on . China it drew the line . On China the war came and , logically in the circumstances , against America the first Japanese attack was directed . Through all modern Far Eastern history runs a single logical thread : the status of China . Shall China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colony , subject to what empire ? So long as that question has not been definitively answered there has been no real peace in the Far East but only an uneasy truce . Until it is set- tled there will be no peace . Why America should be a protagonist for one answer ? for an independent China ? it is not easy to say . Partly the reason lies in the desire of all govern ? ments for consistency for its own sake : reversal of policy is confession of previous error and a wound to self-esteem , raising considerations of prestige . Partly it lies in considerations of security , of balance of power . Partly ? probably mostly ? it lies in the economic stake which the development of China offers and the unwill ? ingness of the United States to permit any other power to appropriate that stake . Whatever the reason , there has been a steady , almost fateful , progression toward culmination in a Far Eastern war since the United States emerged from political adolescence and became a world power at the turn of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over China we shall be at war again unless China is wholly free or irrevoc ? ably conquered by some one great power . Since irre ? vocable conquest is almost inconceivable unless one power acquires unchallengeable world supremacy , this is to say that we shall be at war again and recurrently unless China is independent and secure in her own right . As a matter of fact the charter of.peace in the Far East lies in the terms the American government submitted to Japan : evacuation of all alien military forces from China , abandonment of extra-territoriality and all foreign rights and interests in concessions and settlements on Chinese soil . These were the conditions of peace as between the United States and Japan . They will be the conditions of peace as among any other powers in the Far East after this war . Secretary Hull has himself written in advance of the war the crucial provisions for the treaty of peace that will conclude it , provisions that must operate against all great pow ? ers and not Japan only . Thus and thus alone will the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So we know what we are fighting for in the AT LAST our hour has come , when our ultimate strength is tested , and the hopes of the world rest upon the decision . With it have come the great solvents of war , cleansing the consciousness and will of America in a way that could not have been achieved in peacetime . We look for victory . It demands of us tasks so tre ? mendous that they dwarf our present effort . To meet these tasks , we must achieve unity ; but unity , to be lasting , must be based , not on our present failures , but on the program for victory which our leadership undertakes . In the first moments of our hour , we have suffered heavy defeats . Our naval losses expose the failure of our naval strategy . The failure of our War Department and of the Office of Production Management in pro ? duction and preparedness is not yet exposed in action ; but it is known . Behind these immediate failures lie years of mistaken diplomacy which strengthened the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretaries Knox , Stimson and Hull , and later William Knudsen , will undergo violent criticism . Our greatest danger now is that our criticism may stop with these men . The fact is that in each case the failure is a group and not an , individual responsibility . Because real unity in America demands real leadership we need to be critical of these groups in a positive way . In foreign relations , it was the responsibility of the Foreign Service to report accurately to the President the plans of the Axis and to prepare all possible support for America in case of an emergency . For years , it is now clear , the Foreign Service has misinformed us concerning Japan 's and Germany 's intentions , and the nations of Latin America have been left open to Axis intrigue . In common fairness to our new allies , China , Russia and Britain , we should rid ourselves of those who negotiated with our enemies . Far'more important , we need now to mobilize all Latin America for war upon the Axis . This means preparedness for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension of the blockade and rounding up all Axis agents . The Foreign Service , as a group , is incapable of directing this task . In the navy , the responsibility for our defeat is again a corporate responsibility . The bureaucracy of the Navy Department has always been closed to reform . It has held its civilian chiefs , such men as Knox and Forrestal , as helpless hostages . In details of operation , the navy may be magnificent ; in formulating policy , it is para ? lyzed by tradition and conservatism . The alternative to further naval defeat , which would be followed by a full investigation by Congress in which a large seg ? ment of the naval bureaucracy would be ripped out , is to remedy this situation no matter at what cost . In the War Department , a military bureaucracy similar to that in the Navy has mastered details of operation and developed important innovations in tech nique . It has never understood its functions on the policy-making level , and it has insisted upon retaining in its own hands the vital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training nor ability . For two years , the incompetence of the army bureaucracy in determining and fulfilling military requirements has strangled our war effort . Today the army bureaucracy is divided . The General Staff is discharging its func ? tions in determining its requirements : the Air Corps , the Quartermaster Corps and the Ordnance Depart ? ment are , by their incompetence , making the fulfil ? ment of those requirements impossible . Of course , there are individual generals who should be removed , just as Britain removed many of her top generals in order to live . But the problem is again not one of individuals . The entire army caste is incompe ? tent by training , experience and character to discharge industrial and economic functions , and the heighten ? ing of the emergency by war can not make experts of untrained men . But beyond that , we even lack officers . We need all of them we have , for military operations . The War Department should realize that for its own good the functions of contracting , subcontracting and allocating for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at once be transferred to a civilian agency . In the field of production , the tasks are so new that no bureaucracy similar to the military and naval bureaucracies has yet been created . Yet already groups can be distinguished which have or have not achieved results . As a group , the government lawyers and eco ? nomists who entered the defense agencies have done wonderfully well . As a group , the industrialists have not shown the same ability . They have not grasped the size of the production program ; their inhibitions have prevented them from reorganizing even their own industries , and their expectations of post-war business relations with one another have led them to stand to ? gether to defend even the most obvious incompetents among them . To approach the problem of these executives as simply a group question would of course be to create deep disunity . Many industrialists have done well , and a few have been backed by the New Deal to rise to the highest positions of leadership . They have not proved equal to the responsibilities . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief executive of a central production authority . Even the men in whom the greatest hope was placed have failed to sustain their early promise and have not attempted to force a real production program through . The proved failures among them must go . Knudsen must go . As Director General of the OPM , he is the outstanding failure of the defense program . Under Knudsen , the OPM has been given full power to mobilize for all-out production . If the country real ? ized the extent to which the OPM has been content to stand by and watch the War Department fumble the job , Knudsen would be back in Detroit today . He has never tackled the army . He has never seen pro ? duction as anything more than the construction of new factories taking years to build . He has never sought to convert existing resources and , thanks to him , the auto ? mobile industry has not yet undertaken the most ele ? mentary task of conversion to war production ? the pooling of its captive machine-tools equipment that Walter Reuther demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted " the victory produc ? tion schedule of 1,000 heavy bombers a month . But when ? Next year , or in 1943 , or in three years ' time ? He does not know . His entire weight within the OPM , and the weight of his chosen subordinates , is today thrown against the Victory Program . To Knudsen , this program may mean a nice idea which is beyond our power to produce : to the American people , it means what it says : Victory . They want it at any cost . They have not yet realized that the cost is Knudsen . When , after months of war , we still fail to meet the Victory Program schedules , Knudsen will be found out . in war , we can not wait . Knudsen must go . Jesse Jones must go . By his extraordinary craft and intelligence , Jones has amassed to himself control over all strategic imports , all new defense plants and all expansion programs of aluminum and magnesium . The power that he has accumulated he has used to befriend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay production schedules . Jones 's empire must be broken . The financing of strategic imports should go to the Economic Defense Board ; the Defense Plant Cor ? poration should go to an agency of production ; or Jones himself should go . With Jones and Knudsen must go the other men j who have demonstrated , their inability to do this job . A. H. Bunker , chief of the aluminum branch of the OPM , must go . H. P. Church , the senior consultant in copper ; Frank Ayres , the production adviser in cop- per and zinc , and the other men who ( as Senator Truman has shown ) have aided the copper , zinc and aluminum producers deliberately to hold production down , must go . W. H. Harrison chief of the Production Division of the OPM , has failed to tackle the Victory Program . He must go . Mason Britton , chief of the crucial ma ? chine-tools branch , has not measured up to the job ; Merrill Meigs , the good fellow from Chicago , is still in charge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this division have held back production and with it our hopes of victory . They must go . Floyd Odium , in charge of procurement for the OPM , must go . He has begged the procurement divisions of the War Department , without success , to give him some little crumb of recognition . His main proposal , to give small business men a two-percent cut of scarce materials , has been rightly rejected by the SPAB . If the procurement functions of the War De ? partment are to be transferred to the OPM , then Odium should leave the Engineering Advisory Com ? mittee , which he has wisely created , in full authority . With these men must go many others : Dr. E. R. . Weidlem , the representative of the Mellon Institute in the chemicals branch ; Philip Reed , assistant chief of the raw-materials division of the OPM ; Charles F. Palmer , coordinator of defense housing ; Lessing Rosenwald , in charge of conservation ; John Lord O'Brian , the General Counsel of the OPM ; Stettinius and McCabe in the Lease-Lend Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emergency and they must go . These are the principal failures at the defense job . In the earliest days of the war , when the people be ? lieved in compromise and industry paid no attention todefense , it was perhaps necessary , for political consid ? erations , to bring many of these men to Washington . Today , victory is the only consideration , and none of them meets the standards that victory requires . Their continued existence in the strategic centers of the war effort endangers the safety of all of us . The danger is fully recognized in Washington . The only argument advanced against reorganization is that it would cause initial losses . We had far better suffer these losses now when the fronts are at Moscow and Manila than wait until further defeats bring the fronts to our own shores . In these two years of war , we have passed through the stage of the Winfield Scotts . We have reached the stage of the McClellans when our plans are perfect ? on paper ? but we are losing the battles . Do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Hookers and the Burnsides , with the losses of Bull Run , Corinth and Chancellorsville , before we reach the stage of the Grants and the Shermans , the only men who can bring us victory ? We have our Grants and Shermans in America ? the engineers out in the factories ; the union men who have produced some of the best contributiOns to war production ; able men in Washington brought forward during the New Deal ; all the able old fighters who , today , are unused and ready . The issue between these men and our present executives is not one of liberalism or reaction . It is an issue of success or failure in battle . We need these men now , desperately . Pride and prejudice must not be the determinants of victory or defeat . to our forces and our allies in the Pacific . More supplies , not less , must go to Britain and Rus ? sia . Vastly increased production is imperative . Already the load on industry in the United States is heavy . To build the load @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burden of total war will tax not only the mechanical capacity of the United States but also our genius for organization and management . We began by placing orders with the larger existing plants and by contracting for the construction of gigan ? tic new mass-scale-production facilities . This assurance as to future strength involves at least three risks . Of pressing import is the risk of failure to produce the maximum possible of needed combat instruments now , today and tomorrow when the tempo of conflict is fast , when supplies and material are being used up rapidly , when the resistance of democracies to aggression hangs in the balance , and when more materials of all kinds are sorely needed . Another risk is that we may be turn ? ing excessive amounts of critical raw materials andskilled capacity into equipment that can be used only for the production of implements of war . And again , by excessive additions to the national plant ? we have already provided for them to the tune of many billion dollars and the tempo has been rapidly increasing ? we are making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such an incre ? ment of new plant may stimulate at first , but there is danger of acute indigestion later . We may be imposing unnecessarily on our economic set-up to an extent that will make the illness that began in 1929 appear mild by contrast . We must apply at once that genius for organization and management in which the United States has math ? fest capacity . The situation is a challenge to take in hand the total national plant and plan its utilization as effectively for all purposes ? civilian as well as defense needs ? as the best managed individual plants in indus ? try are now utilized . This is the essence of the sev ? eral testimonies of the undersigned before the House Committee Investigating National Defense Migration                     