@@475137

THE Japanese Mandated islands in the Pacific are to-day a worry to the American people . Up to De-cember 7 , 1941 , few Americans gave them so much as a passing thought ; and fewer still ever bothered to inquire exactly how they got into Japan 's hands about four centuries after their original discovery by the Spanish and Portuguese . But since Pearl Harbor many writers have discussed them sententiously on the correct assumption that they played ( and still play ) a role in the war dangerous to the United States and her Pacific allies , and the incorrect assumption that the American people might easily have taken possession of them at various times in the past ? and would have done so had they not been stupid . The island groups involved are the Marianas , the Marshalls , and the Caro-lines , in which a minor group , the Palaus , is usually included since it is joined administratively . In this article I call them the Mandates , even though they did not assume that character until after the First World War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philippines and the Dutch East Indies , and extend Japan 's power south almost to the equator a vast collection of stationary airplane carriers , with fortifications of unknown strength scattered through them and a strong naval operating base at Truk in the Carolines . American raids into the Marshalls were described by Fletcher Pratt in Harper 's for January , 1943 . Alexander Kiralfy , the writer on naval strategy , has summed up the " ifs " of the Mandates as far as their strategic significance goes : Had Japan not held them " The raid upon Pearl Harbor might not have occurred and the Philippines could have been readily reinforced . Australia and the East Indies would have been well beyond Japan 's wildest ambitions . " This encompasses so much that the chagrin of the many commentators seized with the same idea is easy to understand . Why on earth , they unanimously shout , were the Japanese ever allowed to get a hold on those islands ? On the political side Walter Lippmann has fastened upon the Mandates as one of many illustrations of his thesis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living foreign policy . Assuming that Woodrow Wilson at the Paris Peace Conference had the disposition of the islands in his hands and let them go to Japan , he wrathfully writes , " Such a neglect of American interest , such a failure to see the value of these islands , would have been impossible if Americans had had a foreign policy . " In various terms , other writers have supported Lippmann 's view , both before and after he gave it the setting of a disputable general thesis . The strategic value of the Mandates is now plain for all to see . Ex post facto any strategist , armchair or professional , can be wise . It is however only an incidental part of our present purpose to prove that strategists of both kinds on our side saw how important the islands would become in a trans-Pacific war . For if the strategists could not persuade the political masters of foreign policy to get possession of the islands their insight is very interesting , but not of decisive importance . What we want to know is why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered ? if it did offer . Mr. Lipprnann with magisterial aplomb puts the failure down to American incompetence , ignorance , and neglect . As is the case with so many of the ? biter dicta in U. S. Foreign Policy : Shield of the Republic , the facts do not exactly bear him out . Rather , they provide an admirable object lesson in the complexity of international affairs , even where " unknown " islands are concerned ; in the powerful influence of the dead hand of the past in international negotiations ; and in the fact that neither the complexity nor the past is dissolved by war at the behest of peace-planners with eyes dazzled by the rising sun of a new world . On this globe we inhabit it is far easier to fight a successful war than to write a decent peace . The large objectives are always being compromised by the little , sticky facts . A man who successfully negotiated Niagara Falls in a barrel slipped on a banana peel in New Zealand and broke his neck . ri-NCIE first occasion when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mandated islands was when the Spanish-American War was being settled ; for at that time all the islands , except the Marshalls , were possessions of defeated Spain . The Marshalls had passed to Germany in 1885 . In that year Great Britain and Germany had arranged a settlement of claims in the Pacific whereby Germany was confirmed in possession of the northeastern portion of New Guinea , some of the northernmost Solomons , miscellaneous islands north of New Guinea eventually called the Bismarck Archipelago , and the Marshalls . All the other islands in the Mandates were owned by Spain , loosely administered from the Philippines . When the Spanish War broke out and the Philippines fell into American hands the fate of all the Spanish possessions in the Pacific was immediately a matter of international concern . It is reliably reported however that when President McKinley heard the Philippines were ours he said he " could not have told where those darned islands were within two thousand miles . " He probably knew less about the Mandates , which however were never subjects of detailed conquest . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war ended . The question of what to do with the Philippines was far more important . But even with regard to them the President , his advisers , and the great American public were uncertain . The armistice which ended the fighting stated that the question of the Philippines was to be discussed at the peace conference ; the United States asked for one island in the Marianas ( which turned out to be Guam ) ; but the Mandates were not mentioned . When it came to defining America 's wishes with regard to the Philippines there was a slow , hitching movement toward asking for all of them . It is now forgotten that this was so . It is also forgotten that many people , including some of McKinley 's closest advisers , doubted the wisdom of taking all the Philippines ? some thinking that Luzonalone was sufficient , others wanting no part of the archipelago . But in the end the United States took the lot . We even went on and tried to acquire some of the Carolines , but the Spanish finally refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because the United States had not previously raised the question of what was to become of them . But the real reason was the fact that the Spaniards had already tentatively disposed of their holdings in the Mandates . Immediately the war had broken out , the Germans began to worry about their disposition . They were , at that time , constantly on the alert for what they called " naval fulcra " which would strengthen their position in Asia and the Pacific islands . They aspired to add the Spanish islands to their Pacific possessions administered from New Guinea . On September 10 , 1898 , after the Spanish-American armistice had been signed , the Spaniards agreed to sell Germany certain of the Carolines and " to grant Germany favorable consideration in any future disposal of Spanish insular possessions " ? subject to the treaty with America . On December 10th a further treaty was signed under which the Spanish agreed to sell all the Carolines and also the Palaus and the Marianas ( except Guam ) . Germany let the United States know about this and asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " reproach " from Secretary of State John Hay . Eventually the Germans got the coveted islands for four million two hundred thousand dollars . All the Mandates were thus in the hands of Germany . This put them beyond the reach of the United States ? even theoretically ? until 1919 . There is little evidence that the United States seriously wanted the Mandates anyhow . For strategic reasons some naval people thought they should pass to the United States , but the greatest of all the naval theorists , Mahan , " saw no sufficient reason for our opposition " to their transfer to Germany . Some missionaries thought we should have taken the Caro-lines , where they had been laboring off and on for half a century . Our belated move to get some of the Carolines was inspired by the idea that they might be useful as cable stations . But the evidence is really overwhelming that American eyes were elsewhere in the Pacific . Ignoring the windy moralism of the imperialists of 1898 , American eyes were on China , Hawaii , and Samoa . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of them , was the assertion that Manila would serve as a trans-shipment port for the China trade . The imperialist outlook was commercial in character . And consider what was happening in China at that time to arouse American cupidity and alarm : Germany took Kiaochow on the Shantung peninsula on March 6 , 1898 , Russia took Port Arthur on March 27th , Great Britain took Weihaiwei on April 2nd , France took Kwangchow on April 22nd , and on June 9th Great Britain extended her holdings at Hongkong . It looked as though the powers were about to partition the ancient Empire . The Americans , with British backing , were eventually to block the logic of these changes by announcing the " open door " policy . But for our purposes it is sufficient to note that the imperialists thought of the Philippines vis a via China and the trade there which they hoped to cut in on , and the events in China in 1898 appeared to increase the urgency of the need for them . But while the imperialists were riding high enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty with Spain came within two votes of failing in the Senate . In this situation it was better strategy to concentrate on the Philippines ? to the acquisition of which the anti-imperialists were bitterly hostile ? than to scatter the fire and perhaps lose the whole case . And there was always the danger that trying to grab too much would lead to a violent collision with the Germans . Moreover the United States had lately come into possession of what was then and for many years after ? right up to December , 1941 regarded as the best strategic position in the Pacific Ocean America could possibly possess . This was Hawaii . Acting chiefly under the pressures of the Spanish War , both Houses of Congress passed the joint resolution annexing the Hawaiian Islands , and McKinley signed it on July 7 ; 1898 . This gave the United States possession of Pearl Harbor , a site for a naval base coveted for many years and subject to some American control for several years previously . And hardly was the war over than the United States acquired still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Samoan Islands , long the object of rivalry between the British ( urged on by the New Zealanders ) , the Germans , and the Americans , were split between Germany and the United States in a convention signed on December 2 , 1899 . The British took compensation elsewhere . The United States got Pago Pago , allegedly the best natural harbor in the Pacific islands after Pearl Harbor . This the navalists had coveted for sixty years ? since Captain Wilkes had visited it in 1839 . Wake Island also formally passed to American possession in 1899 . Midway had belonged to the United States since 1867 , and Alaska , including the Aleutians , also became an American possession in the same year . The Americans had a strong position in the Pacific . HI j F THE Mandates escaped the net thrown out by the American expansionists of 1898 , why did they again escape the grasp of the United States in 1919 ? Oddly enough , the two situations have a family resemblance . Once again the Mandates were immersed in a complex stew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could have been neatly lifted out of it and dealt with as a separate issue . At least this could have been done only at the expense of a costly and dangerous row . The stew came to a boil at the Paris Peace Conference , but it had been on the fire long before . When the First World War broke out in 1914 the Pacific immediately became a matter of secondary interest to the great European powers . The Allies of course wanted Germany eliminated from the Pacific as soon as possible . They wanted her possessions taken away from her and her warships and raiders hunted down and destroyed . Japan was an ally of Great Britain , but the British were fearful of what the Japanese might do if they came into the war , for the expansionist elements were in power . They wanted to confine Japan chiefly to naval patrol work . But the Japanese had other ideas , and when they declared war on Germany on August 23 , 1914 , they undertook not only patrol work ( which they continued throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possessions in the East . They took Kiaochow on the Shantung peninsula , and then went on and took all the German islands north of the equator ? the famous Mandates . The United States made no important move to stop Japan , either by acting directly or by prodding the British , although it was well understood that the islands menaced our strategic position in the Pacific and we proceeded to oppose other Japanese activities . The Japanese were thus able to put themselves in a strong position to lodge a claim to the islands ; for possession is always nine points of international law . For their part , the British also acted to gather up German possessions in the Pacific . The Australians took the German portion of New Guinea and all the German islands south of the equator , excepting Samoa , which was taken by the New Zealanders . The Australians were all ready to go on and take the German islands to the north of the line when they received orders from London to lay off . These were to be handled by the Japs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informal division of the spoils in the Pacific had been arranged . The division was put on a formal basis in February , 1917 , after the Allies had declared their peace terms to Woodrow Wilson and before the United States had entered the war . The initiative came from Japan . There is evidence which appears to prove that the formal arrangement was merely a putting on paper of an understanding dating back at Least two years . But whatever the date of its origin , the agreement provided that the British would support at the peace conference Japan 's claims to all German possessions north of the equator in return for Japanese support for British ( Australian and New Zealand ) claims to German possessions south of the line . Japan went on to get approval of the deal from the French , the Italians . andthe Russians . Thus to the physical possession Japan added strong diplomatic support . This was the situation as the Peace Conference assembled . Did President Wilson and his advisers know anything about this deal before it came up at the Peace Conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Settlement ( 1923 ) says they did n't , but evidence has come to light since which makes it quite clear that they did . However , in this instance as in others , Wilson felt that the endorsement by the Allies of his Fourteen Points cancelled any prior agreements that ran counter to them . This proved to be a mistaken idea . Not only did the Japanese enter the Conference determined to hang on to the ex-German possessions , but Australia and New Zealand were equally determined . The Imperial War Cabinet endorsed the position of the Dominions in the spring of 1917 . What the Dominions demanded was outright annexation . Wilson was advised of this too before the Conference opened . At the Conference the British-Japanese campaign for the right of annexation ran headlong into Wilson 's desire to dispose of ex-enemy territories under the mandates system . As a matter of fact , the Japanese took little part in the campaign against Wilson 's proposal , well realizing that what the British got they would get too , so why antagonize Wilson ? The burden of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hughes , Prime Minister of Australia . After lengthy and complicated wrangles , the issue was settled by giving the Dominions and Japan C-class mandates for the ex-German islands they wanted . Boiled down , a C-class mandate gave the mandatory power practically absolute control short of sovereignty . With that reservation ? and a rather technical one it is ? possession was complete . Above all , Australia and New Zealand had sought to gain control of trade and immigration in the islands . This they won , and Japan won it equally . All were forbidden to erect fortifications in their mandates . Thus to get the Pacific islands under the mandates system at all Wilson had to accept a category of mandates which severely compromised the principles he wanted the system to embody , like freedom of trade to all , and freedom of immigration . But since his attention was on the basic idea of mandates , he was willing to make concessions to frustrate outright annexation , which was the alternative offered . But this is only a part of the story . The complications were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should have affronted Japan and declared she had no right at all to the islands . As a matter of fact he did . He declared that The was by no means prepared to accept the Japanese treaty , and was doubtful whether Japan could be admitted there even in the capacity of a mandatory power . " There were many reasons why he should take that attitude , and as many why it did not , in the end , rule his conduct . After the outbreak of war in 1914 the United States undertook the difficult task of preventing Japan from freely realizing her expansionist dreams in all their particulars . The principal focus of the struggle was China , not the islands . Japan had not been content merely to grab Germany 's concession at Kiaochow ; she had gone on to absorb much of the Shantung peninsula ; and she had tried to get China to swallow the famous Twenty-one Demands ( January , 1915 ) which would have given her almost complete dominance over the entire country . And she had reinforced her position in Shantung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1915 , and September , 1918 . The United States had tried hard to block these goings-on ; and the skirmishes climaxed in the Lansing-Ishii agreement of November 2 , 1917 . This unfortunate document is described and characterized by Professor A. Whitney Griswold as follows : . . still one of the most controversial subjects in American diplomatic history . Its studied ambiguity invited each signatory to construe it to suit its own purposes . And each has since made the most extreme claims of it : Japan , that it was American recognition of her paramount political influence as well as economic interest in Shantung , Manchuria and Mongolia ; the United States , that it was a self-denying ordinance pledging Japan to the most meticulous respect for the open door and the integrity and independence of China . These claims are neither realistic nor sincere . The framers of the agreement knew what they were about . They understood the meaning of the words they employed . Each hadrecourse to ambiguity as an offensive as well as a defensive weapon . At the Peace Conference President Wilson sought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of acute wartime embarrassments , by forcing Japan to accept the American position , especially with regard to China . There was thus then already going forward a struggle which was to continue down the years , in one diplomatic form or another , until it embraced all the formula of American diplomacy , old and new , and ended in the all-out Smashup at Pearl Harbor . But at the Conference Wilson found that , if the United States had stood alone against Japan during the war , and had been forced into defensive ambiguity , it was now doubly alone at Paris . For the principal pawn in the game was Shantung , and the British and French ( our allies ! ) were just as much committed to support the claims of Japan to Shantung as to the islands . Both Lloyd George and Clemenceau acknowledged that they were obligated to support Japan . What Wilson tried to get was the direct return of Shantung to China as the Chinese wanted . Japan demanded that it pass to her as successor of Germany . Japan won . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 156 , 157 , and 158 . But Wilson went on to wring from the Japanese an engagement to return Shantung to China at some later date . The Chinese however were embittered by this chicanery , withdrew from the Conference , and refused to sign the Treaty . A final complication . The Japanese wanted the Covenant of the League to include a declaration of racial equality . Wilson tried hard to find a formula for this which would satisfy the Japs and not outrage their opponents , but to no avail . Therefore , after a good deal of backing and filling , the Japanese lost their case . In the end Wilson rejected the formula finally offered on the ground that it was not unanimously approved ( it commanded 11 votes to 6 ) and that nothing not unanimously accepted could go into the Covenant . Naturally the Japanese were displeased and affronted . All this wrangling took place , not as a separate and distinct phase of the Conference , but before , during , and after Wilson 's bitter rows with the French and the Italians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League as well . It is hardly necessary to emphasize how dear the League was to Wilson . According to Ray Stannard Baker : The President pointed out how inextricably the whole matter was tied up with old treaties , how Great Britain felt herself bound to Japan and how , with Italy already out , Belgium bitterly discontented , the defection of Japan might not only break up the Peace Conference but destroy the League of Nations . This was something Wilson could not face . He said to Baker that " the settlement was the best that could be had out of a dirty past . " The wonder is not that Japan got a Cc/ass mandate for the islands . The wonder is that she did n't annex the islands without restrictions . Certainly the Australians and New Zealanders fought hard enough for that privilege south of the equator , and if they had won , victory would have been assured to the Japanese . Only because Wilson went to bat against the Australians and New Zealanders , who had the backing of the United Kingdom and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory of a kind by keeping strings on the islands through the League . He thought those strings would be strong . Wilson believed in the League . To him , getting the islands under the League 's mandate system was a great victory . We now see that it was hardly that . But we arc rendering an ex post facto judgment . Mr. Lippmann is mistaken : the islands did not go to Japan in 1919 because we lacked a foreign policy . Wilson most decidedly had a policy . It embraced the League , the mandates system , and above all a philosophy of permanent peace . Wilson 's whole campaign with regard to the Pacific shows how hard he tried to effectuate the policy against tremendous odds . To-day Mr. Lippmann condemns Wilson 's policy of 1919 and even implies that no policy existed . But in 1919 it was real enough to him and he was himself a partisan of it . Mr. Lippmann 's famous book is in considerable measure a severe condemnation of his own past , as heshamefacedly admits . While confession may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , profitable to imply that what you believe today ? long after the event ? would have prevented the " mistakes " of yesterday unless you are prepared to show in detail how you could on that yesterday have bent the forces at work to your ends . Mr. Lippmann undertakes no such demonstration ; he merely asserts and implies that the old policy was no good and offers a new one . But on the evidence I can find no reason to suppose that the new Lippmann policy would , in 1919 , have allowed the United States to have taken those islands for herself , entangled as they were in a " dirty past " and an unregenerate present . IV prim , next occasion on which the United States might have done something about the Mandates was at the Washington Conference . They were Item III on the Agenda . The American government had made certain reservations about all mandates to protect its rights in them , and in the Japanese case it was concerned to protect its rights of access to the island of Yap in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These rights it easily obtained from Japan and a treaty was signed . For the rest , a treaty was made on December 12 , 1921 , in which the United States recognized Japan 's status as mandatory of the islands in general . The prohibition of fortifications , an integral part of the mandate , was reinforced by the general treaty of the Conference which provided for the observance of the status quo for fortifications in island possessions . ( Incidentally , Shantung was returned to China as a result of arrangements made at the Conference ? a belated victory for Wilson . ) Like the League of Nations , the treaties made at the Washington Conference were based on the proposition that the foundation stones of peace were the honor and self-discipline of nations . In America belief in these ideas had survived the astounding political transition from Wilson to Harding . This belief hardly created an atmosphere which allowed the Americans , its principal proponents , to take territory away from the Japanese for their own use . The best that could be done was to hedge about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ architects of the Washington Treaties valiantly tried to do . They took this line in the face of the fact that the strategic implication to America of Japan 's position in the Mandates was widely understood by naval experts . For the general public , Hector Bywater concisely outlined the situation in his book Sea Power in the Pacific ( 1921 ) . We now know that the American effort utterly failed . But at least we should try to see what it was the men who wrote those treaties were trying to do . After the Conference the Mandates passed to the supervision of the Mandates Commission of the League of Nations . Japan was required , like all mandataries , to present an annual report to the Corn-mission and send a representative to answer the verbal questions of the Commissioners . Japan met these requirements for a number of years . But as tension mounted in the Pacific , particularly after the Manchurian episode of 1931 , suspicion of Japan 's activities in the Mandates also mounted . She was accused of duplicity , of developing certain harbors far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as naval bases . Many persons passed from suspicion to belief , but the case could not be proved because Japan excluded all casual travelers from the islands and saw to it that those admitted kept to carefully defined itineraries . The Mandates Commission proved powerless to settle the argument by an impartial investigation , though it questioned the Japanese closely on every possible occasion . To-day even its friends agree that the principal weaknesses of the Commission were that it lacked an inspection service of its own and that it lacked the power to enforce its policies and decisions . That the Japanese did a very great deal to develop the islands commercially is generally admitted , even by their bitter enemies , and that they tied that development to the homeland is admitted to be proper , though unfriendly , by all who recall the terms of a C-class mandate . It was the same with the exclusively Japanese immigration into the islands . If the Japanesegot away with murder with regard to fortifications , as is not at all impossible , then the failure to curb her goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In any case the naval importance of the islands is to a very great extent inherent in their location . This strategic value remains whether or not they were fortified . And the location can be blamed only on God . When Japan gave notice on March 27 , 1933 , that she intended to leave the League of Nations there would have been a case for forcing her to return her mandate . But the case was never put to the test . Japan hung on to the islands , thus establishing a case for the contention , which she set up , that they had become an integral part of the Empire . I strongly suspect that what specifically naval development took place in the islands before Pearl Harbor took place after 1933 , when the Japanese clearly saw that their title was not going to be challenged short of war . As far as is known , the United States government did not challenge the League 's failure to act to recover the mandate . It is doubtful that the United States , acting alone , could have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and perhaps precipitating war . It is difficult to believe that this country would have supported war over the Mandates at any time between 1933 and 1941 . The blame for allowing Japan to retain the Mandates after she left the League rests , in any case , squarely on the League , or perhaps on the powers then dominant in defining the League 's policies . However that may be , Japan remained in the islands . That is the point of the story . And what it has cost , and will cost , is plain for all to see . In his Message to Congress on September 17 , 1943 , President Roosevelt declared : It goes almost without saying that when Japan surrenders the United Nations will never again let her have authority over the islands which were mandated to her by the League of Nations . Japan obviously is not to be trusted . This is an entirely negative statement . The Mandates are not to be left in Japan 's possession . But who is to get them ? The clear implication of Mr. Lippmane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the property of the Unitcd States . The same view is taken by Mr. Arthur Krock in The New York Times for October 7 , 1943 . Ignoring Mr. Krock 's implication that we should grab British islands ( and , in the case of Canton , a British-American island ruled as a condominium ) , as well as the Mandates , here is how he put it : Another objective of the Pacific war is to take away from Japan the mandated islands and others in that area , including Canton . These plainly arc essential to protect the Pacific approaches to the United States and to hold back Japanese militarism of the future : therefore , they should definitely be under the American flag . Though the Atlantic Charter says of the United States and Great Britain that " they seek no aggrandizement , territorial or other , " these islands must be added for security to American possessions , and that , in any dictionary is " aggrandizement . " The opposed point of view was expressed by Mr. Samuel Grafton in the New York Post for October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and perhaps Dutch island bases in the Pacific ought to be given to us for keeps after the war because , well , because we want them . Because we say we need them for our security . Look , honey , it 's late and Tiffany 's is closed . Why should anybody want to give us bases ? American security is not the world 's problem . World security is the world problem . Why should the world give us bases until it knows whether we intend to use them as part of a system of world security ? Woodrow Wilson and his followers thought Tiffany 's had closed during the last war . Yet recall , honey , what deals the boys cooked up in the back room ! The truth is there are three courses open : 1 . We can take the islands ourselves and get the other interested parties ? Great Britain , China , Australia , New Zealand , and the Netherlands ? to agree to our taking them . 2 . We can refuse the islands ourselves and let them go to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can assign them to the care of some international body with the proviso that Japan is to have no hand in governing them . The first two possibilities are directly in line with the " realistic " settlement of the war which Roosevelt , Churchill , and Stalin now seem bent on achieving . The third proposal , supported by Mr. Grafton , is completely unrealistic . It is a dream-world scheme to which there is now no practical means of approach whatever . The Four Nation Declaration of Moscow states that the future " general international organization " shall be " based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all peace-loving states . " That means some sort of revived League of Nations . But the peace is obviously not going to be maintained by any such organization . It is going to be maintained , if at all , by the powerful nations behind it ? that is , the United States , Great Britain , Russia , and , perhaps , China . If peace is to be maintained by agreement among these powers , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some international body whose authority depends upon the extent to which the big powers back it up . It will be the better part of wisdom to get the islands either into our own hands or into the hands of some nation likely to be friendly to us in the predictable future . In the hands of an " international authority " they will be used as pawns ? beyond our control ? in the game of strategy which gives them the only significance they have .                     