@@487501

IN TERMS OF POSITIVE ACCOMPLISHMENT , the General Assembly , which wound up its third regular session in Paris this week , can hardly be called a success . Its most important concrete act was the new Palestine resolution creating a conciliation commission to help bring about a settlement between Israel and the invading Arab states . But even this was a weak compromise , based on backstage dickering , rather than a decision on the merits of the case . Its value is chiefly negative , as Miss Shultz 's article on page 688 clearly demonstrates . Other equally critical problems fared worse . The Berlin dispute , brought to the United Nations by the three chief Western powers , remains unresolved . Neither the efforts of the Argentine delegate , Selior Bramuglia , nor those of Dr. Herbert V. Evatt and Secretary General Lie to bring the disputants together have had any effect . Dr. Evatt , however , who emerged at Paris as the unchallenged leader of the smaller powers and a courageous champion of conciliation , refuses to admit defeat . He believes progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin , Greek , and Palestine disputes , and he called attention at the close of the meeting to the unanimous adoption of the Mexican resolution urging renewed consultations between Russia and the West . But broad resolutions indorsing peace , and even commissions appointed to work for it , are more easily obtained than the settlement of specific disputes ; this Dr. Evatt recognized when he referred to the difficulty of disposing of issues which were " a legacy of big-power disagreement . " IT IS SIGNIFICANT , PERHAPS , THAT THE outstanding successes of the Assembly were the Declaration of Human Rights and the convention to outlaw genocide . Support of these two proposals was almost unanimous : even the opposition of the Soviet bloc was directed to specific points rather than to general principles . Taken together , they represent a wholesome concern for the ideals which the war was fought to secure , and if they succeed in calling the world 's attention to the dangers that still threaten freedom in even the most advanced countries , they will serve an immediately useful purpose . Whether they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Genocide has always been a crime and had been looked upon as such by civilized people long before it was given a name . To end it will require more than a convention ; it will require a world society in which Hitlers can not rise to power . And so , indeed , with the Declaration of Human Rights . Though we greet it as a symbol of high aspiration , we find our practical doubts summed up in a single modest paragraph of the declaration itself . Article 28 says : " Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth in this declaration can be fully realized . " Until that rather sweeping provision is carried into effect , the majority of the other provisions are likely to remain in the realm of hope . OF THE MANY AND VARIED ASPECTS OF THE Hiss-Chambers mystery , none calls for more clarity , more sobriety , or more decisiveness than the question of extending the life of the House Un-American Activities Committee . Time and the machinery of the courts will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ episode , separate the truth from the lies in a welter of irreconcilable testimony , including the glaringly contradictory statements of Chambers himself , and even determine just when the microfilm was made that turned up so fortuitously for the committee . Doubts as to the legitimacy of this evidence are inevitable in view of Chambers 's original testimony that he left the Communist Party in 1937 ? some of the documents are dated 1938 ? and of the first impression of Eastman Kodak experts that the film was actually manufactured only a year ago . All this will take patience and impartial investigation , but what will have to be decided in a matter of weeks is the fate of the House committee . It is vital to establish the point that a solution of the Hiss-Chambers matter in no way depends on continuing this grossly injudicious and harmful agency . On the contrary , the prosecution of the case will be facilitated when the grand jury no longer has to contend with the committee 's indefensible tactics , including the snatching of witnesses and the piecemeal release of sensational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the theft of official information is real , as well it may be , the case is hardly a " red herring , " as President Truman calls it , and the possible laxity of the Justice Department calls for legitimate Congressional inquiry . But that is all the more reason to replace the Un-American Activities Committee with the kind of responsible investigative agency that , in The NATION the words of Representative Holifield , will assure nesses " the same protective rights which are now extended to a chicken thief haled before a police court . " A 1934 LAW ORDERED THAT ALL EXPORTS financed by United States government loans or grants must be carried in American ships . This was always indefensible and it is completely antagonistic to the declared American policy of doing away with discriminatory practices in international trade . Nevertheless , when the European Recovery bill was before Congress , American shipping interests sought to have its principle applied to recovery cargoes . They were only partially successful . Congress inserted a clause declaring that at least 50 per cent of ECA shipments must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent that such vessels are available at market rates . " Now ECA 's chief , Paul Hoffman , finding that American shipowners are charging for bulk cargoes up to 50 per cent more than world competitive rates , has asserted that he is no longer willing to burden the European Recovery Program with what is , in effect , a subsidy for the shipping . The Maritime Commission , the shipowners , and the National Maritime Union have promptly boiled over and are appealing to Mr. Truman to call Mr. Hoffman to order . Should his decision stand , they prophesy , thousands of seamen will lose their jobs , and the merchant marine , a main arm of American defense , will be ruined . Now it is undoubtedly true that in the tramp trade , at any rate , American shipowners find it hard to compete with Europe owing to higher labor and other costs . But if the price of an efficient merchant marine is a subsidy  --  and perhaps we should consider whether nationalization would not be a cheaper alternative  --  then it should not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise is , at best , a doubtful one ; if we can not avoid it , we should , at least , insist on undisguised subsidies . THE REPUBLICAN PARTY 'S SEARCH FOR A character , previewed in Robert Bendiner 's article , Elephant up a Tree ( The Nation , November 27 ) , is developing the expected clash between rebellious idealists , like Philip Willkie , and the hard-shelled leadership . James Reston , of the New York Times , reports that the propaganda of the Young Republicans calls for what the party hierarchy regards as " radical " solutions , whereas it is looking for " compromise " solutions . But the burden of the tory argument has been that it was just such " me-too " compromising ? " some planning is all right and we can do it better than the Democrats " ? that has brought the G. 0 . P. to its lowly condition . It is not surprising , therefore , that the compromise the conservatives have in mind is of the sort that implies a 2 per cent December 18 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent concession by their opponents . Hugh Scott would be replaced as National Committee chairman by Everett Dirkien , a political difference not perceptible by the most delicate gauge . Both Taft and Vandenberg would be asked to renounce jobs in the party leadership , though Vandenberg would presumably continue as the party 's spokesman on foreign relations . Taft 's post as chairman of the party 's Senate Policy Committee would go to Eugene Milhkin , of Colorado , a shift of several paces to the right . By way of compensation , Senator Wherry would be asked to yield the floor leadership to a moderate like Knowland or Lodge , but those who know the lusty Nebraskan are certain that only personal intervention by the spirit of Calvin Coolidge would induce him to step down without a fearful row . And nobody even hints at loosening the grip of Martin and Halleck on the Republican membership of the House . The Old Guard , it seems , has already made that " intelligent self-analysis " proposed by some Young Republicans . It has found itself right as rain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court last week was the finding that a man may believe in " economic collectivism " and still be a good American . The ruling , which lesser courts and legislative committees would do well to note , was rendered in the case of Samuel Morris Wixman , formerly a professor at Los Angeles City College , whose application for citizenship had been rejected by the lower federal courts . The basis for the denial was Wixman 's alleged failure to satisfy the statutory requirement that he be " attached to the principles of the Constitution ... and well disposed to the good order and happiness of the United States , " the lower courts having accepted as proof the fact that he had been known to indorse economic collectivism . In addition , the government 's case rested on an abundance of hearsay evidence and irrelevant testimony of the kind we have become familiar with through the performances of the House Un-American Activities Committee and its small-time imitators . It is significant that the Supreme Court took the uncommon step of examining the evidence in this case , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it too unconvincing to allow the lower court to act upon it . But the more fundamental aspect of the decision is its spiking of the fallacy that capitalism as such is guaranteed by the Constitution . EIGHTEEN MONTHS AGO , A PROGRAM FOR the permanent dissolution of Japanese industrial , financial , and family trusts was presented by the United States to the Far Eastern Commission . Last week , these proposals were formally withdrawn on the ground that 683 General MacArthur had already persuaded the Japanese government to adopt a decentralization plan and to enact an anti-trust law . General Frank R. McCoy , American member of the commission , explaining this decision , declared that " with the daily growth of indications that the Japanese propose to enforce their fair-trade laws vigorously and effectively , it has been possible to reconsider the standards to be used in the dissolution of some of the combines existing . " Actually , of course , an impressive paper plan for dissolving the Zaibatsu groups and distributing their assets has existed for some time . But Miriam Farley , a former member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November 26 Bulletin of the Foreign Policy Association , asserts that this program " has already been seriously retarded , if not entirely checkmated . " The big difficulty was pointed out by Maxwell Stewart in The Nation of July 26 . There is no monied middle-class in Japan able to buy up the combine shares in small lots and , since SCAP has rejected proposals for government ownership , the problem of redistribution remains unsolved . General McCoy 's statement suggests that attempts to solve it have been abandoned and that the new anti-trust laws will be relied upon to make big aggregations of capital behave according to Adam Smith . When we think of the troubles the Department of Justice has in keeping our native Zaibatsu in older , we find it difficult to share the General 's optimism . AN IMPORTANT PRECEDENT IS SURE TO result from the proceedings now being conducted behind closed doors against six professors at the University of Washington in Seattle . The charges , brought by the university 's faculty Committee on Tenure and Academic Freedom , are based on the findings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee on Un-American Activities , an all-Republican group which last summer , abetted by the Hearst press , staged a red hunt on the Washington campus ( see The Nation for July 24 and August 14 ) . The Canwell committee sifted some 1400 university staff members and finally produced two admitted Communists , three ex-Communists , and one fellow traveler . The university , said President Raymond B. Allen , could not ignore the questions of the danger of communism or whether Communists were " properly qualified " ? that is , sufficiently honest  --  to serve on the faculty . So several weeks ago , in accordance with the university 's administrative code , complaints were filed against the six men . When the faculty committee has completed its hearings , it will send its findings of fact and recommendations for action to the president and the Board of Regents , which " by law and necessity " will decide whether or not to fire some or all of the accused . The key cases are obviously those of the two admitted Communists , Professor Herbert J. 684 Phillips @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English Department . If they keep their jobs , so will the others , a fortiori . If they are discharged , the university 's action will run headlong into the considered judgment of the American Association of University Professors . For in a long report last year , an A. A. U. P. subcommittee weighed the problem of the Communist professor and decided that " there is nothing now apparent in reference to the Communist Party in the United States , or to international conditions , that calls for a departure from the principles of freedom and tenure by which the association has been guided throughout its history . " Are Profits Too High ? ' UNDER the able chairmanship of Senator Flanders of 1 ,  - -  1 Vermont , a subcommittee of the Joint Committee of Congress on the Economic Report has been hearing testimony about profits . Professor Sumner Slichter of Harvard and other economists say they are not too high ; Professor Seymour Harris of Harvard , Stanley RutLenberg of the C. I. 0. , and other economists say they are . Nobody can deny that profits are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in most previous periods . Corporate profits , after payment of taxes , are now running at the rate of more than $20 billion a year , against $18 billion in 1947 , $10.8 billion in 1944 , the biggest war year , and $8.4 billion in 1929 , the great boom year of peace . It is contended , however , that these dollar figures are meaningless unless seen against the growth of the whole national income . Very well : in 1948 , corporate profits will be more than 9 per cent of the national income ; in 1947 , they were 8.8 per cent , in 1944 , 6 per cent , and in 1929 , 9.4 per cent . But are they too high ? No sage can tell us just how large profits should be . According to the classical theory upon which the usual defense of " competitive private enterprise " is based , there should be no profits at all : under theoretical " pure competition , " with full employment , every industry would arrive at an equilibrium in which no firms would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants would be satisfied by the best possible allocation of resources at the lowest possible cost . In real life , business men do their best to escape that condition by various degrees and kinds of monopoly , taking advantage of all favorable winds to make what they can . Workers , consumers , and farmers strive to enlarge their share of the national product , sometimes at the expense of profits . It is a scramble to which concepts of justice scarcely apply . The question acquires meaning only in connection with specific issues of policy . For instance , we have a big armament program and growing obligations to The NATION* , Europe , as well as a need for government-stimulated housing , enlarged social security , and other domestic expenditures . If we are not to have a federal deficit , more taxes may have to be paid by somebody . We do not want a deficit as long as full employment exists and inflated prices are still a danger . Industry can undoubtedly pay higher taxes than at present and still produce at capacity ; it did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat greater than now , even though there were fewer machines and factories . Profits are high enough to justify the reimposition of excess-profits taxes or higher income-tax rates on corporations . Professor Slichter argues that since the prices of the things industry buys have also gone up , profits are not so high as they seem . When firms have to replace their inventories , their machines , and their factories , they will have to spend part of what they now announce as profits ; their reserves for depreciation will not cover the cost . Possibly , but the same condition affects consumers , government , and everybody else . We have inflated prices ; is business alone to escape unscathed ? The big problem is how to avoid still more inflation , and at the same time how to prevent it from collapsing into recession . What bearing do profits have on this question ? Professor Slichter argues that the country needs greater investment in new factories and machines in order to increase production . Professor Harris argues that investment is now proceeding at such a rapid rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . High profits induce large investment and provide most of the money for it . Private investment in the United States  --  new construc tion , machinery , and additions to inventories  --  in the third quarter of 1948 took 15.2 per cent of the gross national product . This is a larger percentage than In any previous year since 1929 , when it was exactly the same . We could not keep up that rate of investment after 1929 , very largely because consumers of homes , automobiles , and other goods could not buy all that industry was equipped to make . Yet in 1929 , personal-consumption expenditures were 75.9 per cent of the gross national product , against 69.8 per cent today . Government is now buying a larger share than in 1929-14.7 per cent against 8.2 per cent  --  and wholly at the expense of consumers ; it has not cut the share of the national output going into new capital below the record level of 1929 . There is something ominous in these figures . If government expenditures go on increasing , they will work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut back , consumers will scarcely be able to buy all that industry is producing and preparing to produce unless they have larger incomes or pay lower prices . In either case , business profits would be somewhat smaller . But we shall be unable to avoid a slump unless business is prepared to pay that price . Mme Chiang 's Rebu T HAT Mme Chiang Kai-shek has failed in her ill-con- - 1-  sidered mission to Washington is now apparent to all . President Truman made it abundantly clear when he let ten days elapse before arranging a social half hour with China 's first lady . If Madame Chiang is angry , as she doubtless is , at the personal rebuff implicit in the President 's delay , she must recognize that , in choosing to by-pass regular diplomatic channels with an unsupportable personal appeal , she chanced just such a reception . She could hardly have chosen a more unpropitious moment for her mission . The crushing setbacks suffered by Chiang 's armies at Tsinan , Mukden , and Suchow revealed the utter bankruptcy of the Kuomintang 's military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kuomintang troops that were far better trained and equipped and at least equal in numbers allowed themselves to be outmaneuvered and trapped by the Communists ' peasant soldiers . And in each instance , high Kuomintang - officers went over to the enemy with all their troops and American equipment . In Nanking , the civilian government has virtually ceased to function , leaving all power in the hands of a military group that is interested only in perpetuating its own authority . With scarcely even an acknowledgment of the more than three billion dollars in American aid that has gone to the Chiang regime since V-J Day , Mme Chiang has asked for another three billion to prop up the tottering Nanking government . Some Americans , chiefly the Republicans on whom the Kuomintang lobbyists have mistakenly concentrated their attention , believe that three billion dollars is a small price to pay to save China from what they describe as " the red tide from Moscow . " But many State Department officials and other Americans who have closely followed the China situation believe that the coalition set up after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive it in that direction . In any event , they doubt that three or even five billion would " save " a government that the Chinese people obviously do not want . Experience in Greece , a country that is a mere fraction the size of China , suggests that a continuing effort to support Chiang 's unpopular government would ultimately lead to costs that would dwarf the initial outlay without achieving any useful purpose . And in the case of China , any substantial military assistance would carry a risk of war with a triumphant Chinese revolutionary regime  --  a war that might conceivably spread into a world conflict . We must not be misled by pleas to " aid " or to " save " China . It can not be denied that China , perhaps more than any other country in the world , stands in need of American economic assistance . Eight years of heroic struggle against Japanese aggression and threeyears of civil strife , with the accompanying inflation , have all but destroyed the country 's industry and left millions of people in utter destitution. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , through United Nations channels without political or military involvement . The United Nations International Children 's Emergency Fund , for example , has recently announced that it would make emergency rations available to needy children in both Kuomintang and Communist areas . Such aid will be gratefully received by the Chinese people . But before heeding Mme Chiang 's plea for military aid , Congress would do well to study the reaction of the average Chinese . In so far as they are able to speak , Chinese of all groups have indicated that they would resent any help that prolonged the civil war or buttressed an unwanted , corrupt , and dying Kuomintang regime . Last summer , a group of intellectuals headed by Mme Sun Yat-sen appealed to the United States to cease supporting the Nanking government . In Peiping , several hundred needy students risked starvation rather than accept food from the American relief program . Military assistance , even on the scale that Mme Chiang has requested , would not save a government that the Chinese people have come to despise . But it might prolong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it would be bound to intensify the existing resentment against American interference in their internal affairs . If we insist on " saving " China in such a manner , we shall seriously jeopardize American prestige and influence throughout the Far East for many years to come . .                     