@@487838

Minn- eapolis , October 22 ENATOR JOSEPH H. BALL is fighting desperately for political survival in Minnesota this fall . His challenger is Hubert H. Humphrey , Jr. , the thirty-seven-year-old mayor of Minneapolis , who aroused the Democratic convention in Philadelphia last summer with an impassioned plea for a. strong civil-rights plank in the platform . Humphrey is the kingpin in Minnesota 's Democratic ? Farmer-Labor Party . He is probably the nearest thing to a liberal meteor this state has seen since Floyd S. Olson flashed across its political sky in the thirties . No campaign in memory has equaled the intensity of Humphrey 's circusy , sound-truck sweep through the state . Humphrey likes to consider himself the spiritual heir of Franklin D. Roosevelt in Minnesota . The Chicago Tribune refers to him as a " panting liberal . " Statewide polls have indicated that he will beat Ball handily on November 2 . If he does , it will be a one-man miracle , wrought in defiance of all the political laws and probabilities . Minnesota . is normally a Republican state , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While some polls favor Truman by a hairline , Dewey is generally expected to win the state . The Republican governor , Luther Youngdahl , is a heavy favorite , and the state 's delegation in the lower house of Congress , now Republican eight to one , will probably maintain that ratio . Although Minnesota gave Roosevelt its electoral vote four times , it has consistently elected Republican governors since 1938 . Humphrey is counting on the state 's large bloc of independent voters to give him the victory . The metro- . polrtan newspapers are supporting Ball , and the rural press is predominantly anti-Humphrey . The powerful Republican state organization has been throwing all its 490 weight behind Ball , and both Dewey and Warren thumped the tom-toms for him on their October visit . To make matters worse for Humphrey , his own party , has been torn by serious , dissensions between the left , and right-wingers . The leftists , led by former Governor Elmer Benson , have been driven from the DemocraticFarmer-Labor Party into Wallace 's Progressive Party , and the wounds suffered in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle between Humphrey and Ball provides a strange contrast in personalities . Humphrey is brash , impulsive , gabby , and - gregarious. - Ball is blunt , methodical , slow-moving , and reserved . Humphrey is the darling of the labor unions . Ball is the hero of the groups that favor the Taft-Hartley act . Humphrey is partly responsible for a strong FEPC ordinance passed by the City Council under his administration . Ball prefers to wait upon the slower processes of education for such reforms . When Ball addressed a state convention of the Townsendites at Redwood Falls , Minnesota , a few years ago , he enraged them by assailing the Townsend plan as impractical and uneconomic . When Humphrey spoke at a Townsend Club meeting in Minneapolis , he took time out of a busy schedule to dance with several delighted old ladies . These incidents are characteristic of the two men . Many persons think that it would be to Ball 's advantage if he would dance occasionally with the Townsend Club ladies , and that Humphrey , could profit by running head-on more often into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and courage . Others refer to him as stubborn and headstrong . But nearly everyone will admit that Joe Ball has guts , and that he is pretty much the boss of his own conscience . As a matter of fact , if he were not so independent , he might still enjoy the unqualified blessing of former Governor Harold E. Stassen . Stassen appointed Ball to the Senate in October , 1940 , to fill the seat left vacant when Ernest Lundeen was killed in a plane crash . Their friendship began to cool in the 1944 Presidential campaign after Ball suddenly switched his allegiance from Dewey to Roosevelt and rocked the Republican organization back on its heels with his spunky show of independence . Later the breach between Stassen and Ball widened over labor issues . Today the two men are ostensibly friends , but the chilliness of their political relationship is obvious . Stassen put himself behind Ball 's candidacy this fall in a formal statement that probably set an all-time high for unenthusiasm . The Stassen influence , however , is beginning to wane in Minnesota , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meddling " and " Stassen dictatorship " is beginning to take shape . In a second indorsement of Ball , Stassen made the rhe NATION extraordinary statement that Humphrey had been " a failure as mayor of Minneapolis . " How he happened to blunder into such a strange distortion of the truth is a mystery that still perplexes many of his friends . The fact is that Humphrey is one of the best mayors Minneapolis ever had , as hundreds of Stassenites would admit . Minneapolis has a " weak mayor " type of city charter , but within the limitations of his office Humphrey has performed with real distinction . His most notable achievement has been in the field of law enforcement , where he has really had authority to act . He cleaned up a bad crime situation and drove out the racketeers simply by hewing to the line of honest and impartial enforcement . Humphrey has worked long and successfully in the field of human relations . He created a council on human relations early in his first term and has led a vigorous campaign against prejudice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be done . Those who had observed that leadership closely were not surprised when Humphrey spearheaded the fight from the floor of the national convention for a strong civil-rights - plank . Humphrey may have acted unwisely from a party point of view , but his plea " to get out of the shadow of states ' rights and walk forthrightly in the bright sunshine of human rights " came directly from the heart . For Humphrey 's part in the convention he was branded by Columnist Frank Kent as a " bumptious , bungling young man , " but Mrs. Roosevelt thought that he " might infuse new life into a Congress that certainly needed it . " nALL 'S political philosophy is much farther to the - right than Humphrey 's , but those who sneer at him as the " messenger boy of the National Association of Manufacturers " do not know his rugged independence and integrity . It took courage for him to declare for Roosevelt in 1944 ; at the time it seemed like political suicide . And Ball showed vision and leadership back in 1943 when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is unfair to dismiss him either as a black , labor-baiting reactionary or as a dark-age isolationist . Nevertheless , he voted against the Marshall Plan , and he was one of the authors of the Taft-Hartley act . On both these counts he is vulnerable so far as large groups of voters are concerned . Ball considers the Taft-Hartley law one of the two major issues in the campaign . He argues for it skilfully and has boldly invaded the union halls to defend his position . Humphrey has called for repeal of the act , but he places more emphasis on foreign policy . Bali thinks " the return of the OPA , " which he opposes , is the other major issue . Humphrey laughs at this . Without favoring a restoration of the elaborate war-time mechanism of price controls , he urges a selective program of control of items in short supply . Believing that foreign policy is the dominant issue , October 30 , 1948 Humphrey centers his attacks on Ball 's vote against the Marshall Plan . While Ball , in the opinion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his former undiscriminating zeal to save the world , " that zeal still glows white-hot in Hubert Humphrey 's breast . Ball is an internationalist who has acquired a thick hide of cynicism through the years . He opposed the European recovery program , he said , because ( 1 ) it was " based on the false premise that communism is an economic problem , " and ( 2 ) he believed that it was " committing our economy to a greater load than it could bear . " Ball-would like to kick Russia out of the United Nations ; Humphrey would prefer to work with Russia within the framework of the U. N. After E. R. P. had been approved , Ball voted for the full appropriations in order to uphold American prestige , but he has gone a good distance toward the camp of the neo-isolationists since he championed the Ball-Burton-Hatch-Hill resolution five years ago . Ball has offered to debate with Humphrey on the Taft-Hartley law and price controls . Humphrey scoffs at such a narrow restriction of the issues and would like to slug it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxation of cooperatives , veterans ' legislation , and a number of other topics . Ball has cagily avoided such a free-for-all . He would be no match for Humphrey in a debate where no rhetorical holds were barred . Humphrey considers himself a New Deal liberal . Ball 's thinking in many respects parallels that of Senator Taft . Ball says , " You will never find a liberal , according to my definition , talking about the ' masses ' or the ' common man . ' To my kind of liberal , every individual is491 , very uncommon . " Humphrey , however , will talk about the common man at the drop of a hat . In the primary Humphrey defeated James Shields nine to one . Shields is a Progressive who was regional director of the NLRB . The original plan . was to have Elmer Benson file against Humphrey by petition after Shields was defeated in the primary , but this threat failed to materialize . Benson pleaded ill health , and the Progressives decided that they did not want to contribute to a Ball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made it plain , however , that it was simply a case of hating Humphrey less than they hated Ball . In California Henry Wallace said that he hoped Humphrey would be elected . A few days later , after proper coaching in Minneapolis , he refused to indorse the Mayor but remarked naively that he hoped Ball would be defeated . In the middle of October Governor Warren , Governor Dewey , and President Truman all entered Minnesota within five days to throw their weight around in the Ball-Humphrey fight . Warren pleaded for Ball 's reelection at every train stop . Dewey , whom Ball had opposed in 1944 , magnanimously announced that he was " 100 per cent " for him . Truman assailed Ball as a " champion of reaction " and beamed on Humphrey 's candidacy . It is a matter of history that no Minneapolis mayor has ever advanced to a major political office . But the young man with the Phi Beta Kappa-key who eloquently speaks the language of labor may smash that tradition . Most Minnesotans would admit that there has never been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the day of decision approaches , seem definitely on his side .                     