@@493726

X ACTS ARE UNREAL , of course , " Pearl Buck once obserVed , " or they would not be so constantly used to prove contradictory statements . . . . Facts are just so many bricks , each an entity in itself , but each nothing but a brick until it is fitted to other bricks to make a structure . The shape of that structure , its meaning and its usefulness , depend entirely on the mind be- ume is on the press . hind the hand that picks up the bricks . " In many powerful hands , the facts emerging from the Yalta Conference of 1945 were used to create a widely publicized tableau of Roosevelt , a timid and shattered old man , weakly surrendering to a cunning , inflexible Stalin . In Roosevelt dnd the RIISS ) , 1113 , another version emerges . " I firmly believe , " the author writes , " that when all the evidence is in and when the Conference is seen in its proper perspective Yalta will become a symbol. -. - not of appeasement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill to set the world on the road to lasting peace . " The late Edward R. Stettinius was Roosevelt 's Secretary of State at the time of Yalta . Whether or not he was a good or bad choice for that position does not need to be argued here , nor does the author attempt to make a case one way or the other in his book . He does , however , make a case for his unswerving loyalty to the principles and to the people he believed in , despite a changed climate , of opinion which now brands Roosevelt an " appeaser " and Alger Hiss a " traitor . " Stettinius had " deep respect for the memory of President Roosevelt and unshaken faith in the rightness of his foreign policy . " Describing the experts who traveled with him to the Crimea , he goes out of his way to tip his hat to Hiss ; Shortly after I became Under Secretary of State ? October , 1943 ? with the approval of the President and Mr. Hull I called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department . ... I never heard of any questioning of Mr. Hiss 's loyalty from anyone inside or outside of the State Department or from the Fill during my time of service in the Department . Hiss performed brilliantly throughout the Dumbarton Oaks conversations , the Yalta Conference , the San Francisco Conference , and the first meeting of the united Nations Assembly in London . I always had reason to believe that Hiss acted honorably and patriotically in the performance of his duties at these conferences ... . Although it was suggested that he qualify this endorsement of Hiss after the perjury trial , Stettinius refused to do so and even included in the book a full-length picture of himself and Hiss taken at Yalta . This reveals a good deal about the author 's character and about his frame of mind while working Oh the book . He knew he was a very sick man ; he had no desire for further prestige ; what he desperately wanted was to clear up some of the ugly distortions , Russian as well as American , that have poisoned public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt at his best at Yalta , in fullpossession of his powers , relaxed , laughing , gibing , bargaining and acting as peacemaker . Contrary to much editorial opinion , Stettinius does not believe that Roosevelt and Churchill " surrendered " anything at Yalta that the Russians could not have taken anyway . His balance sheet of the conference give-and-take , carefully documented , proves that " the Soviet Union made greater concessions at Yalta to the United States and Great Britain than were made to the Soviets . " He is convinced that " the real difficulties with the Soviet Union came after Yalta when the agreements were not respected " Analyzing possible reasons for Moscow 's " failure to honor these agreements , " the author cites the abrupt manner in which Lend-Lease was canceled shortly after Roosevelt 's death ; it may have helped to shake Stalin 's confidence in our willingness to continue cooperation in the postwar period . He also ventures a guess that the Politburo overruled Stalin . Some of Stettinius ' facts appear incontrovertible , in any hands , General Eisenhower , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Crusade 1 ) 2 Europe ) that the US at Yalta should have insisted upon the Elbe as the boundary line dividing the Western and Eastern occupation areas . " The boundaries , " Stettinius states flatly , " were not drawn at Yalta , " Since there was no official transcript of the major sessions , other facts will continue to be debated . When the Yalta agreements were first announced they were widely applauded by the press in this country . Henry Luce 's Time said , " All , doubts about the Dig Three 's ability to cooperate in peace as well as in war seem now to have been swept away . " But , three and a half years later , Luce 's Life called Yalta the " high tide of appeasement . " In the interim the winds of opinion had shifted . Also the secret portion of the Yalta talks had been revealed ,  - -  those relating to Russia 's , : a entry into the raciuc war and Ang , lo . American pledges to support speci6c Soviets claims in the f'ar East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure ontlx President to pin down the Teheran commitment from Stalin , that the atom bomb had not yet been tested , that the most expert opinion had feared several years more of high-casualty fighting against the Japanese , and that the Allied high command had believed Russia 's entry into the war could save several million American lives . Even after Roosevelt 's death , it was the military who protested against getting tough with the Russians . Stettinius reveals that " at a top-level policy meeting in the White House , just before the San Francisco Conference opened on April 25 , President Truman , the military leaders and I discussed the failure of the Soviet Union to abide by the Yalta agreement on the Balkans . At this meeting the United , States military representatives pleaded for patience with the Soviet Union because they feared that a crackdown would endanger Russian entry into the Far Eastern war . " If too high a price was paid for Moscow 's agreement to fight Japan , our Military Intelligence must take the blame . But that does not suit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great dignity and simplicity . Yet the leading actors in it are so full of color and drama that the , volume is nearly always exciting . There are wonderful conversations among the Big Three and dozens of quotable remarks grown even more wondrous with the unfolding of recent history . After a lengthy discussion about adding two amendments to a Yugoslav agreement , Churchill remarked that if Stalin said two words to Tito , the matter would be settled . According to Stettinius , " Stalin replied that Tito was a proud man , and now that he was a popular head of a regime he might resent advice . The Prime Minister answered that he felt that Marshal Stalin could risk this . Stalin observed that he was not afraid to advise Tito . " The author 's painstaking report of the word-by-word debate over several aspects of the explosive Polish problem is an invaluable clinical study of diplomacy at work . Three . extraordinary politicians wangled and wranttOVEM8ZR 28 , 1949 Bled for days over a phrase ? only to have the entire spirit of the agreement ignored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performed with Machiavellian genius , now playing to Stalin 's strength and suggesting magnanimity , now explaining his own domestic political considerations , now getting the most out of his team of experts , and finally , just when a hopeless stalemate loomed , reaching a compromise . Nothing in the book underlines how far the world has drifted from Yalta so much as an " inspired toast " which Churchill delivered at a banquet on the fifth day of the conference . As Stettinius paraphrases it : " We were all standing on the crest of a hill , he said , with the glories of future possibilities stretching before us . In the modern world , he declared , the function of leadership was to lead the people from the forests into the broad sunlit plains of peace and happiness . This prize , he went on , was nearer our grasp than at any time before in history , and it would be a tragedy for which history would never forgive us if we let this prize slip from our grasp through inertia or carelessness . " 