@@470874

PROGRESS in medical science has been , in large measure , progress in the technics of postponing death . We escape more childhood ailments than the children of George Washington 's day , but it is only to fall prey to other maladies in later life , and if we recover from them it is only a lease on health that we get . The postponement prolongs our vulnerability into old age , where we linger uncertainly , perhaps by now a patched-up product of man 's collaboration with God , an " animal of the wig , the ear trumpet , the glass eye , the-porcelain tooth , the wooden leg , the silver windpipe . " But all deferred payments mature with time . Eventually comes the inevitable hour that tips over the delicate biological balance and inclines the scales from life to death , Some medical men , perhaps most of them , believe that the balance tips because the body 's mechanism grows deficient or overburdened with age . The vital strand breaks because it wears thin with the passage of years . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us with a Hobson 's choice : either wear out or rust out . Aging is death 's ultimate marksman which always gets its man . Even if a person could wholly escape the ills of childhood and maturity , if he could be so lucky as never to suffer from any serious infection , poison , shock , or other assault from the external world , he would nevertheless eventually die of old age . Other students of the human body question this . They note that aging is relative , more rapid in some individualsthan in others of the same sex , often correlated with the onset and velocity of certain organic diseases , and they doubt if anyone ever died of old age . Indeed , they question if aging can properly be regarded as an entity . Some tissues begin their involution before birth , some bodies are senile at fifty , others preserve their mental and physical vigor beyond the seventh decade . The same heterogeneity applies to the incidence of certain diseases which are commonly associated with aging . It is true that the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large population appreciable numbers of young people , even children , are suffering from cancer , arteriosclerosis , hypertension , heart disorders , kidney disorders , and other so-called degenerative diseases . It may be argued that aging does not produce these diseases ; it simply increases their probability . As a life 's span lengthens , more time is allowed for the encounter which is necessary to produce the morbid condition ; but always some morbid condition of body fluids or Liss ues must arise , some meeting with germs or other accident must happen , for death to occur . We do not die ; we are killed . Here are two diametrically opposed concepts , and it is a major problem for science to determine which is correct . In the first speculation , aging is an inevitable progressive condition which accompanies life and eventually defeats it . In the second , aging is only a consequence of disease , the state of disrepair which results from a lifetime 's conflicts with microbes , poisons , starvation , and overstrain . If there were no accumulation of unrepaired injuries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this theory there is no biological necessity for senility , and the possibility exists of prolonging human life in health indefinitely , certainly far beyond the present span . II Longevity raises questions other than the medical ones . Society is already feeling the pressure of economic issues magnified by the increasing proportion of the aged in the population . Psychologists and sociologists are discussing the importance of providing appropriate employment to occupy the aged and save them from neuroses of idleness ? and this in an era when our industrial system finds difficulty in providing employment for its youth . If the present rate of population change continues ? a change influenced by such factors as the restriction of births , the control of infections and other diseases , and the increase of sanitation ? it is predicted that by 1980 more than fourteen persons out of every hundred in the United States will be sixty-five years or older . This compares with a present percentage of about six , and a percentage in 1900 of only four . Thus forty years from now there will be three to four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proportion forty years ago . These people of 1980 are already present among us : they are the ones who are just finishing college , just looking for jobs , just entering business , just getting married , just responding to the military draft ? though which will survive to sixty-five and beyond is written only in the scroll which mercifully is hid . For , whatever the impending problems of old age may be , whatever it may threaten in insecurity , infirmity , and frustration , human nature is an incurable optimist , eager to bet years and ever more years for Fate 's grudging jackpot of mingled misery and happiness . We all want to live longer ? at least the almost unanimous majority do . Although medical science can contribute only indirectly to the economic panel , it has already done much to relieve the physical pains and disabilities of old age , and there is no reason to believe that its service in this field has reached a limit . In surgery , for example , operations are now performed on elderly people whose age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even ten years ago . Recent advances in the control of anesthesia have contributed ; and yet to anesthetists is not due all the credit , for new skills of the surgeon , new methods of applying the healing knife , have relieved many a seventy-year-old who in an earlier day would have been compelled to suffer unassuaged . In a recent public address , Dr. Barney Brooks , professor of surgery in Vanderbilt University , called attention to the introduction of " the present operative technique for fracture of the neck of the femur in old people . " This is the injury commonly known as broken hip joint , and as recently as ten years ago the usual treatment for this accident in old age was " the abandonment of the patient to a remainder of life in suffering and almost complete disability . " To-day surgeons find that most of these cases are operable , and the ratio of success is very high , with the patient usually recovering the ability to walk without pain . But it is not only the surgeon who has added to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the dietician , the bacteriologist , the biochemist , and many other collaborators in the vast teamwork of medical research have each contributed his mite to the reduction of disease , and in doing so have blessed the old along with the middle-aged and the young . For example , pneumonia strikes the old a blow that often is peculiarly deadly ? and the current contributions of suifapyridine , sulfathiazole , and serum therapy have served these aged victims along with their children and grandchildren . Perhaps the most significant element in the present situation is the fact that both clinicians and laboratory men are beginning to specialize in the medical problems of old age . Pediatrics , the science of the medical treatment of disease in children , is one of the established specialties : it has its materia medica , its authorities , its training schools , its clinics and practitioners . Geriatrics , the science of the medical treatment of disease in old age , is far less advanced ; indeed , it is only in its very young infancy . One sees the word occasionally in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common as societies of geriatrics are organized , and journals of geriatrics begin to appear from the printing presses , and research laboratories of geriatrics begin to explore the mystery of aging . Interest is germinating in each of these aspects of the subject and during the past three years has taken root in several developments . Thus in 1939 a comprehensive book , Medical Problems of Aging , was published under the editorship of Dr. E. V. Cow-dry , the distinguished professor of cytology at Washington University in St. Louis , with contributions from twenty-six leading medical men of North America . Each organ or system of the body provides the subject for a chapter reviewing the present status of knowledge of it with respect to aging . This 756-page technical book supplies the physicians with a fairly complete synopsis of what was known in 1939 of the phenomenon of growing old , and it may be regarded as a landmark in the present movement for systematic study of aging . The Josiah Macy , Jr . Foundation , which financed the publication of this book , has provided the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuing to serve as an important catalyzing agency in this field . Other foundations too have made small grants here and there , but more and still more funded gifts will be necessary if the projected laboratory and clinical studies are to be undertaken on a basis of adequate trial . Another related event of 1939 was the visit to the United States of Dr. V. Korenchevsky , professor of pathology at the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine , London . For a number of years Dr. Korenchevsky has been interested in the physiology and biochemistry of aging . He has made himself the subject of an experimental study , has pursued investigations with animals , and his experience impressed him with the need for more concert among workers in this field . He conceived the idea of an international club for the study of aging . He selected certain American physicians , biologists , and chemists as the nucleus for such a group in the New World , and during the summer of 1939 called on these men and enlisted their interest . Dr. Korenchevsky had hardly completed this American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war has necessarily postponed all plans to extend the movement to the European continent . However , a British group was successfully organized , and early in 1940 some twenty of the Americans met in Washington and formed the American Club for Research on Aging . The membership of this club , limited to twenty in order to keep its proceedings on a basis of free informal discussion , includes some of the most competent men in modern medicine . Heretofore scientific societies have occasionally listened to a paper on some aspect of aging , and once in a while there has been a colloquium on the subject ; but now for the first time there is a definitely organized group of scientists who meet periodically to discuss the phenomena of growing old , to report experimental results , to exchange ideas , to develop leads and coordinate plans for new attacks on the problem . A further item of 1940 is the adoption of aging as a subject for research by the United States Public Health Service . For some years it has been investigating problems of industrial hygiene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancer , and other public health subjects . Now a unit in gerontology is added as part of its National Institute of Health in Washington . As the first project of the new unit , Dr. Edward J. Stieglitz is making a survey of American scientific institutions to learn what problems are under investigation , what fields are awaiting attention , and it is understood that the unit 's program will be formulated on the results of this inquiry . In all these efforts that are under way or projected it is not mere increase of years that is sought . " Our goal should be : Health in old age , " said Dr. 0 . H. P. Pepper , presiding at the Symposium on Medical Problems of Old Age held last September as part of the University of Pennsylvania Bicentennial Celebration . " Any assumption that old age must of necessity be a period of ill health is a supine surrender to the sorry state in which to-day most of us come to old age as a result of earlier ignorance and neglect . Even if longevity is assured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of existence unless at least reasonably good health , physical and mental , accompanied it , " Indeed , it is fair to say that most of those who dread old age are thinking of the decrepitude of old age . They have in mind the failing senses , the tremor and uncertainty of the muscles , the stiffness of joints , the loss of memory and fading of other mental faculties . Are these infirmities necessary to length of years ? III There was a dog at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research in New York who bore many marks of senile decrepitude . Eighteen years in a dog is comparable to 80 or 90 in a man , and this animal showed it . He spent most of his time curled up in a corner , so feeble that he could hardly stand to eat . His fur was scant and getting scarcer ; his eyes were dim ; his eyelids stuck together ; he slept all day and rarely showed any interest in the outside world . MAGAZINE Certain studies in which Dr. Alexis Carrel was then engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood , and Dr. Carrel thought he would see what a fresh circulation would do for this senile dog . The following account is taken from Dr. P. Lecompte du Noiiy , who gave the first report of this incident in his book Biological Time in 1937 , though Carrel 's experiment was done many years before . The animal was anesthetized , put on the operating table , and treated as follows . " Carrel bled him by the carotid artery , and removed nearly two-thirds of his blood . This blood was collected aseptically and immediately centrifuged , so as to separate the red cells from the serum . The red cells were washed in Ringer solution , recentrifuged , and mixed with fresh Ringer solution to reestablish the initial volume of the blood . It was then re-injected to the dog . The circulation was restored by massaging the heart , and the sMn was sewn up . A prince of royal blood , heir to the throne , on whom the peace of the world depended , could not have been the object of more attentive care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regained strength and appetite . The same operation was repeated so as to eliminate practically all the serum of his blood and replace it by this artificial solution which , besides the blood cells , contained only salts such as the chlorides of sodium , potassium , and calcium in the same proportions as those found in the blood . The animal lived . Not only did he live , but , once over the operative shock , he was a different dog . He ran and barked , a thing he had not done for years . His eyes were clear , his eyelids normal . His coat started to come in again . He was gay , active , and , most important of all , he was no longer indifferent to the charms of the other sex . He was regenerated . Dr. Carrel explored this matter farther through his tissue-culture technic . This is the procedure by which he kept a piece of the heart of a chicken alive for more than a quarter-century by keeping it immersed in an appropriate nutrient solution and protected against temperature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found that if he took blood from a young chicken and added its liquid part to the nutrient solution very little change occurred in the growth of the tissue culture . But if the blood was drawn from an old chicken , growth was retarded , and the degree of retardation was in direct relation to the age of the donor . Furthermore , the longevity of the culture was affected . " That is to say , " explains du Noiiy , " if a culture lived four or six days in the plasma of a 9-year-old cock , it would live forty-six days or more in that of a chick six weeks old . " Another aspect of aging was explored with beautiful precision by Dr. du Noiiy himself . During the First World War he was associated with Carrel in a French military hospital near the battle front , where it was discovered that the rate at which a wound healed depended on the age of the wounded person . From the data of numerous cases du Noily worked out a mathematical formula by which from a determination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age of the patient he could predict the time that would be required in healing . For example , if a wound required twenty days to heal in a child of 10 years , a wound of the same size and shape would require thirty-one days in a man of 20 , forty-one days in a man of 30 , fifty-five days in a man of 40 , seventy-eight days in a man of 50 , and a hundred days in a man of 60 . On one occasion early in these studies and before his formula had been published , du Noiiy received a letter from an officer in another hospital describing the case of a soldier whose wound was not healing at the rate expected for the medical treatment . The letter made no mention of name or age , but after consulting his chart du Noily replied that the " patient , assuming he was in good general health , must be between twenty and twenty-two years of age and that his wound was long and narrow . " Greatly surprised , the officer sent an answering letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 21-year-old grandson of Clennenceau . It is Dr. Carrel 's belief that the slowing down of the healing process which comes with years is a direct result of the aging of the blood as demonstrated in the tissue-culture studies and in the ex-periment with the dog . But merely replacing old blood serum with fresh is not sufficient to reverse the arrow of biological time . The aging tissues are continually pouring into the blood stream their varying production of hormones , enzymes , wastes , and other compounds . This outpouring was found to have reached an appreciable accumulation in the dog within a fortnight of the operation , and repeated removals of the old blood and its replacement with new serum had only a temporary effect of rejuvenescence . In the 15th century the 60-year-old Pope Innocent VIII had a transfusion of blood from three young men . His death soon after the operation is probably attributable to the fact that there was an incompatibility in the blood types . Nevertheless , it seems doubtful if he could have benefited very long even if the young blood had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is apparently a secondary effect , a reflection of the aging of the tissues which manufacture the hundreds of compounds that are released into the circulation . Even the digestive juices of the aged appear to be different from those of the young . It has been shown , for example , that in persons around 81 years of age the quantity of ptyalin , the starch-splitting enzyme in saliva , is only one thirty-fourth that of the ptyalin in the saliva of a 25-year-old . No wonder many oldsters find starchy foods a difficult morsel ! Medical history records various efforts to attain rejuvenescence through glandular extracts or surgical operations , but practically all have been concerned with the sex glands . Brown-Sequard was a pioneer in this field fifty years ago in France , and at the age of 70 administered gonadal extracts to himself and other aged men ; but the effects were transitory and he died . Others famous as rejuvenators are Steinach , with his ligature of the glandular duct as a means of stimulating the gonad to activity , and Voronoff , with his operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Each of these procedures was followed by indubitable cases of improvement in appearance and general condition and by revival of the sexual function ? but the grafts withered and were absorbed , the other changes relapsed , and rejuvenescence was temporary . Indeed , in the light of modern endocrinology , one could hardly expect that renewal of these glands alone would give the body a longer span of life , since so many organs are involved in the inner balance that is health . It seems a reasonable inference , as Carrel has suggested in his Man the Unknown , that " if an old man were given the glands of a still-born infant and the blood of a young man , he would possibly be rejuvenated . " But the " ifs " are very large , as he admits . " Many technical difficulties remain to be overcome before such an operation can be undertaken . We have no way of selecting organs suitable to a given individual . There is no procedure for rendering tissues capable of adapting themselves to the body of their host in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With the aid of methods already existing , and of those which will be discovered , we must pursue the search for the great secret . " IV The great secret is the nature of aging . What causes the tissues to change with age , why should they release different quantities or qualities into the circulation , bringing about those profound effects noted in the experiments just described ? These phenomena are but counterparts , recorded in the precise minutes of the laboratory , of changes we see every day going on about us in other human beings , and which we occasionally feel in ourselves , modifications so common and universal that we take them for granted ? and yet so mysterious , so hidden in their processes , so little known , so unexplained . " Aging is either disease or not disease , " is Dr. Alfred E. Cohn 's succinctphrasing of the alternatives . This suggests that it is either fortuitous ( and possibly curable ) or inherent in the organism ( and therefore incurable ) . Analyzing the implications of the first hypothesis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a consequence of one or more of three disease patterns : ( 1 ) " the result of avoidable toxins , traumas , nutritional disturbances , or impairments which have caused tissues to react with changes heretofore styled degenerative , " ( 2 ) " the result of the prolonged , cumulative , insidious damage inflicted by the imperfect environment in which we live , " or ( 3 ) a condition " due to disease processes which happen to occur most frequently in the aged but which are themselves not directly related to the passage of time . " The human organism is such fertile soil for disease , is host to so many infectious agents , that mere observation of the aged body can hardly be conclusive in determining a choice among these alternatives . But it may provide presumptive evidence . Dr. Howard T. Karsner , director of the Institute of Pathology at the Western Reserve University in Cleveland , has been searching the records of autopsies to check the causes of death , and last September reported his findings at the University of Pennsylvania Bicentennial . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found no record of death from old age . He cites the Freiburg pathologist Ludwig Aschoff as having performed 400 autopsies on persons over 55 years , and finding no deaths attributable to old age . " Groddeck , " he continues , quoting another authority , " did not mention it as a cause of death in 285 autopsies on persons over 80 . " Another European investigator , G. Nebendahl , took " the average life expee.aney of 58 years as a starting point and stated that in over 2,400 autopsies , old age caused death in 9.2 per cent . " The same autopsy material was studied by another pathologist , R. Uffer , and he credited old age with only 0.032 per cent of the deaths . Dr. Karsner is doubtful of the validity of even this small percentage , and thinks it " likely that death is ascribed to this cause ( old age ) in cases in which thorough microscopic examination would disclose other causes . " The most frequent cause of death in old age is failure of the heart or its associated circulatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its highest toll of these organs . But Dr. Karsner finds that here too infections and other specific diseases invariably leave their telltale sequels . In examining the hearts and arteries of elderly people dead of endocarditis , pericarditis , and arteriosclerosis , and whose hearts and arteries bear the grossly visible signs of these diseases , a microscopic examination often reveals a variety of inflammatory and degenerative lesions left by earlier injuries . Tiny foci of acute myocarditis , an inflammation of the muscular walls of the heart , are commonly observed following death from a number of causes . Similarly , in the great artery , or aorta , minute areas of degeneration , dead tissue , and inflammatory exudation show up under the microscope , though they would not be suspected in examination with the unaided eye . This being so , Dr. Karsner suggests that the changes so often attributed to old age may be , in part at least , the consequences of diseases long past . Several years ago Dr. Gregory Shwartzman , of the Mount Sinai Hospital in New York , discovered a phenomenon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that substances released by bacteria in the course of their growth have a remarkable effect on blood vessels , causing the capillary walls to become fragile , to gather clots , and to rupture conditions similar to those of thrombosis and hemorrhage which afflict old people . His experiments were performed on rabbits . He inoculated them with a fluid obtained by filtering a colony of bacteria . The porcelain filter was too fine to permit any bacteria to pass , therefore there was no living agentin the filtrate , a fact confirmed by other tests . Dr. Shwartzman found that when this filtrate was diluted and a very small amount was introduced into the skin of the rabbit , no significant response was noted ; but if he repeated the injection twenty-four hours later , violent reactions occurred locally , with the small blood vessels breaking and releasing hemorrhages attended by the destruction of tissue . Apparently the first injection was preparatory ; it seemed to alter the cells of the blood vessels in such wise that a sort of invisible trigger was set , and the effect of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which Drs . Paul Klemperer and I. E. Gerber collaborated , have shown that the preparatory injection need not be a local inoculation ; the trigger is set just as effectually by introducing the filtrate into the general blood stream . Drs . Shwartzman , Klemperer , and Gerber found that in this way a repeated injection in young rabbits could be made to produce diseases of the blood vessels of various organs similar to coronary thrombosis , cerebral hemorrhage , kidney failure , and other degenerative processes associated with aging in man . These findings suggest a mechanism by which bacteria may contribute to that aging of the blood which Dr. Carrel reported , and at the same time fix the pattern for eventually disastrous tissue changes to follow repeated encounters with the same bacterial wastes . Another agency which has long been suspect is diet . In 1938 at the University of California Drs . Agnes Fay Morgan and Helen Davison Sims were experimenting with the residue which remained from yeast after the known vitamins had been extracted . This residue contains a substance found also in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test its nutritional importance the experimenters fed young rats carefully prepared diets from which the substance was lacking , and found that black-haired animals soon turned gray . Moreover , the young rats became wrinkled , their skin was dry as in old age , and on examination it was found that their adrenal glands had begun to shrink . Since these studies were begun a new vitamin has been detected in the yeast residue by Professor R. J. Williams at the University of Oregon ; and as it has been found present in practically all tissues and is acidic in form , Professor Williams named the substance pantothenic acid . It was first obtained in pure chemical form in the spring of 1940 through a cooperative research between Professor Williams and Dr. Randolph T. Major of the Research Laboratories of Merck &; Company , Inc. , and is now being made synthetically . At the Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research , Dr. Claus Unna began to feed the pantothenic acid to a colony of black rats , beginning in infancy , and found that they lived through their entire life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were fed diets deficient in pantothenic acid , their hair soon was iron gray , but when the acid was restored to the daily rations their gray hairs began to drop out and new black hairs grew in . Other studies with pantothenic acid made by Dr. W. H. Sebrell and his associates at the National Institute of Health have demonstrated that the damage to adrenal glands which Drs . Morgan and Sims reported from California is apparently caused by deficiency of this vitamin . Various other symptoms of bleeding , roughened , and thickened skin , and ' falling hair have been established as effects of pantothenic-acid deficiency . Meanwhile an experimenter at Western Reserve University , Dr. Alfred H. Free , has found that diets deficient in iron , copper , and manganese also cause rats to turn gray , and he reports that when the minerals are restored the hair color returns . Up to the end of November , 1940 , no formal report of human experiments with these substances had been published , but rumors were current . According to Science Service , there are laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ color , or is in obvious process of restoration , following their taking of pantothenic acid . But perhaps gray hair is only a superficial sign , and diets that make their subject look young may not necessarily prolong his years . An actual extension of the average life span has been demonstrated in animals by Professor Henry C. Sherman and Dr. Harriet L. Campbell at Columbia University . For twenty years they have been experimenting with rats , separating them into groups , feeding each group a carefully controlled diet , and recording the results . During this period they have accumulated data on thousands of rats that have lived on wheat , milk , table salt , distilled water , and added portions of vitamins and minerals ? rats that have never known any other food , neither they , nor their parents , nor their ancestors reaching back through forty-six generations . This evidence indicates that rats fed diets rich in Vitamin A , riboflavin , and calcium live ten per cent longer than the rats of the same stock that are fed less fortified diets . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human application is justified . " The chemistry of human nutrition and of rat nutrition is strikingly similar in most respects , " he points out , " and on the chief items of known difference we are more responsive to dietary improvements than are rats . Hence the possibilities of betterment revealed by experiments with rats are almost certainly within the scientific probabilities for us human beings . " Instead of the Psalmist 's threescore years and ten , Professor Sherman suggests that the expectancy of effective human life may be increased by ten per cent ? to threescore years and seventeen . The foods which are rich in Vitamin A , riboflavin , and calcium are fruits , vegetables ( especially the green and yellow ones ) , and milk ( including such of its products as cheese , cream , and ice cream ) , and the Columbia chemist recommends that these deserve a prominent place in the human dietary . V A hundred years ago Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes was asked how to attain long life . The first thing to be done , " some years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertise for a couple of parents both belonging to long-lived families . Especially let the mother come from a race in which octogenarians are very common phenomena . " There was no scientific data on the inheritance of longevity at the time this prescription was given , and it was based on the general impression of a wise physician who had observed the succession of longevity in New England families . To-day we have many records to confirm this impression . Professor Raymond Pearl and his associates at Johns Hopkins University collected pedigrees of more than 2,000 persons of 90 years and older , and among them found 365 individuals whose immediate ancestral records are well authenticated , i.e. the ages at death of their two parents and four grandparents were accurately known . Study of these 365 cases discloses that the average life span of their parents was from 12 to 17 years longer than that of the parents of a representative unselected group from the population generally , and of their grandparents from 7 to 9 and one-half years longer . One 100-year-old man was descended from parents who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from grandparents whose spans were 104 , 98 , 106 , and 93 years . Pearl is convinced that persons who live to he 90 and beyond are individuals whom nature has chosen by its law of survival of the fittest . They survive because they have " organically superior constitutions , resistant to infections , soundly organized to function efficiently as a whole organization , and to keep on doing so for a very long time . " Numerous animal experiments confirm this acceptance of the role of heredity . Nor is it surprising that such should be the case . For heredity determines how the living machine is put together , how its parts are organized into bodies , the degree to which a part is strong or well adjusted , even its faculty of resistance to infection . Inasmuch as death comes from the interruption , weakness , or failure of some part or function , it seems reasonable that the degree to which a particular body might postpone death is related directly to its original constitutional endowment . These considerations favor the idea that at his conception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a given potentiality of years . And barring encounters with superior germs , overpowering poisons , speeding automobiles , and other accidents , he should find it possible to live out his allotted span . If heredity fixes a life span , can man extend it ? Professor A. J. Carlson of the University of Chicago has suggested that part of the hereditary factors in longevity may consist in " the capacity to overcome , resist , or adjust to unfavorable environmental factors . " If this be true a modification of these unfavorable influences may affect the longevity of large numbers of the population , perhaps of all . Four kinds of unfavorable environmental factors are listed by Professor Carlson : infections , diet , work , poisons . The only one of these which has been studied extensively for its effect on longevity is diet , and Carlson suggests the importance of continuing the nutritional studies as well as of inaugurating investigations of infections , work , and poisons . By poisons he means such things as gases released into the atmosphere by automobiles , factories , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserved foods , drinks , and smoke . Regarding work , he thinks it high time that we try to find out what is " the optimum mental and physical work for the most complete realization of the hereditary potentialities of longevity . " Of infections ? " some leave greater scars and impairments than others , but I know of no evidence to the effect that any infectious disease is favorable to longevity . " Considerable attention has been given to the possible relation of diet to longevity . The nutritional research at Columbia was mentioned in the preceding section , and Professor Sherman is convinced by these studies that it is out of date to hold that the only way to lengthen life is by the selection of a long-lived ancestry . Heredity and nutrition are both positive factors in his observation , and he believes that it is possible , by means which are within our control , to add " life to our years " and years to our life . A different approach to the dietary study of aging was taken by Professors L. A. Maynard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem at Cornell University for a number of years . They wanted to see what would be the effect on longevity if the rate of living were slowed down . So they put young rats on a diet that was adequate in vitamins , minerals , and other building materials , but low in carbohydrates and fats . With this reduction of fuel food , the rats received fewer calories , grew more slowly , remained slender , and ? lived longer . In a report last October to the American Dietetic Association , Professor McCay described groups of the rodents that have lived to be 900 days old , equivalent to about 90 years in human beings . He gave the data on one thin but rugged rat that reached the extraordinary age of 1,400 days . But it is not only overnutrition , with its consequent burden of overweight , that speeds the rate of living and wastes the vital store . Violent exercise , overwork , the predatory processes of disease , and prolonged emotional strain also consume energy , accumulate excessive fatigue products , and add infirmity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. T. Wingate Todd of Western Reserve University has defined aging in its functional aspect as " a continual repetition of injury and repair , with repair dominant " So long as aging is permitted to pursue its slow course uninterrupted we respond to injury with repair , we increase our tolerance of environ mental factors , build up our resistance , establish our immunity . But if something happens to weaken the response to injury , so that repair is delayed and injury gains the upper hand , then aging is replaced by infirmity . This contrast of aging with infirmity ? the first a process of slow change in which repair is dominant , the other a process of more rapid change in which injury is dominant ? carries a hint for those in search of an elixir of life . For , as Dr. Todd explained , " it is not in the physical structure that we should expect to find objective evidence of the first deterioration of health , but in those morbid moods which tarnish the joy of living and particularly in the irascibilities and impatience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life ? in youth , in middle age , in the twilight years . " Fatigue , apprehension , despondency are the signals set to warn us when we must take steps to maintain constructive healthy aging and not fall into the clutch of infirmity . The very scaffolding of intellect gives way if its load of morale is overstrained . We are concerned by the tragedy of recognizable disease which cuts off a man before his time . But we should be infinitely more moved by the pathos of a tragedy which cripples seven out of every ten of the so-called healthy men and women who have docilely accepted the substitution of infirmity , which they might have avoided , for aging , which is their birthright . " Professor Pearl found emotional stability the predominant trait among more than 2,000 nonagenarians and centenarians whom he studied during his many years at Johns Hopkins . In only one conspicuous respect , other than longevity , did they differ from the generality of mankind , he says . " That is the fact that a vast majority of these extremely longevous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worry . They had taken life at an even , unhurried pace . In this respect this human material agrees with and confirms a generalization that has emerged from experimental studies of life duration . It is that the length of life is generally in inverse proportion to the rate of living . The more rapid the pace of living is , the shorter the time that life endures . " An earlier article of this series has discussed many physical ills that derive from fear , anger , frustration , and other feelings of conflict . Now it appears that aging too is affected by emotional tensions . This is not to be wondered at when we remember that intense feelings release potent chemicals into the blood , thereby altering its homeostatic balance and over-exciting the responsive tissues . The effect is to pour extra cargoes of fuel into the circulation , quicken the heart beat , constrict the muscular walls of arte rinks , heighten the blood pressure , concentrate the blood in certain areas , and by these and other means to speed up the pace of living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injuries which poison aging with infirmity . Very likely many agencies are at work to shunt us into the state of disrepair which we know as old age . Some suspects have been mentioned earlier in this paper , and we may depend on the laboratories of geriatrics to pursue them and expose them . But would n't it be a judgment on our high-geared , high-speed , high-priced civilization if the chief betrayer should turn out to be our suppressed fears , our overstrained emotions , our habitual attitude of anxiety ?                     