@@431310

IMAGINE yourself in a sparklingly sunny city ? a more compact , cleaner , whiter New York ? in which ten of the chief hotels , clustering on the slopes and summit of a startlingly abrupt hill , are packed with visitors newly arrived from all over the world ? foreign ministers , advisers , experts , aides , secretaries , and news correspondents . Imagine a group of majestic buildings , constructed in the monumental **32;360;TOOLONG style of architecture , separated by broad avenues from garages and cheap shops and carpenterGothic apartment houses . Imagine that in one of these buildings ? the Opera House ? there is being held each afternoon a strange show : a succession of solemn speeches from a rostrum at the front of the operatic stage , with klieg lights burning down from the sides of the auditorium upon the speaker and upon his immediate audience in the red plush orchestra seats , while a larger audience above , in the opera boxes and the balconies , listens and stares . Next door to the Opera House , the equally magnificent Veterans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuous activities : official committee meetings in big conference rooms ; the polite agitations of committee secretaries , technical experts , liaison officers , interpreters , translators ; the hum of a mimeograph assembly-line , producing millions of pages of documents , minutes , reports , news releases ; and the clatter and jabber of news offices and broadcasting units sending other millions of words all over the world . Meanwhile , back in those hotels on the hillside a mile and a half away , there are occasional quiet unofficial meetings in carefully guarded upstairs suites ; there is a steady spate of office activity in **39;394;TOOLONG ; downstairs in Parlor A or the Rose Room there is an occasional press conference , at which an official submits to cross-examination by a couple of hundred correspondents ; outside , in the hotel lobby and on the sidewalks , there are staring crowds . Imagine yourself wandering about , from Opera House to Veterans ' Building to hotel lobbies to press conferences , convinced that the spotlight of world attention which is fixed upon this scene is far too bright . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems that an eager public apparently expects them to . As you look about at the hundreds of newsmen hammering out copy , you wonder how they can produce front-page copy except by combining news-tip and rumor and guesswork to work up alleged " crises " that have little direct connection with the subject-matter of the Conference . There is something else that depresses you too . At a time when nations are collapsing , cities crumbling , men and women dying in agony elsewhere in the  | world , how dismally undramatic by contrast seem the processes of international organization : the prepared speech with copies released in advance , the stiffly worded committee report , the technical document , the compromise amendment . Yet all about you there is in the air such high hope , reflected from the hopes of millions of men and women on every continent , that at the next moment your skepticism and depression dissolve . Here , you reflect , are gathered representatives of some three quarters of the men and women on this globe . Every one of them expresses good will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and you find the spirit of the occasion contagious . You are pleasantly excited , too , by the wide-eyed crowds , the parade of international celebrities , the sense of being inside the tent at what really is the greatest show on earth . Imagine all this and you may capture just a hint of what it was like to be in San Francisco during the early days of the United Nations Conference . AT Yalta , so the story goes , Secretary L s .. Stettinius heard a member of the American staff humming " Home on the Range " and exclaimed to himself , " San Francisco 's the place ! Make them go clear across our country " ? and thereupon persuaded President Roosevelt . Whatever the truth of the story , the idea was a brainstorm . For not only is San Francisco a handsome city , which has done more to capitalize on its natural aesthetic assets , and less to uglify them , than any other American city that I can think of ; not only does it combine a remnant of pioneer freshness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only is it disproportionately supplied with excellent hotels ( the fourteenth American city in size , it claims to stand third in total number of hotel rooms ) ; but to approach it for the first time from the east , across what was once called the Great American Desert , is an experience more moving than veteran continent-crossers can well realize . To the delegates from Europe and Asia , as they traveled westward by plane or by train , it must have been a revelation to become gradually aware not only of the vast extent of America , its industrial multiplicity , and its easy friendliness , but also of the fact that here beyond the desert lay a new land , facing away from the chaos of Europe , facing the next stage of the war , facing ? possibly ? the future . It was a good place to draw up the blueprints for a new tradition . II The holding of an international confernce is a complex business . After the preliminary diplomatic moves have been made and the invitations issued and accepted , consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be set up for the delegates and their staffs , for the personnel of the secretariat , for the press . Hotel accommodations , local transportation facilities must be readied . Hundreds of secretaries , aides , clerks , guards must be recruited ? some brought along from Washington , others hired locally ? and trained in their duties . A vast amount of apparatus must be assembled : furniture , typewriters , duplicating machines , presses , office supplies . Delegates , experts , and correspondents must be supplied with credentials and buttons , tickets for the plenary sessions must be carefully distributed , ushers and guards recruited and drilled . Press rooms , broadcasting studios , telegraphic and radio and cable outlets must be provided for . It is a little like organizing , on short notice , a large and complex business corporation ? which will operate at full tilt for a few weeks and then be dismantled . The State Department was no novice at this sort of job . Since Pearl Harbor it had set up five major international conferences : the food conference at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the monetary one at Bretton Woods , Dumbarton Oaks , and the Chicago Civil Aviation Conference . But the San Francisco Conference went beyond all precedent . It topped all previous ones in size , complexity , and importance . As of April 25th it represented 46 nations , with three more to be added later . As of May 7th the delegates and their staffs of consultants and advisers totaled some 1,722 . The secretariat numbered  | some 986 . The press ? including not only newspaper , magazine , and radio correspondents and photographers , but also their technicians , secretaries , and messengers ? ran to the appalling number of 2,446 . In all , the , Conference thus involved well over 5,000 people . The distance from Washington and the war demands upon the railroads necessitated such ingenious expedients as renting or borrowing locally ? from manufacturers , dealers , or government agencies ? all the desks , chairs , duplicating machines , and typewriters that would be needed , except for a hundred special typewriters with French and Spanish accents that were shipped on from Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job , since one usual source ? the hotels ' reserve supplies ? was closed ; in San Francisco the hotels would need all the furniture they could lay their hands on . ) As many as possible of the clerks must be hired on the Coast . All this must be done on short notice ? a little over two months at the most . Little wonder , then , that the machinery broke down here and there ? as when the representatives of the press and radio , after jaunting across the country in two luxurious special trains , found themselves standing in line hour after hour at the desk of the Palace Hotel , which mysteriously did n't have anywhere near enough rooms for the highly vocal correspondents assigned to it . LJTTLE wonder , either , that a visitor to the Veterans ' Building on Monday , April 23 , two days before the Conference was to open , beheld a scene of majestic confusion . In the middle of the great marble-floored entrance lobby , a life-sized statue of George Washington presided calmly over stacks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four horseshoe-shaped powder-blue counters that were to serve as registration and information desks , over correspondents and future members of the secretariat chatting in groups of armchairs rescued from the stacked piles . At one information counter , already in operation , an official was asking plaintively , " How do I get to my office upstairs when the passes are n't ready yet ? " There was a constant coming and going of carpenters and painters , and the air was full of the smell of fresh wood , the smell of paint , and the noise of hammering . Down a long corridor one walked past massive doors still labeled " Ninety-First Division Association " or " American Legion , Department of California " to the office which was to serve as press headquarters . Here correspondents elbowed their way to a counter on which lay a few piles of press releases . " Credentials ? Not ready yet ; come back at eleven , " the girls behind the counter were saying . ( Later they said , " Come back at four . " ) The press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't come to San Francisco ; bulletins on the expected time of arrival of Mr. Stettinius , Mr. Nelson Rockefeller , and others ( including , for some reason , Mr. H. V. Kaltenborn ) ; and a list of the forty-two organizations which , by invitation of the Secretary of State , would have " consultants " on hand at the Conference ? including not only such plausibly eligible outfits as the Council on Foreign Relations and the Foreign Policy Association but others such as Kiwanis International , the National Federation of Business and Professional Women 's Clubs , and the National Congress of Parents and Teachers . In another corridor the carpenters were finishing work on a series of cubicleswithin-offices from which NBC , ABC ( the Blue network ) , CBS , Mutual , and the Canadian Broadcasting System would presently pour forth hour upon hour of radio news and comment . Down a narrow marble stairway , in the basement , some general news rooms were taking shape ; in the largest of these , which had a counter at the end which would serve as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tables had been set up to offer space for a hundred or so correspondents to write their dispatches at a time . Only a few typewriters had thus far been set up ; the others were still in piles of crates . The few scribes already at work were typing to the accompaniment of a terrific hammering and sawing just outside the door . That afternoon several hundred of us stood interminably in line in the corridor  | leading to the press headquarters to get our credentials . We were a motley lot : in my immediate neighborhood in the line were Mrs. J. Borden Harriman , ex-minister to Norway , who rated as a radio commentator ; a soldier who represented the Italian edition of the Stars and Strides ; E. B. White , for the New Yorker ; Nick Parrino , an O W I photographer ; and an Armenian photographer who had somehow got all the way from Cairo with no credentials except a picture of Parrino , which was supposed to be able to open all doors for him . The Armenian , who was short of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what 6 x 9 centimeters was in inches . ( Apparently the doors must have been opened for him and the film question correctly answered , for a few days later I saw him wandering about with his camera right on the Conference floor at a plenary session , a privilege granted to only a few photographers each day . ) By Tuesday morning ? the eve of the Conference ? the entrance lobby was beginning to look more orderly . George Washington no longer had to keep an eye on stacked armchairs ; instead , he could watch incoming members of the secretariat registering at the horseshoe-shaped counters . Newspaper men , radio men , exLeague of Nations men , specialists in Latin-American affairs , veterans of Hot Springs and Bretton Woods , were renewing old acquaintance . The atmosphere was a little like that of freshman registration day ? at a college that was simultaneously moving into new quarters and holding a graduates ' reunion . I wandered upstairs and through the whole big four-story building , trying whenever I passed an MP to look as much as possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Soldiers and sailors had been pressed into service to move furniture and run errands and they were everywhere , but not invariably active : in the entrance vestibule of one of the big committee rooms two soldiers were diligently playing chopsticks on an upright piano . There were many committee-rooms , each with its long U-shaped table , topped with brown masonite and surrounded by green armchairs , with additional armchairs ranged along the walls and a plethora of spittoons in lieu of ashtrays . There was a reference library , still short of its full quota of books . There were whole corridors lined with offices for the secretariat . And on the sky-lighted top floor , which ordinarily serves San Francisco as an art museum , the Cezannes and Rouaults had given way to a big radiocommunications office manned by Army officers ; to cubicles for translators and interpreters ; to rooms for the filing of documents and counters for their distribution to delegates ; and to a prodigious mimeographing establishment : some forty desks for stencil-cutters , rows of mimeograph machines , tables for assembling pages . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? everybody in the Veterans ' Building seemed to be waiting frantically for some bit of equipment that had not yet arrived ? but this little Detroit was almost ready to go into action , producing orders of the day , journals , minutes , proposed amendments , committee reports , commission reports , press releases ? words , words , words : the materiel of peace . DOWNTOWN , that afternoon , the crowds were eager . The St. Francis had somewhat the aspect of a college-town hotel on a football-game Saturday . The sidewalks beside the entrance were jammed ; the handsome lobby was dense with people attempting to look as if pausing momentarily for an old friend . For not only was the St. Francis , unlike some of the other hotels , right in the heart of the shopping district and accessible without alpinism , but it was also to house the Russian delegation and everybody wanted to see the Russians . I walked up Nob Hill to the Fairmont ? an ascent of only four blocks but steep enough to discourage San Franciscans interested merely in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South African , and Yugoslav delegations ? and found its big marble-pillared lobby less crowded ; but here too there was an atmosphere of big-game suspense . Almost at the moment I arrived , out from an interior parlor strode Secretary Stettinius , strong , athletic , pink-skinned , half-smiling , at the head of a flying wedge of delegates , advisers , and ( for all I knew )  | guards . The loiterers in the lobby caught their breath ; this was what they had been waiting for . Here was the white-haired local star of the international game ? Ed Stettinius , captain of the home team . Molotov was due at the San Francisco airport that afternoon , and later we heard about his arrival . Long before his plane was due , a dense crowd of Russian secretservice men were on hand , wearing newlypurchased American hats in which not all of them had bothered to make creases , so that they did not precisely resemble native sons . A Russian general was on hand , too , insisting that no photographers or reporters be allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this aroused vehement protests . The orders were slightly relaxed ? a chosen few would be permitted to draw near . Then suddenly , when the plane was almost due , the prohibition was withdrawn entirely , presumably on Molotov 's own instructions by radio . ' The result was that when the C-54 came to a halt there was a grand melee . Molotov stepped out of the plane , raised his hand in a Russian salute , stood there a moment calmly , was photographed , said he was glad to be there , and walked down the steps ? the photographer who described the scene to me was much impressed that he did not look down at the steps as he did so . The men with new hats , ably seconded by the FBI , closed about him and off he went to his limousine . The Russians remained the focus of public attention , and were sufficiently guarded , in both senses of the word , not to outwear their glamour . The tenth floor of the St. Francis , which they occupied , became known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff reported that mysteriously they neither went out to eat nor patronized room service . Molotov arrived at meetings in a black limousine ( with a small red flag , with hammer and sickle , on its right front fender ) preceded and followed by blue limousines full of bodyguards . Once when they thus drew up before the Veterans ' Building , the bodyguards leaping out to the sidewalk before he alighted , one group of them straightway leaped back in again and was off as if answering a fire alarm . The mystery was soon solved : the Commissar had left his hat behind . III As 4:30 approached on the afternoon of April 25 , the opening day , the Opera House had long been packedorchestra , boxes , balcony , gallery ? with an audience whose eyes were riveted upon the brilliantly decorated stage . Down front on this stage was the rostrum , consisting of a sort of longish counter or presiding officer 's table with a reading desk at its center , and in front of that , some five feet below , a lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole rostrum was painted gray-blue , and out of each reading desk sprouted a nosegay of little microphones . Below the lower platform was an enclosure where several stenographers and stenotypists sat waiting at their tables and machines . Up on the stage , behind the counter , four empty gilt armchairs sat in lonely grandeur . At the back of the stage was a stand of the forty-six flags of the participating nations ( arranged , for diplomacy 's sake , in alphabetical order ) ; and four mighty rectangular gold pillars rising against a spectacularly sky-blue backdrop , giving a very Maxfield Parrish effect . For some time an offstage band had been playing airs as innocent of international connotations as " Stout-Hearted Men " ( from " Naughty Marietta " ) and " The World Is Waiting for the Sunrise . " Then , suddenly The band played a fanfare . From both sides of the auditorium klieg lights snapped on , drenching rostrum and orchestra floor with hot light . On to the stage from both wings marched seventeen members of the U. S. armed forces , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention facing the audience in a row , four men strode briskly in from the wings on the right ? the Secretary General of the Conference ( dark-haired ) , the Governor of California ( gray-haired ) , the Mayor of San Francisco ( gray-haired ) , and the Secretary of State ( white-haired ) . The first three seated themselves in three of the four gilt armchairs . Secretary Stettinius deployed neatly to the rostrum , smote three  | times with a gavel , and declared the United Nations Conference on International Organization open . The show was on . The Secretary called for a moment of silent meditation , sat down briefly , rose again , introduced the President of the United States , and sat down once more . There was a faint clicking noise and then the disembodied voice of President Truman came clearly over the loud-speakers ? a rather flat , matter-of-fact , explanatory voice , a little hoarse at first , rehearsing painstakingly the cliches of international amity and high resolve . The audience listened quietly ; from time to time , in the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as correspondents armed with advance copies of the Truman script turned a page in unison . It was a strange scene , curiously remote in atmosphere from both the destruction of war and the diplomacy of peace . The luxurious Opera House , the eager audience , the blue-and-gold stage set , the soldiers and sailors and WACS and WAVES at attention , the blazing lights , the side boxes full of photographers ? all gave the occasion somewhat the air of a theatrical event , perhaps a first night ; I heard one spectator murmur , " But where are the Rockettes ? " The voice from nowhere droned on to its correct conclusion , with the inevitable reference to God . Applause . The Governor was introduced , and read words of welcome . Applause . The Mayor was introduced , and read words of welcome . Applause . Stettinius himself read somewhat more extended words of welcome and good will , in a rich , strong voice , in little bursts of phrases , lingering a trifle on the sibilants . Extended applause . The Secretary General announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A first night ? No , that was n't it exactly . Hurrying down the marble stairs , I pushed out on to the crowding Opera House steps . The wind outdoors was nipping ; the late afternoon sun slanted down on the crowd , on the limousines lined up to carry away the delegates , on the neo-classical City Hall dome across the way , on the half-masted flags straining at their lanyards . A striped awning led down from the center door to the curb , and beneath it the delegates were slowly moving down the steps between craning rows of spectators . There was no doubt what this scene was like : the conclusion of a fashionable wedding . Would the forty-six nations now united live happily ever after ? Well , one reflected , at least on the day of the ceremony the proper mood was a hopeful one . The blue-and-gold stage set , the red plush seats , and the wide marble hallways of the Opera House were to become very familiar to us during the next week ; for every nation must have its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights even of small nations ? and there were forty-six nations . There was an odd similarity to these opening speeches . Nearly all began with a tribute to the Man Who Was n't There ; to hear this world-wide succession of eulogies , by men of several shades of color , speaking in several languages , was to be forcibly reminded how long a shadow Franklin D. Roosevelt cast . Nearly all followed with respectful references to the several sponsoring powers and their contributions to the war . All , without exception , concluded by insisting that the Conference must not fail . Nearly all the representatives of the smaller nations urged revision of Dumbarton Oaks to give them a larger place in the organization , usually asking for a larger Security Council , for the abolition of the veto power granted the five great powers , and for enlarged scope for the Economic and Social Council . To hear such sentiments so constantly repeated would have palled in time on even the most ardent listeners , especially if they were seated warmly high up in a balcony at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mexico and Mazaryk of Czechoslovakia were eloquent ; that Carlos Romulo of the Philippines was especially eloquent in a slightly corny way , with the wide gestures and grandiloquent intonations of a United States Senator ; that Smuts of South Africa , an impressively erect , bespectacled , white-headed figure in uniform , was disappointing in that his speech , which was the only one to pay tribute to President  | Wilson , looked backward rather than forward ; but it must be confessed that some of us paid less attention to the content of most of the speeches than to various incidental aspects of the scene . We observed the calm immobility of Molotov as chairman , for example : he did not fidget as did Stettinius , or move about and converse with the man at his elbow as did Eden , but mostly sat stock still ; he could remain motionless for minutes at a time with his hands lying limply in his lap . We delighted in the antics of the photographers just below the rostrum ; especially when Molotov spoke they went into frenzies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invading the secretaries ' enclosure and leaning past the blonde stenotypist to pop their flash-bulbs almost in the Commissar 's face , while he continued his oration ( in Russian ) just as imperturbably as if this were an everyday Soviet practice instead of the blessed impertinence of a free press . But there was one speaker . who really lifted the audience out of itself . Surprisingly , this was Anthony Eden . Molotov had been speaking that afternoon . His speech , in Russian , had lasted some twenty minutes . It was followed by a translation into English ? and then by an equally long translation into French . Before that ended the audience had become restive . People were beginning to leave . Eden was called on . Wearing a short black coat and gray trousers , he stalked up to the rostrum with the long-legged , wide stride of an undergraduate about to make a Commencement address . He plunked down his notes on the reading desk and began to speak in a clear , resonant voice , forthrightly . His gestures seemed the halfgraceful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corners of the reading desk and pull back ; pump up and down with both fists for emphasis , cheerleader fashion . Yet despite the coltishness of his speaking manner , what he had to say about the necessity for carrying the Conference to a successful conclusion was so clear and so eloquent , and had such a ring of sincerity , that he was interrupted again and again by sharp applause and ended his address to a thunder of it . DURING those plenary sessions there was one bit of unpremeditated drama : The Battle of Argentina . Over Molotov 's objection , a motion to admit Argentina to the Conference had passed the Executive Committee and the Steering Committee and had come before the plenary session of Monday , April 30 . Unexpectedly , Molotov objected once more , in a speech of considerable length , asking that action be delayed ; whereupon there was a succession of speeches on both sides of the argument . Eden , who was presiding , obviously wanted the issue out of the way ; at one time he remarked unhappily that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there seemed no prospect of an end to the debate . The break came late in the afternoon . A Peruvian had been speaking torrentially . Just behind him sat Roberto Sein , the incredibly capable red-haired translator , taking notes in a notebook on his knee ( he knows no shorthand , just puts down key words ) . After a minute or two the Peruvian would desist ; Sein would rise and , standing beside him , compose from his notes an orotund translation of the outburst ; then the Peruvian would be off again with another deluge of words ; then he would pause , brush back his long hair , and look defiantly at Sein , who would resume his miraculous translation . At last the speech and the translation ended , and Eden suddenly recognized " The Secretary of State of the United States of America . " Stettinius strode to the rostrum . In a short extempore speech ? much more effective than his prepared ones ? he urged an immediate vote . He said the matter had been argued out in meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " I plead with you to act now on this matter , in order that we may get on with the sacred task for which we have met . " Hearty applause . Eden , obviously improvising a procedure for this unexpected situation , then asked the delegates if they were willing to take a decision now without any more speeches . A few faini ayes , no audible noes . " Good ! " exclaimed Eden impulsively . Then he carefully put the next question : would the heads of  | those delegations which favored postponing action on the admission of Argentina please rise ? ( At this point so many people in the galleries stood up to get a look at the floor , and there were so many loud cries of " Sit down ! " that some delegates must have imagined that the American audience was trying to influence the voting . ) Eden reported , " The number is 7 . " He asked those who wished to take action at once to rise , and reported , " Thank you , gentlemen . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote on admitting Argentina ? and the decision was 31 to 4 in favor , with a number of delegations ( including Russia 's neighbors ) abstaining from voting . " Thank you , gentlemen , " said Eden again , and declared the admission of Argentina duly approved in plenary session . It had been a famous victory for our team . And an uncomfortable one . In the opinion of many of us our government , in its zeal for playing ball with its LatinAmerican neighbors and following through on the decisions of the Mexico City conference , had got itself jockeyed into a position morally inferior to Molotov 's . Yet at least there had been a certain exhilaration in seeing an international issue battled out on the floor under the klieg lights and decided by international vote . IV AFTER the first week the Conference retired behind closed doors . The Opera House went dark except for its basement cafeteria , possibly the only cafeteria in history with both a sommelier and a Pepsi-Cola counter . Now commissions and committees were being organized to dispose of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for these proposals totaled 700 typewritten pages , the Mexican delegation alone producing a 121-page document which read like a Ph.D . thesis . Meanwhile Stettinius , Eden , Molotov , and Soong , and sometimes also Bidault of France , were holding session after session ? usually in Stettinius ' penthouse apartment at the Fairmont ? to decide in a hurry what amendments they would jointly accept ; for Germany was collapsing fast , European foreign ministers were becoming restive , and clearly a Big-Power agreement must be reached posthaste ? the tacit assumption being that the small nations ' subsequent objections would be diplomatically stifled and the Conference could then return to the Opera House , ratify , and adjourn . Now we correspondents had to get our information at second or third hand , chiefly through press conferences . Word would be posted on the Press Room bulletin board in the Veterans ' Building , and on bulletin boards in our hotels , that the American delegation would hold a press conference in the Rose Room at the Fairmont at 9:45 A.M. , or that Lord Cranborne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dons at the Mark Hopkins at 3 P.H. , and off we would be up Nob Hill in a bleak wind . For as if displeased at the new secrecy , San Francisco was now turning on its brilliant sun only intermittently and was giving us a succession of gusty gray mornings . These press conferences might be likened to college classes , with a hundred or two students seated in stiff chairs and as many more standing densely round the edges of the room ? if you can imagine a college class ( held in a paneled hotel parlor ) at which the lecturer must submit simultaneously to close-range flash-bulb photography from every angle and to a barrage of questions , of which some are intended merely to elicit information and others are designed to put him on the spot on some embarrassing issue . For not only was San Francisco full of salesmen and press agents for everything from cable corporations to peace research foundations , all eager somehow to attract international notice ; it was full also of defenders of minorities and propagandists of lost causes and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who could be relied upon to throw into any discussion a question about India , Palestine , Spain , or the color bar . We therefore saw the principal figures of the Conference not only as expositors but as embarrassment-dodgers : an obviously unfair test of their statesmanship , but fascinating nevertheless . As an artful dodger Stettinius main- tained his amateur standing . He was carrying a terrific load of responsibility and presumably carrying it well , but obviously these conferences were an ordeal for him . No man could have tried harder . Handsome , erect , spruce , he smiled conscientiously , called as many correspondents as possible by their first names , seemed to be telling himself that he must parry every thrust successfully and yet with perfect good humor . But though he told us all he could and emerged at the end of each conference with the mechanical smile still on his lips , one felt that he had been concentrating more earnestly upon his performance than upon his subject-matter . Stassen offered a contrast . A tall , nice-looking fellow , with such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower so strikingly one might have sworn that one had last seen him on the 5:14 commuters ' local , he was so full of his subject , so anxious to make it crystal clear , that he brushed aside awkward questions as the irrelevancies they clearly were and returned to the demonstration on which his mind was set . Molotov ? round-faced , with sandylightish hair brushed across a very round skull , with a small light mustache , a somewhat mandarin-like expression , a strong chin , and a rather light voice , not resonant but on occasion emphatic ? dominated his press conferences coolly . He was clear , businesslike , sometimes humorous , brief , and definitely co-operative . The correspondents respected him because he played his lone hand with such serene skill . Soong of China ? young-looking , darkhaired , bespectacled , rather full-lipped ? was aided by a perfect command of English and by the fact that his delegation was less unwilling than any other major one to yield real power to the international organization : it was ready to give up the veto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grant compulsory jurisdiction to the international court . Soong was a nimble dodger . When asked , " Does China subscribe to the idea of the termination of Western domination in Asia ? " he held a murmured consultation with his colleagues and came back neatly : " I believe the Atlantic Charter hopes to end the domination of anybody by anybody . " But the nimblest of the lot was perhaps Bidault of France ? a handsome man with dark , shining hair and a smile of singular sweetness . He had little that was positive to reveal but seemed to revel in fencing with his questioners . When asked whether , speaking not as a statesman but as a private individual , he would favor admitting Spain to the Conference , he listened to a translation of the question as if hearing , with reflective pleasure , some secret music coming to him out of the upper air , and answered smilingly , " I should be happy to answer that question if the private individual and the statesman were separated , but at this moment they are too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was in San Francisco ; the United Kingdom depended upon Robert Arthur James Gascoyne-Cecil , Viscount Cranborne , Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs , a smallish man with a dark mustache and bone spectacles , who remained seated during his session with the press and seemed ill-at-ease . He stammered , was hesitant , tentative , and vague . At the opposite pole was Evatt of Australia ? or , as he would say , Austrylia , for his accent was incredible . A stalwart , square-faced , spectacled , gray-haired man in a brown suit , he looked the business man rather than the diplomat , went at his exposition of the trusteeship problem in a confident , businesslike way , and met awkward questions with unembarrassed matter-of-factness . When asked by an Indian correspondent some question about a trusteeship for India he came down like a ton of bricks : no , India did n't need a trustee , India was one of the United Nations ; like the Philippines , it was well on the way to full self-government ; it had made a massive contribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but a blunderbuss of logical demonstration . V OUT of all these sessions , and whatever other straws of information we gleaned , one thing emerged clearly . No brave new world was going to be fashioned at San Francisco . Everybody wanted a world organization but nobody showed much inclination to throw any of his  | country 's present or prospective possessions into the pot to give the brew more body . France intended to hold on to Indo-China and its Pacific islands ; Britain , to Burma , Malaya , and its African colonies . ( The British announced that Burma would be granted full self-government ? but it was Britain that would do the granting , not an international body . ) The United States was willing to hold its new Pacific bases as a trustee , but did n't want the Security Council to rule on which ones it was to fortify . Neither Britain nor the United States apparently contemplated the international organization 's being able to transfer territory from one trustee to another ; the British did n't even contemplate letting the organization investigate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigate themselves . Russia , which had little prospect of becoming a trustee , wanted the trustees explicitly bound to advance their wards toward independence , but the powers which were likely to hold trusteeships preferred to be less definitely committed . Russia for her part was , of course , adamant on maintaining a veto power in any dispute which might affect her . And so it went . Add all these reservations together , and it was clear that the best we could hope to get was the framework of an international organization which would be a sort of least common denominator of national policies . And how many questions had to be pushed to one side to clear the way for this slender agreement ! Poland ? that ghost which haunted the San Francisco negotiations persistently . The future boundaries of Germany . The disposition of the Ruhr and the Saar . The decision as to a future German government . Reparations . The future military control of Germany . The boundaries and disposition of Austria . The future of the Balkan nations , now hidden behind a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangements . Relief and reconstruction for Europe . The future status of cartels with German connections . Transfers of population . The status of Palestine and the Near East generally ; of the former Italian colonies ? Tripoli , Libya , Eritrea , Italian Somaliland ; of Korea , Hong Kong , and the Pacific islands captured from the Japanese . The future basis of international trade . Not only were those questions ? and many others too ? left unsettled by the San Francisco Conference ; they will not even be subject to settlement by the international organization set up at San Francisco . They must be settled by negotiation ? if not , unhappily , by unilateral action ? and many of them must be settled within the coming year . And unless they are solved without gross friction the organization born at San Francisco will not be able to survive the storms of the years ahead , much less serve as a bulwark for peace . BY THE time these impressions appear in print , traffic will presumably be running again along Van Ness Avenue in front of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veterans ' associations and the French masterpieces will be on their way back to the one-time committee rooms and mimeographing rooms of the Conference ; American guests will again be occupying the tenth floor of the St. Francis ; the last European delegate will have crossed the Great American Desert on his way home . And the San Francisco agreement , as finally subscribed to , will presumably be before the United States Senate . Imperfect though it will be , let us hope it passes the Senate decisively and promptly . For unless we Americans earn a reputation for supporting rather than hamstringing our negotiators , our voice in the settlements still to be made will be equivocal . And those settlements will call for all the astute and generous statesmanship that the world can command .  |                     