@@487799

ON HIS RETURN TO ITALY AFTER MANY years of exile , Count Sforza declared that he had come back as a private citizen whose only interest was in helping to win the war against Germany . Until that goal was reached he would not , he said , proclaim for any party nor would he join the Badoglio or any other government not chosen by the Italian people . It seems probable that he will have great difficulty in adhering to this self-denying course . Strong pressures , we expect , will be used to persuade him to lend his prestige to the Badoglio government , which badly needs some respectable liberal trimmings . There have even been suggestions that he might be appointed Prime Minister and Badoglio relegated to the position of War Minister or Commanderin-Chief . If he resists these pressures  --  and we would expect him to unless he is given full power to choose his associates in the government  --  he is likely to be drawn toward the Partito d'Azione ( Action Party ) which , uniting a large number of democratic groups , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities appear to believe that Italy can remain a political vacuum until the war is over it is obvious that , even if the present regime is accepted as a military expedient , preparation must be made for the promised day when Italians can once again choose their own government . *-POLITICAL DISCUSSION AND AGITATION IN Italy was growing even before the fall of Mussolini but it had to stay underground . If the Badoglio government attempts to suppress it it will continue underground . Will the Allied Military Mission , which is the de facto power behind the throne , then sanction the use of Gestapo-like methods to stamp it out ? The issue may be brought to a head by the arrest of three prominent liberals in Apulia for issuing a clandestine newspaper . Since the only authorized journal is the official government sheet , no other method of disseminating their views was open to them . According to Herbert L. Matthews , the New York Times correspondent , neither the Badoglio government nor the Allied Military Mission is eager to accept responsibility for this action , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obviously this kind of excuse will hold water only if the men are immediately released . As we can not believe that the Allies will , in fact , permit freedom of discussion to be fought by terror , they will be compelled to insist either that the Badoglio government turn a blind eye to " illegal " political activities or that it remove a curb which can not be enforced or defended . THE ARGENTINE COLONELS WHO , AS MANUEL Seoane pointed out in The Nation of October 16 , are the power behind the Ramirez regime , appear to be as profoundly stupid as they are reactionary . If they had seized the opportunity , when they overthrew the Castillo government , to join with the United Nations they could have pursued their program of domestic fascism with no questions asked . After all , neither the State Department nor the British Foreign Office has been unduly fussy about the democratic credentials of nations which elected to fight the Axis . Even if Argentina 's part in the war had been little more than nominal , it would probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give it equality with Brazil . But the Colonels were emotionally tied to the Axis and had no desire to hasten the break . So the government attempted to get a promise of arms from Washington without committing itself . The result was a snub which made it impossible for Ramirez to end the neutrality policy without appearing to yield to United States pressure and so " losing face . " The Cabinet split on the issue , and the proponents of adherence to the United Nations resigned . Colonel Alberto Gilbert , who is said to have given a pledge that The NATION there would be no break with the Axis so long as he was in the Cabinet , has been promoted from Minister of the Interior to Minister of Foreign Affairs , and a notorious anti-Semite has been made Minister of Justice . These moves have not strengthened the government 's prestige , and public criticism is growing bolder despite stringent censorship and concentration camps . A manifesto signed by 150 leading citizens has called for " effective democracy " and " loyal fulfilment of international obligations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but this revengeful step has only led to new protests and increased agitation . ONCE MORE THE PRESIDENT HAS TAKEN THE helm at a critical moment . As in the gloomy days of last June when the farm bloc was riding high in Congress , he has served notice that the present price line must be held and has presented a vigorous defense for subsidies as the most effective way of holding it . As the President has pointed out , the farmers have been getting subsidies for a decade , and no one has suffered any of the dire consequences predicted by the farm-bloc leaders . The recent action of the House Banking Committee terminating most subsidies on December 31 , if upheld in Congress , would destroy all possibility of maintaining the present OPA ceilings and intensify labor 's growing discontent . In an effort to hold off labor 's demands until he has won his subsidy fight , the President held a long conference last week with the leaders of the A. F. of L. , the C. I. 0. , and the railway brotherhoods . Taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ index prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics , Mr. Roosevelt agreed to have a committee appointed to check its adequacy ; he did not , however , consent to a revision of the Little Steel formula under present conditions . The President has shown statesmanship in his initial efforts to stave off disaster , but he will need the support of every patriotic citizen if he is once more to be successful . VICE-PRESIDENT WALLACE APPARENTLY PUT his finger on an extremely sore point when he denounced railway and transportation monopolies in his recent speech at Dallas . Railway spokesmen and conservative newspapers have gone to great lengths to describe the charges as " old stuff " that have been " answered time after time . " Their replies have , however , scarcely touched Mr. Wallace 's main allegations , which were : ( 1 ) that discriminatory rates are keeping the South and West in a colonial status ; ( 2 ) that newer forms of transportation are being brought under monopoly control ; and ( 3 ) , that monopolistic conditions in transportation are fostering monopolies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced a number of specific examples to October 30 , 1943 show how Southern and Western industry is handicapped in competition with similar industries in the North and East . The railways do not deny the accuracy of Wallace 's figures ; they seek refuge in the fact that all rates must be reviewed by the Interstate Commerce Commission -- a body which has seldom distinguished itself by zeal or independence in dealing with this admittedly thorny question . Many of Mr. Wallace 's hearers could probably have contributed from first-hand experience supplementary data to prove his final contention regarding the effectiveness of transportation in fostering other monopolies . For nearly every Texan is aware of the decisive role of the railways in the struggle between the great oil companies and the independents . Politically , the speech was an extraordinarily astute one ? a fitting answer to those who have been trying to count Mr. Wallace out for 1944 . FOES OF THE FEDERAL-AID-TO-EDUCATION bill succeeded in frustrating ten years of effort to equalize educational opportunity in the United States by a last-minute trick of unusually knavish character . Until the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ providing $300,000,000 annually to pay increased salaries for teachers and otherwise strengthen education in the poorer states by federal assistance would be enacted with the support of the Southern Democrats whose states would be the chief beneficiaries . But Senator Langer , with the urgent backing of Senator Taft  --  chief opponent of the bill  --  threw the Senate into confusion by introducing an amendment forbidding racial discrimination in the administration not only of the federal funds but also of the state funds they would supplement . Senator Langer insisted that his amendment was essential for the protection of Negro rights and had the backing of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People . Actually , the N.A.A.C.P. had sent a telegram to the Senate opposing such an amendment , but the maneuver succeeded . Enough Senators favoring equal rights for Negroes joined the opponents of the bill to pass the amendment forty to thirty-seven . Thereupon the Southern Democrats joined with the bill 's foes to scuttle the measure altogether . Incidentally , Senator Taft , who was chiefly responsible for the amendment that would have throttled all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the committee which drafted the states ' rights declaration at the recent Mackinac Island conference . Senator Taft 's assertion that " no one can claim that the amount of money Ohio spends on students is not sufficient for an adequate education " is also interesting in view of the fact that all four of Taft 's sons were sent out of the state to receive their education in private schools . 487 FOR TWENTY YEARS CZECHOSLOVAKIA served as a citadel of enlightenment in an area bristling with reaction and aggressive nationalism . For five years Czechoslovakia has been a symbol of implacable resistance . Betrayed by its friends and overrun by the enemy , the Czech nation has neither yielded to despair nor accepted the terms of the conqueror . It has fought back within its own borders , in the armies of its allies , in its own courageous heart . The Czechs are an admirable people , and on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the Czechoslovak Republic they deserve not only homage but a pledge of atonement by the whole democratic world .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         