@@487458

The Shape of Things MARSHAL BADOGLIO , ITALY 'S FOREMOST soldier , has been let out , not because he bungled the Albanian campaign , but because he opposed it in the first place . It is unhealthy to be in a position to say " I told you so " to a dictator . Probably his successor will not make the same mistake since he is reputed to be a " political " soldier and good party yes-man . The other changes in the Italian military and naval high command are less easy to explain except in so far as the general lack of success of Italian arms makes recourse to new blood an obvious expedient . But even the most competent leadership is going to have its work cut out in reestablishing the balance in Albania . With the capture of Agyrokastron , the Greeks have consolidated their positions and are now advancing cautiously but steadily in the direction of the Albanian oil fields . Rumors of anti-fascist riots continue to seep out of Italy , and the admission in a leading party organ that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause of discontent . And now the British forces in Egypt are increasing their pressure on Graziani 's stalled army . The large-scale raid on the Italian flank has yielded a large number of prisoners and seems to have imperiled the Italian position at Sidi Barran ' . If the Libyan army proves infected with the Albanian dry rot , this move may develop into a major offensive . * THE DEBATE IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS on a motion favoring an immediate attempt to seek a compromise peace served three purposes . It knocked on the head rumors of peace feelers emanating from Lisbon , Vichy , and Rome ; it provided new proof of the robust survival of democracy in Britain , it demonstrated the extent of national solidarity behind the government 's policy of maintaining the fight until Nazism is broken . The motion was put forward by three members of the Independent Labor Party , whose arguments received a perfectly orderly hearing before being almost unanimously rejected in the lobbies . They proposed that Hitler should be approached now with the offer of a peace conference on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restoration of freedom in all countries " and of a common pool of material resources " to bring about a new civilization in the world . " The lofty optimism of these proposals suggests blind ignorance of the nature of Nazi ideology . The statement by John McGovern , mover of the resolution , that Britain today was nearer to totalitarian government than it had ever been before shows a sad lack of appreciation of the realities of totalitarian rule . In reply Clement Attlee , speaking for the government , said with marked understatement . " Probably this debate is one which would not be tolerated in any other country at war . " That is the crux of the matter . If German pacifists were allowed to speak their minds freely and denounce Hitler 's ambitions , then a compromise between Germany and Britain might be possible , for the two countries would again be recognizing common values . But between totalitarianism and democracy there is no means of communication save by the broken bridge of appeasement. * PROPOSALS FOR EXTENDING CREDIT TO Franco continue to be reported and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt at appeasement yet on record . Aside from the ethics of helping a dictator who has instituted one of the most brutal regimes in Europe , what concerns us is the utter futility of a course which would be based on the assumption that General Franco is free to decide whether he will enter the war . Nothing could be farther from the fact . With a huge German army poised on the Spanish border , Franco must enter the war when Hitler gives the word and on Hitler 's terms . If , frustrated in the Balkans , Hitler decides tomorrow that he must seize Gibraltar in order to bolster his ebbing prestige , Franco will have no choice but to participate in the attack . If , on the other hand , Hitler prefers to wait until Spain has accumulated foodstuffs , gasoline , and other needed supplies , Franco can wait . Britain 's experience with Italy last spring should provide a clear answer to anyone who professes to hope that Spain will remain out of the war if we provide it with sufficient supplies . Hitler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy . 590 THE CHARGE THAT THE WALSH-HEALEY ACT is obstructing the placing of defense orders has been given considerable prominence in the daily press . Basis for the charge is alleged to be found in the annual report of Rear Admiral Ray Spear , chief of the navy 's Bureau of Supplies and Accounts . Regarding the facts there can he no dispute . Specific cases cited in the report show the difficulties encountered by the Navy Department in placing orders for equipment because of employers ' objections to complying with the provisions of the Walsh-Healey Act , particularly in the matter of hours of work and payment of overtime From this the inference is drawn , in the press , that the law is a menace to the national defense and should be changed . A careful reading of the report does not , however , justify this conclusion . It indicates , on the contrary , that in an effort to controvert the wages and hours provisions of the Walsh-Healey Act , now practically identical with the Labor Standards Act , the manufacturers of certain articles needed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally does not use such harsh words in describing the difficulties encountered in placing a contract for 2,000 aircraft clocks , but the uniform opposition to accepting contracts requiring compliance with the provisions of the Walsh-Healey Act strongly suggests what , if labor were involved , would be called conspiracy . The fact that obstruction of this type was confined to a few industries reinforces the suspicion that it was not spontaneous . The President has power under the Selective Service Act to deal with situations of this kind * THE UNSCRUPULOUSNESS OF COMMUNISTS and their capacity for mischief make it all too easy to slide into an attitude of indifference toward such organized red-hunts as the Rapp-Coudert committee is now sponsoring in the New York City school system The disposition to give the green light to these enterprises is dangerous , even when they are conducted with a greater show of decency than the Dies committee allows . They serve to obscure in the public mind the simple fact that membership in the Communist Party is not a violation of the laws of this country or of any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may , in the pursuit of their peculiar interests , violate the law , and when they do they should be prosecuted . A legislative committee bent on uncovering violations of the law is justifiable and may be useful , but so far the Rapp-Coudert committee has been nothing of the sort . It appears to be interested solely in " exposing " Communists as such . If any violations of the law , in letter or in spirit , have figured in the proceedings , they must be chalked up against the committee itself , which has sought to compel witnesses to testify , in private and without counsel , before a one-man subcommittee without allow ? The NATION ing them a transcript of their testimony ; which has ordered trade-union officials to hand over their membership lists , and permitted witnesses to damage professional reputations without being subjected to cross-examination . It is too bad that not one of the accused has seen fit to come forward and say , " Yes , I 'm a Communist . What of it ? " That might bring matters to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place of backstairs gossip . But who supposes that the Couderts and the Dieses are looking for real issues ? X -- ALTHOUGH THE ST . LAWRENCE SEAWAY and power treaty may encounter bitter opposition in the Senate when it is resubmitted by President Roosevelt , there seems little danger that the 1934 rejection will be repeated . The President is on strong ground when he insists that both the navigation and the power aspects of the project would contribute substantially to the national defense . Opening of the Great Lakes to navigation by deep-sea vessels would give the United States protected ports far in the interior of the country . And this , as the President points out , would permit the creation of new shipbuilding facilities in sheltered sections of the country . Fully as important would be the creation of a vast amount of new , cheap power available for use in congested industrial areas . Economically , the project was felt to be sound enough in ordinary times to justify financing it by private capital alone ; under present circumstances it should pay for itself in a comparatively short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been materially improved by the withdrawal of the opposition of Ontario 's Premier Hepburn . While the temper of the new Senate has not manifested itself , a reversal of the 1934 verdict seems assured . *-ANY ADVANTAGE THAT CHINA MAY GAIN from the recent American loan will be more than offset if shipments of strategic war materials from this country to Japan are continued . Despite much discussion of the possibility , no embargo has yet been placed on the export of petroleum or ordinary gasoline . There has been no interference with the shipment of copper . Nor has action been taken even to stop the export of zinc and steel , two metals desperately needed in our own defense program . The IVall Street Journal reports that zinc and brass fabricating plants all over the country are being forced to curtail work needed for the defense program because of a shortage of zinc attributable primarily to huge shipments to Japan . In the case of steel , a serious shortage hampering all types of defense work is expected to materialize within the next six months . The new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completed in less than nine months and may possibly take much longer . Under the circumstances , quite apart from the question of arming a potential enemy , it is only sound sense to restrict exports until the emergency is past . FOR THE SECOND TIME WITHIN A YEAR THE Supreme Court , speaking through Justice Black , has interfered to bring Justice to a Negro in the South . On last February 12 ? Lincoln 's birthday  --  the court set aside the conviction of four Negroes in Florida for murder on the ground that their confessions had been obtained by third-degree methods . This time it set free a Negro convicted of rape , and it did so on the ground that the Texas county in which he was convicted discriminated against Negroes in picking its grand Juries . " For racial discrimination to result in the exclusion from jury service of otherwise qualified groups , " Justice Black wrote for a unanimous court , " not only violates our Constitution and the laws enacted under it but is at war with our basic concepts of a democratic society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court again going beyond the words of a statute and even the intentions of those enforcing it to the actual result . The Texas statute does not discriminate against Negroes . The jury commissioners testified that their failure to put any Negroes on the jury involved in this case was not intentional , if discriminatory . Justice Black ruled that the conviction must be reversed whether the discrimination was " accomplished ingeniously or ingenuously . " .                     