@@491752

PUGNACIOUS PEARSON By JACK ALIIXAN1 ) ER rE only time in American history when con- duct of a war was embarrassed in the interest of taxation was on Sunday evening . November 21 , 1943 . That was the evening on which Drew Pearson , the columnist and radio oracle , breathlessly spoke into a microphone the news that General Patton had slapped an ailing soldier . Pearson 's radio sponsor was the company which manufactures and sells Serutan , a proprietary remedy for costive middle-agers , a circumstance which was topped in majestic irrelevance only by the hysterical furor which followed the broadcast . Although criticized on some editorial pages for dangerously talking out of turn , Pearson was widely commended for what was termed his " courage " and his " scoop . " The excitable New York tabloid PM spotlighted him in its Hats Ofr department , which is devoted to the current hero of the day . Senator Pepper , of Florida , favored a court-martial for Patton . The orgy reached its apex in this passage from Walter Winchell 's Broadway gossip column @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it down . . . . Every mother still must writhe in agony wondering if her son is mistreated by others . . . . Mothers always see their grown sons as little , frightened children , suddenly awakened in the dark , crying ' Mommy ! ' " Winchell went on to meditate solemnly on the possibility that Patton might be shot by one of his own soldiers . Pearson was a shade more conservative . He contented himself with a prediction that Patton would never be used in combat again and with reviewing in his column subsequently what purported to be earlier misdeeds of the erring general . Both Pearson 's prediction and Winchell 's premonition went sour . No soldier murdered Patton ; in fact , Patton was cheered by armed units wherever he went . General Eisenhower , withstanding the journalistic heat , preserved Patton for his brilliant armored drive through France , a drive which hastened the invasion of Germany and probably avoided the longer casualty lists which would have resulted from a slower Columnist Drew Pearson in a confidential moment at a pay station , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own wire may be tapped . campaign . In sum , Eisenhower , who was backed up by Secretary Stimson and General Marshall , sensibly refused to be diverted from the path of military efficiency by a noisy incident of the crusade for peristaltic efficiency . What Pearson , Winchell and the other critics ignored , or did n't know , was that Patton , besides being a great leader . was Eisenhower 's most valuable piece on the psychological chessboard . The Germans respected him , and Eisenhower shrewdly capitalized on this respect . After Sicily , he sent Patton to Corsica , where he was a threat to Genoa ; the Germans sent their 10th Army to Genoa . Patton next appeared in Cairo , and the Germans , reasoning that he might strike through the Balkans . dispatched their 8th Army to Greece . While these crack units were cooling their heels on the wings , Eisenhower invaded at Salerno . Last summer , when the invasion of France was imminent , the Germans stationed their 15th Army , another seasoned outfit , in the Pas-de-Calais , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The 15th did n't pull out of the Pas-de-Calais until after Patton 's break-through at Avranches , and by that time its opportunity had vanished . Pearson 's disclosure of the slapping was scarcely an act of courage , in the normal meaning of the word . There was no danger involved in it , except that of adding more readers and listeners to an array of followers already counted in the millions . Nor was the Patton story a " scoop , " which is what reporters  --  at least those of the screen  --  call a news story which is published before rivals are aware of its existence . For several months , some sixty-odd war correspondents at Algiers had full knowledge of the slapping , but none had tried to send it back home . It was likewise known to many newspapers and magazines in this country . All , except Pearson , voluntarily refrained from making it public . Pearson , in explaining his act , says simply , " 1 decided it was time to let loose on him . " In so doing , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This formula began to come into its own with the advent of the political column which is syndicated , or sold , to large numbers of newspapers . It has reached its present full-blown development with the growth of the radio networks . Its success , on the radio side , stems from a passion for artificially contrived excitement which undeniably exists among large masses of listeners . By working radio and newspaper syndication together , the exponent of the formula is able to wield a unique double-action influence on public opinion . The chief ingredient of the formula is aggressive indiscretion , and with it go various knacks for making and keeping enemies , preferably big ones ; for making one 's self , instead of the news , the focus of interest ; for highjacking public controversies and creating one when none is boiling at the moment ; for investing the // most trivial items with a sense of urgency and drama , and , sometimes , for giving gossip the status of established fact . Because all this tends to build up the practitioner into a sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air often takes on the punitive character of political prose of oratory . On the whole , the formula , when literally followed , bears as much resemblance to sober journalism as ax murder does to brain surgery . Viewed from the standpoint of what Broadway calls the box office , Winchell is the most skillful of the practitioner . As he dispenses presumably hot items from his radio script in a throaty voice or chuckles derisively at knaves he has confounded , he plays a background accompaniment , now on a dummy telegraph key , which makes a clacking noise , now on a dummy wireless sender , which whistles . These stage-prop sounds , which are meaningless to students of any code , help to convey to the listener a feeling of being close to where the big news is breaking . Theatrically , Pearson 's performance falls considerably below Winchell 's . Winchell is theatrical by nature and experience  --  he was once in vaudeville  --  and even his ordinary conversation has a tense quality about it ; Pearson , when detached from his microphone , is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bald , has a sandy mustache and is a little hesitant of speech . What drama he is able to inject into his broadcasting is the fruit of long practice in raising his voice and in speeding up the reading of his script . Despite the blessings of voice culture , his announcement of an opinion or an event of earth-shaking proportions often sounds as fiat as the unveiling of a Las Vegas elopement by Louella Parsons . His radio-popularity rating runs well below Winchell 's and his column , Washington Merry-Go-Round , is published in slightly more than 600 newspapers , whereas Winchell 's On Broadway is published in more than 800 . Yet , possibly because Pearson does not dilute his comments on public affairs with divorce news and caf ? - society chitchat , he is much the more powerful of the two politically . He is , in fact , one of the strongest political influences in the United States today . His colleagues in the capital correspondent corps , most of whom frankly disapprove of his approach to reporting , last October voted him " the Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation . " In the poll , which was conducted by The Saturday Review of Literature , Pearson gat fifty-six votes , exactly twice as many as his nearest competitor , Walter Lippmnnn . In another category  --  that of " the Washington correspondent who does the best all-around job as measured in terms of reliability , fairness , ability to analyze the news " ? Pearson got only two votes . This enviable category was led by Thomas L. Stokes and Marquis W. Childs , with twenty-five and twenty-three votes , respectively . Oddly , neither Stokes nor Childs got more than a January 6 , 1945 scattering of votes as a wielder of influence , a paradox which seems to suggest that American newspaper readers have a long way to go before attaining political maturity . Among Washington officeholders , Pearson is one of the most hated and feared of men , and concern over what he will print or say next has caused more stomach ulcers in high places than any other single source of worry . The concern is felt through all the levels of Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has n't been necessary for him to establish the pipe lines ; they seem to establish themselves . As one observer sagely explains it , " For every guy that Pearson wants to get , there is at least one ambitious subordinate in his department who will volunteer the information Pearson needs . Pearson has been in business for a long time , and it is easy for anyone with a grudge to find his number in the telephone book . Besides , Pearson himself knows the location of every grudge in Washington . " A column such as the Merry-Go-Round could not exist in England , the only major country in which the leeway accorded the press is as broad as it is here . England has an Official Secrets Act which prohibits a public servant , under pain of punishment , from publishing government secrets , or from letting them out to someone else for publication . No comparable law exists in this country . Government secrets are , in effect , the unofficial property of whoever happens to handle them or overhear private discussion of them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brake on the tongue of the public servant is whatever sense of fitness he happens to possess . Since 1933 , this sense of fitness has deteriorated in the intense intramural struggle for power , and the brokerage of Government information , frequently in a distorted form , has flourished . Its main outlet is columns such as the Merry-Go-Round , and government by grudn ? has become a capital fixture . In retailing his wares , Pearson is fond of opening with a titillating line which implies that the lid is about to be lifted from a juicy conspiratorial plot . Often , this is mere window dressing for an item of no particular freshness or novelty ; at other times it heralds the approach of information which the newspapers have n't printed , because they did n't have it , or have omitted because it was plainly angled far someone 's political benefit . Pearson 's most overworked opening line is , " It has n't leaked out yet , but ? " Some of its variants are : " The State Department is trying to hush it up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prime Minister Churchill know it , but ? " ; " The War Department is n't advertising the details , but " and " Only insiders know it , but . " There are other gambits , including " This will he denied , but which have the effect of setting the reader 's mind against any prospective defense by the parties accused . Pearson heightens the On the Senate news beat , Pearson stops to chat with cigar-smoking Harold Young , secretary to Henry Wallace . effect by occasionally printing a list of his stories which have been met with denial and which , to his own satisfaction , have been proved to be true . A literal-minded reader of the column might easily get the impression that the higher officeholders are constantly engaged in an undercover movement to dynamite the public weal . So assiduously has Pearson cultivated the use of the word " leak , " both as a verb and as a noun , that it has found its way into the everyday vocabularies of exasperated officeholders . The Merry-Go-Round is required breakfast-table reading in Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or bureau chief to rattle the pages of his newspaper over the grapefuit and exclaim , " 1 wonder who the hell could have leaked that out ! " If he waits a few weeks , the chances are that he will find out , for Pearson likes to reward the faithfulness of his leaks by lauding them as progressive , fearless or up-and-coming public men . In the course of time , most of the top men in Washington have succeeded in spotting the more persistent leaks . Unhappily for the top men , nothing effective can be done about them . If a leak is fired or demoted or denied access to private conference circles , he is likely to redouble his efforts to obtain leakable material . So he is kept on the pay roll , and his chances of long tenure are , if anything , enhanced by his superior 's lack of confidence in him . " Before I was suspected of tip sing off Pearson , " one of them said not long ago , " I was just another Joe in a big department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say ' good morning ' to me . " The continued presence of a leak can have a seriously hamstringing effect on Government . Early in 1941 , for instance , when it appeared likely that America would be drawn into the war , one department head was charged with organizing a confidential study which had a direct bearing on preparedness . The subordinate in charge of the section to which the task would normally be assigned happened to be a Pearson leak . The department head was caught on a dilemma . If he went ahead and assigned the secret study to the section , it might become , in taro , the property of the Merry-Go-Round . If he by-passed the section and assigned it to another section , he felt confident that the distrusted subordinate , angry at being by-passed , would dribble out whatever fragments of the secret study he was able to obtain by reason of his presence in the office . He did the only thing possible under the circumstances  --  he pigeonholed the study . It was begun , belatedly , after Pearl Harbor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pearson 's work has generated in officialdom disagree on the question of whether it has a good or bad influence on the public mind . Some hold that , although Pearson strains the press-freedom privilege to the breaking point and fosters throughout Government the dubious ethical Practice of undercutting one 's chief , his disclosures , even when inaccurate- or slanted , serve the national interest . They argue that the dread of what Pearson may say or write acts as an inhibition upon official chicanery . The other school of thought , which is the more numerous , holds that while the Pearson complex may make a dishonest official more careful , it can never succeed in restraining his impulse to do evil ; and that Pearson 's one-sided campaigns against , in many instances , honorable officials trying to do an honorable job have helped to create an unjustified distrust of them . Pearson 's own view of the criticism which is heaped upon his head is that it has been the inevitable reward of vigorous political reformers since the time of Tom Paine . " Naturally , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the place sometimes . " Nothing seems to invigorate Pearson more than being damned all over the place , and he is especially pleased when some high-ranking member of the Government accuses him of barefaced ? menclacity . At a press conference in September , 1943 , President Roosevelt called him " a chronic liar " after Pearson had stated on his radio program that Secretary Hull wanted to see Russia " bled white . " Afterward , placards appeared on the nation 's newsstands exhorting passers-by to " read the man the President called a liar ! " Pearson has saved one of the placards as a memento . In the rough-and-tumble climate of the Senate , McKellar , of Tennessee , once unwound a Philippic in which he called Pearson an infamous liar , a revolving liar , a pusillanimous liar , a lying ABS , a natural-born liar , a liar by profession , a liar for a living , a liar in the daytime and a liar in the nighttime . McKellar also used the nouns " crook " and " skunk " and the adjectives " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " groveling . " Pearson was so delighted that he reprinted the untasty speech in his column . Pearson 's growth into a controversialist and national irritant is another confirmation of the belief that anything can happen in America . His family background is eminently conservative and serene . His father , the late Paul Martin Pearson , was a storekeeper 's son who worked his way through Baker University , in Kansas , by selling fruit to train passengers while locomotives were taking on water . Paul Pearson married Edna Wolfe , a classmate , and , after graduation , became a Methodist minister in a small Kansas community . Later he took postgraduate work at Northwestern University , in Evanston , Illinois , where Drew was born and baptized Andrew Rusesll Pearson . After a year of further study , at Harvard , the elder Pearson joined the faculty of Swarthmore College , a Quaker institution , at Swarthmore , Pennsylvania , where he ultimately became professor of public speaking . He joined the Society of Friends and took his family along with him into the Quaker faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two sisters still use " thee " and " thy " in conversation . The family income was modest , and Drew , as a youngster , earned money at the usual boyish jobs and at trapping skunks . While he was attending Phillips Academy , at Exeter , New Hampshire , his father founded the Swarthmore Chautauqua , and Drew , during his prep-school vacations and , later , during his Swarthmore College vacations , worked on:the Chautauqua circuit . Starting out as a member of a tent crew , he rose to motion-picture operator and advance man , and finally , to the high post of Chautauqua lecturer . By his own estimate , he was a poor lecturer . Graduating from Swarthmore in 1919 . Pearson went abroad for the American Friends Service Committee . He spent two years in the Balkans . helping to rebuild razed villages , and when he came home he had decided that his future lay in diplomacy . Lacking the private income usually deemed necessary for this kind of career , he decided to approach diplomacy through newspaper work , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money to finance the career he really wanted . Newspaper opportunities were scarce , so he took a job teaching industrial geography at the University of Pennsylvania . The Washington Disarmament Conference came along in 1922 , and with it a chance to rub elbows with the world 's leading striped-pants wearers . Pearson enterprisingly manufactured the chance himself . He paid a visit to the editor of the Swarthmore student weekly , the Phoenix , of which he had once been editor himself , and suggested that his successor write to Secretary of State Hughes asking that Pearson he allowed to interpret the conference for college men . While in college . Pearson had founded something called the Intercollegiate Press Association and , at his urging , the letter was typed on one of the association 's letterheads . Hughes thought the idea a good one , and Pearson got to attend the conference as correspondent for the Swarthmore Phoenix and the college-press association . After this coup , he was discussed on the Swarthmore campus , near which he lived , as one of the alumni most likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world traveler . The transformation was accomplished with surprising rapidity . A world-traveler friend of hat , who had had some success as a lecturer , lent him a copy of his publicity circular and , with his permission . Pearson converted the text to his own use , largely by substituting his own name for that of his friend . Marked " Confidential  --  Not For Publication , " the circular , under the headline AROUND THE WORLD WITH DREW PEARSON , stated in part : " Asia , e4frica and Europe are familiar fields to Drew Pearson . He has visited all three continents . He has on international point of view . . . As is lecturer on international politica , Pearson is known over most of this country and in England . " It went on to describe the mysterious , teeming Orient . which Pearson now proposed to probe into , " traveling by steamship. airplane , oxcart , automobile , on camel , on horse and on foot . " Instead of mailing the circular to newspaper editors , as a less imaginative young man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , traversing the continent in day coaches , with stopovers . Through fast talking , he sold thirty-five editors between Philadelphia and Seattle on the notion of buying dispatches which he proposed to mail back . In Seattle , from which he intended to work his way across the Pacific , his resourcefulness showed itself again . Turned down by the hiring halls because he lacked experience as a seaman , Pearson had his chest tattooed -- with the Greek letters of his fraternity , Kappa Sigma  --  and haunted the halls once more with his shirt front unbuttoned . The ruse worked , and he shipped aboard a passenger vessel as an ordinary seaman , jumping ship at Yokohama . His travels carried him through the Japanese islands and into Siberia , then down to Australia , where , in addition to sending home his regular dispatches , he made money by lecturing on the Japanese menace , which has always worried the Australians . From Australia , he sailed to India to interview Mahatma Gandhi . Unfortunately , Gandhi was in jail and could n't be seen . On returning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; he interviewed Henry Ford , who had Gandhi-like ideas about decentralizing industry , and sold an article on the two decentralizers to the magazine Attie . Two years later Pearson went back to India to have another go at the Mahatma . This time the holy man was on a fast and could n't be bothered , and to this day Pearson has never seen him . Onward and Upward Meanwhile , in 1924 , during another voyage , something had happened which had caused him to throw in his lot definitely with journalism and to repress his ambition for a diplomatic career . By some queer psychological process , the repressed ambition was to turn subsequently into something resembling detestation and to make him a self-appointed gadfly of all diplomats , particularly those of the State Department . Still traveling third class , barely making expenses and just about washed up with newspapering , Pearson was crossing the Mediterranean when he received a wireless message from an American syndicate . The message offered him excellent pay if he could obtain interviews with twelve leading politicians and rulers of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first class , on the Aqui . tania . It was a triumphal voyage . He ordered rich meals , including lobster at least once a day , and lolled on the soft cushions of the men 's lounge . The syndicate took him on as chief salesman of its newspaper features and , on the side , he did more great-man interviews with giants like Ford , Edison and Burbank. " 1 also interviewed a lot of people who were not so great , " he says reminiscently , " but I pumped them up as if they were . " After another trip to the Orient , during which he added the Gobi Desert to the list of exotic places on which he hod left his footprint , Pearson was taken an as foreign editor of the newly founded United States Daily , of Washington . The job carried more prestige than pay , but it got him to the Geneva Naval Conference of 1927 , and he was able to eke out his slim salary by writing articles on the Geneva doings for the Japan Advertiser and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington bureau of the Baltimore Sun , where he evolved , gradually this time , from Pearson , the world traveler and salesman , into Pearson , the controversialist . The Sun assigned him to cover the State Department , and Pearson came through with provocative articles which pleased the editors of that liberal sheet for a time , as the Hoover era was in full swing and Washington was a rather stuffy place . The capital scene was vastly enlivened in 1931 with publication of a book written anonymously and titled Washington Merry-Go-Round . The book irreverently pinked prominent capital personages  --  Wrong-Horse Harry , the heading of a chapter on Secretary of State Stimson , suggests the general flavor . Authorship was traced to Pearson and Robert S. Allen , a Washington correspondent for the Christian Science Monitor . The Monitor fired Allen , who thereupon went to work for Hearst . With their first book selling well , the pair issued a sequel , More Merry-GoRound , in the following year . In a chapter on bootlegging in the capital , the book took a gratuitous slap at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least , it seemed gratuitous to the late William E. Moore , managing editor of the Sun , and he requested Pearson to come in for a talk . Moore had been getting progressively more angered at some of Pearson 's dispatches . One depicted the purported embarrassment of the British ambassador over his failure to be invited to a dinner given by the State Department correspondents ; Pearson , Moore learned after the dispatch had been published , had been in charge of sending out the invitations . Another Pearson dispatch related that when former Secretary of War Newton D. Baker tried to pay a visit to the incumbent , Patrick J. Hurley , he failed to get past the Secretary 's anteroom , and walked out . Baker , in a letter written to the Sun , protested that there was " not a syllable of truth in the story . " He added that he had seen Hurley and that his reception had been marked by " kindness and courtesy . " " The Sun is n't a keyhole paper , " Moore grumbled around the Sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we 'd hire him . " When Pearson reported to Moore , he was handed a month 's pay and offered a choice of resigning or of being fired . Pearson said he preferred to be fired , and got his wish . The reason for his preference soon became apparent . The discharge made Pearson the Dred Scott of a freedom-ofthe-press controversy which won national notice . Newspaper stories appeared intimating that Hurley had brought pressure on the Sun because of a chapter in More Merry-Go-Round , entitled The Cotillion Leader , in which he was pictured as a socially ambitious fop . Hurley had not communicated with the Sun at all , but the hullabaloo was kept alive for a while anyway . The Merry-Go-Round Allen meanwhile had been discharged by Hearst because of some magazine articles he had written , and the two dischargees set about adapting the sassy style of their books to a newspaper column , which they named after the first of their two books . A newspaper feature syndicate which undertook to market it found the going hard . The Washington Merry-Go-Round column @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six subscribing newspapers . From the beginning , it treated the capital as if it were a circus , and tirelessly taunted the star animals , in the manner of Clyde Beatty . Pearson and Allen made an efficient working team . Allen , a hard-boiled ex-cavalryman , covered Capitol Hill mostly , while Pearson , polite and soft-spoken , covered the State , War and Navy departments and played the diplomatic dinners , at which there was much unguarded talk of important matters . When trying to pry a story out of a stubborn legislator , the pair resorted to an ingenious version of the police third degree . Allen would beard the legislator in his office , shouting at him and pounding on his desk . Next day , Pearson would turn up at the office , pour oil on the victim 's emotional wounds and apologize for his colleague 's impetuousness . Often , the legislator , bruised by Allen 's bludgeoning and mollified by Pearson 's courtly kindness , would blot out his precious secret , only to experience new pangs when it came out in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-five dollars a month each from the column , and did other writing work in order to preserve their nutritional balance . Then in March , 1933 , the New Deal took over Washington , and hatchet-throwing became a recognized adjunct of Government . Pearson and Allen had had plenty of practice in the art . While the bulk of the correspondent corps fumbled around trying to use the scholarly approach in interpreting the new marvel , Pearson and Allen joined in the hatchet-throwing with zest , and the column was well on its way to presperity . During this period , their relations with the White House were cordial . Their third book , The Nine Old Men , published in 1936 , was a precursor of President Roosevelt 's ill-starred attempt to pack the Supreme Court . When the United States got into the present war , Allen went back into the Army . A few months after Pearson had lambasted General Patton , Allen was made the general 's public-relations officer . He is still serving in that capacity and also , presumably , as a hostage against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pearson , as the announcer for his radio program tersely puts it , " carries on alone . " In the old spectacular team tradition , he operates in a welter of libel suits and charges of skulduggery hurled by lacerated victim &; getting back to his study by nine o'clock or shortly thereafter , and dictating notes on what he has learned , to be placed in a tile . I Then , using a twenty-year-old portable typewriter , he begins pecking out his Merry-Go-Round column , finishing it sometime between midnight and one A.M. His staff consists of three girl secretaries , one of whom works on a night shift , and a reporter , or legman , who spends the day rounding up items , at off-the-record press conferences and in visits to the various departments . According to other correspondents , material dispensed as background information at off-the-record conferences has a recurring habit of turning up as news in the Merry-Go-Round . Pearson turns out seven columns a week and , in addition , writes his Sunday radio script and a separate Merry-GoRound for Maryland , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State . He also writes the plot of a comic strip glorifying a mythical Washington correspondent named Hap Hopper , who leads a stormy career resembling Pearson 's , and every now and then he lectures before some organization . It is a back-breaking schedule , and his friends are inclined to attribute his errors , in part , at least , to his self-imposed stretch-out system . The rest they attribute to his grudges . For sheer durability , Pearson 's antipathy for Sen. Millard Tydings , of Maryland , occupies the top of the grudge list . The feud dates back to 1933 , when Tydings , as a member of a Senate committee , helped bring about the removal of Pearson 's father from the governorship of the Virgin Islands , to which President Hoover had appointed him . A year before the White House 's 1938 purge program , in which Tydings was one of the Democrats proscribed , Pearson instituted his Maryland Merry-GoRound and devoted it mostly to attacking Tydings and his own former employer , the Baltimore Sun , which was backing Tydings . Pearson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressman David J. Lewis , Tydings ' opponent . He also swelled Lewis ' campaign fund by a $17,000 donation , some of which was contributed by his sisters , neither of whom was a resident of Maryland . The Pearson family donation amounted to half of Lewis ' campaign fund . Tydings survived the purge . A Scandal in Dogdom In 1939 , the expensive Tydings grudge pushed Pearson into an error of fact . Appearing with his colleague , Allen , as a guest on another radio program , Pearson stated , " Well , we suddenly became interested in checking up on Government works and discovered that the senator ( Tydings ) had put through a very interesting little deal . " The " little deal , " Pearson went on to any , consisted of using WPA workers to build a road and yacht basin on the Tydings country place in Maryland . What had really happened , as was later established , was that the city of Havre de Grace had built a public yacht basin near some town property owned by Tydings and a farm-tomarket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The broadcasting chain which carried the program made n public apology . Pearson smiles when the incident is recalled to him now . " The funny thing about it , " he says , " is that Bob and I did n't write that script . We never saw it until just before we went on the air . The whole thing was just a technical error anyway . " One of Pearson 's few excursions into obstetrical gossip likewise kicked back . Jr July , 1943 , Miss Margaret Suckley , of Poughkeepsie , a distant cousin of the President 's , spent a few days at the White House . Her Scottie , Heather , was seen gamboling with Fala on the lawn . Pearson , in one of his August broadcasts , announced that Heather was an expectant mother . He repeated the story in his column , and in his broadcast on the following Sunday became even more coyly vehement about it . Heather was only seven months old at the time , and veterinarians say that Scotties do n't have puppies that early , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ litter did n't materialize and , according to Miss Suckley , Heather still retains her spinster standing . Affairs of State Heather 's sufferings at the hands of Pearson are inconsequential when compared to those of Secretary Hull . For years , Pearson gleefully needled and ridiculed Hull , and his severely paternal attitude toward the State Department has expressed itself in criticisms of such intradepartmental matters as the promotions of young diplomats to better jobs and the location of colored messengers ' desks . His Hull-baiting reached its zenith , or nadir , last September twentieth , when he wrote that the Secretary had cracked down on Argentina because of an Argentine motion-picture cartoon in which the Secretary was caricatured as a squawking duck . Such a film did exist , but Pearson 's conclusion was , necessarily , based upon pure mind-reading , an occult pursuit in which he indulges periodically . When Edward R. Stettinius , Jr. , succeeded Hull not long ago , Pearson condescendingly pictured him as an amiable blunderer . His only real diplomatic hero outside of President Roosevelt and himself , is former Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friend . Another of Pearson 's close friends is Walter Winchell , who also lampoons the State Department , and who once bypassed it and issued what was practically a personal declaration of war on Argentina . The columnists exchange visits and bouquets and sometimes help out with each other 's crusades . After the " chronic-liar " episode , Pearson became more enthusiastic about the President than he had ever been before , He supported the fourth-term candidacy with almost as much fervor as did Secretary Ickes . In one column he intimated that both Dewey and . Bricker were draft dodgers . He did this by referring to Dewey 's " reported agricultural deferment " and expressing mystification over Bricker 's sudden shift from the law to the ministry during the first World War . This was shoddy journalism and shoddy politics , coming , as it did , just four days before the election . Actually , Dewey has never sought any kind of deferment ; he is , besides , a public official with three dependents , and is over effective military age . The fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an abnormally low pulse rate had long been a matter of public knowledge ; so had the fact that he became a minister in order to qualify for duty as an Army chaplain . Pearson 's own military record is far from warlike . At the age of twenty , he was a member of the Students ' Army Training Corps on the Swarthmore campus . This rugged military experience is described with technical correctness in his Who 's Who In America pedigree as , " Served in United States Army , 1918 . " To date , the White House , despite his friendly advances , has n't seen fit to have Pearson over for tea . " The President is n't very keen about me , " Pearson says with regret . The business of forecasting is a risky one at best , but it is a popular one in eras of alarum , and Pearson shines at his aggressive beat in the role of oracle . He assumes it each Sunday during the closing minutes of his radio program , when he launches confidently into what he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Some of his predictions are ambiguous , in the Delphic tradition . Others are predictions of the deadly obvious . For example ; last October twenty-second he predicted that our next step in the Pacific would be to isolate Mindanao ; this prediction came well after the start of the Leyte invasion , the plain purpose of which was to sever Mindanao from Luzon . On the same evening he predicted that the Red army would go around the Masurian Lakes district , where , in the first World War , the Czar 's soldiers were annihilated when the Germans shelled the roads and forced them to leap into the deadly swamps . It did n't take anyone in Marshal Stalin 's confidence to make that prediction . But in many of his bouts with the crystal ball , Pearson takes real chances . He has predicted , for example , that President Roosevelt would not run for a fourth term ; that if he did run , the Southern Democrats would defeat him ; that Japan would " stab Russia in the back " before the spring of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by last September fifteenth , and that Robert E. Sherwood , of the White House advisory staff , would be appointed minister to North Africa . In one six-month period , according to an independent check , Pearson made 153 predictions . The checker , in trying to arrive at a score , eliminated four predictions as hali true , seven as not having come true yet , and nineteen as uncheckable for various reasons , Of the 123 which remained , seventy-four , including some fairly obvious predictions , were hsted as having come true , and forty-nine were classified as errors . Roughly , therefore , the Pearson crystal ball appears to give off the right glint 60 per cent of the time . Pearson sees himself as a gladiator for political rectitude who would like to get : away from it all . The pains of his servitude , however , are mitigated to some extent by its financial rewards . He nets about $90,000 a year , before taxes , from radio and his column alone . In view of these financial rewards and his duty to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm . If , however , he should , a lot of people would cheer , as he has publicly stated they would , and among them would be a number of newspaper editors . Columns of the shriller type , such as the Merry-Go-Round , have caused much soul-searching in the past few years on the part of the editors . Some have steadfastly opposed them , in spite of their value as circulation getters , on the ground that they overdo the sensational approach to the facts of life . Others take the bread-and-butter view that the see-all-know-ail tone of the columns tends to relegate their own editorial pages to a position of secondary importance . Next April , at the annual meeting of the American Society of Newspaper Editors , the question of whether to cut out the columns will come up for discussion . If this surgery is carried out , which seems highly improbable , it will be the first hysterectomy on record in which the patient has wielded the knife . 