@@181600

The government suggested 50,000 as a likely figure for the consort 's annual allowance . Joseph Hume , the radical member for Kilkenny , thought it was too much . " Are you aware , " he asked his Tory colleagues , " of the danger of setting a young man down in London with so much money in his pocket ? " The House of Commons took a vote and decided that 40,000 a year was ample for Victoria 's Prince Albert . <P> That was in 1840 . Last week , as Britain 's Princess Elizabeth and her husband returned from their Scottish honeymoon , members of the House of Commons were once again deep in debate over royal allowances . A special committee recommended raising Elizabeth 's income from 15,000 to 40,000 a year and granting Philip an annual 10,000 of his own . Laborite after Laborite decried the extravagance , protesting loudly that the royal couple should share the nation 's austerity . But as the wrangling proceeded , Philip and Elizabeth found an unexpected champion in the arch-champion of Laborite austerity himself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is essential , " Sir Stafford Cripps told the House sternly , " that he Philip should have an adequate income . . . not only to provide for his personal staff , charities , and matters of that kind . . . but also that he may enjoy a proper degree of independence . The figure of 10,000 . . . is customary for the younger.son of a king . " Sir Stafford doubted that Britons would want to economize on royalty . One might as well , he concluded , suggest dispensing with the royal horses because " they Cost 15,000 or whatever it is . . . but I venture to think if someone were to say , ' Here is an easy economy , let us do away with all the horses , ' the public would be up in arms against the loss of this sight which they have so rarely that it pleases . " <P> When the matter came to a vote , 164 Laborites were against the allowances , 100 more abstained , but the rest ( 122 ) joined the Tories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Missed . Meanwhile , Philip , on his first day back from his honeymoon , reported for duty in the Operations Section of the Admiralty , using a side door to dodge the mobs of curious women thronging the front entrance . Next day he drove his bride over to examine Clarence House , their 32-room London house , where workmen were still clearing up blitz damage . Until Clarence House and Windlesham Moor , their country house , are ready for them , Elizabeth and Philip are staying on with the family at Buckingham Palace . Late in the week , they ducked the annual Christmas Party for the Palace servants , to dine quietly with the Duchess of Kent . For a dancing partner Elizabeth 's maid , Margaret MacDonald , had to make do with King George .                     