@@493936

Can Business Provide Jobs ? tr HE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS ) I though technically it represents 80 percent of the nation 's industrial establishments , has formerly appeared before the public as the extreme right wing of business thought in the United States . On the occasion of its annual meeting it has usunily brought forth observations which appeared like relics exhumed by archeological research , so reactionary were they and so unaffected by current necessities . Measured against this yardstick , the meeting just closed in New York seems positively futuristic ; the NAM has progressed to the point at which economists stood a quarter-century ago . Of this conversion the address of Mr. Alfred P. Sloan of General Motors may be taken as an excellent sample . Business has a public function to perform beyond the mere accumulation of profits . It is responsible , for raising the standard of living of the people and for providing a high level of employment . In seeking to perform this function it must avoid monopolistic practices and cease to rely on protective tariffs . Rather , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sustain a higher national income and a better distribution of it . Henry Ford , it is true , used to say things like this , but he was always a business maverick . Mr. Sloan 's address means something more in practice than anything Mr. Ford ever said , however , because it involves more quantitative knowledge and more planning . He begins with the prediction of a postwar national income of a certain size ? $ 100,000 , 000,000 , or about one-third greater than before the war . With this as a basing point , General Motors has estimated what it can sell , and has planned reconversion and retooling accordingly . This will involve an appropriation of $500,000,000 . The inference is that if all industry does likewise , planning on a bold scale to meet the demand which an enlarged national income would generate , that income itself will be forthcoming through the activity of industry , and employment will be high . This at once raises the discussion to a level where doubts and questions can be expressed in terms which are not mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a base large enough to provide anything like full , employment at the present level of prices and the present development of productive technique ? Various estimates have been made , and this one is in the lower part of the register . Will the other concerns plan as boldly , and will the production programs as actually carried out generate a national income of the magi " tude assumed ? We are entitled to ask industry to make its figures known so that we can judge whether its plans in the aggregate are sufficient for the objective . There are also important questions of timing . Will the demand for the machinery essential for retooling all be dumped on the market at once , and if so may it not be inflationary , and may it not be followed by a reaction ? This is not the place to elaborate on the techniad questions involved , but it is obvious that in such matters we can not rely solely on the individual decisions of individual manufacturers , and probably not on all their decisions combined . Government will inevitably have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be successful , in such matters as price control , the allocation Of scarce materials , the release of men from the armed forces , and above all in its policies of taxation , borrow ' ing and repayment of debt . The NAM convention failed to yield any adequate pronouncements in this realm . Nobody , not even Mn ? Sloan himself , gave evidence of a recognition of the integration and flexibility of governmental policy which will be essential . He did speak of the desirability Of good policies for reconversion and the termination of war contracts , for the disposal of government-owned property and for a system of incentive taxation . He favored labor-management cooperation . These subjeds offer plenty of room for possible disagreement in de " tail , but at least they were recognized . On the jai ' mensely important matter of fiscal policy , howesreri almost nothing was said . Mr. J. Cheever Cowdin , chairman of the commit ' tee on governmental finance , recommended merely a drastic reduction of taxes , a balanced federal budget/ with reduction in governmental agencies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war debt starting immediately after the war . If this is all the NAM has to offer , it evidently intends not only to call upon industry to do the job of assuring employ-Diet and preventing a postwar depression , but to leave is without any recourse if industry fails . Obviously go , " ernmental deficits ought to cease when employment full and there is a danger of inflation . But how vie-up does such a program fit with drastic reduction of taxes ' And if unemployment begins to swell , is not that the signal for more government spending , or reduction 13 ' taxes , or both ? Until the manufacturers give some of understanding the necessity of a compensatory fig ' , policy they are not ready for the postwar economic world . We should all be glad to see private inclua5 fry to provide continuous full employment , but its record in this regard does not justify us in placing a-P. our eggs in its basket . 