@@471135

WE SHALL be unable to overcome economic defeatism if we are afraid to be realistic about the sources from which it arises . The fact is that millions of loyal Americans believe that the more fully we mobilize for war and the more adequately we readjust to the peace after the war the more seriously and irreparably will their own interests be hurt . It is n't Axis psychological warfare which makes them think so ; it is their own experience . Unless we dare understand how brutally real this danger is , no plans by any of the one hundred postwar planning agencies will have any significance and no reassurances of a thousand publicists will carry any conviction . Nor will people postpone worrying about their future until after the war merely because Donald Nelson tells them to , unless we dare penetrate into the quite material core of their worries and start drilling away at it . The last war left America 's civilian economy relatively undisturbed . At its peak , in 1918 , war expenditures took only twenty-three per cent of national income , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income which will go into the war effort in 1943 . But even this does not reveal the whole difference . By far our greatest contribution to the Allied war effort last time was in the form of food , raw materials , and industrial staples , all of which required expansion of productive facilities rather thanconversion . Only in shipping and in small arms and ammunition did our production of the finished armaments of war reach significant proportions , and these too were in the main the products of expanded facilities . Further , at no time was our access to Asia , Oceania , Africa , and South America ? our major sources of raw materials ? seriously threatened in spite of U-boat activity . Since , therefore , there was incomparably less occasion for conversion then than there is to-day , it was not until the middle of 1918 that the job began really to be undertaken at all . And it was never any more than a half-hearted and , by our present standards , unimportant affair ? a mere by-consequence of priorities rather than a positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was issued which completely prohibited the production of any civilian product , whereas hundreds of stop-production orders have already been issued in this war . ) As a result , when the war ended , our domestic economy was left with only one problem of abiding significance ( apart from the traditional problems of the inflationdeflation cycle ) : that of excess capacity . So far in our efforts to set up adequate correctives for the post-war consequences of our current war economy we have largely solved the problems of the last war . The amortization provision in corporation income taxes and the fact that upward of eighty-five per cent of all new war production plant has been financed by the government have relieved business of most of its old anxieties about excess capacity . ( What the government will do with the industrial capacity it will own is , it is recognized , a political rather than an economic problem , and therefore easier to handle . ) Quite naturally , most business men tried desperately to confine the warproduction effort within the terms of the solution provided for it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making this a war of excess capacities only . Since it cost them nothing and since it involved little risk , patriotic industrialists vied with one another for the chance to build new war plant . ( The opposition of aluminum , steel , and power companies to expansion was not typical of American industry as a whole ; and even this opposition weakened long before our entry into the war . ) In this new plant , production for war could be kept apart from ordinary civilian production ; here the disruptive effects of war economy could be minimized and controlled . But though some people , in and out of WPB , are still keeping up a forlorn fight against total conversion , the battle is now definitely lost . We are now irretrievably involved in the first totalconversion war in history . Each business , each trade , each skill must either find and hold its place within the rigid framework of a war economy , or find no place at all save as the recipient of whatever pittance the government may be pleased to contribute to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be comparatively easy to bear with fortitude the sacrifices they entail . But conversion will have consequences that will extend far beyond the war and be more serious than those of mere excess capacity ? consequences , moreover , that have nothing to do with the possibility of a post-war depression , that may indeed be worse if we avert a depression . For businesses which undergo conversion tend to lose their market position to firms which somehow escape conversion or ? more frequentlyand irremediably ? to new products and services which arise to satisfy an insistent civilian demand . Other firms , forced to share their trade and production secrets through pooling arrangements and the compulsory licensing of patents , will lose the advantage derived from the exclusive possession of these secrets . Nor are business men the only ones hurt by total conversion . Millions of workmen are being shifted to occupations and communities that will have no place for them after the war , while , on the other hand , skills which previously were tightly held by small groups of privileged workers are being diffused , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ post-war value of these skills . Total conversion means the upsetting of traditional routines , the breakup of old monopolies , the loss of established positions , the feverish shifting about of man power , the transmutation of our whole economy . And most of what is lost in this transformation will be lost forever . Floyd Odium , formerly chief of the Contract Distribution Division of the old OPM , was right when he told Congress : " A shut-down plant and disbanded organization will be hard and oftentimes impossible to revive . " Just as hard , and quite as often impossible , will it be to reconvert a piece of equipment or a plant to peacetime use , or to recapture a peacetime skill forgotten during the long years of war . We are the nation of single-purpose machine tools . Our very factories , with their minute specialization of functions and skills and their intricate organization , are themselves huge , singlepurpose machine tools . Our workmen too are predominantly machine-tenders , trained to a particular type of machine ; not like the artisans of Germany 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Britain 's skilled and semi-skilled workmen , all-round mechanics . And those who are being trained for war work now are , for the most part , learning some specialized war-production machine not machinery . The skills and tools and factories that we are converting to special war purposes will be at least as expensive to reconvert to the peculiar uses of peace . If it were only a matter of expense , reconversion would perhaps be no greater problem than conversion is now . But this war is also a great technological revolution , perhaps the very greatest ever . It is a revolution that is forcing whole industries into obsolescence . No assurances of return , no guarantees that concentrated production will be unscrambled again , no " victory " brands and models are going to protect the positions of firms converted to war work ( or of those hit by material and labor shortages , or of those stripped of their equipment by commandeering ) unless the nation is willing and able to prohibit technological progress and to close our markets to new products . The urgencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to innovation ; and each innovation , as soon as it gets a footing , creates a new group of interests that will not willingly yield ground to those who might wish to reoccupy their old positions . Nor , indeed , would it be in the national interest to compel industrial reaction even if it were feasible . The new experiences with close tolerances and hard steel , the new construction methods and building materials , the new aluminum and magnesium alloys , the new plastics , the new ceramics , the new synthetic fibers , rubber , oils , drugs , bristles , and whatnot , will be found better and cheaper for many uses than the products and methods they will displace . And displacement will therefore be permanent . But it does not follow that those who succeed in making a satisfactory wartime adjustment will therefore be secure in their new interests . They will still have to reconvert to peace . Since many of the new developments will be insecurely grounded in a war economy , and since they will ? for that very reason ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn be exposed to still newer shifts and innovations and will againsuffer maladjustment and displacement . There will again be , in Donald Nelson 's words , a " better way to do almost everything . " Victory will not be a stepping back to the peace before the war , but a two-step-forward movement . And those who can not successfully maneuver both steps will lose their stake in the economy . II Conversion to war and reconversion to peace will not mean , however , that the country as a whole will be any worse off . Quite the contrary . In spite of whatever devastation air raids and other accidents of war may occasion , in spite of the necessity of scrapping some of the inconvertible war plant , our country will be immeasurably better off . The building of new plant ( generally more efficient than the old ) , the spreading of useful skills , the development of new products and of new industrial technics and processes , the newly won freedom for invention and for the application of invention , the overcoming of old scarcities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploitation of our mineral resources , the breakup of old monopolies in industry and labor , the liquidation of old debts and claims , the bankruptcy of thousands of chronically maladjusted and inefficient firms ? al/ these will make the nation as a whole vastly more productive and its standard of living higher than it has ever been . Since , moreover , the war will have taught us how to make even the strongest economic power responsible to the needs of the nation as a whole , and how , in general , to organize for full production , there will be less inevitability about a post-war depression than most of us believe . In the very ruin of special interests we should at last have our golden opportunity to rise above these interests to an economy of abundance . But we dare not take advantage of that opportunity . For the special interests that are to-day threatened with ruin are not the " vested interests " of old ; not the interests of the rich and powerful , but of the poor and wcak ; not the interests of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of little business and of labor and of the farmers and of all the " little people . " if it were still a case of the " vested interests " against the " common people " the solution would be simple . We could expropriate the vested interests and have done with it . But the conflict to-day is between everyone 's common interests and almost everyone 's special interests . That is altogether a different matter . After the last war " big business " was loaded down with excess capacity and inflated capital structures and was infested with the inefficiency , the maladjustment , and the obsolescence that breed so freely under protection . Not so today ; still less so after the present war . True , certain big businesses still enjoy a large measure of protection for their fat incompetence , but this they owe not so much to their own inherent strength as to the fortunate alliances they have made with " little people " : with small and institutional investors ( the case of railroads , for example ) , with powerful trade unions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the United Mine Workers ) , with little business and community interests ( as in the case of the power companies ' successful campaign against the St. Lawrence waterway and power project ) . Nevertheless a decade of depression and public hostility , of TNEC and of Thurman Arnold 's relatively vigorous trust-busting has made big business ? as a whole ? lean , respectable , and alert . Then , from the time war broke out in Europe to the last quarter of 1941 , when subcontracting first began to gather momentum , big business enjoyed the considerable advantage of having virtually the whole field of defense production to itself . This gave it a long time to make adjustments ? a period , moreover , when it could operate and make its profits under the leniencies of peace instead of the rigors of war . Our entryinto the war found it , accordingly , less unprepared to serve the country ? and itself ? than the small business man . When the war ends big business will be in possession of much new and unburdened capacity ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt ; and it will be able to draw upon generous " reserves for special contingencies , " upon the fruits of all its present labors in research and planning , and upon whatever other expedients its " vice-presidents in charge of planning for the future " can think up . Big business will emerge from the war more sound and more progressive than it has ever been . How different the situation of small business ! For one thing , as tolerance of backwardness and inefficiency in big business declines , incompetence seeks its last refuge in small business , where it can still get full public support . And since the effects of war will aggravate maladjustments , small business will be in ever greater need of that support . Its limited technical and financial resources make adjustment to war a difficult and hazardous venture ? where , indeed , it is feasible at all ? and readjustment to peace a nightmarish prospect . James S. Knowlson , head of the Division of Industrial Operations of WPB , in charge of conversion , summed up the situation last February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything else . . . . They have a great variety of products . They have great facilities for change from the production of one thing to another . . . . And so the conversion of a large plant is not a serious matter . The real problem , the fundamental problem , is the middlesized business , the business that has been created to compete with the big business on a specific line ; the man who , with his ingenuity , his skill , has developed a single product . . . . His problem is a difficult one . . . . " It will be no less difficult for him to reconvert to peace , and it will be a great deal more risky , since it will not be conversion to the determinate needs of one great big war machine , but to the infinitely various , unpredictable demands of civilian customers . The big producers of staples like steel , rubber , oil , and aluminum ; the standard services , like transportation and the public utilities ; the manufacturers of durable goods with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and refrigerators ; huge concerns , like duPont and General Electric , with their ever-changing kaleidoscope of products and their independence of any of them ; the wholesalers , mail-order houses , and chainstore companies which can so easily accommodate themselves to population shifts all of these have little reason to worry about post-war reconstruction . But what is to happen to the closeddown small enterprise , left far behind in the onward rush of technology and fashion ; and to the small metal foundry or textile mill , when after the war the old raw material is displaced by some new synthetic which they are not equipped to handle ; and to thousands of small building contractors and their millions of workmen , most of them with antiquated skills , when the construction industry is finally overtaken by the full impact of prefabricated housing and when construction costs begin to count again ; and to thousands of small storekeepers , who will find themselves stranded in ghost towns ; and to hundreds of thousands of cultivators of export crops , when foreign agriculture recovers from the war ? Small wonder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Congress . Senator Murray , Chairman of the Senate 's Special Committee to Study the Problems of American Small Business , was right ( except for his exaggeration of the political strength of big business ) when he told his colleagues on February 5th that unless effective protection is given " we shall find that when the war has ended , the battered and decimated ranks of small business will be too weak to carry on ; and big business , backed by its great financial and political powers , will move in and occupy the entire field . . ? . " III After this war we shall be caught squarely on the horns of the most fundamental dilemma of our age . On the one hand , most of small business and large sections of labor and agriculture are reactionary . What they fear most is not depression , but rather a vigorous post-war expansion , in which they , however , would lose their old places . To the extent to which we yield to such fears our whole economy will inevitably become reactionary . We shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially since no foreign menace will inspire that singleness of purpose which makes the present mobilization possible . We shall be unable to liberate that trade on which so many of our hopes for world peace and prosperity depend . And we shall , therefore , again have , and this time in its most virulent form , an economy of sheltered incompetence , of frozen high costs and administered high prices , of managed scarcity and mass unemployment . It will be an economy paralyzed by fears of the expansion of trade and production , because in the process of our economic growth a number of claims to wealth will be wiped out and a number of sinecures in production vacated . Because such an economy will have lost all it yet retains of its old dynamism , nothing will remain but for government to take up more and more of the slack , until it assumes full control of production in the special interest of the incompetents . Thurman Arnold , in his recent Democracy and Free Enterprise has well said : " A nation that fears production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ball and chain . " A nation which permits its special interests to stand in the way of the fullest , the most efficient , and the best adjusted production will risk defeat in war and internal decay in peace . A nation that affords protection to the inefficient and maladjusted must itself become inefficient and maladjusted . A nation that recognizes that war creates new interests which deserve to be protected runs the danger of perpetuating its war economy indefinitely . A nation which puts the protection of claims to wealth above the creation of wealth will have increasing claims and decreasing wealth . On the other hand , because so many of our people will expect personal ruin ( no matter how the country as a whole may fare ) as we move toward a fully adjusted economy of abundance , there will be the danger that economic defeatism will continue to grow apace and our national morale be sapped . Efficiency itself will suffer . The researches of F. J. Roethlisberger and his associates in the Harvard School of Business have shown how a laborer 's productivity declines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is denied the secure status he believes his due and is treated as a mere subhuman cog in a production mechanism . How much more is this true of business men , who , because their sense of status is more highly developed , are more acutely sensitive to the danger of losing it . We can not permit the horrible dread of being left out of a post-war reconstruction to gain dominion over the minds of men . On the one hand , a dynamic economy of abundance will require that we refuse protection to the special interests . On the other hand national morale and social justice ( not to speak of the political strength of the special interests ) will forbid our denying them a full measure of that protection . Because post-war planning has not , thus far , grappled honestly with this dilemma ; because the projects of the post-war planners are designed either to serve the common interest ( revival of trade , public works , over-all planning for a decent life for all our people ) or the special interests ( small business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so on ) ; because , when they face the issue at all , they deal with it by weakly temporizing ( schemes for delaying and limiting demobilization ) instead of by attempting aforthright reconciliation of our common and our special interests ; post-war planning to-day is without much significance . Reconciliation does not mean compromise . It is already sufficiently clear that we can not compromise with either mobilization or demobilization . Nor , on the other hand , can we persuade the special interests to abandon their rights to security in whatever positions they have won for themselves , by giving them in exchange the assurance of a " national minimum . " This might satisfy the downand-outers , those content with a reliefer 's handout , those willing to spend the rest of their productive lives on some " public projects shelf " ; but not the great middle classes in business , in agriculture , in labor . It was precisely this sort of unwillingness of the middle classes of Europe to sink to a " national minimum " that led to fascism . Nothing less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status , can keep our special interests from turning against our democracy and destroying it . If two sets of interests are in fundamental opposition ; if neither can nor ought to yield to the other ; then , if we are to avoid a head-on collision in which both must be checked and frustrated , one side must contrive to by-pass the other so that both can pursue their ends without conflict . Since at the present juncture in our history the national interest must continue its present line of advance without swerving for an instant , the by-passing will have to be done by the special interests . For it is plain that the old static security can not be reconciled with the national interest ; that , accordingly , it must be transformed to a dynamic security , security grounded in the very process of radical change . We can not and should not attempt to protect fixed positions ; but we can make it easy to move to new positions from which the needs of peace can better be served . We can not and should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making prompt and adequate adjustments , but we can help them generously in making these adjustments . In place of the old kind of static security based on holding on to fixed positions and of the new kind of static security at the level of mere subsistence , we must achieve security which is based on the assurance that one will be helped to make a new place for oneself at the old level . IV We can not develop the full meaning of dynamic security in one article , and indeed the problem is too complicated for an easy solution . But it is possible to indicate , in a general way , the proper treatment for the three main groups of economic casualties of this war , I. In this group are those enterprises which will have managed to keep going during the war , but which will be seriously maladjusted for peace : 1 . Firms converted to specialized war production and rendered thereby unfit for peacetime production . 2 . Submarginal industrial , extractive , commercial , and agricultural enterprises called into being ? with government support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make a go of it once support is withdrawn . 3 . Submarginal enterprises sustained by abnormal consumer demand in certain lines , but doomed to collapse when consumer demand shifts . For all such enterprises the government should institute a system of readjustment insurance that would release funds for reconversion , for modernization and rationalization , for mechanization , for shifting to new products or crops , for migration to centers of peacetime production or to more fertile land . It is for Congress and the experts to decide the precise terms of this insurance ; but if it is to serve its purpose , the insurance must have a certain character . The cost of such insurance , for example , must be shared by both government and enterprise . The amount of benefit would depend on the amount of insurance a business or farm might choose to carry , and upon the size of the enterprise ; theless its capital worth ( if that is made the criterion of size ) the larger should government 's relative contribution to the insurance fund be . Enterprises larger than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of post-war tax credit might be excluded altogether , on the supposition that they can or should take care of themselves . The premium payments that the enterprise would have to make would be a legitimate cost of production ? the cost of building up a reserve for actual contingencies ? and should be recognized as such by tax authorities and government contracting officers . Unlike the postwar tax credit now under consideration in Congress , the reserve it would create would not depend on whether or not a firm made excess profits . Tax credits will of course reflect the ability of an enterprise to stand on its own feet ; but precisely those firms which will have failed during the war to build up much of a tax credit or much capital reserve of any kind will be most in need of help when the war is over . It is for these that special insurance provision must be made . It should be emphasized that payments of insurance benefits must not be part of some scheme for restricting production , as is so notoriously the case with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to-day generally recognized that American agriculture can not be saved by subsidizing its stagnation ; and that , accordingly , this kind of insurance will have gradually to be transformed into insurance of a more dynamic sort . ) Nor should benefit payments involve the assumption of responsibility by the government for the survival of the enterprise , still less for restoring its pre-war position . Benefit payments , a strictly limited series of payments , should cushion change , not guarantee against it . It would be up to the beneficiary to make the most of the government 's limited generosity . If an enterprise is incorrigibly inefficient or maladjusted it would just have to get out of business . ( The business man or farmer , as an individual , should , however , get additional protection as described in Section III . ) II . This group includes enterprises which will not be able to make premium payments ? firms which will have been forced out of business during the war either because their facilities will have been commandeered and dismantled or because production will have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those forced into liquidation or bankruptcy in the ordinary course of business without coming to terms with the government ) should be given the assurance of easy credit terms from the RFC or some other government credit agency when they resume business after the war ( the amount of credit possibly being based on the capital worth of the business before the shut-down ) . Such guarantees of easy government credit would be part of the compensation for commandeering or concentration . Here again this should involve no responsibility on the part of government for the success of the enterprise ; no guarantee about reopening the same business , in the same industry or in the same community . In very many eases either there will simply be no possibility of unscrambling concentrated production or els , ? too much ground will have been lost ever to be recovered . Guaranteed credit would just give the enterprise a chance to reequip itself , to modernize , to transfer to new fields , to get its bearings , and make a new start as best it can . III . This group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war : 1 . The millions of young men in the armed forces who have never had significant experience in production . 2 . Workers whose peacetime skills will have grown rusty during long years of fighting and war work . 3 . Those whose skills become obsolete ( as in the building trades ) . 4 . Those whose industries are due for serious contraction ( as in most specialized war work or in the production of export crops ) . 5 . Those with no positions to return to , and those unable to hold on to their positions . These individuals will be in need of training or re-training , or of transfer to other jobs , other industries , or other centers of production , and should accordingly be covered by re-training and transfer insurance . This insurance would differ from unemployment insurance , which it would supplement , in certain important respects . ( 1 ) Only employees confronted with the prospect of serious post-war maladjustment would be eligible for it , except that farmers and business men whose enterprises had failed even after readjustment insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eligibility should be determined by a division of the Federal Security Agency. ) ( 2 ) Benefits would have to be used for actual retraining , transfer , or resettlement , not merely for keeping alive while the beneficiary waits to be called back to his old kind of work . As a condition of eligibility for benefits , accordingly , the beneficiary would have to become the active , not merely the nominal , client of the education and re-training services of some existing government agency ? such as those grouped in the Federal Security Agency ? or of whatever other agency the government might set up for the purpose . ( 3 ) While the cost of insurance to the individual would depend on current income ( with easier terms , perhaps , for soldiers and sailors , and special provision for business men or farmers who may be interested ) benefit payments would depend on both status and need and would continue as long as the need continues . Since in this instance security for the individual and not merely for the enterprise is at stake , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjustment . It should help him find satisfactory employment : that is , employment that would not involve a drastic decline in the beneficiary 's status or standard of living ( unless of course he became the victim of old age or incapacity , when he would pass automatically into the care of some other kind of social insurance ) . Tested by its effect upon the whole economy , such an insurance program seems sound . First of all , premium payments would siphon off much income that would otherwise help widen the inflation gap . This would be especially true if insurance were made compulsory for all those who may become eligible for it . What might at other times be a drawback ? that it would impose additional charges upon individuals and enterprises ? is to-day one of its chief virtues . Since , moreover , what is proposed is wartime insurance only , these costs need not continue to be borne after the war Second , benefit payments after the war would help cushion demobilization and deflation . Demands for benefits would rise automatically as armament spending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned withholding and the planned expansion of benefit payments , depending upon whether we are in the inflationary or deflationary stage of the cycle . Third , it would give us solid ground on which to base our battle with economicdefeatism ? much more solid ground than we have now . It could therefore help liberate the economy from the straitjacket of the static security system , and thus release its full capacity for production . Only if we give security its full due can we rise above it . Only if we can succeed in reassuring the millions who fear for their future can we proceed uncompromisingly , with all vigor and despatch , with both mobilization and demobilization . Only then can we deny protection to incompetence , lower trade barriers , initiate a real trust-busting campaign , smash all attempts at industrial stabilization and price-fixing ( even by the most wretched of the " little people " ) , prohibit restrictive labor practices , encourage innovation and change , and foster the new ? rather than merely the small ? enterprise . Only when security is no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on insulation , on stabilization , on " conspiracies in restraint of trade , " can we take vigorous action against all of these . Only then can we win freedom for production .                     