@@709908

txt Meat re-entered the realm of free enterprise in Greater Boston , with independent and chain stores well stocked and with prices considerably lower than those of a week ago . Trading was brisk as prices were compared . Page 2 . There are too many nonproductive consumers at present , when the key to the situation is more and more production , the 16th annual New England Bank Management Conference was told by Frederick S. Blackall , Jr. , President of the New England Council . Page 5 . President Truman formally accepted the resignation of J. Howard as United States Solicitor General and expressed hope that he will be elected United States Senator in the Rhode Island Nov. 5 election . Europe : Trials of Nazis to Run Into 1947 Between 250 and 500 former Nazi military , industrial , financial and government leaders will be arraigned in a series of trials expected to last through 1947 , a Nuremberg dispatch said . Page 18 . The British Trades Union Congress defeated a resolution criticizing British foreign policy , particularly the isolation of Soviet Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Expulsion of unwanted Germans from Czechoslovakia has been completed , it was announced in Prague . A new United States proposal to govern the Bulgarian Sunday elec-tion has been rejected by Russia 's representative on the Bul-garian Control Commission . The plan called for committees from each party to appear at all polling places . Palestine . In a letter to Rabbi Stephen S. Wise , he sought to set at rest " rumors " that there is a divergence on the issue between the White House and the State Department . Myron C. Taylor , President Truman 's personal representative to the Pope , conferred for 30 minutes with the President . He told reporters he expected to see the President again " in the near future , " but had no comment on when he might return to his post at Vatican City , National : Ships Arrive for New York Navy Day Led by the battleship Missouri , 26 units of the United States Fleet steamed into New York Harbor to participate in Navy Day celebrations . Other units will dock at Wilmington , Del. ; Chester , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Byrnes Backs Truman on Palestine secretary of State Byrnes placed the State Department on record as " wholeheartedly " in support of President Truman 's demand for immediate and substantial immigration of European Jews into                     