@@710049

txt It is becoming quite evident that the present Communist-dominated regime in Poland is determined to perpetuate itself in power by turning the national elections . which it has at last been compelled to call . into the same kind of farce and fraud that they were in Yugoslavia , Bulgaria and Rumania . That is quite in keeping with Communist practice , which does not disdain to utilize democratic processes to attain And legitimize power but would never permit such processes to overthrow a Communist regime once it is established . But the Polish regime , improving on noted examples , is going even further than its fellow-satellites in flouting those Governments which , attempting to carry out their own pledges to the peoples of liberated Europe , call it to account , and demand respect for the right of the Polish people freely to choose the form of government under which they will live . It has just answered British remonstrances against the rigging of the election machinery in its favor , and the terrorization of the opposition by the secret police , with a note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind its own business . And an answer to like remonstrances by the American Government , while perhaps milder in tone , is expected to be similar in substance . This puts the British and American Governments in an embarrassing position , for the two Governments assumed special obligations toward Poland in both the Yalta and the Potsdam agreements , over and above any general obligations assumed toward other peoples . At Yalta they agreed with Russia. , hut without consulting the Polish people , to create the present Polish regime as a " provisional government of national unity , " whose main function was to be to hold as soon as possible " free and unfettered elections " on the basis of universal suffrage and the secret ballot , in which all democratic and anti-Nazi parties were to have the right to take part and put forward candidates . In other words , the present Polish regime was to be a caretaker Government holding authority , not from the Polish people , but by virtue of a Big Power agreement , until the Polish people could choose their own government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present Polish regime , at Potsdam , with the added proviso that the Allied press was to enjoy full freedom to report on the elections . Thanks to the latter provision , the world is even better informed on what is happening in Poland than in the Balkan states . As a result , it knows that the present Polish regime violated the Yalta and Potsdam agreements by refusing to hold elections till more than a year and a half after the cessation of hostilities and is continuing to violate them by depriving opposition voters of suffrage , disabling the opposition parties and imprisoning opposition leaders . The British and American Governments have just voted in the United Nations to recall the heads of their diplomatic missions from Spain mainly . on the ground that the present Spanish Government was imposed upon the Spanish people by force and does not represent them . They have formally and officially accused the Polish Provisional Government , like the Balkan Governments , of the same offenses . Diplomacy has thus far kept them from pointing to the further parallel that , though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Communists dominating it likewise gave aid and comfort to the Axis and stabbed fighting Poland in the back  --  until Russia was attacked . The problem now confronting the United States and Great Britain is what they are going to do , or can do , about the recalcitrance of this Government of their own creation . It seems futile under the circumstances to re sort to a recall of ambassadors , for experience has shown that such a move solves nothing . But inasmuch as Russia is a partner in the agreements governing Poland , it might be advisable to call on Moscow to join the Western Allies in seeing to it that these agreements are enforced  --  or take responsibility before the world for their violation . Meanwhile , the American and British Governments would only stultify themselves and violate their own obligation to the Polish people if they gave the least aid or comfort to the present Polish regime .                     