@@709905

txt An " on-the-spot " survey of election developments in Massachusetts is now being ? conducted by Donald B. McCammond , staff writer on Bay State political affairs . This ' is the last of several articles presenting his findings . By Donald B. McCammond Staff Writer of The Christian Science Monitor Massachusetts ' political situation offers no cut-and-dried answer to the question , " How 's it going ? " Too many imponderables enter the situation to enable anyone without extraordinary sources of information to say with accuracy just how the election will go . Is there a Republican trend ? Will veterans vote as a group ? What is behind the unusually heavy registration in most com-munities ? Has war service changed Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , the Republican nominee for the U. S. Senate ? How will the Moscow commendation of C. I. 0. -P . A. C. indorsed candidates affect the Democratic ticket ? Too Far Away For one thing , the election is still too far away . The ups and downs of the political groundswells during the past three weeks have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on much of anything as certain . Polls of voter opinion at this moment may be reversed by Nov. 5 . Disregarding , then , the much-discussed trend , how are the candidates faring ? On one point most observers agree : Lieutenant Governor Bradford is a more formidable contender than he was six weeks ago . At that time , he was only the Republican nominee for the Governorship , a candidate who had done a lot of hard work to get his name known in the cities and towns of Massachusetts . His candidacy had not caught the fancy of the voters . The meat shortage intervened to crystallize resentment , against all shortages and the blunders of the Washington Administration . This swell of resentment Thought for Today For Major Parties Here 's a morsel of political potpourri for the candidates for public office in Massachusetts to ponder . Since August , Boston has recorded a change in parties for 42 Democrats who wanted to be Republicans , 22 Republicans who wanted to be Democrats and 24 Democrats who wanted to be listed as Independents . picked him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electorate could give their votes as a symbol of protest . Regardless of whether that crest has receded , the Bradford name was placed in homes where Roosevelt had reigned for years . Other developments aided the Republican candidate . Interfactional strife and disappointment over patronage in some Democratic cities cooled the enthusiasm and spontaneity that marked the Tobin campaign two years ago . Thus far , the Lieutenant Governor 's strategy has been to attack Governor Tobin on three or four issues , and try to keep him associated in the public consciousness with the national administration . His election would justify such strategy , but meanwhile he has been criticized for failing to tell the voters what he believes should be done for Massachusetts and for them . This , of course , may not be the time for such a revelation . Prevailing opinion is generally expressed best by the comment that " Bob can win this election , but he has to work pretty hard , " or , " The Governor can lose . " Neither of these comments could have been heard ih many places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answered Republican charges concerning the use of the $19,000,000 surplus left by Governor Saltonstall by saying in substance that the expenditure was necessary for the good of the Commonwealth , He has been accused of making poor appointments to public positions , of partiality toward a limousine service to Logan International Airport . He has retorted that the Republicans were responsible for the defeat of the proposed State Department of Commerce , his plan for reviving the industry of the Commonwealth . He has stood on his record . These , so far , are apparently the local issues in the campaign for the Governorship of Massachusetts . Boston may become , according to some political observers , the key to the situation . Except for Republican circles , politicians find it hard to believe that the Governor can drop below his 63,000 plurality of two years ago . Publicly , the Democrats say the Governor will take the city by 100,000 or more . Privately , the figure is generally between 75,000 and 80,000 . Curley Attacks Mayof Curley 's attacks on the Governor have been searing in recent weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Party and his intention of voting for it . A substantial doubt also exists as to whether the Mayor can sway votes except when the candidate is named Curley . With some exceptions , the anti-Tobin feeling , built up during seven years as Mayor of Boston , is , in the same places , possibly less pronounced . And white Horace T. Cahill , the Governor 's opponent in 1944 , may have benefited among Democrats because of his name , Mr. Bradford is expected to receive a more united Republican vote in Boston than his predecessor . Former Senator Lodge is almost unanimously considered the strongest man on his ticket . Reports from nearly all sections of the State give him a larger vote than Mr. Bradford and an excellent opportunity of defeating Senator David I. Walsh ( D ) of Clinton . The campaign between the two has been a calm , placid affair without any apparent breakdown of the Walsh-Lodge records . Presumably the electorate will have to decide finally on the personal popularity of the candidates , the grounds on which most Bay State contests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                