@@707951

txt Allied aircraft and light naval patrols striking from the Solomons to the Netherlands Indies  --  a front of more than a thousand miles  --  are now sinking , destroying or heavily damaging Japanese ships at a ? rate of better than ten a day , figures released today from Gen. Douglas 's headquarters revealed . During the past month a total of 304 vessels have been sent to the bottom , set on fire , beached or otherwise knocked out of operation , a recapitulation of communiques since June 13 disclosed . These range from a 10,000-ton tanker , one of the largest in the Japanese service , which was caught by air patrols off Morots1 Island , in the Moluccas , on Wednesday , bombed and " left dead in the water " from near misses , to coastal schooners and power barges that are capable of carrying about fifty men or 6,000 pounds of supplies , and that now form the mainstay of Japanese communications in the Southwest Pacific . The figures show that thirty-five ships and 105 barges were definitely sunk and thirty-nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtless useless to the Japanese for at least a long time to come . These attacks , probably the largest commerce-destroying operation in history and far surpassing in the number of craft wrecked anything the Germans accomplished at the height of their submarine campaign , have a double-barreled aim . They are calculated not only to soften the Japanese positions that yet remain to be taken but they also spell doom for the approxinately 70,000 Japanese who are cut off and isolated by our by-passing operations , and of which the largest bodies remain in the northern Solomons , the New Britain-New ! Ireland areas and the Aitape sector of British New Guinea . The campaign has also been a boon to American shipping , since the Japanese have been forced to ' divert submarines that otherwise might prey on the Allied supply lines or used to carry food and medicine for their isolated troops where surface vessels are unable to get through the blockade . A picture of the sufferings to which isolated Japanese bodies are subjected has been drawn in the last few days in the Aitape area , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is officially described as a " desperate " attempt to break through the American lines to the west . This force , under the command of Gen. Hatazo Adachi , numbered 60,000 when it was cut off by the American landing in April . Privation and starvation , as well as air bombardment and skirmishing , have killed 25 per cent of these Japanese troops in three months , and unless they can break out the army seems likely to disintegrate completely . Smaller forces on Bougainville and in the Rabaul areas are probably facing a similar plight , although in the latter theatre , which has been plastered by more than 1,000 tons of bombs in almost daily raids during the past month , the Japanese in June were still reported to be making some attempt at air interception . Our Navy 's principal weapon in this blockade war has been the fast maneuverable PT-boats of the Seventh Fleet . Blows on communications from the air have been delivered by almost every type of plane in this area , including light , medium and heavy bombers , and fighters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Royal Australian Air Force and the New Zealand Air Force have also played a considerable part in the campaign . Constant attacks on Japanese communications are also partly responsible for the rather low rate of our casualties in this theatre in recent months . Our naval and air men who stop the barges from coming through have discovered that the cheapest way to kill a Japanese is to starve him to death .                     