@@704924

txt The Japanese Embassy announced today that K. Makihara , prominent Japanese business man , had been detained by the British police " for unknown reasons " and that it was investigating unconfirmed reports from Singapore that a number of Japanese had been arrested by British authorities in the Straits Settlements . British newspapers have been , demanding the arrest of Japanese residents of Britain in a number equal to those British residents of Japan held by Japanese military police on charges of espionage . The arrest of a number of Japanese subjects in the British Empire was confirmed in authoritative quarters in London today , according to The Associated Press . The Japanese Embassy said Mr. Makihara was arrested at 8 o'clock last night by Scotland Yard men who called at his home and took him in custody on unspecified charges . He has been in London about one year , the embassy said . No other Japanese reslueuta5 seized . It was understood Mr. Makihara was arrested under defense regulations which give the government widespread powers over aliens . He is one of a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Japanese Embassy cabled news of the arrest to the Foreign Office in ' Tokyo and Ambassador Mamoru Shigemitsu asked an early appointment with the Foreign Secretary , Viscount Halifax , to obtain details . British circles described the ar-rest as a " detention " and said the fact that it followed the detention of Britons in Japan was a " coincidence . " Mr. Makihara is manager of the Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha 's London branch and is one of the best known ? Japanese business men in London . The Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha is a unit of the Mitsubishi interests of Japan , which control banks , steamship lines , mines and trad- ing and manufacturing companies . News of the arrest came shortly after Japanese financial interests had revealed that British banks were refusing to discount Japanese bills or extend credit to Japanese banks . Japanese circles forecast an increase in British-Japanese tension , which has been mounting as a result of Japan 's refusal to entertain requests of the British Ambassador in Tokyo for the immediate release of imprisoned Britons . Nine British subjects in the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two more British subjects were arrested in Korea after earlier roundups in Japan . They are the Rev. Chadwell of the English Church Mission in Seoul and a man named Sanford in Heijo . Sir Robert Craigie , the British Ambassador in Tokyo , made representations to Foreign Minister Yosuke Matsuoka as soon as he was informed of the arrests . Before Mr. Makihara 's arrest Japanese informants here had predicted Britain would not take retaliatory action against Japan because of her desire to avoid complications in the Far East while the British fleet was occupied in the Mediterranean and in defense of the homeland . A British spokesman insisted that unless Japan freed the imprisoned Britons action would be taken " beyond mere diplomatic representations . " " he situation thus appeared to be moving rapidly toward a new crisis . Japanese informants here said the government in Tokyo could not interfere with the examination of the imprisoned Britons in Tokyo even if it wanted to . The government , it was explained , had no jurisdiction over military police , who act directly under the War Office which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any measures against Japan by Britain would be playing into the hands of the Axis powers which are attempting to induce Japan to adhere to the Italian-German military alliance . A British spokesman , in reply , said Toyko could end the crisis easily by releasing the imprisoned Britons . Some Hope in Tokyo Wireless to THE Nam ' YORK Tares . TOYKO , Aug. ** situation caused by Japan 's arrest of Briton 's on espionage charges remains tense but there is some hope that patience for a few days longer will bring improvement . Japanese legal processes are slow and the need for laborious 1 interpretation is an additional handicap . The Foreign Office spokesman today qualified his statement that Britain 's protests could not be considered by explaining that the affair was one of internal jurisdiction so outside the scope of a foreign protest unless there was some - illegality in the procedure . Suspicious that the affair is connected with a scheme to impair British-Japanese relations are supported by the opinion of a highly placed Japanese , who is not proBritish . He sees a resemblance between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year . The demonstrations occurred while the Hiranuma Cabinet evaded a decision on Germany 's overtures just before the outbreak of the European war . The present spy scare broke out when the Konoye Cabinet had decided to continue its policy of noninvolvement in the European war . According to this Japanese observer the affair is a result of the government 's refusal to take the Axis side . This explanation is not wholly fantastic though it leaves room for amazement that such dangerous edged tools were employed . It was said the death of Melville James Cox , Reuters correspondent , while under arrest , gave the affair tragic importance that had not been foreseen . Deadlock on Pearl River Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . HONG KONG , Aug. 2 ? A deadlock in British-Japanese discussions regarding a complete reopening of the Pearl River is indicated by the detention of the British river ship Fatshan by the Japanese at Canton . The Japanese are said to be insisting that Japanese naval pilots replace the shipping companies ' pilots and refusing to clear the Fatshan unless a Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely obstructionist because previous similar requests by the Japs was not enforced .                     