@@709609

txt BIG FOUR SNARLED ON TRIESTE AGAIN Byrnes Conditionally Accepts Autonomy , but Insists on U.N . Rule  --  Molotov Opposes This By C. L. SULZBERGER By Wireless to Tile New You ; Toms , PARIS , July ** Council of Foreign Ministers today ignored another deadline set for the issuance of peace conference invitations as , after United States Secretary of State James F. Byrnes conditionally accepted the principle of internationalizing Trieste , the arguments slipped back into a maze of administrative technicalities . Yesterday the Ministerial logja.m broke , but today those curious logs created by the differing political . economic and diplomatic traditions and techniques among the four powers seemed to form into a new barrier farther down the stream of peace . How soon this Council will be able to agree on methods of breaking up this one remains to be seen . In comparison with the first dam , it seems small , but nevertheless the Ministers spent three hours today hickering and did not seem to make much headway . Meanwhile , every day that passes seems to make somewhat more difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in time to have anything but a rubber stamp assemblage , with orders to break up before the United Nations Assembly gathers in September . Objective Not Mentioned The powers first had agreed to call the conference for May 1 . That date long has been forgotten . Mr. Byrnes then sought a July 15 gathering without success . Last Saturday he demanded a yes or no answer on sending invitations for a conference on July 20 . He got neither . British Foreign Secretary Er // nest Bevin then suggested that this evening would be the deadline , but the Ministers did not even mention this primary objective among all those thousands of words they flung at each other this afternoon . Instead , they got involved in technical disputes on possible methods of administering the free State of Trieste . Mr. Byrnes wanted it directly under the responsibility of the United Nations ' Security Council . Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov wanted it under the Big Four Council members . In a sense , many of the Italians and Yugoslays here  --  both of which groups detest the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arguing that the four powers controlled the Security Council anyway . The situation as it stands tonight is this . Mr. Molotov accepts the French line as the proposed western boundary of Yugoslavia , conditionally stipulating that the area aroi4nd Trieste be internationalized . Mr. Byrnes accepts the French line and accepts the principle of internationalization for Trieste , conditional upon its submission to the United Nations as the ultimate responsible authority . This may seem very close  --  as relatively , indeed , it is  --  but the views still are far enough apart so that no single other topic was discussed in today 's wearisome agenda in the steamingly humid Luxembourg Palace . To Avoid German Troubles According to responsible American sources , Mr. Byrnes feels that to truly internationalize Trieste the United Nations must be charged with the task . He wishes a broad and impartial organization to supervise this work , and apparently feels that the Big Four have themselves perhaps become too much involved personally . Above all , apparently , both Mr. Byrnes and Mr. Bevin wish to avoid any future machinery such as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Potsdam bible has prevented later specific solutions to problems not imagined at that time . One may presume that all efforts are being made to avoid the entanglements of any such snarls over the Trieste free state , which would have difficult enough birth pangs as it is . Under Mr. Molotov 's chairmanship , the Ministers assembled at a few minutes after 5 P. M. Mr. Byrnes opened the discussion , stating that he had carefully considered French Premier-President Georges Bidault 's proposal on the internationalization of Trieste and Mr. Molotov 's suggested amendments . Asks Peace Conference Decide He repeated that , in his view ? the wisest decision would be to , submit the entire matter to the , peace conference , which should decide what to do with the disputed area west of the French line , and he recalled how he had urged that it should be left Italian . Mr. Byrnes added that now , in a further effort to obtain an overall agreement , he was willing that the principle of internationalization should be accepted and a free State of Trieste should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Bidault yesterday . However , he rapidly stipulated that this agreement was conditional upon an understanding that such an area should be controlled by the United Nations . Mr. Byrnes thought the Council could do no more here than to agree on the internationalization principle , should it decide that this was absolutely necessary . The specific machinery that should control the area should be left to discussion by the peace conference and decision of the United Nations . Furthermore , at the peace conference , both Italy and Yugoslavia , who had not yet been heard on the free state formula , would have an opportunity to express their views . Edward Kardelj , Vice Premier of Yugoslavia , had a long talk with Mr. Byrnes today , making clear his own reasons for opposing the idea . Mr. Bevin supported Mr. Byrnes ' general arguments . He felt that it would be better to award Trieste to Italy . He never would have accepted the French line as a frontier originally if he had thought that internationalization would be adopted , as he would have liked to include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration the Problem Nevertheless , having now accepted the principle of the French line , he adhered to it . The problem remaining was the administration and control of the internationalized area , which he , too , was willing to accept in principle ? conditionally . Mr. Sevin also thought the United Nations should deal with this , as it would be responsible for the region 's territorial integrity . Therefore , if the matter is to be settled , he indicated , it must be agreed that the United Nations should assume sole responsibility for approving and administering the statute and government of the area , as well as guaranteeing its security . He thought there was common ground in the proposals under discussion , but that there had to be certain amendments . In one afternoon , it was too much for the Council to create a new state with established responsibilities , he said , and he would like the matter " ventilated " at the peace conference . M. Bidault , who said he liked to speak last , withheld his views , so Mr. Molotov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister explained his attitude . He thought there was , indeed , some common ground on the area involved , but that there was need for discussion on the administrative statute . He hoped he did not misunderstand Mr. Byrnes and Mr. Bevin in believing that they had agreed to the French line for the Yugoslav border and the area suggested by France for internationalization . Prior Agreement Sought He admitted that the twentyone nations would , of course , have their say in the matter , but he thought it was important that the Big Four should reach agreement first on the basic aspects of the statute . He proposed the following as a basis for a statute whose details could be worked out by the experts : ( 1 ) The autonomous district of Trieste should be administered in accordance with its statute as adopted by the four powers , acting on behalf of the United Nations , who will determine that statute with the participation of Italy and Yugoslavia . The integrity of the territory will be assured by the Security Council . ( 2 ) As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the principle of legislative and executive authority on democratic lines should be accepted . ( 3 ) The Governor will be appointed by agreement between Yugoslavia and Italy or , in the absence of such agreement , by the four powers . deleted 9 lines internationalization only if the final authority were the United Nations , and not the Big Four . The Big Four Council had no right to act for the United Nations said Mr. Byrnes . It was unlikely Yugoslavia and Italy could agree on a Governor , which would leave his appointment to the Council , and it would be preferable to have such an official a truly neutral man named by the United Nations , he continued . The United States could go along with the idea only if the area were truly international and under the United Nations , he declared . Holds it Not a Trusteeship Mr. Molotov contended that his plan provided for the Security Council to guarantee the territory 's integrity and that the United Nations Charter did not provide that it should administer areas the same as trusteeships . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he thought Mr. Byrnes in the discussion on the temporary colonial solution wished the Big Four to act for the United Nations . Mr. Byrnes explained that that was a different matter and only temporary , with the United Nations taking over in the end . He said he could not agree that the Big Four should have the right to create the statute under which 400,000 or 500,000 persons would live . Mr. Bevin agreed and proposed that the deputies draw up the suggested statute for submission to the peace conference . M. Bidault then produced another compromise seeking to adjust the rival viewpoints , but if one studies the wording closely the ultimate authority it delegates seems to be given to the four powers because the peace conference and the United Nations have only the right of " examination . " This amendment suggests an agreement that : " Trieste and the immediate adjacent territory shall be constituted as an autonomous district , to be administered in accordance with a statute to be promised by the four powers for examination by the peace conference and the United Nations organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the statute or governorship , or even any mention of whether the internationalized area would have a tenyear or permanent status . The meeting finally broke up with the Ministers agreeing to study M. Bidault 's latest compromise amendment . Italy Plans a New Plea By Wireless to THE NEW YORK Tturs . ROME , July ** the news ' deleted 8 lines insisted that they would agree to He had a long telephone conversation this morning with Marchese Antonio Meli Lupi di Soragna , the special Italian envoy in Paris , and instructed him to submit to the Big Four another memorandum from the Italian Government . According to an official statement issued here , this memorandum raises certain objections to the Italo-Yugoslav frontier as fixed in the French proposal , pointing out that " among other things it even separates Gorizia from its cemetery . " It adds that " apart from all questions concerning the structure of the international zone , " Signor de Gasperi particularly underlined that the assigning to Yugoslavia of the southwestern zone of Istria as far as Pola would " open an unbearable wound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 