@@707076

txt One of the most telling events of the war week was a sudden about-face in the German propaganda line . Until this week Dr. Joseph Goebbels was fighting a crusade or woras against wnat ne called the Bolshevist menace to European civilization . This week he called the war with Russia " a war of gentlemen , " and told his public that ? America and Britain were fighting a " war of barbarism . " The fact that the Russian front was silent this week and the western front extremely active is a partial explanation for such a shift . The summer campaign is on in the west and ca n't begin in Russia for about a month . So for the moment German propaganda follows the emphasis of war . But it means more than that for us . It is a proof that the Allied air offensive against Germany and German-held territory is hurting the enemy and hurting him so hard that he squealed about " terror raids " ? of course forgetting his own " terror raids " on England in its weaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the threat of the " second front " which came a ? lot nearer this week with the improving situation in Tunisia . The two things taken together have the distinct , though still distant , sound of the drums of doom . Dr. Goebbels , sitting in his modernistic stucco palace in Berlin , obviously heard that sound and reacted so violently that he quite forgot to be consistent about his orooaeanda . Continuous Allied Raids The air attacks from the west which caused his aberration were something new . They did not include the heaviest raids the Anglo-American air forces have yet staged on Germany . Nothing this week equaled either the Cologne or Rostock raids of last year in numbers of planes engaged . But this week did see the longest period of sustained day and night heavy bombing over a period of several days . The significance of this continuous pounding can scarcely have been lost on Berlin . It meant that the number of operational bombers now available for attacks on the continent has gone way up in recent months . Heretofore heavy raids came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance every Allied bomber in Britain was groomed for one big night , and that when the night came everything we had was in the air . The big bombers ca n't take off night after night . Motors keep getting out of order . Bullet holes have , to be patched . Instruments have to be replaced . To have 1,000 bombers in the air every night it would be necessary to have about ' 5 , 0 0 0 in the operational area . We probably have n't got that many yet in Britain , but when on one day 133 bomb Paris and 79 Naples and that . same night between 700 and 800 bomb Kiel and the next day there is a heavy attack on Antwerp and the same night another attack on Brest it means that the total number available has climbed well above the old levels . This increased bombing threat to Germany remained the spearhead of the potential second front this week . In fact it is perfectly possible that it may be " the second front . " Our own Allied High Command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was employing it this week to good effect . Allied actions seemed to threaten . Allied unofficial words seemed to contradict . The combination throws the whole matter into a state of complete uncertaintywhich is exactly what is wanted . If Hitler can be kept guessing about both his fronts he will have to split his forces . The ideal thing would be to have him concentrate in the wrong place . That is probably asking too much . But what can be achieved by good " psychological warfare " is a division of his forces between east and west fronts which will at least deny him the possbility of taking the offensive . What he would probably prefer would be a concentration in the east and another crack at Russia . But he scarcely dares that unless he is sure that there will be no landing on the continent from the west in force . He ' must be guessing hard today , because the Allied High Command has everyone on the outside guessing . Progress rin Tunisia Italians . He continues to save his armored divisions and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are moved in closer together. , they become a more powerful defensive combination . The biggest Allied gain is in the shortening of the supply line . The port of Mahares south of Sfax is the first point reached by the Eighth Army which has a rail connection with the rear of the front . As soon as that port is cleared for General Montgomery 's supply ships it will be possible to use a rail line behind the southern Iront . Meanwhile , the war out in the Pacific took on a new complexion . The Japanese struck their first tactically offensive blow since they advanced over the top of the Owen Stanley range of mountains in New Guinea last summer in a heavy air attack on Guadalcanal and Allied shipping in that area . We lost four ships , ? including a destroyer . The expectation is that the attack marked the beginning of real use of the network of new air facilities the Japanese have been constructing for months all through the islands . Until now they have been busy building . Ncw , they begin to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more and bigger things to follow . They did not come up to maximum expectations this week in one respect . General Field Marshal Erwin Rommel succeeded in slipping out of his southern line at Wadi El Akarit before the American flank attack from El Guetar could cut off any substantial part of his forces . His withdrawal there was as skillful as is customary with him . But he did have to withdraw and as the week ends he is running north fast . The ring is closing in around him , and , as his maneuver area is compressed , he becomes more and more vulnerable to air attack . The converse of that , of course , is that his front has become denser . He has lost troops in the latest retreat . As usual they are mostly                     