@@705878

txt The announcement today that a wing of the Royal Air force had arrived in Russia was received here as cheering news and the only question asked was : " Is this the best that can be done ? Certainly more can follow . " * The strength of the RAF wing in Russia was not disclosed , but " wing " is an elastic term applied to a self-contained unit of two or more squadrons with full flying and ground personnel . Prime Minister Churchill last week said in parliament that hundreds of planes already had been sent to Russia . Despite Russia 's tremendous air force , it is known that trained pilots and modern fighter planes are her most immediate need . May Have Started Action . There were hints that some of the RAF units . believed , to be all fighter aircraft , already may have participated in some of the fighting In defense of Leningrad , Moscow , or Kiev , Informed quarters said they expected the flow of British planes to the Rus sign front would be stepped up . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be done Immediately , sfor Russia was Indicative that Britain Is undergoing another transition stage in the war . The feeling that'America might save the situation is ebbing . Now the public is told from all sides thatl Russia ' is the crucial factor and that future developments will be decided by the extent of aid given to the soviet allies . Herbert Morrison , minister of home security , told the national council of labor : " It- is an obligation of honor as well as self-interest that we use this lull to the full for Russia 's sake as well as ' our own . " German Army - Occupied . The weekly Time and Tide , ' commenting on how , besides supplies and airplanes , Britain can best help Russia , suggested : " Tile presence of nearly an entire German army and air force in Russia offers an opportunity for offensive operations against Italy and it may well be that the stagnation which has come upon military operations in northern Africa and the Mediterranean will cease . " Military experts for some time have been hinting that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Tripoli . John Gordon , editor of the Sunday Express , declared Hitler faces disaster if Leningrad Bolds out another 15 days . Gordon wrote : " These 15 days ahead of us will be the most . vital of all . They will decide not only the course of the war , but its duration . " Urges Attacks Along Coast . He argued that supplies to Russia are not enough and urged that picked British troops harass the German armies of occupation along tile entire coast from the northern tip of Norway to the Spanish border . It was also disclosed today that the first group of long range Lockheed Lightning fighter planes had reached England from the United States . This brought forecasts from some aeronautical circles that these , as escorts , will permit British bombers to stab deep into Germany and pos. sibly to Berlin for daylight precision attacks .                     