@@707706

txt A disclosure that Japan got its plan for the " sneak blitz " on Pearl Harbor indirectly thru a United States navy unit was confirmed tonight by Adm . Harry E. Yarnell , who is attached to the office of naval operations . Informed of a magazine article which says the plan for the Pearl Harbor attack , which precipitated America 's entry into the war , was devised by the United States naval planning board and then adopted for its own purposes by the Japanese high command , Adm . Yarnell said the story was substantially ac. curate . The admiral commanded one of the forces which participated in a maneuver which was copied by the Japanese . In the current Reader 's Digest , Edwin Muller relates that in January , 1932 , a big American battle force gathered in the Pacific to test Pearl Harbor 's defenses . One section of it was to attack , while the other , plus a division of troops , 100 planes , and coast artillery , was to defend the base . Aircraft Carriers Featured . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind all battleships and cruisers and using only two aircraft carriers , the Saratoga and the Lexington , and four destroyers . When 24 hours off Oahu the attacking task force met heavy weather , making it more probable that the shore defenders , on the lookout for a great invasion fleet , would not spot the small flotilla . By the evening of Feb. 6 , a Saturday , Adm . Yarnell 's force was in position to reach Oahu by dawn . Tho officer surmised that if he attacked early on a Sunday morning the defenders would be a little less alert than usual . Planes Sneak in for Bald . Thirty minutes before dawn on Feb. 7 , when the carriers were about 60 miles off Oahu , they launched 152 planes , about the same number the Japanese employed nearly 10 years later . Adm . Yarnell 's planes were undetected until they darted out of the clouds into clear weather over Pearl Harbor . Defending planes on the ground were theoretically destroyed by simulated machinegun fire and all the hypothetical vessels in the harbor were " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that Japanese observers watched the maneuver from every vantage point and full details of it were sent to Tokio . Japan realized , he says , that it had been given a workable plan for putting the greater part of the American fleet out of commission . Tragedy Turned to a Benefit . In almost exact duplicate , Muller states , the Japanese carried out the plan on Dec. 7 , 1941 , with devastatine results . But , he adds , the tragedy of Pearl Harbor has been used to America 's advantage . Of necessity , the aircraft carriers , none of which was at Pearl Harbor at the time of the Jap attack , replaced the battleship as our capital ship . The carrier task force became America 's chief naval weapon and since has been used with greater skill by us than by the Japanese . Honolulu a Jap Spy Center . Asked tonight if Tokio copied his plan , Adm .. Yarnell said : " The Japs will copy anything worth copying . The maneuver was reported in the Honolulu papers and the Jens knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese spy system . " Ile parried a query as to why the navy did not have an effective defense to ward off what it knew was an effective offense against the Hawaiian citadel by saying : " I would not want to comment on that . It will all be explained in time . " The admiral said Muller , whom Reader 's Digest officials identified as one of their " roving editors , " obtained the story of the Pearl Har ? bor maneuver from officers of the Lexington and Saratoga.                     