@@712482

txt PARIS , Friday , ** Foreign Ministers of Britain , France and the United States closed a two-day conference here at 2 o'clock this morning by instructing their High Commissioners in Germany to negotiate ' with the Bonn Government for the liquidation of the dismantling program and acceptance by the Western German regime of Western Allied controls . The French Government agreed to these negotiations on the condition that abandonment of the dismantling of German factories should not increase German steel production above the present limit of 11,500,000 tons annually . This agreement was forthcoming ' only after a two-and-one-half hour meeting of the French Cabinet , ' during which Premier Georges Bidault took the lead in insisting ' that French acceptance must be conditional . The foreign ministers conference marked time while awaiting the result of this French Cabinet discussion , resuming late last night to hear the Cabinet 's new instructions to Robert Schuman , French Foreign Minister . The three foreign ministers then met with only their high commissioners to improvise common instructions for the negotiations that are to begin within a few days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministers issued a joint statement to the effect that they felt responsible for preserving and consolidating peace . The statement added that the ministers reaffirmed their policy of giving the German Federal Republic " a wile area of free determination in the conduct of German affairs " that would grow as the Bonn regime " gave confidence " that it was // DISMANTLING HALT UP TO COMMISSION // . headed toward the establishment of a free , democratic , peaceful Germany . The statement said nothing of the nature of the instructions given to the High Commissioners . One official said that out of , deference to the Germans ' this information was being withheld from the public in Western Allied countries until . German . authorities could study it . The statement did not mention any subject but Germany , which the British had said all along was the main topic they had proposed for conference . It is understood , however , that the Foreign Ministers discussed Yugoslavia M connection with the Eastern European situation created by the Soviet Union 's new moves in Poland and eastern Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist regime in China . But it was reported that no decisions had been taken on these subjects and that the ' decisions even on Germany  --  which took up most of the Ministers ' time  --  were tentative and qualified and subject to negotiations with Bonn and among London , Paris and Washington . The general impression of observers here was that the conference had been handicapped by having been called at short notice , by the lack of preparation and by the fact that the French , Cabinet was politically hypersensitive because of the anticipation of a national election . Since M. Schuman had outlined . his policy to the . Cabinet Tuesday , the day before the conference began , many were surprised that it had been necessary for him to appear again yesterday ' before a hastily summoned Cabinet meeting to justify his negotiations and to receive new instructions . Schuman Visits Bidault M. Schuman had visited Premier Bidault yesterday morning to report on the conference 's discussion of dismantling . M. Bidault was so worried that he insisted upon consulting his Cabinet , which then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed the dismantling question for two and onehalf hours before it sent M. Schuman back to the foreign ministers ' conference with instruction not to yield on the steel production level and to ask for a new study ' of the Thyssen plant in Hamborn . This plant is not now in operation and is slated for dismantling . The French say it could produce more than 2,000,000 tons of steel a year . Some observers here believe the French will be obliged to give in on these points eventually as they gave in on the separation of the Ruhr from Germany . But it is agreed that public opinion makes it difficult for the French Government to give in now . It is understood that M. Schuman explained this to Mr. Acheson and Mr. Sevin in Washington in September , saying the French Government would fall if it agreed to the abandonment of dismant7 ling . Just before coming to Paris for this conference , Mr. Acheson. is understood to have sent a message to M. Schuman saying he wanted the aid of the new French Government but also wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This assurance M. Schuman could not give . M. Schuman is reported ' to have insisted at yesterday 's conference upon the French desire that German steel production should not run ahead of that of France . The British contend that dismantling must be ended but : . that in return for this the Bonn regime must make concessions by accepting the International Authority for the Ruhr arid the Military , Security Board . The ' British even wanted Germans , represented in the security board , as well as in the Ruhr authority . But the .. French objected and this was left for negotiation , like the question of the German steel output . The French news agency , which . is officially subsidized and often officially informed , said this:morning that the military aspect of the German problem had been discussed by the Foreign Ministers and that Mr. Acheson had said that Gen. Omar INT ; Bradley 's plan was to base the Western defense on the Ellie River : The French Minister - of Information eniphatteeny denied that Ahe conference had discussed ' - 4uthorization : for . armament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' information whatever from United- States officials on " any aspect ' of the ' . conference . European reporters ' said the United States Embassy had ' carried ' this policy of caution so far as to refuse to say ' with whom Mr. Acheson was to dine last ' night or to confirm that Mr. Acheson was going to Germany . Benelux : Ministers Attend The Foreign ' Ministers of Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg joined the Big Three Western - Foreign Ministers to explain their desire to assure , before the West German state grew too indeperident , , the redovery of prewar foreign ' assets in Germany and those seizecrbY the Nazis during the war . They also wanted the trading rights of the countries bordering the Rhine defined . " It was understood that the Big Three Western Foreign Ministers ' agreed the ' Bonn Government should have consular ' agents and commercial attaches ' abroad but not yet full ' diplbinatic ' representation . - The final statement of the Big Three Western foreign ministers , though saying nothing precise , did not fail to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke of the ' " Progienive integration of the " Gertnahrpople-into-the European community . " This was assumed to mean their political and economic rehabilitation in harmony with the doctrine of European " integration " as enure- , elated by Paul G. Hoffman , Economic Cooperation Administrator , to the European Marshall Plan council . But the statement did ' not provide the definition of that term for which Europe has been waiting ever since . Mr. Hoffman used it . While the British had said the Big Three Western foreign ministers were coming to Paris to discuss dismantling and not much else , Washington reports were they would talk of : many things , above all " integration . " According to European ' testimony ? United States testimony being lacking ? they did talk for a while on " integration " but in general terms .                     