@@711004

txt Boston Oil Shipment for Bay State Slated to Start Settlement of the strike of Texas refinery workers was announced in a wire from Senator Leverett Saltonstall ( R ) of Massachusetts to George H. Rockwell , State Fuel Oil Co-ordinator , and shipments were to start to the Bay State area tomorrow or Monday at the latest . Page 2 . John E. Mullen . Rhode Island Democratic State Chairman . announced that he had named Gov . John 0 . Pastore , Mayor Dennis J. Roberts of Providence . Mayor . Robert J. Connelly of Central Falls , City Clerk James M. Donovan of Pawtucket , and William D. Doyle of Newport as new members of the executive committee of the Democratic State Committee . In Europe : Right Wing Parties Merged in Italy Long-heralded merger of right wing Italian parties , under leadership of former Premier Francesco Nitti , has been completed and is due to be announced momentarily . Premier Robert Schuman called an urgent meeting of the French Cabinet reportedly to discuss Anglo-American plans for a reorganized economic administration of Bizonia . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Another French party is to leave soon for the Arctic . More than half the houses of Stalingrad destroyed in the great battle of 1943 have been restored , the Soviet news agency Tass reported in ' London . A Mexican aircraft inaugurating a new air route from Mexico City to Madrid arrived at Lisbon . Premier Paul Henri Spaak of Belgium is resuming direct negotiations with King Leopold III , now in Switzerland , under authorization announced by the Belgian Government . The negotiations reportedly may result in elevation to the throne of Prince Baudouin , the King 's 17-year-old son . Washington : New Navy Chief Sees Force Too Slim Admiral Louis Denfeld. new Chief of Naval Operations , announced that the Navy " would make a good showing if trouble were to break out " but is too short of men and ships to win a war . The United Service Organizations , Inc .. was " honorably discharged " from war service by Secretary of Defense James V. Forrestal who suggested the USO may be recalled to peacetime duty soon . Far East : Dutch to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from United Nations-sponsored negotiations with Indonesian Republicans was declared " highly probable " by Dutch sources in Batavia . The negotiations have encountered rough going recently . Americas : Argentine Wheat Big Factor in ERP An expected 7,000,000 ton wheat crop , now being harvested in Argentina , will enable that country to become a major Latin-American contributor under the Marshall Plan , experts said in Buenos Aires . Mideast : British Guard North Palestine Rim British lancers are standing armed guard on the northern frontier of Palestine , following the engagement . Jan. 9 in which the lancers , aided by Spitfires , drove 600 Arabs back across the border . Britain protested to Syria concerning the incursion into Palestine by the armed Arab force . Australia : 58,000 British Cars Expected in ' 48 Britain is expected to send 58,000 motorcars to Australia during 1948 to counteract the loss of American cars due to the dollar shortage , Australia 's Road Transport Director said in Melbourne . National : Six Midget Plane Pilots in Miami Race Six daredevil pilots , in tiny planes with engines of 190-cubic inch displacement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $10,000 Continental Motors Corporation race at Miami 's 16th annual All-American Air Maneuvers . Gov . Fielding L. Wright of Mississippi wants the State Legislature to replace his " secret " State police force with a permanent , uniformed agency , he said in Jackson , Miss . Revival of the Weather Bureau 's prewar weather services for ships sailing the North Atlantic has been announced by Benjamin Parry , Chief Meteorologist in the Bureau 's New York office .                     