@@707422

txt A new mood of boldness is upon the men in this capital who have been , striving for years to scale down the trade barriers between nations Talk of officials in numerous agencies concerned with foreign affairs and discussions or private persons who are rinse to the policymakers , now jump well beyond the pre-war program of Secretary of State Coruell Hull . which utilized mostly the piecemeal procedure of battering down one trade bar at a time with reciprocal treaties The planning is still tentative Officials think they . have time enough left to keep their Minds open on certain points , and there is active debate on others No eviderfce is at hand to indicate that Mr. Hull or President Roosevelt has accepted or rejected any specific ambitious program But when all this is conceded . it can be reported that the thinking is highly detailed And when put together . with fragments drawn from various quarters . it falls into a pattern which might well be a forecast of the future Here is that pattern An important variety of obstacles to international commerce would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the broom . Coro ention of Nations Proposed Agreement to do thn ; would be reached at a r onvention of the nations Much quiet negotiator , : spadework would proceed it . perhaps especially between the United States . Britain and Russia . The actual conference would he called " when the iron is hot " ? that when victory sentiment is at the right pitch and mutual concessions might most easily be made It is not possible to Judge now exactly when this would be , but logically it v mild come before the final peace conference . The sweep of the broom , it is suggested , might well do away with at least three kinds of trade bowels I. Quantitative limitations upon impoi The United States once more than a decade ago , agreed to their abolition --  but an intetnational treaty to that effect never went into operation . and in succeeding depiession years such obstacles sprouted even yw here and thrived , Quotas on imports eonstituted one of the most widespread forms . and this country employed them Other nations sometimes not only set quotas for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The quantitative restrictions considered " most vicious " by some officials are systems of licensing . Under these , each shipment must be approved . and there is no advance assurance even of a quota . Export Subsidies Opposed 2 . Export subsidies . Perhaps fewer officials . press opposition to these . but it is likely that an effort would be made at the international convention to outlaw them . Probably certain exceptions would be allowed , in any give-and-take proceedings . Some quarters believe ill-effects of subsidies are minimized when controls such as export quotas exist . An example given is subsidization of grain exports covered under world wheat agreement . 3 . Discriminatory agreements . This topic is as delicate and important as any , for it would do away with the British Empire preference system Historically , the empire tariff system was set up by the Ottawa agreements of 1932. at the time it was explained as retaliation for the United States ' Smoot-Hawley tariff . Speculation here holds that the British will prove willing to abandon it except for " token ' remnants  --  but only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own duties . Other . eDieeriminatore " Agreements There - arc many other " discriminatory " trade agreements . and it is expected that successful attempts would be made to save some of the smaller ones . The United States has one , its roots deep in the past , with Cuba . Most Cubans and many Americans think all right , but other Latin American nations producing sugar consider it an evil . NVith quantitative restrictions , subsidies ano discriminatory agreements disposed of . the far greater problem of a general tariff reductior the world aiound would remain No decision has been reached on this issue - except that it should be accomplished . As to the means officials have been working out a variety of alternative methods . and the final choice from among them may well he left to the propoced convention Discussion of these formulas soon involves one in technicalities foe tariff schedules are highly technical documents Perhaps the most daring schemes at e those which would slash duties by multi-lateral agreement . For instance , the convention could draft a ' treaty under which every signatory nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is a more simple formula than most , but it has a more glaring defect : at the end of this kind of duty-slashing , the nations with low tariffs would find themselves still out of balance with the high-tariff countries . Difficulties of Tariff Reduction An alternative then would be a multilateral agreement to cut tariffs not by a given percent . but to a certain level This schemel presents difficulties too , including the technical one that thousands of " specific " tariff rates would have to be converted to " ad valorem " rates . Nevertheless , United States officials are not alone in giving it serious consideration Brooke Claxton , parliamentary assistant to Canadian Prime Minister King . speaking at the recent gathering of the National Foreign Trade Council in New York . proposed a " ceiling on all trade restrictions . " More specifically he suggested that the nations " reduce all tariffs over a period of time by progressive stages to an agreed maximum . " These and other multi-lateral formulas arc drawn up but some officials complain that they inevitably " go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated in advance So some authorities hold that a mote practical solution is to be found in what would amount to an extension . on n big international scale of the Hull system of negotiating teciprocal trade treaties In ' Wile ! vecnds , the convention might gain , the agreement of each participating nation that it would enter at once in hi-lateral negotiations with , say . its six principal suppliers and customers Ititost-favored-nation clauses would extend the benefits agreed upon in this ' climate " of international bargaining . If a majority of the nation . got busy at once . the consequences might he immense , some observets contend . Pursuing a rather solitary path the U. S. has knocked the top 31 ' , off its tariff wall by existing ieeiproeal ti ea ties according to calculations of the Tariff Commission . The question of Position The part which is to be played by Russia , which has no tariffs as such , is perhaps the most conjectural question in all the discus:Lon. though it is pot expected to iematn so . A few officials have suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in advance on the quantity of its wor ld purchases of specified commodities The Russian government would , under such a commitment . remain free to decide later . in the light of prices and exchange balances , where it would make these purchases Officials say there is very little sentiment within the Administration for formation of any governmental treaty corporation to handle American business with the Russians , or with the various state trading organizations of other countries which may he left over at the end of the war . These spokesmen view such a corporation as compromising this country 's private enterprise , and as harmful to the private trading of business men of other nations . Best solution to the problem of foreign state trading , they say , is to leave American commerce in the hands of individuals , with Lhe Government determining conditions under which it shall operate The governmental conditions would be designed to protect our cons ' mercial Interests if they should come into conflict with state monopoly abroad , and would be kept at a minimum Officials hold that in practice we would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " she wo n't be allergic to imports " No Plane In Abolish Tariff Having a tariff has been an American custom since 178A , and there is no intention of abolishing it here or abroad One official sums up current planning as Rimed " to undo the economic crimes of the inter-war era " Whether thinking of the type which has been outlined Is to be adopted as this nation a program doe . not depend of course , merely upon the Administration Recent generalized statements of Mt Hull and Mr. Roosevelt would certainly appear friendly to it Many officiate are also hopeful of support of American businessmen A reporter constantly inns into evidence here that many large firms which formerly devoted themselves to the domestic market are interested both in post-war exports and in establishing branch plants and operations in foreign elects Officials ate inclined to interpret as friendly to their thinking certain statements of Frederick C , Crawford , president of the National Association of . Manufactin ers. and Eric Johnston . president of the U. S. Chamber of Commerce 