@@706532

txt As Britain is attempting to assess the  --  reasons for the reversal in Libya , a ' striking military consideration comes to light . It is that the Nazis have made their gains in the western desert despite the fact that Britain had  --  and still has  --  air superiority . In recent months it has become almost axiomatic that victory goes to the side which dominates the air . But even the clear superiority of the Royal Air Force in the western desert failed to halt the assault which has forced the British back to virtually the same positions they occupied seven months ago . Field Marshal Erwin Rommel actually began his drive without much air support . Apparently he was emboldened to take this advance by the knowledge that in the previous campaign in Libya not a single tank on either side was knocked out by bombs or shells fired from aircraft . The effectiveness of air attack in desert warfare lies in molesting supply columns  --  the " soft stuff " in the current phrase . The Axis overcame this problem by pouring a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Royal Navy and American naval units operating with it . The Germans have urgently requested Pierre Laval , chief of Government , to cede them 1,000,000 tons of French merchant ships in the Mediterranean , Reuters news agency reported under a French frontier date line . There have been reports that the Nazis are . already using French bottoms to re-enforce their Libyan armies , but these are so far without confirmation . Although it is known that the turn in the campaign came when Nazi 88mm. field artillery surprised British tanks , details of the ambush , which occurred just a week ago , were made public today . A radio message which may have been a decoy appears to have set the trap . The British 50th North Umbrian Infantry Division " called " for aid against the light tanks of the German 90th Armored Division . As the British medium tanks arrived , the German light tanks ? ? ithdrevs7 and the British found themselves confronted by the heavy tanks of the 15th German Armored DIVV- ' 1011 . The British attempted to avoid the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nazi Division along the Capuzzo Road . There Field Marshal Rommel had carefully camouflaged his 88 millimeter guns which inflicted unusually high losses at the British at close range . This gave the Germans superiority of forces for their later drives . The full analysis of the military factors in this latest campaign must await more detailed information . But the British press is drawing the preliminary conclusion that the British Eighth Army lacked what it needed to stem l ' /Iarshal Rommel 's thrust  --  foresight to gauge the enemy 's strength correctly , adequate armored equipment , and the skill to use what it had to best advantage . Specifically , they said the lessons of the Libyan campaign were that the British needed more of the United States ' 23-ton tanks and that even superior air strength over desert battlefields can not be made a dominant factor . British Too Confident " Quite simply and bluntly , " the Evening News stimmcd lip Brit-ain 's repeated frustrations Libya , " the reason is that from the beginning we have underestimated the strength , cunning , resources , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe he could have better tanks than ours , but he did . " We did not imagine he could have a deadlier antitank gun . " The volume of our transport was fantastic but we did not calculate that Rommel 's would even more fantastic . . . It is bitter lesson . "                     