@@705775

txt With giant armies still locked in combat along the vast Eastern front , behind the lines the Russians appear to be winning one of the most vital contests of the war  --  the battle for this year 's harvest . Here , too , the forces are mechanized . Racing with time , day by day vast regiments of tank-like tractors and harvester combines , mostly manned by women , move steadily northward from the Caucasus and the shores of the Black Sea toward central Russia . By next week this army of the harvest will have practically completed its " conquest " of the Ukraine and will be advancing through the fields of middle Russia and then the bulk of this year 's grain crop  --  according to Soviet reports a bumper crop  --  will be largely out of reach of Nazi steel fingers . In the original Nazi war plans capture of the Soviet harvest was even more important than capture of specified cities . Hitler has been counting heavily on this harvest to feed both his armies and the population of Germany and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Nazi New Order were to be paid in Russian Known as Russian Breadbasket Nearly half of the Soviet crop comes from the rich areas of the Ukraine , known as Russia 's breadbasket . At the outset of the German invasion of Russia most forecasts were that Germany would first attack the Ukraine . Instead the main Nazi thrust ' developed against Moscow . The apparent reason for this was that the Germans realized that if they advanced on the Ukraine directly , vast areas under cultivation would be trampled down and agriculture so disorganized for the time that it would be impossible to harvest and save the remainder . Danger that the Soviets when faced with disaster elsewhere on the front might attempt to destroy the grain in the fields was minimized by the fact that the green grain did not burn easily . The Nazis expected that they could take over the Ukraine breadbasket as a going concern and save the crop for themselves if they cracked the Soviet regime by a quick frontal thrust on Moscow . By the same token they would avoid devastation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its giant blast furnaces , aluminum plants , machine works , and other enterprises that would fit in so nicely with Germany 's war pro- duction , well out of range of British bombers . Today , fought to a standstill on the - central front , the Germans have apparently been forced to give up capture of Moscow as their first major objective . Instead they are turning toward Kiev as a consolation prize . While the capture of Kiev would be of minor military significance as compared to that of Moscow , they have not got so far to go and it would provide the home public with the long promised " brilliant victory . " In aiming their new blow at the Ukrainian breadbasket the Nazis admit the failure of the Moscow drive and with it the collapse of their entire original blitzkrieg plan . No longer can they hope to " annihilate " the Red Army and Air Force by a few swift direct smashing attacks , after which they could peacefully walk in and take possession a the Russian rear intact . Recent experience has taught the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its economic basis . The southern drive if it succeeds will involve the destruction of those industries Germany counted on using for its own future war needs . A rise in the cost of the Soviet campaign is being followed by a decline in the probable returns . The Germans may point out as a compensating factor that the occupation even of a devastated Ukraine would give them a leg on the overland route to the rich Baku oil fiields . But unless Soviet resistance completely collapsed they would still find the Caucasus mountain ranges extremely hard to negotiate . Just as the Germans must admit failure of their plan to capture Soviet industry intact , so must they acknowledge defeat in the Battle for the Harvest . Once the crop is gathered it may be shipped well away from the war zone to be added to the already considerable Soviet reserves . Or , if transportation is not available the grain may be destroyed in consonance with the Soviet 's " scortched earth " policy . An estimate of the staggering and far-reaching blow to Nazi economic plans may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crop amounted to 4,430,000 , - 000 bushels  --  more than one fourth of the average yearly world production . This year 's plan called for an 8 per cent increase over last year 's crop . Loss of eastern Poland and part of White Russia through the German advance has reduced the grain-producing area . In northern and central Russia the size of the crop has been adversely affected by a late spring which put sowing three weeks behind schedule . However the Soviet authorities insist these losses are more than made up for by unusually favorable conditions not only in the Ukraine , but also in the Kuban or north Caucasus and along the east bank of the Volga where periodic droughts have often caused crop failure in past years . The current harvest season is the second in succession when the Soviet fleet of 600,000 tractors and 300,000 harvester combines is being operated and serviced almost entirely by women . Shortly after the completion of the 1939 harvest , made tractor drivers , combine operatives , and mechanics were among the first to be mobilized when Soviet mechanized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already 100,000 qualified women drivers and mechanics trained for such a contingency . Thousands of others were hastily trained through the winter months . The thought that women have played such an active part in foiling their plans should rankle the Nazi superman almost as deeply as reverses on the battlefield.                     