@@706305

txt President Roosevelt said today that the Army and Navy are working together pretty well , thus indicating his opposition to suggestions for a " Supreme Command " or unification of the land , naval and air forces into a Department of National Defense as was proposed in a bill introduced in the Stnate today , by Senator Clark , Democrat , of Missouri .. At his press conference , the President was told of the Clark bill and of a statement by Senator Chandler , Democrat , of Kentucky , that he believed the administration was giving consideration to creation of a supreme command for the Army and Navy . What does a supreme command mean ? the President asked the reporter who brought up Senator Chandler 's statement . The reporter said he did n't know . The President said neither did most of the other people who talked or wrote about such a subject . Comment on Clark Bill When the Clark bill was mentioned , the President said that he had n't heard of that one , but that he felt it made very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , three or four departments . Then he commented that the services were working together pretty well now . Under the Clark bill a:Department of National Defense would.be headed by a Minister of Defense , who would be aided by the " Admiral of the Navy " and the " General of the Army . " But the top admiral and general would have all the responsibility for running their services , with the exception of such civil or political duties as might be referred directly to the Minister of Defense at the discretion of the President . The Army would take over the air arm . The Navy would take over continental and territorial coastal patrol , with the Marines supplying basic troops for such duty . In case of emergency or ' necessity , additional men for the patrol could be furnished by the Army . While the President threw cold water ' on the Clark proposal and the idea in the Chandler statement , he said that recent reorganizations of the Army and Navy had tended toward simplification to promote greater efficiency of the fighting services . Background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change which placed Admiral Ernest J. King , Commander in Chief of the United States Fleet , in the additional post of Chief of Naval Operations , the President said that the Administration had been working toward the objective of centralizing responsibility in the Navy for the last six or eight years . He recalled that the post of " Chief of Naval Operations " had been created in 1916 , when the problem . of moving ships was much ' simpler . After the war , he added , the post continued , but more and more duties were added to it . Recently , he stated , responsibil , ity for movement of ships had been vested in Admiral King , while Admiral Harold R. Stark , Chief of Naval Operations , had retained the responsibility for planning their movement . It was difficult , the ' President declared , to draw a line between their respective responsibilities and thus it seemed wise to merge the two posts and - to provide Admiral King with subordinates who could handle , under his direction , the component parts ' of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day with Admiral King , Secretary Knox and Admiral Thomas C. Hart , Commander in Chief of the United States Asiatic Fleet , who was removed recently because of ill health from command of the United Nations naval forces in the Southwest Pacific . From ? Admiral Hart the President got his first face-to-face report of war conditions in the Southwest Pacific , including the Philippines , but he declined to reveal any , of the conversation . He said , however , that Admiral Hart would return for additional talks with him . . While Admiral Hart technically remains commander of the Asiatic fleet , ' he is absent from his post and , so far as is known here , there are no plans for him to return . A reporter asked Mr. Roosevelt whether they had discussed a future assignment for Admiral Hart , but the President replied that the conversations had ' not proceeded that far .                     