@@706900

txt The most feared weapon along the RussianGerman battlefront is the Soviet 's " Katusha "  --  a gun that is guarded so zealously that each one of them is equipped with an electrical device for immediate destruction if capture seems imminent . The firing capacity exceeds any weapon seen on this front , including the Germans ' six-barrel mortars . Red Army men told me they were confident that none of the " Katushas " had fallen into the hands of the enemy despite the extent of their use in the defense of Stalingrad and in the present Soviet offensives . I have seen train loads of the weapon being shipped to all sections of the front . When the " Katusha " shells explode , hundreds of fragments pulverize everything within range , and so far the Germans have been unable to cope with it . German equipment , generally speaking , is now inferior to that developed by the Russians . Soviet officers told me that the booty captured by the Russians proved that the Germans were using about the same weapons with which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's and 88 's and the same Heinkel 118 's that were used when Reichfuehrer Hitler first invaded Russia . Their fighter planes are mainly of the old type , and only rarely does the Russian Air Force encounter a remodeled fighter or bomber . German tanks and mechanized equipment are the same models that broke through in France , and the Russians are convinced that their Klim-Voroshiloff tanks can outfight anything the Germans put in the field . Several captured Germans conceded that the Russian artillery was superior to their own , although the Red Army admits that the Nazis have improved their antitank guns . There are other indications that the Germans are being pinched for equipment . Prisoners complained of a shortage of ammunition and said the troops trapped in front of Staling-rad now receive only sixty bullets a day each compared to the 120 they formerly got . Machine gunners now are limited to 1,000 rounds whereas they used to get 3,500 daily . Clothing Held Best Evidence The German air force has been a little more active lately on the Stalingrad front , but nothing comparable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times against a single target . Russian officers say the Germans are suffering from a shortage of trained crews to operate their mechanized equipment and cited an incident at the village of Osinovka when local residents reported that the enemy had left part of his tanks behind because there was no one to operate them . But it is the clothing with which , the Germans have been equipped to withstand the severe Russian I Winter that provides the most vivid contrast between the Soviet troops and the Wehrmacht . " Have you seen what the Fritzies call Winter clothes ? " is a common question asked by Russian soldiers and peasants . Yes . I have seen it ? on prisoners being Marched through the snow toward the Russian rear lines . Most of them wear forage caps without ear flaps , thin , unpadded coats . and low boots made of Ersatz leather . Few had gloves and fewer still the knee-length felt boots which the Russians call " valenki " and which experience has demonstrated is the best footwear for the Russian Winter . Many prisoners had coarse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As one Red Army major said sarcastically , " the Germans are ideally clothed for crisp September weather . " Warmly dressed Russian troops , passing the prisoners along the roads , looked at them with what appeared to be a mixture of pity and contempt . The Winter dress of the Russian soldier consists of a fur cap with ear flaps , a sheepskin coat reaching to the ankles , a cotton padded jacket , heavy trousers , a flannel shirt and underwear , felt and leather boots and fur-lined gloves . In lieu of socks , many Russian soldiers wrap their feet in warm flannel cloth and many have their own sweaters . Typical Russian Meals All prisoners complained about the steady deterioration of their rations since Summer , and many Rumanians accused the Germans of appropriating the best food . However , I could see little difference in what the Germans and their Rumanian allies were eating . The Axis troops appear to get a small piece of meat daily , a half pound of bread and a little apple jam or hard candy in place of sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , the Russians are adequately fed even in the heat of offensive operations when the field kitchens and bakeries keep pace with advancing troops . Here is a typical Russian soldier 's diet : breakfast  --  herring , meat soup and tea ; lunch  --  borscht or meat soup with noodles , oatmeal or some other cereal ; supper  --  herring , sausage , tea , two pounds of black , whole again bread , 35 grams of sugar and 20 grams of tobacco , sufficient fir 20 cigarettes . In addition , front line troops receive a daily ration of vodka . There is a changed attitude among Axis prisoners this Winter . Last year captured German officers said confidently that they would spend only a short time in Russian prison camps because Germany was invincible and Reichsfuehrer Hitler would liberate them soon . They laughed about America 's entry into the war , saying that Germany would be victorious before the United States could throw its full weight into the conflict . Today , almost all German prisoners concede that Herr Hitler has little chance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Americans had occupied North Africa , but the Red Army saw that they found out about it by sending planes over the enemy lines and dropping pamphlets containing the full story . Recent experiences have convinced the Germans that the Red Army is far from defeated . A I captured German captain , speaking of Russian morale , told me : " My keenest impression was seeing a column of Russian soldiers marching along and still able to sing . " There has been much talk of the terrible Russian Winter , but Soviet troops said things were mild this year . I do not know what they mean by mild , but I do know about an experience I had yesterday . I was driving with a Russian officer in an open car when a sudden snow storm wiped out the road and left us stranded ten miles from the nearest village . The snow slashed our faces and I immediately began to shiver , although I was dressed in the warmest possible garments , including a Norwegian sheepskin coat and a pair of Royal Air Force boots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been driving all day without gloves , laughed and said : " I am a Siberian . Cold means nothing to me. "                     