@@712478

txt American diplomacy . with the British concurring , is determined to move ahead briskly now toward ending the war with Japan . The legal technicality that we still are at war with that country seems to be a bit out of date . But a Japanese treaty will be difficult , and the Russians are not the only stumbling blocks , For example , if Washington had its way . Japan would be set loose without any heavy reparations burden  --  in fact , without any at all . But that is riot the way- America 's " little brother " in the Far East  --  the Philippines  --  sees the matter . The Philippines is in economic difficulties . The difficulties are getting worse . A big chunk of JapaneSe reparations would be more than welcome . Then there are two British dominions in the Far East  --  Australia and New Zealand  --  whose interests in a Japanese peace treaty do not dovetail at all points with American interests . The first and most pressing American interest is to cut the cost of the occupation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treasury . The obvious way to reduce that burden is to allow Japan tot rebuild its industry and trade up to the point where Japan can feed itself . But an economically revived Japan ' , does not appeal to ' Australia and New Zealand so strongly as it does to Washington . They will have to live in the same community with a revived Japan ? and compete with Japanese industries and Japanese merchants . Then there is China . Nationalist China regarded Japan much as did the Philippines . As long as the old Chiang regime represented China there was almost no prospect of an agreement on terms for Japan which would have been acceptable to both China and the United States . The . Chinese wanted reparations and long-continuing curbs on Japanese recovery . And since the United States was the sponsor and patron of the Chiang regime , it would have been extremely difficult to override Chinese wishes . The fall of the Nationalist regime and the rise of the Communist regime in China has one welcome aspect in Washington . American diplomacy no longer need be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither sponsor nor patron of the CommuniSt regime . But if the first purpose of the-treaty is to rebuild Japan 's economy , then a prime requirement is that Japan be able to reestablish . trade wi : : China . Since most of China is in Communist hands now , this can not be done- without including Communist China in the peace-treaty picture . But the United States does- not yet recognize the Chinese Communist governm  --  ent . Nor is Washington anxious for speedy ' recognition . Then there is the question of Russia . Russia expects to be in on the Japanese treaty . But Wash-ington knows from sad experience how long it takes to write peace treaties when the Russians are in on the writing . Washington wants no repetition of the German and Austrian delays . , Some experts think that the United States , Britain , and the British dominions should pretty much draft the treaty and then use it whether Russia likes it or not . Perhaps* Russia would like it . which would simplify the problem . If Russia does n't like it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own separate peace on Japan . A A A But there is a drawback here . Since Japan surrendered unconditionally , the original treaty which ends the war will be an " imposed " treaty . But there will only be one " imposed " treaty . After the first one , Japan will be in a position to negotiate for any others . If Russia is included in the first treaty , Russia will participate in the " imposed " treaty . But if Russia is excluded , then Russia can negotiate its own separate treaty with Japan . That opening could be converted into large Russian advantages in Japan . It 's almost harder to make a peace than to go on with a ? technical state of war . 