@@711673

txt Lloyd B. Reid , former City Traffic Engineer of Detroit , will be named to the dual posts of chairman and consultant for this city 's proposed traffic commission that will be established by local law by Jan. 1 , Mayor O'Dwyer declared yesterday . The out-of-town expert will serve as chairman without salary but will be paid on a fee basis as a consultant starting Dec. 10 . The Mayor said that Mr. Reid would remain here at least through April to perfect commission operations . It was indicated that Mr. Reid might continue in service after that for a stated long term under a different arrangement if his initial efforts meet with success . However , the Mayor was vague and indefinite when pressed to describe the functions of the new traffic agency . He implied that the police and other city departments would retain all present powers in dealing with traffic problems in their fields and then hinted that the legislation for the commission might contain sufficient teeth to curb some of the powers now vested in the Police Department . While the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from other city departments , a spokesman asserted that " its findings will not be recommendations ; they will be orders . " There was no indication that any revision of the City Charter was contemplated , a step necessary if the functions of the Police Commissioner are to be altered . The charter now vests in the police head the authority to promulgate and enforce all rules and regulations for the control of traffic . Mr. O'Dwyer declined again to disclose the contents of the bill setting up the agency but reports persisted that the commission would be solely a policy-making body , dealing chiefly with ' ongrange planning . Civic groups concerned with traffic say that will make it of dubious value in eliminating congestion here . The legislation is to be introduced into the City Council next week after Mr. Reid studies the measure . He is leaving today for Detroit and is slated to confer by telephone with John P. , Corporation Counsel , on Monday . As the bill stands now it calls for appointment of an executive director , who shall be a qualified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , the Mayor said . Eight other positions , as yet not fully defined , also are to be set up . The men to handle them will be specialists on traffic planning , design and safety . Mayor Adds to Confusion The Mayor also added to the confusion surrounding the functions of the proposed agency when he noted that the commission would not concern itself with operations but would make the rules . In addition to Mr. Reid , the nine experts , and a small office staff the commission will have as exofficio members the heads of the Police , Public Works and Park Departments and the chairman of the Board of Transportation . It was considered likely that directors of other city agencies and some of the Borough Presidents would insist upon representation on the new traffic body . Mr. Reid , considered one of the country 's foremost street traffic engineers , and who now is in private practice , was said to have found the proposed legislation generally satisfactory with only " a few bugs to be ironed out . " He has suggested one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the other jobs as well . All are from cities other than New York . Under the set-up that Mr. Reid supervised as head of Detroit/8 Traffic Engineering Bureau that agency had complete jurisdiction over all traffic-control devices and carried on activities relating to off-street parking , expressway location and design and other problems affecting the traffic picture . In New York control devices now are handled by the Police Department , the Park Department operates most expressways , and eleven city departments have a hand in one aspect or another of the problems relating to the free movement of traffic . Off-street parking is within the province of the City Planning Commission in part , but while the need for such facilities long has been recognized , no attempt has been made to create the space , due mainly to the city 's inability or unwillingness to finance such a program .                     