@@705862

txt Jointly engineering a back-stage political maneuver for their own separate reasons , former Mayor James M. Curley of Boston , now a candidate for Mayor , and School Committeeman Clement A. Norton , a potential " dark horse " candidate , have temporarily joined forces in backing Joseph M. Heffernan , West Roxbury contractor , in his mysterious " candidacy " for Mayor of Boston , it was learned today . Disclosure of evidence indicating this situation gave new weight to reports of a possible sensational last-minute switch in the mayoralty lineup . The Norton camp still hopes to persuade Mr. Curley to withdraw , and thus make it good politics for . Mr. Norton to jump into the race as a last-minute substitute for Mr. Heffernan . Mr. Heffernan , who heretofore has played only a minor part in Hub politics , filed 6,000 nominating signatures with the City Election Department before the deadline last night  --  with the names of a campaign committee attached to enable him to withdraw before Oct. 8 if he wishes and substitute a surprise candidate . The political situation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this " campaign committee , " Thomas J. Keegan of 52 Rockdale Street , Mattapan , that he had never even heard of Mr. Heffernan , had never been asked by anyone to serve on any such committee , and would have nothing to do with the matter . He and his daughter , a Mrs. Duggan , did admit , however , that they are acquainted with both Mr. Curley and Mr. Norton . Tobin Forces May Protest Possibility that Tobin forces would file objections to Mr. Heffernan 's papers with the Election Commission on ground that unauthorized names were used in listing the campaign committee was reported today . The Commission might then sit as a Ballot Law Commission and its decision on validity of the Heffernan papers would be final . Behind-the-scenes information shows why Mr. Norton and Mr. Curley apparently have a common interest in Mr. Heffernan 's candidacy . Mr. Norton has been actively trying for at least 10 days to persuade Mr. Curley to withdraw from the mayoralty contest . A reliable source says that Mr. Norton recently asked his friend , Police Commissioner Joseph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Various such conferences are widely reported to have occurred . Mr. Norton feels he might beat Mayor Maurice J. Tobin , who is strongly entrenched , in a virtual two-man contest . Therefore he is interested in getting Mr. Curley , another powerful candidate , to withdraw . Mr. Curley , on the other hand , wants to stay in the fight , but apparently wants to have Mr. Norton join the race anyway , on the theory that Tobin chances would be seriously damaged by the School Committeeman 's entry . Thus both men want Mr. Norton to run . But they are apparently deadlocked on Mr. Curley 's possible withdrawal . Mr. Heffernan 's candidacy keeps the way open for Mr. Norton to enter , and thus gives both candidates more time to reach an agreement . These conclusions are based on evidence that both Norton forces and Curley forces pitched in to help Mr. Heffernan collect his 6,000 nominating signatures in the remarkably short space of five days . It is rumored that a large taxi owners ' organization , a Norton group politically , have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other evidence of confidential nature in possession of this reporter which ' confirms interest of Norton forces . Evidence of activity of Curley workers in circulating Heffernan papers upon directions from Curley headquarters was unearthed by a series of telephone calls by parties friendly to this reporter . One party telephoned Mr. Heffernan 's home several nights ago and talked with Mrs. Heffernan . Here is part of the conversation : Caller : This is Mr. 13 ? of Field 's Corner . I understand Mr. Heffernan is running for Mayor and I want to help him . Could I get some nomination papers to circulate ? Mrs. H. : Where are you now ? Caller : In town . Mrs. H. : Could you pick them up at 24 School Street the Curley headquarters ? Caller : Where do you mean , 24 School Street ? Mrs. H. ( Pause ) : Did you say you were a friend of my husband 's ? Still Another Case A call to Curley headquarters by another party yesterday went as follows : Caller : I have a nomination paper with some signatures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice at other end : Which papers ? Curley 's or Heffernan 's ? Caller ; Heffernan 's . Voice : Then call John at 294 Washington Street . John R. , lawyer , a Curley leader in past campaigns and an announced member of this year 's Curley campaign committee. both offices witnessed by this reporter , all asking instructions about what to do with Heffernan papers . While instructions were guarded and somewhat indefinite . at no time did anyone in either office question or challenge a reference to the Heffernan papers , or deny that the Curley organization was the place to inquire for instructions . After the deadline for filing nomination papers last night , the lineup for the mayoralty race was as follows : Mayor Maurice J. Tobin , seeking a second term ; former Mayor Curley , seeking a fourth term ; former Mayor Malcolm E. Nichols , Republican , seeking a second term ; School Com ? mitteeman Joseph Lee ; and Mr. Heffernan . Neither Mr. Lee 's nor Mr. Heffernan 's signatures have yet bePn examined for certification by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , less than 3,000 ? would result in eliminating a candidate . Twenty-three persons , three r , f them women , filed papers for the contest for two seats on the Boston School Committee . A total of 136 candidates filed papers for th. , 22 City Council posts . The largest number was in Ward 3 , North and West Ends and downtown Boston . where 18 aspirants remained in the contest . A call to Mr. 's office was answered by a secretary who said Mr. was out . Caller : This is Bill O'Brien . I have a Heffernan paper . Secretary : Mr. is at Curley 's office . Caller : He 's left there . I just called . Secretary : Could I call you back ? What 's your number ? Caller : I 'm at a pay phone in a drug store on my way to town . I ca n't wait . I want to get my pay for tonight , and I want to know where to bring the papers . Secretary : Well , I guess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Offiee A subsequent call to the Washington Street office succeeded in reaching a man who said he was Mr. . Conversation went something like this : Caller : This is Joe . I have a paper . What shall I do with it ? Voice : What have you got , a Curley or a Heffernan paper ? Caller : A Heffernan paper . Voice : You 'd better bring it right in . It wo n't be any good after 5 o'clock . Caller : Where shall I bring it , to you or to Curley 's office ? Voice : Take it to John Foley In Curley 's office . There were several other calls to                     