@@711714

txt In a single sweep of oratory , Winston Churchill proposed three changes in British Foreign policy today : Ending of the Labor Government 's " sulky boycott " of Israel and conditional recognition of the new state , quick cessation of dismantling of nonwarlike industries in Germany and admission of Spain to the United Nations . As might have been expected , the Labor Government 's prompt response was that Britain was not yet quite prepared to accept the Israeli Government and could not consider welcoming Franco Spain into the comity of European nations . The Government 's spokesman , C. P. Mayhew , Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs , made no specific reply , however , on dismantling of German factories , which is the subject of a current investigation in London . Mr. Churchill 's proposals were advanced in a short pungent speech on the second day of the two-day debate on foreign affairs . He gave the House of Commons a glimpse into the secret history of the West 's relations with the Soviet Union and read a telegram he sent to President Truman in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accused here of having been anti-British . Discloses Letter to Stalin Mr. Churchill disclosed a prophetic private communication that he sent to Premier Stalin on April 29 , 1945 , at what Mr. Churchill called the " highest point of my relations with Stalin . " At that time Churchill had loyally informed the Soviet Premier that Heinrich Himmler , as Hitler 's successor , had made peace overtures to the Western Allies and Premier Stalin had replied with gratitude , " You have acted exactly as I thought you would do . " Mr. Churchill said that he poured out his heart to Premier Stalin telling him that " there has grown up throughout , the English-speaking world a very warm and deep desire to be friends on equal and honorable terms with the mighty Russian Soviet Republic . " The communication added : " There is not much comfort in looking into a future where you and the countries you dominate plus the Communist parties in many other states are all drawn up on one side and those who rallied to the English-speaking nations and their associates or dominions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their quarrel would tear the world to pieces and all of us leading men on either side who had anything to do with it would be shamed before history . Even embarking on a long period of suspicion , of abuse and counter-abuse and of opposing policies would be disaster hampering the great development of world prosperity for the masses which is attainable only by our trinity . " Wants Peaceful Settlement Though today ' he charged the Soviet Union with responsibility for failure to achieve that " trinity , " Mr. Churchill said he still earnestly desired a peaceful settlement . In the beginning of his address , he charged the Labor Government , through " self-sufficiency , arrogance and conceit , " had neglected to take the opposition into its confidence on foreign affairs as the United States Government had done . Nevertheless , Mr. Churchill showed himself in agreement with the main lines of Labor 's foreign policy and particularly commended its efforts to unify Western Europe , remarking upon the impending association of the United States with the Western European Defense Bloc as a " tremendous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy when he asked the Government to encourage Germany 's leaning toward the West by looking forward to ending the " hateful process of denazification trials " and expressed the earnest hope that while the disarmament of Germany should be achieved , the dismantling of German Industries should be ended " at the earliest moment . " Swinging farther away from the official attitude , Mr. Churchill asked the Government to end its " sulky boycott " of Israel and send representatives to Tel Aviv with . out further delay . He called attentievi fo military trinwi  --  ihs and her support from the United States and the Soviet Union , saying those might be unpleasant facts but they could not be disputed . Similarly he derided the " blackmarket diplomacy " practiced with Spain , urged Britain to obtain the sanction of the United Nations for returning her Ambassador to Madrid and said he saw no reason for Spain to be excluded any longer from the United Nations . Mr. Churchill based his plea for Spain on the contention that Spain had done very little harm to this country in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! ' in the life of the nation . Speaking as Opposition leader , Mr. C ' ? ? ?  - -  -  ' 1 ' declared that his views were those of the Conservative party , a declaration that Was endorsed by the cheers of " his supporters . On the other hand , Mr. Mayhew , as Labor 's spokesman , said that Franco Spain 's war record was a " serious reason " for barring that country from the United Nations . Defending the British record on Palestine , Mr. Mayhew declared that Britain was not obstructing negotiations between the Israelis and the Arabs , but did not wish to force the weaker to sit down with - the stronger . ' He declared that the differences between the United States and Britain on the Palestine question had narrowed and there was no intention of perman-rf- ' - , ostracizing the Israelis . ' Ps disclosed that the British Consul General at T-Isifa was coming here to discuss " better means of contact " with the Tel Aviv Government . Meanwhile . Mr. Mayhew concluded , " I am not able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State of Israel . "                     