@@704968

txt The Roosevelt administration 's conscription program was dealt a severe blow today by revelations that the army has neither the uniforms nor housing facilities to accommodate its volunteer recruits . In the week of Aug. 11 to 18 enlist . ments reached a new peak of 8,605 . At this rate the total for the month would be in excess of 34,000 . Opponents of the conscription bill expressed confidence that the army 's deficiencies in such basic necessities as clothing and housing facilities will result in postponement of the proposed draft until next January , When the new congress will have an opportunity to determine whether voluntary enlistments are adequate to supply the army 's needs . Such a result would be accomplished by adoption of the Maloney amendment now pending in the senate as a substitute for the BurkeWadsworth bill . Proposes 400,000 Recruits . This amendment , offered by Senator Francis T. Maloney W. , Conn : , would postpone application of the draft until Jan. 1 . It directs the President to call for 400,000 volunteers and authorizes him , after Jan. 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voluntary enlistments fall short of the quota . The President could not draft even this number , however , until congress had appropriated the money . Thus the new congress would have an opportunity to pass upon the adequacy of voluntary enlistments . The senate may reach a vote on the Maloney substitute on Wednesday . Administration leaders concede that it has a good chance of passage . Senator Robert R. Reynolds D. , N. C. brought up the question of uniforms and housing facilities in today 's debate on the conscription bill . He said he stopped at Langley field , Va. , yesterday and was amazed , in view of " all the hue and cry for conscription , " to discover enlisted men drilling in civilian clothes . Sleeping on Cots . Reynolds said he noticed a row of pup tents and was told that these were sleeping quarters for the enlisted men . Later , he said , he went into a large hangar and there found row after row of folding cots with mosquito nets thrown over them . " I inquired why it was necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plane hangar and to wear civilian clothes , " ' Reynolds told the senate . " I was told that so many volunteers are coming in that they can not be accommodated in any other way . " Official testimony on the pending 5 billion dollar second supplemental defense appropriation bill , not yet published but obtained in proof form by THE TRIBUNE today , discloses that the army is short of uniforms and other items of clothing and equipage for the 235,000 men of the National Guard , the mobilization of which is authorized by pending legislation . Congress heretofore has made available , during the present session , a total of 8103,000,000 for clothing and equipage and the pending 5 billion dollar bill contains 8200,000,000 for the same purpose . Provide for 1,200,000 Men . This total of $36 : : : , 000,000 is intended to provide complete personal equipment for the 1,200,000 men contemplated by the army 's protective mobilization plan and a reserve supply of so-called critical items , such as wool cloth and leggings , for another 800,000 men . The testimony disclosed that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finished uniforms . The army first orders the cloth and then places contracts for it : , manufacture into uniforms . The army had a large carryover of uniforms and uniform cloth from the world war , but the stock was exhausted in supplying civlian conservation corps enrollees . Funds were provided by previous appropriation bills during the present session to complete the clothing program for the National Guard of 235 , - 000 men and the regular army of 375,000 men , which strength it is scheduled to reach in December . However , supplies ordered with the previous appropriations are not yet available . General Tells Belays . " It takes about six or seven months from the time the funds are made available , " Maj. Gen , Edmund B. Gregory , quartermaster general , testified before the senate appropriations committee . " As soon as the money was appropriated , about the first of July , we made contracts for cloth , the delivery of which was to be completed within five months , " Gen. Gregory later testified . " That cloth is beginning to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that I feel that the clothing situation will be well in hand in the near tu re . " Testimony on the clothing situation was very confusing to the senators present , according to the record . Gen. Gregory ' at one point testified that " the National Guard Is already equipped with uniforms . " Later he indicated that the clothing program for the National Guard and the reg ? ular army of 375,000 would not be completed until six months after the funds became available in July . Some Cloth on Hand . " Did I understand you to say it would take six months to provide uniforms for regular military service for the National Guard ? " asked Senator John H. Overton D. , La . . " Well , starting from scratch , yes ; but with the cloth that we have on hand and in the process of delivery , we will be able to better that , " Gen. Gregory replied . He said the program might be completed by the middle of September . Still later he said the Guard is fully clothed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the , Guardsmen have only one uniform . " They have outside uniforms , which are being worn , " said Brig . Gen. Richard C. Moore , assistant chief of staff . " I think the first thing that is going to happen when the National Guard enters the service will be a demand for more clothing . As a matter of fact , we are beginning to get demands for more clothing for the National Guard , over and above what they have . " Members of the appropriations committee wanted to know how , in view of the clothing shortage for the National Guard and the regular army , the army would clothe 400,000 conscripts , the number it originally proposed to call up on Oct. 1 . They were told that the clothing progvam was not based upon the conscription bill , but upon the army 's protective mobilization plan , which contemplates a wartime force of 1,200,000 men . 