@@706183

txt Both air and land reinforcements  --  the first to reach the British Far East in more than a month of war with Japan  --  have arrived in all-important Burma . More are on the way . An official announcement said today that these included anti-aircraft bat-C teries for Rangoon and other key points and additional ground crews for air units landed at Burmese airfields , some of which are hidden in the jungle close to Thailand , springboard for Japan 's drive on Singapore . A British military spokesman at Rangoon said a Burma offensive against the Japanese Was , being considered , according to a Reuters dispatch . A Japanese offensive against Singapore and Burma simultaneously would not come as a surprise , he declared . Burma 's air strength already appears to be the greatest of any British Far Eastern possession . Some of the heaviest raids on Thailand have been made from there . It is known to have received aerial reinforcements shortly before the war began . Fresh British and Indian troops , equipped for instant action under ' the Burma commander , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as they marched for the first time on Burma 's soil . Offensive Base Envisaged They gave new hope that Burma would become the base for a strong counter-offensive against the Japanese armies that are pouring mto Malaya from Thailand . The R. A. F forces in Burma r r are truly Imperial . There are pilots from England , Canada , Australia and South Africa . In addition , American veteran pilots grouped in a volunteer squadron are protecting the Burma Road to China and engaging in the air defense of Rangoon . The latest and heaviest Japanese air thrust at Rangoon , made in last night 's moonlight , fizzled out . Several waves of Japanese bombers tried to hit military objectives in the environs of the city , but they caused only half a dozen civilian casualties . A tour of one section where some hits were reported failed to disclose even , any damage to private buildings . Two of the Japanese bombers arrived with their lights turned on ? apparently a gesture of bravado . Rangoon authorities were doing their utmost to nullify Japanese radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground " in the next three days and warning the native population to flee at least fifteen miles from the city . These broadcasts are coming from both Bangkok and Tokyo . British aircraft were over Japanese occupied territory  --  presumably Thailand ? on reconnaissance today , a combined army and FL A. F. headquarters communiqu ? disclosed tonight . The Japanese bombed an airdrome north of Rangoon this morning , but caused no damage to R. A. F. property or casualties among the personneL Tavoy , Burmese seaport west of Bangkok at the head of the Malayan peninsula , was bombed this afternoon by four enemy planes , but there were no casualties and no damage to R. A. F. property .                     