@@707039

txt The American people will be able to maintain at least the minimum nutrition diet of 3,000 calories a day a person in 1943 , but will fall from 5 to 60 per cent below their 1942 consumption of some fonds , a survey of State and Federal Government officials indicated today . Food experts here to discuss the shortage of manpower and farm machinery with the Governors and representatives of twelve Middle Western States predicted that the supply of potatoes , dry beans , fats and oils , except butter , and perhaps of raw milk will be about the same as in the record year of 1942 , but admitted that even with good weather the civilian population would eat 8 to 10 per cent less meat than in 1942 , 12 to 16 per cent less dairy products , except butter , which may fall off 20 per cent ; 35 per cent less canned vegetables and from 50 to 60 per cent less canned fruits . The seriousness of this situation is responsible for the meeting of the Governors of the " breadbasket " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation in an all-day conference which will end tomorrow evening with an address by former President Herbert Hoover . Governor B. B. Hickenlooper of Iowa called the conference , which will be attended by the Governors of Ohio , Indiana , Illinois , Michigan , South Dakota , Nebraska and Missouri and by representatives of Minnesota , Wisconsin , North Dakota and Kansas . He said tonight that while the food situation was undoubtedly serious , much could be done to relieve it if the Federal Government would protect the farmers ' manpower by deferring farm workers and by releasing and distributing wisely the farm machinery now be ! ing held in storage all over the country . Even assuming more protection of farm manpower and the release of additional farm machinery , however , the food experts here generally agree on these facts and ( generally 1 . We will be fortunate to produce as much food as we did in 1942 , and even if we do , the civilian population will not get it . In 1942 pork production was up 14.5 per cent , milk 3 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent and eggs 14 per cent . In addition , while there are still 180 , - 000 acres of soy beans lying unharvested in Iowa and over 400,000 acres unharvested in Illinois , 98 per cent more soy beans were harvested in 1942 than 1941 . Dry beans were up 6 per cent , peanuts 70 per cent and dry peas 94 per cent . In every respect , however , this was an unusual year without manpower problems and with exceptional weather and high prices . 2 . In 1942 the average civilian consumed over 10 per cent . more food than in the period 1935-39 . For example , on a per capita basis , 1 each civilian consumed about six-1 teen pounds more meat last year than during the 1935-39 period , twenty pounds more of citrus fruits , and thirty-seven pounds more of fluid milk and cream ; and yet in 1943 he probably will get less than he did in 1935-39 ? butter 15 to 20 per cent less , dry beans 20 per cent less , canned vegetables 25 per cent less and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rationing of almost Sit essential food products is necessary . If they are not rationed the civilian with his larger wages would be able to buy 125 per cent of the butter that will be available for civilians , 160 per cent of the canned fruit and 115 per cent of the lard . 4 . The armed forces , after the home front , will take the greatest amount of the 1943 food supply13 per cent of the meat , 7 of the eggs , over 2 of the wheat , 8 of the dairy products , and 13 of the butter . Lend-lease is next with 7 per cent of the dairy products , 17 per cent of the eggs , less than 1 per cent of the wheat and 16 per cent of the meat . It is generally realized that if the Allied armies are as successful as everybody hopes they will be in the next six months the food situation on the home front will become worse . If , for example , the invasion of the Continent which President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill promised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to pour large quantities of food into Europe to relieve the suffering of the conquered peoples . Official reports by Department of Agriculture officials estimate , for example , that to give the peoples on the western and southern coasts of Europe a bare subsistence level the United States would have to use about 10 per cent of the total food supply which it hopes to have in 1943 . This , roughly , was the food situation which faced the Governors as they assembled for their meeting , and while they conceded that first steps looking to a solution of these problems . had to be taken by the Federal Government they are convinced they have some suggestions as to how the situation can be improved . The Governors differ about the reasons for the manpower shortage . All agree that high wages in the factories are responsible for part of the drift of farm workers to the cities , but others blame it on the rigid requirements of the armed services . On the whole , they are not too critical of the Selective Service officials . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm workers out of a total male farm working population of some 400,000 have gone into the factories or the forces , great numbers of them have gone in spite of efforts of the local draft boards to keep them at home . The delegates to the conference , however , are complaining unanimously about the government 's handling of the farm machinery problem . Until recently the War prodt , ction Board had ordered the farm machinery output cut to 23 per cent of the 1940 production . The Governors here have had word in the last few days that this will be increased to 40 per cent . They are urging that this figure be lifted and that the government release farm machines which they say are now being held under Washington orders in various parts of the country . At the end of the conference tomorrow the Governors , all but one of whom are Republican , will draft their recommendations and forward them to Washington .                     