@@707290

txt In a way the unopposed landing of American and Canadian troops on Kiska came as an anticlimax , but that should not blind us to the great gain that has been achieved , nor to the important lessons that have been learned . An offensive menace , for what it was worth , has been removed . Costly losses have been inflicted on the enemy . We have regained complete command of the Aleutians . We now recognize their strategic value in a way that we failed to do before the Japanese occupied them . They are taking-off points for bombing raids on the Japanese Kuriles , as we have already demonstrated in our attacks on the naval base at Paramusluru . The Japanese evacuation of Kiska symbolizes , finally , the completion of Japan 's shift from the strategic offensive to the strategic defensive . The evacuation was surprising in more ways than one . It marked , in connection with the Japanese retreat at Salamaua , a dramatic reversal in Japanese strategy and perhaps psychology . No longer , it seems , are hopeless positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some ways this change of strategy may make victory over the Japanese easier for us , in other ways more difficult . Japan 's obstinacy in defending hopeless causes at Guadalcanal , Munda and the Aleutians gained time and exacted a greater loss in American lives , but it did this at a cost to themselves in men , ships , planes and supplies that the Japanese could not afford to continue . The manner in which the evacuation was accomplished , without the knowledge of American naval vessels or bombing or observation planes , has something of the haunting mystery of the abandoned Mary Celeste . The island had been under mounting aerial and naval bombardment for weeks preceding the occupation . Anti-aircraft fire was heavy as late as July 26 ; " light " anti-aircraft fire was reported a few days before the Allied landing . General DeWitt , on the basis of evidence on the island , believes that the evacuation began as a well-disciplined maneuver in about mid-June , but deteriorated by Aug. 8 into a rout . Some materials of war were left unharmed and buildings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found opened Japanese milk tins in which the milk was still sweet , and believes that a few Japanese were on Kiska not more than twenty-four hours before our troops landed . - Even with the heavy fogs , this unobserved evacuation was an sm.ving achievement nut the evacuation is still a first-class defeat ; and , though the Japanese got away , General DeWitt is certain that we would have suffered heavy casualties had the enemy elected to fight to the end . The evacuation of Kiska is another victory for air power . Though aerial was supplemented by naval bombardment , the ships did not move in in the last few weeks until . air power had prepared the way . While Pantelleria showed that air bombardment alone can force an island to surrender without waiting for invasion , Kiska showed that air and sea bombardment could also force abandonment before the arrival of invading land forces  --  though the knowledge that superior land forces were available to us doubtless played its part in the Japanese decision . Secretary Knox declares that the recent creation of the post of Deputy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growing importance of aviation . " It is to be hoped that this will be accompanied , as Artemus L. Gates , Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Air , has recommended , by the bringing of more air officers of high rank into the operational planning staff of the Navy . We will not get the most out of air power if it is put under old-fashioned admirals as a mere auxiliary tactical weapon . More airmen should receive top positions in the Navy , to participate in framing strategic plans on at least a basis of equality .                     