@@705522

txt New orders for military aircraft which will double the backlogs of unfinished business of most of the aircraft manufacturers of the United States will be placed within the next few weeks . These orders in turn will necessitate contracts of comparable size for equipment , such as engines , propellers , instruments , radio equipment ? etc . The result will be to assure capacity production of the American aircraft industry for a far longer period than previously envisaged . At the same time , it is expected that major additions to the huge building and personnel training programs will be made . This means that the machine tool industry will continue to operate at capacity for an indefinite period Not only will the new plants require new machine tool equipment but equipment which is already in use undoubtedly will have to be replaced before the armament program is ended . Negotiations Proceed Rapidly Negotiations between the Government and the various aircraft and equipment manufacturers have been proceeding rapidly toward the actual placing of orders . New business has been allotted steadily but only in sufficient volume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown relatively little change . The new program , on the other hand , will swing into operation as soon IA -9 assignments are determined under the lease-lend bill . The next few months probably Will see the introduction of new types of aircraft-which will represent great advances over the best now being turned out . There are several new engines in various stages of development aiming at increasingly high horsepower output . Aircraft manufacturers are coordinating their development work closely with that of the engine makers . At least two aircraft builders , for example , already have designed brand new ships to be powered by a revolutionary new liquid cooled engine which has Yeen developed by a motor builder not hitherto identified with the aircraft industry While production of this engine is still a considerable time away , it is understood to he about ready for flight teats . New Engines Being Rushed Engine builders long established in the airplane business are rushing development work on improved and more powerful engines to be installed on war planes which are still on the drawing boards . Simultaneously . propeller manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to levels required by the current program but also to ' develop new props which can handle the almost fantastic power of the engines still to come . In the past . propellers have grown in size as horsepower output increased . Now , however . they are reaching the point at which the blade tips are nearing the speed of sound which introduces new problems for the engineers . At such speed new problems of air resistance are encountered which reduce the efficiency of the engines and propellers.                     