@@706838

txt The first public utterance by Prime Minister Winston Churchill since General Sir Bernard L. Montgomery 's victory in Egypt and the landing of Lieut . Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower 's American Army in French Colonial Africa was made today at Mansion House . It was a renunciation of any Allied territorial aims , a pledge that France should rise again , and a flat declaration that the sole purpose of the Allied landings in Morocco and Algeria was " to gain vantage ground from which to open a new front against Hitler and liberate Europe from Fascist domination . " The Prime Minister , who was in an ebullient mood , declared , however , that Great Britain , which had stood alone against the Axis for so long , was determined to " hold our own , " adding that he had " not become the King 's First Minister in order to preside over the liquidation of the British Empire . " He explained that he said this so that there should be no I mistake about it anywhere . Terms Egyptian Battle Decisive Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been won . He described General Montgomery 's campaign as " a prelude and counterpart " to the great undertaking by the United States forces , of which , he said , President Roosevelt was " the author . " The Prime Minister modestly described his own part in the venture as that of " an active and ardent lieutenant " He mentioned the part the Royal Navy and Air Force were playing in support of the United States forces now engaged in seizing control of the African shores of the Western Mediterranean , just as he credited the United States Air Forces with the part they were playing in supporting the British Eighth Army in its drive along the coast of Egypt and Libya . Remarking that victory seemed to be coming somewhat earlier in this war than in World War I , when all Britain 's enemies ultimately collapsed , Mr. Churchill , however , warned his excited and happy audience that recent events did not mark the end or even the beginning of the end . He said it was " perhaps the end of the beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the first phase of the war , in which the better prepared Axis held the initiative , has closed and the Allies have switched from the defensive to the offensive . In his address at the Lord Mayor 's luncheon , Mr. Churchill did not go into details of the struggle now raging 311 along the southern shores of the Mediterranean , reserving that fuller report , which is expected to be exhaustive , for an early address to Parliament . He did , however , reiterate the joint pledge of the United States and Britain to respect Spanish and Portuguese integrity , aserting that both Allied countries would " do all they can to enrich the economic life of the Iberian Peninsula . " Customary Toasts Drunk The toast to the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen was proposed by the Archbishop of Canterbury , and the response was by the retiring Lord Mayor , Sir John Laurie . The new Lord Mayor , Sir Samuel Joseph , who called Mr. Churchill " our beloved Prime Minister , " proposed the toast to the King 's Ministers . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London at any time . Guests at today 's luncheon received invitations cautioning them of the need for secrecy about the time and place of the luncheon . Where the Cabinet gathered there were British planes circling overhead , but at this moment of victory the city fathers were eager for Londoners to express their enthusiasm for the Prime Minister . At 1 o'clock loudspeakers around the Bank of England announced that Mr. Churchill was coming and , as in days of old , town criers spread the news . This had the desired effect . Huge crowds gathered along the streets leading to Mansion House . The luncheon was held , appropriately , in the Egyptian Hall instead of in what the Luftwaffe has left of the Guildhall . Thanks to the loudspeakers and the way secrets leak out even in wartime , Mr. Churchill was greeted along the way by cheering crowds as he drove past slowly , beaming cherubically and holding up his fingers in the V for victory sign . The reception was just starting at 1:30 when Mr. and Mrs. Churchill , the latter wearing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived earlier . Mansion House hospitality has grown frugal under wartime conditions , but today 's luncheon was in celebration of the news from Africa . The gold plate was out and the tables were decorated with red and white carnations . The dessert included grapes , which now sell here for $2 to $4 a bunch . For luncheon the guests had turtle soup and turkey and drank sherry and hock . The height of hospitality came , however , when each guest received a box of matches , now almost as hard to get as eggs . Each box bore a picture of Mansion House .                     