@@705904

txt In a ramshackle old building abandoned by the Washington police force , defense officials are preparing for an " honesttogoodness " crackdown on industries violating priority orders . In the nr t few days  --  possibly next week ? it was learned , the Office of Production Management will move against two large companies which allegedly have refused to comply with priority ratings issued by the priorities division . Action against a third also has been decided on . The priorities division first will cut off all supplies ? of every character ? to these firms . This means they will be forced to shut down . And , priorities officials say , they will stay shut down until the 0 P.M. is convinced of their good intentions . This Unit Important In Bu .. Iness Arrangements for this stringent action have been worked out by the compliance section of the priorities division This section shortly is to become one of the most important units of the defense program , so far as businessmen are concerned . Yet its staff is packed into a dilapidated building on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police were forced to move out . Many government officials do not even know of its whereabouts . To the compliance section reports of violations of priority orders have been flowing all summer . The extent of these violations is in dispute . Some officials say they range over The priorities division itself admits that large numbers of firms are ignoring orders , but the estimate of top priorities policemen is that wilful violations amount to only 25i . Others . they say . have resulted from failure or inability to comprehend the labyrinth of red tape and complicated procedure involved in the preference rating system . It is the intentional violators on which defense chieftains now are ready to crack down . They expect to make examples of two or three of the worst cases . This , they hope , will have the effect of scaring other violators into compliance . Examples Vk ill Be Large Companies The firms chosen for examples are large ones . L. J. Martin , who heads the compliance section , had experience as an 1s Ft A. official with the impossibility of trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he realizes that if the priority system is to be enforced , enforcement must start with large companies , using great quantities of scarce metals . The alleged violators at whom rigorous action is aimed . It was said , are guilty of using priority orders intended to get them materials for defense work for filling non-defense orders . Also , it is charged , they have proceeded with non-defense orders while ignoring important defense orders with high priority ratings . So far , there has been no action taken against priority violators. 0 P.M. officials have been waiting until they had what they regard as an " air tight " case . Investigators have checked and rechecked the facts regarding three companies in question and the compliance section now Is ready to go ahead . It is the hope of the priorities policemen that cutting off the supplies of these firms , wil1 have a sufficiently salutary effect . If it does not , they warn , they then will be prepared to prosecute violators under the Vinson Act . This law , besides authorizing disciplinary action against violators , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for persons making false statements in connection with priorities . Staff Being Built Up The job of enforcing priorities is almost as difficult as enforcing price ceilings . In the first place , it takes a tremendous field staff . which O.P.M. has not had . but is building up By October 1 there will be 42 field offices of the compliance section . Orders recently have gone out to these offices to ignore small violations and concentrate on the big ones . If flagrant violations are reported in any one area , the enforcement officials have been told , all available men should go there and comb the vicinity for the guilty parties . O.P.M. officials attribute part of their difficulty : n enforcement to what one official desribed as " lack - of awareness " on the part of many businessmen of the importance of defense production . Especially in the midwest , traditionally isolationist. is this said to he true . If America gets further and further Into actual war , this difficulty will be eliminated , officials believe . Another problem is the matter of reports from industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present , businessmen are required to fill out a myriad of forms and blanks . And yet it appears to be impossible to tell , for example , just who has what materials on hand or what use has been made of materials in the past . Businessmen have entered loud protests about these time-consuming reports . Many O.P.M. officials believe it would be preferable if businesses were required to fill out only a single , mbre comprehensive report periodically . Such a practice may be put into effect soon .                     