@@712098

txt When the Taft-Hartley Law was approaching enactment in mid-1947 William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , denounced it in a nation-wide broadcast as " slavelabor legislation . " Other labor leaders attacked it as " extreme , " " punitive " and " vindictive " ; and President Truman , in his veto message , predicted that its effect would be to " weaken the union movement . " Now , two years later , the Senate is addressing itself to the task of writing a new labor-management bill which would preserve the more constructive features of the 1947 legislation , while at the same time taking cognizance of the fact that in practice the latter has revealed its normal quota of imperfections . These imperfections have been freely acknowledged by Senator Taft , co-author of the present law . The Ohio Senator has admitted the desirability of concessions on nearly thirty of the Act 's provisions . It is sincerely to be hoped that this legislation , which has been accorded a political significance out of all proportion to its social and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that it will shortly cease to bedevil legitimate consideration of the many other serious issues which are crying for the attention of Congress . There are , moreover , sound reasons for believing that this hope may be realized . Besides the readiness to compromise shown by the chief sponsor of the present law , two other developments contribute to this expectation . One is the fact that the evils which its extreme opponents predicted would flow from the Taft-Hartley Act simply have not materialized . It was the purpose of that measure to redress the balance of bargaining power , which the country was convinced had swung too far in favor of organized labor in recent years  --  and to do so without impairing the basic rights of the unions  --  the rights to organize , to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing , and to employ the strike weapon without let or hindrance up to the point where it threatens the health and safety of the community . By no stretch of the evidence can it be shown that the 1947 legislation has produced " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It did not , for example , prevent organized labor from achieving its second and third round wage rises in 1947 and 1948 , although the best economic minds in the nation were almost unanimously agreed that under prevailing conditions these increases were contrary to the public interest . As for union membership , that expanded from 12.7 millions in 1945 and 13 millions in 1946 to 14.1 millions in 1947 and 14.2 millions in 1948 . Meanwhile , on the more positive side , the public and the national economy have benefited substantially in terms of reduced labor strife . The number of stoppages , which had reached successive all-time highs at 4,750 in 1945 and approximately 5,000 in 1946 , receded to 3.700 in 1947 and 3,400 in 1948 . While the number of workers affected by such stoppages totaled 3,500,000 in 1945 and 4,600,000 in 1946 , it dropped to 2,200,000 in 1947 and a bare 2,000 , - 000 last year . What is even more important , President Truman , by invoking the provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act , has been able to intervene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikes which in the absence of such machinery might have severely crippled the country 's entire economy . The second major development which augurs for an early compromise on labor legislation is the fact , clearly demonstrated in the House , that Congress does not share the President 's extreme view that it has a mandate to return to the one-sided Wagner Act of 1935 . The President has continually stressed the negative side of the Democratic party 's platform plank on labor legislation  --  namely , the repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act . The House , on the other hand , has shown a distinct awareness of the more positive injunction in that plank . That is the passage which advocates Such legislation as is desirable to establish a just body of rules to assure free and effective collective bargaining ; to determine , in the public interest , the rights of employers and employes to reduce to a minimum their conflict of interests , and to enable unions to keep their membership free from communistic influences . Yesterday John L. Lewis , whose reckless and irresponsible use of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand for the legislation finally enacted in 1947 , publicly denounced William Green of the AFL and Philip Murray of the CIO for what he termed their " foul betrayal of American labor " because they have shown a willingness to consider a workable compromise labor bill . That , if we may say so , is at once a subtle compliment to these labor leaders and an appropriate footnote to the two-year history of this legislative controversy .                     