@@706421

txt AIR RAID WARDENS TO BE UNIFORMED Mayor Says They Will Wear Blue Coveralls , With Orange Trim  --  Men to Pay $4 Each Plans for further " streamlining " of the city 's air raid warden service , including the uniforming of the force of 280,000 r-. , u and women and the mobilization .1 the city 's taxicabs and their drivers into an emergency transportation corps , were disclosed yesterday by Mayor La Guardia in his weekly " Talk to the People , " broadcast from City Hall through WNYC , the municipal radio station . The Mayor also revealed that the city 's emergency medical service , headed by Dr. Edward Bernecker , Hospitals Commissioner , desired to enroll all licensed physicians so a maximum of medical aid would be available in case of air raids . Physicians associated with hospital staffs in the five boroughs already have been enrolled . The uniform for men in the air raid warden service consists of a navy blue coverall , or " raid suit , " trimmed with belt and epaulets of orange . Air raid insignia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the left sleeve at the shoulder . An overseas cap , of the same material as the coverall and with orange piping , will complete the ensemble . The Mayor said he hoped that steel helmets would be available later on . Samples of the new coveralls soon will be on display at each police precinct . The Mayor expressed his hope that as many wardens as possible would buy one , so the air raid warden staff would present a uniform appearance . The garments will sell for 84 each . Women wardens will be supplied // AIR RAID WARDENS TO BE UNIFORMED // later , at their own expense , with uniforms of the same material , similarly trimmed . Mayor La Guardia said that production of these garments had been delayed because of " a little industrial trouble as to who Lould manufacture a uniform for women . " This trouble , he said , was being ironed out and a design is in the making . The coveralls are designed for wear over ordinary clothing , for which they will serve as protection . They will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and practice alarms . Their use is expected to enhance the efficiency of the service as well as make the wardens readily recognizable during the excitement of an actual alarm . The decision to make uniforms available for air raid wardens , the Mayor said , was the result of a survey and observation by Deputy Police Commissioner John H. Morris , commander of the air raid service . The plan for mobilization of the taxicab industry was worked out by Police Commissioner Valentine . Beginning next Monday enrollment of members of the taxicab corps will be received at all police precincts , each driver registering in the precinct where he lives . Announcement of the exact hours for enrollment will be made sometime this week . Mayor La Guardia said that all taxicab fleet owners had agreed to turn over all their equipment to the city in case of an emergency . Individual owners and operators will indicate their willingness to make their cabs available at the time they enroll . The air raid warden service , with which the taxicab corps will cooperate , will organize a training program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A list of mobilization points to which cabs will report in an emergency is being prepared for publication . Insignia indicating the enrollment of the cabs in the corps will be provided for both the cabs and their drivers . Physicians who enroll in the medical relief service will be assigned to serve in hospitals during emergencies , to give medical treat-1 ment in casualty stations set up during - aids or to care for casualties in the immediate vicinity of their offic In his talk the Maycz praised the air raid wardens for their efficient and unselfish service . He also complimented the members of the city 's teaching staff for their work in the recent registration for sugar rationing . Praise also was bestowed upon the Department of Purchase for the salvag activities that have resulted in 18 per cent more income from the sale of scrap materials in the first quarter of 1942 than for the same period last year . All city departments , the Mayor said , should examine their possessions , with a view to salvaging obsolete " quipment to provide more material for the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there be a saving in the use of paper . Another large governmental agency is about to move here from Washington and will occupy an entire large office building , the Mayor disclosed , adding that he hoped official announcement would come from Washington in a few days . By saying that the Board of Water Supply had offices in this building the Mayor revealed that the structure was the old New York Life Insurance CompanyBuilding at 346 Broadway . Declaring that the city , cooperating with Army and Navy officials , has brought " to the point of perfection " the program for dimming out lights in key locations , 1 the Mayor said that the Police Department and the Department of Water Supply , Gas and Electricity had worked out a plan that would permit the holding of outdoor boxing bouts at night , with lighting limited to the ring itself and floodlights for the benefit of spectators barred . No final decision has been made regarding night baseball , the Mayor reported and experiments are still being conducted to determine whether night games can be preserved without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ La Guardia said that the Aluminum Company of America , which is constructing a huge plant in Queens , has notified the city 's Department of Commerce that it plans to hire most of its employes from New York , providing a suitable labor supply is available . The company will announce where and when to apply for jobs , the Mayor said , but not before the new plant is nearly completed . BLACKOUTS TO BE REALISTIC To Be Conducted as if Raids Were in Progress , Mayor Says Future blackout drills will be eonducted as though the city actually was under attack by enemy aircraft , Mayor La Guardia said yesterday morning at a defense rally in Loew 's Paradise Theatre , 188th Street and Grand Concourse , the Bronx . He appealed for civilians to cooperate more closely with air raid wardens and the police . Pointing out that a boroughwide practice blackout would be held in the Bronx tonight , the Mayor said that the success or failure of such practice drills would determine whether or not blackouts would be made mandatory every night by the Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peek out of your windows to see what 's going on , " the Mayor exhorted his auditors . " Do n't be a wise guy and get killed . Be prudent and live . " District Attorney William O'Dwyer of Brooklyn , the Mayor 's unsuccessful rival in last Fall 's Mayoralty election , also spoke at the rally and condemned racial discrimination . " It was bad enough before the war , " he said , " but now it 's criminal ! " Mr. O'Dwyer , who was recently commissioned a major in the Army , was making his last public appearance before reporting for active duty . He spoke scornfully of those who are " talking too much and doing too little . " It is the duty of every one in America , he said , to " get down to business and produce for the men in the front lines . "                     