@@711422

txt Paul A. Porter , the Administration 's chief inflation control advocate , accused Congress today of stalling and playing politics with President Truman 's anti-inflation proposals . He warned Congress that the European Recovery Program as well as national defense measures would be " futile undertakings " unless it acted " to protect the economy from the catastrophe which is certain to come if the President 's proposals are rejected or deferred . " Testifying ' before the Senate Banking and Currency Committee in the President 's behalf , Mr. Porter ; former head of the Office of Price Administration , said that he considered it " appropriate to report to this committee that in my judgment much precious time has been wasted . " He contended that during his appearance before the House Banking and Currency Committee last week " committee consideration was confined principally to abstract economic seminars , attempts to fix blame and sheer pol-1 ities . " Meanwhile , Representative Brent Spence , Democrat , of Kentucky , urge an investigation . of recent price increases by big . corp.o7 ; rations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jesse P. Wolcott , Republican , of Michigan , and chairman of the committee , said representatives of the steel company might be asked to testify before the group " later this . week . " McCabe Renews Credit Fight , The House committee also heard Thomas B. McCabe , chairman of the Federal Reserve Board , renew his plea for a curb on bank credit and for consumer credit controls . When he appeared before the Senate committee last week a fight developed on whether proposed // bank-credit controls , which would increase the reserve requirements of member banks of the Federal Reserve system , should also apply to non-member banks . Mr. McCabe said this morning that since his appearance before , the Senate Banking Committee , Ithe Federal Reserve Board had held a meeting and agreed that the inclusion of non-member banks was " essential to make the proposed legislation effective . " Virtually all members of the Senate group contended this was necessary . In a prepared statement which he read to the Senate ' banking group , Mr. Porter said that " perhaps it is utopian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the economic issues now before Congress . " " Obviously , " he added , " there is room for differences of opinion as to the causes of high prices and inflation and the remedies to be pursued . However , I submit to this committee that the time for post mortems and finger pointing has expired . " Warning Against Inaction " I am not now concerned . " Mr. Porter stated , " as to where the responsibility lies for the immediate and disastrous threat that hangs over every American citizen . I am concerned only with whether measures can be agreed upon to do something about meeting a situation , a crisis which can not tolerate inaction . " The former OPA chief conceded that the European Recovery Program and current preparedness measures . were . contributing factors to mounting inflationary pressures . " But no one , " he said , " seriously suggests an abandonment or curtailment of these essential policies because of their inflationary consequences . " " On the contrary , " he added , " counter-measures must be undertaken to minimize and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enormous expenditures for defense purposes . " Mr. Porter 's concession that ERP and national defense measures were inflationary did not , however , halt a flood of barbed questions and comment by members of the Senate committee . They said the Administration 's proposals were contradictory and impossible , with the exception of , curbs on bank credit and consumer-credit controls . As Senator Homer E. Capehart , Republican , of Indiana , and acting chairman of the Senate Banking Committee , called the session to order , the only other member present was Senator Harry P. Cain of Washington , also a Republican . The President called this an extraordinary session , Senator Capehart said , adding : " I would think members of his own party would be interested . " Directing their fire at price controls , Senators Capehart and Cain asked Mr. Porter why there should not be an over-all " freeze " of prices instead of selective control . " If this is such a serious situation , " Senator Capehart asked , " why do you come up with a halfway measure ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replied , " as a last resort . I think the present proposal should be tried first . " Senator Capehart introduced a price " freeze " bill last Dec. 13 . It would have " frozen " the prices of Manufacturers , wholesalers and retailers at that date . The date was later amended to July 31 , 1948 , and he now proposes an amendment that would give the President the power , whenever the , Chief Executive found that a naitional emergency existed , to " freeze " prices for , a period up to ninety days . " It is the judgment of the Executive branch , " said Mr. Porter , that it was unnecessary to go as far as the Senator 's bill suggests . The attempt of the Administration was not to reinstitute the whole system of price control , he added.1 " Mr. Porter , " Senator Capehart declared , " you can not control the price . of meat unless you control the price of grain . If you roll back the price of steel will you roll back the price of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grain supply was large enough not to require control but that a price roll-back on automobiles , in the event there was a roll-back of steel prices , " certainly should be considered . " Corporations Are Defended At the House Banking Committee 's meeting , Representative Frederick C. Smith , Republican , of Ohio , objected to the proposal to investigate the price increases of the country 's big corporations . " We should be careful , " he said , " not to make a scapegoat of industry . It 's politicians in Washington who are responsible for the high cost of living . Put the blame where it belongs . " Mr. Spence declared that if the committee were searching for the cause of high prices , " then call here the chairmen of the boards and presidents of these big corporations that are making price increases affecting the cost of living and the nation 's welfare . " Observers in both committees said that there was a possibility the two groups would agree on legislation for increasing the bank reserve requirements and renewing consumer-credit controls , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There also is some sentiment in favor of taking some action on housing . Senato# Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican , of Wisconsin , a member of the Senate Banking Committee , declared that " if this Congress adjourns without first having passed workable housing legislation , it will be an admission that we are not solving our number one domestic problem . " The Senate Banking Committee announced that it would continue its hearings tomorrow afternoon . Allan Sproul , Alfred H. Williams , C. S. Young and H. G. Leedy , presidents , respectively , of the New York , Philadelphia , Chicago and Kansas City Federal Reserve Banks , are scheduled to testify . The House Banking Committee will hear Marriner S. Eccles , former chairman of the Federal Reserve Board .                     