@@709343

txt Say , how 's your car today ? If you 're driving one of those brakeless jalopy speed demons , a defective prewar vintage car or truck , or even one of those antiquated Stanley steamers , get it repaired today . Spurred by orders from Rudolph J. King , ' Registrar of Motor Vehicles , to " crack down on dangerous drivers and get those defective monstrosities off the road , " smartly clad State motorcar inspectors with blue colored tickets are out today on all Massachusetts highways . As advance agents for the campaign to have each Bay State car qualify for an official inspection sticker by May 1 , more than 160 inspectors , backed up by Spring weather , are stopping thousands of autos for a mechanical check-up . Finding Massachusetts cars in the " worst condition they had yet encountered , " eight inspectors reported today to Carleton S. Barrett , Chief Inspector of the Brighton-Allston district , that defective brakes and improper lights were the most common faults with several hundred cars already stopped . All former servicemen , the Brighton-Allston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blue tickets , were among the first . State inspectors out in the new drive to rid Massachusetts highways of dangerous vehicles . Sudden appearance of worn-out jalopies with the coming of spicing was also noted by the insnectors who are ordered to clear the roads of these road traffic " menaces " to cut down on Massachusetts ' increasing accident frequency . Registry officials warned motorists found operating defective cars that they would only be given from one to four days to repair their vehicles , depending upon the seriousness of their condition . Drivers of defective automobiles will be given one stub of the ticket and the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will keep the other . After the driver has had one of the many State-approved repair stations ( garages ) fix the damage , the garage will forward the signed driver 's stub to the Registrar , it was explained . If action is not taken within the specified time , the driver will face revocation of his plates , State officials said . Intensifying the present campaign for safe driving which resulted in the issue of tickets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violators of State traffic laws will receive one of the following three penalties : warning , suspension , or revocation of their license .. Return to the semiannual vehicle inspection plan from its lapse during wartime was also an , flounced today by Mr. King . All Massachusetts motorists must get a sticker from one of the State licensed inspection stations by May 1 to place on their cars . Violators will face a fine in court , Mr. King said .                     