@@710212

txt LONDON , Feb. ** worried House of Commons heard a Government spokesman propose today putting one-third of the manufacturing industry on a night shift to keep Britain 's economy going in face of the long duration of the fuel and power shortage . The purpose of the measure is to spread out the load on the power plants enough to permit the operation of all factories . In the present fuel crisis the power stations have not sufficient fuel to permit a supply of electricity for all factories . In the first full debate on the implications of the breakdown of the entire national economy that has taken place in the past three weeks the Government offered only suggestions and interim statements on proposed remedies . British Customs to Change From these it is evident that far-reaching changes in the customary ways of life are in store for the British people . When shocked members of Parliament reminded Sir Stafford Cripps , President of the Board of Trade , that night shifts meant young persons and women must work through the night , Sir Stafford replied : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhap even more difficult things than that if we are going to get our economic foundation firm again . " Meanwhile today brought new blizzards to northern England and Scotland that frustrated efforts to restore road transport . Consequently efforts to build up coal stocks lost ground . While stocks at power stations rose slightly , the movement of coal from the mines was greatly reduced by the blizzards . It is an astonishing fact that despite the complete shutdown of industry for two weeks in three major industrial areas the total coal saved through Feb. 25 amounted to much less than one // day 's output of the British mines . The average daily output last week was 571,000 tons and the total coal saved through yesterday as reported by the Ministry of Fuel and Pc . -7 was 440,000 tons . Though Sir Stafford 's statement in the House of Commons gave no details of the night-shift plan , it was learned that the Cabinet had decided to proceed immediately with details . It is proposed that one-third of the workers in main manufacturing industries should work nights each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be that every individual worker should work nights one week out of every three or four to keep it fair . More than 7,000,000 workers are employed in the industries affected , which do not include mines , transport or distributive trades . However , many of these workers also will have to work nights to provide services for the others . About 2,000,000 of the workers affected are women . That this plan has not been fully accepted by the trade unions was evident from the lukewarm statement issued by the joint consultativecommittee of trade union and employer representatives after a meeting this afternoon . The committee " noted " the discussions going on in various parts of the country for staggered hours , but devoted most of its statement to a request to the Government for further information on the situation . Night work on any such scale would revolutionize the home life of millions of workers already finding existence complicated enough . It also would necessitate major readjustments in bus , railway and street car lines services , in food distribution and in many social services . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect as much as three years . Labor Council Defers Stand Further evidence that the Government is somewhat ahead of the unions is seen in the fact that the Trades Union Congress Council met for four hours today and adjourned without issuing an expected statement supporting the Government 's analysis of the economic situation in the White Paper issued last week . The Council " deferred full consideration of the White Paper until a special meeting , " which will be held soon . In the House of Commons , Anthony Eden , chief Conservative speaker , stressed the gravity of the situation and the need for the entire country to support whatever conservation measures the Government found necessary . He condemned the Government 's failure to plan effectively or to put forward remedies for the economic ills described in the recent White Paper . The dominant mood of Mr. Eden 's speech , as well as those of other Opposition members , was that such a crisis as Britain has been experiencing must not happen again : Emanuel Shinwell , Minister of Fuel and Power , wound up the debate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Opposition and he added almost nothing to previous Government explanations of how the crisis had arisen . He acknowledged that he and Sir Stafford had disagreed over fuel rationing , a difference of view that is generally believed to explain partly the Government 's slowness in producing any concrete , long-range plans . The debate showed clearly that the Government has now accepted both the fact that the crisis was deeper than the coal shortage and the fact that it would be a long time before its effects had worn off .                     