@@708827

txt A little of the drama of the Big Three conference just ended and much of the flavor and atmosphere in which the historic meeting took place were revealed today when correspondents were allowed into the hitherto closed areas where the delegations lived and worked . That there was some humor mixed in with the drama is not surprising . For when such men as the Big Three meet on equal footing , questions of protocol arise that often appear to be at hard to solve as more important matters . So one learns that one of the most ticklish questions the protocol and security staffs of each power had to work out before the first meeting took place was how , along what passage and through which door Premier Stalin , the President and the Prime Minister were to enter the actual conference room in Cecilienhof , on the northern outskirts of Potsdam . A Problem of Entry Mr. Truman and Marshal Stalin were easy . Each entered the huge oak-paneled room by a door connecting with his allotted rooms in the building . It was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second floor , that complicated matters and caused so much grief to the men whose business it was to plan together the entries and exists , according to rigid protocol , of each of the Big Three . For if the Prime Minister were to enter the conference room by the most obvious route from his suite , he would have to use the large stairway that descends directly into the conference hall , thus making a far more impressive entrance than the two other chiefs of state . This could not be allowed , so the British leader was forced to walk out of the building by one door , through a courtyard and into the building again by the main door to wait until all three were ready in the study allocated to the British delegation next door to the President 's rooms . Then , after a complicated system of signals had been exchanged to the effect that each head of state was in his appointed room and ready for the meeting , the Generalissimo , the President and the Prime Minister would enter the conference room and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red felt cloth . The Russian state political police and Allied security officers guarding the room would silently vanish and the talks would begin . Cecilienhof , a summer " palace " more resembling a large hunting lodge , built in 1916 for Crown Prince Wilhelm , lies in Neuer Garten , just north of the town of Potsdam . It can be said to be ideally suited for the purpose to which it has been put during the last few weeks . By luck , it has more than enough doors leading into what used to be the banqueting hall . There are four , although the fourth and main one was used only , it appears , when members of staff attending the Big Three were in a hurry to bring some paper required at the conference and wanted to save time . Stalin 's Arrival Shielded It had enough comfortable suites so that each head of State could have his own and enough smaller rooms to make into offices for the staffs . In addition , Cecilienhof is so built that each delegation had part of the building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of each nation . Each Chief of State also could , if he desired , make an unobtrusive entrance into the palace . Marshal Stalin 's arrival , for instance , never was seen by anyone save the Russian political police stationed at every corner of the park and buildings . Ten minutes before the conference was due to start , by common agreement at the request of the Russian security officials , no one was allowed to look out the windows that led to the courtyard by which the Generalissimo entered Cecilienhof . Nor did anyone see him leave . Although the American and British sections of the palace were open to correspondents today by courtesy of the Russian authorities , in whose territory they lie , the section reserved for the Russian delegation during the conference remained closed . Thus little was learned about Marshal Stalin 's surroundings or movements beyond the fact that he also made a sightseeing tour of Berlin . It was clear that , although everything was done to have the Big Three leaders on an equal footing at the conference , the Russians were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the area at Neu-Babelsberg , across the Havel from Potsdam , where the delegations lived and had their main offices , were in Russian territory . Thus Russian guards predominated , Russian cooks and waiters served in the dining hall at Cecilienhof , Russian food was eaten there and Russian cigarettes were placed on the big round conference table . Although the Russians " managed " the meeting , there was complete equality for all three nations in such matters as the display of national flags . Every day the position of the three flags flying over the main entrance to Cecilienhof was changed so that each in turn received the prominent position on the right . The round conference table , too , gave equal prominence to each delegation and in the center of the table , on a little stand , small national flags of the United States , Russia and Great Britain pointed toward the chairs in which the respective heads of state sat . It was only a seven-minute drive from Cecilienhof , where the plenary sessions were held , to the Allied compound in Neu-Babelsberg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Glienicke Bruecke . This is known as " V. I. P. " Road , and even today it is closed to all but very important persons . This route merely skirts Potsdam , and civilians are not allowed on it . In Neu-Babelsberg itself about 150 private houses were taker over , families temporarily moved out and the entire area closed off to all but the select , who had special printed passes in Russian and English . The compound was divided into three areas , one for each nation represented at the meetings . Each area within the compound in turn was guarded by the military police of the nation to which it was assigned , with the national flag flying at its center , Along the main street of the American area was reproduced sort of Pennsylvania Avenue , witt buildings marked " State Department " and " Chiefs of Staff " and similarly along the British area 's main street one could find the " Foreign Office " and " Admiralty . " The house the President occupied , at 2 Kaiserstrasse , is large and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good one can say for what is one of the ugliest , most badly decorated . and furnished houses imaginable . Although officially described as " a tastefully furnished home " by dutiful public relations officers who were the only source of information the correspondents had during the sessions , Mr. Truman 's residence is in fact a nightmare of a house , though it is indubitably a fine example of German taste at its worst . Its exterior is painted a dirty tan and brown , and its interior is oppressive and awesome in its gloom . The rooms are paneled in dark wood , the furniture is heavy and plush-covered . What wallpaper there is is dark or , as in Mr. Byrnes ' sitting room , a mixture of puce and blue in a poor imitation of brocade . Depressing " still lifes , " hideous lamps , chandeliers and Victorian statuettes in bronze hardly help to relieve the monotony of sheer ugliness that pervades the house . The only bright spots anywhere in the building are two huge maps , one of the Pacific and the Far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's study upstairs . Mr. Byrnes and Admiral Leahy , each with a separate suite , shared two Kaiserstrasse with the President . The Prime Minister 's house , which was entirely refurnished before his arrival with things temporarily requisitioned from German homes , is by comparison in excellent taste . Panoramic murals of the Rhine meandering through hills in the sitting room and such things as a ballooning orange lamp shade at the Prime Minister 's bedside somewhat mar the general scheme of interior decoration , which at least during the past few weeks has been Louis XV , but the general atmosphere of the house is cheerful and bright . " Little 10 Downing Street " also is on the shore of Griebnitz Lake , as probably is the residence Marshal Stalin occupied . The British , incidentally , brought ' their own silver and table linen and this today was being repacked I for shipment back to the Ministry of Works , which supplies British embassies throughout the world and British statesmen 's homes on such occasions as the Big Three meeting . 