@@710662

txt You might call this the case of the missing fish , or where is the pollack ? Pollock ; a usually plentiful fish that sells for low prices . at the Boston Fish Pier , may bring the Commonwealth and the Atlantic Fishermen 's Union together again ' in a legal tilt over whether or not the union is defying an order of the Massacnusetts courts against limiting catches of fish . No pollack have been landed at the Boston Fish Pier during the past two days despite heavy fares . that totaled more than a million pounds . A mere 200 pounds have been landed since the union decided not to bring in this fish several months ago . The State suspects that pollack are landing on the decks of trawlers. as usual , but are being shoveled back into the ocean . Hard to Get ' Patrick head of the Atlantic Fishermen'F , Union here , claims that this is not correct ... that the pollack is a greatly misunderstood fish and is very hard to get , especially at this time of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over statistics and pointing out . that in past years there always has been a good percentage of this pugnacious-jawed specie in the catch of almost every trawler landing fares at Bay State ports , and that small craft of the " inshore " fleet are finding this fish easily enough . After a month-long trial in Suffolk Superior Court recently , the Slate won a decision upholding its injunction against . the union prohibiting a union-sponsored quota of 6,000 pounds of fish per man on every trawler coming into , port . This quota set 102.000 pounds as the limit for each trip on large draggers and tra wlers . Not a vessel broke the limit until the State 's injunction was upheld a few weeks ago . Since then , however , just a mere 200 pounds of pollack have been found in the thousands of pounds of fish landed here , and this has sent . State investigators hack to the Boston Fish Pier to find out why . Nets Take All They know that . a trawler 's nets make no distinction between haddock , cod , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportion of the latter usually is brought up in hauls on the New England banks . Nor do they think that the pollock are all swimming out of the path of Boston trawlers . An inspector at the Boston Fish Pier stated that " it 's a fair assumption to think that the fish are being thrown from the trawlers back into the ocean . " Representatives of the Attorney General 's office , tinder George Fingal , Assistant Attorney General , are now pushing this " fair assumption " to see if the union is deliberately disobeying the order of the court . against , interference with free trade . ?                     