@@706730

txt The plan for dominion status that Sir Stafford Cripps , Lord Privy Seal , took to India , Prime Minister Winston Churchill said today , remains the sole basis for any further negotiations with the Indian Nationalists . The fact that it was rejected by the All-India Congress party , the Prime Minister declared , does not end the matter , for Mohandas K. Gandhi 's Congress , far front representing all or the majority of the people of India , does not even represent the Hindu masses , Mr. Churchill said . " It Is a political organization built around a party machine sustained by certain manufacturing and financial interests , " he declared . Mr. Churchill 's strongly worded attack upon the Congress , which , he said , was a " revolutionary movement whose campaign of civil disobedience had the effect , if not the intention , of hampering the defense of India against the Japanese invader , " surprised many of his auditors . Conservative members received it enthusiastically , but angry interruptions showed that some Labor members , including Emanuel Shinwell , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view . Some thought the statement ill advised and calculated to create additional difficulties in India . In the lobbies the comment made fre quently was that the Prime Minister 's attitude had not changed since the days of the old India Bill debate . Some dissidents , who are preparing to challenge the government in a debate of the whole question of the Indian situation at the next sitting of the House , said Mr. Churchill 's tone was provocative and that the text of his statement " had the wrong slant . " A Churchill Flavor It was pointed out that , despite the Prime Minister 's assertion that he and Clement R. Attlee , Deputy Prime Minister and Laborite , worked far into the night in preparing the text of the statement , it had an unmistakable Churchillian flavor . The British cabinet met in a special session late last night for what political circles called " important discussions on the Indian situation , " the Associated Press reported . The Ministers met after some conservative members in the House of Commons had tabled a motion approving Prime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out any discussion of Indian developments at the next sitting of Parliament . Analyzing the situation in India since the government met the threat of civil disobedience with the arrest of the Congress party leaders and stern police measures , Mr. Churchill said the whole course of events had been " improving and is on the whole reassuring . " Thus far , he said , the Congress party had proved itself impotent to " seduce or even sway the Indian Army , " mislead Indian civil officials or stir the people of India . Large reinforcements have reached India , Mr. Churchill said , and Mr. Shinwell immediately wanted to know whether they were I sent there to fight the Japanese or quell civil disobedience . Replying , the Prime Minister said : " The reinforcements have been Gent to protect the great masses of the Indian people from Japanese invasion . The fact that they are in the country undoubtedly does add to the general stability which happily prevails In India . " Lays Sabotage to Them After charging the Congress leaders with deliberately trying to sabotage the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its efforts to disrupt communications and spread chaos throughout India the Congress party leaders had been assisted by fifth columnists . He noted that there had been signs of special attention toward strategic points and pointed out , especially , that the communications of the Indian forces defending the Bengal frontier of Assam had been attacked . It was fortunate , Mr. Churcnill said , that the Congress had no influence with the " martial races upon whom the defense of India depends so greatly . He added : " Many of these races are divided by unbridgeable religious gulfs from the Hindu Congress and would never consent to be ruled by them , nor shall they ever be against their will so subjugated . " While there was no conscription in India , Mr. Churchill said that more than 1,000,000 Indians had volunteered for military service , 140,000 of them in the past two months , when " the Congress has been measuring its strength against the Government of India . " Mr. Churchill declared that all public services were functioning and general order was being , ' restored by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the government accepted the Congress challenge , he disclosed . While Mr. Churchill made it clear that . the proposals that formed the basis of Sir Stafford 's negotiations with Indian leaders still stood , in ' feplying to . ' Andrew , Laborite , he said that he had no information that would justify a belief  --  that there was any tendency to accept the plan now . In the present state of India , he said , " with invasion not far off , " the atmosphere is not conducive to fruitful discussion of constitutional problems . Several Indian students , some wearing turbans , and two Indian representatives in the War Cabinet heard the Prime Minister 's statement on this country 's policy toward their homeland . Whipping of lawbreakers in India was brought up in the House of Commons today when Lieut . Col. Leopold S. Amery , Secretary of State for India , was asked about it . He said it was administered for robbery with violence , arson , rioting and sabotage , and by means of a light rattan cane . Experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high value as a deterrent for the hooligan type of offender . Actually , he added , it had not been used during recent disorders in Bombay and Madras , and where it was applied the whipping was kept " within strict limits , " and he said he saw no reason to interfere with the authorities in India . He added that whipping had long been a familiar and effective punishment in this country .                     