@@707271

txt CONFERENCES BEGIN ' Prime Minister Starts on Canadian Phase With Premier King GUEST OF DOMINION Britain 's War Transport Chief Is There Along With Military Aides - ? By WILL LISSNER Special to THE Nzto Yorix QUEBEC , Aug. ** Minister Winston Churchill of Britain arrived in Canada today for a series of conferences of the Allied High Command . Mr. Churchill will " later on " confer with President Roosevelt and the combined Chiefs of Staff of the United States and Britain . said a statement from the office of Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie . King of Canada . Mr. Churchill , who was accomparied here by Lord Leathers , British Minister for War Transport , and the British Chiefs of Staff , had his first discussions late in the day with Prime Minister King , Members of his family and of his personal staff accompanied the British Prime Minister to Canada . Mr. King and members of his official family left Ottawa and re , ceived Mr. Churchill on his arrival . Quebec Prepared for Parleys Elaborate preparations have been made for the parleys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canada with its colonial landmarks on every other corner , its chateaus overlooking crooked , narrow streets and its eighteenth century ways of life  --  an Old World city arising on a riverside eminence amid the Laurentian Mountains . Announcement of the discussions of the British Commonwealth leaders and of the coming conference with President Roosevelt and the combined Chiefs of Staff came a day after Mr. Roosevelt had returned to Washington after a week 's stay in Canada on the shore of Lake Huron , a trip the President himself described as a holiday . In connection with Mr. RooseIvelt 's trip it had been recalled that , following the last meeting of the President and the British Prime Minister at Washington in May , it was said that they hoped ' to see each other every ninety days . Whether the conference in prospect is to be such a ninety-day recapitulation of the military situation , now changing so fast on the Italian and the Russian fronts , was not disclosed in the official announcement . Statement Silent on Russia In the face of " fishing " by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an Allied conference and asserted that it also would be attended by a personal representative of Marshal Joseph Stalin  --  an allusion to Soviet Foreign Commissar Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff , those movements , it was noted , have not been reported in the Russian press lately  --  the official statement here was noncommittal . The statement , it was said by aides at the conference headquarters , was very carefully written . It did not describe the impending parley as a Roosevelt-Churchill conference , but merely stated that a conference would be held and that it would be attended by the two statesmen and their military chiefs . To the conference headquarters , ample to accommodate additional delegations , have come scores of British , Australian , Canadian and United States newspaper men . In the press contingent is one representative of the Tess agency , semi-official Soviet news service . Additional correspondents are ex // pected to arrive as the discussions get under way . Upon reaching this city , Mr. Churchill took up residence in the Citadel , summer seat of Lord Athlone , the Governor General of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where Wolfe and Montcalm fell when the English took the city during the French and Indian wars . The historic fortress commands a view of the city and also the majestic St. Lawrence below . After dining . with his wife and daughter , with Mr. King , the British Prime Minister plunged immediately into the Anglo-Canadian talks . He and Mr. King devoted the evening to a conference . The consultation between the Commonwealth leaders followed a preliminary conference , held lutside Ottawa for the first time , between the Canadian Prime Minister and members of the War Committee of his cabinet . Attending ' that session was the Canadian ' Minister of National Defense , Col. J. L. Ralston , who had just re'turned from a visit to London , and the Chiefs of Staff of the Canadian Army . U. S. Troops and Wacs Aid While he is in this country . Mr. Churchill is the guest of the Canadian Government . Canada also will be the host of the subsequent military conference of the combined command . Members of the Canadian Provost Corps are acting as ushers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Signal Corps and the American Women 's Army Corps are cooperating with the Canadians in setting up special communications facilities adequate for the occasion . The announcement of the Churchill-King talk and the ChurchillRooseveltparley linked them together , but it was said unofficially that the meeting between the Prime Ministers of Britain and Canada was strictly an Anglo-Canadian affair . Major or " show " military questions , it was understood , will not be taken up at the Churchill-King meeting , but will be reserved for the later conference . Because of the large part that Britain and Canada have played in the transoceanic movement of Allied invasion troops and materials , significance was attached by Canadians to the presence in Mr. Churchill 's party of the British Minister of War Transport . That military questions of ' weighty import , which naturally involve the question of transportation , will be taken up at the conference subsequent to the AngloCanadian discussions was indicated by the extent of the preparations for the parleys . Statement on Conferences The text of the official statement , as it was issued here by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain ; las arrived in Canada accompanied by Lord Leathers , the Minister of War Transport for the United Kingdom , and the British Chiefs of Staff . Mr. Churchill was received on arrival by Mr. Mackenzie King . and during his stay in Canada will be the guest of the Canadian Government . Mr. Churchill will have discussions with Mr. Mackenzie King and later on attend a conference with President Roosevelt and the Combined Chiefs of Staff of the United States and the United Kingdom . Prime Minister Churchill is accompanied by Mrs. Churchill and Subaltern Mary Churchill . A. T. S. ( the British Auxiliary Territorial Service ) . Wing Commander G. P. Gibson , V. C. , D. S. 0. , and bar , D. F. C. and bar , who led the squadron ( of the Royal Air Force ) , vhich successfully attacked the Moehne and Eder Dams , also traveled with Mr. Churchill 's party . The members of the Prime Minister 's . personal staff include Lord Moran ( president of the British Royal College of Physicians ) , Gen. Sir Hastings Ismay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Churchill ) , Mr. T. L. Rowan ( private secretary ) , and Commdr . C. R. Thompson , R. N. ( personal assistant ) . British Military Chiefs There The military membership of Mr. Churchill 's party , it was announced , included Gen. Sir Alan Brooke , Chief of the Imperial General Staff ; Admiral of the Fleet Sir Dudley Pound . First Sea Lord ; Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal , Chief of Air Staff , and Vice Admiral Lord Louis Mountbatten . Chief of Combined Operations ( Commandos ) , besides General Ismay , who is Chief of Staff to Mr. Churchill as British Minister of Defense . Mr. Churchill and members of his party after their arrival in Canada  --  Mr. Churchill 's method of crossing the Atlantic was not announced  --  took a train to a point on the south shore of the St. Lawrence River , it was disclosed in a supplementary statement . There they were met by Mr. King , by Sir Eugene Fiset , Lieutenant Governor of the Province of Quebec ; Adelard Godbout , Premier Of the Province @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quebec . They proceeded to the city by motor . Mr. Churchill drove into Quebec with Mr. King and went at once to the Citadel . Mrs. Churchill and their daughter motored to the Citadel with the Lieutenant Governor . After e. reachin the Citadel , the Churchill party reaching tea with Mr. King . The dinner with Mr. King was private and immediately afterward the two Prime Ministers started their talks . They " discussed the international situation and plans for Mr. Churchill 's stay , " according to a supplementary statement from the Canadian Prime Minister 's office . " Mr. Churchill expressed his delight at being back in Canada and spoke particularly of the Canadian participation in the Sicilian campaign , " it added . Pe2ple of Quebec Elated The selection of this city , seat of the Parliament of the Province of Quebec , political capital of French Canada and , with Montreal , one of its two cultural capitals , has electrified the Quebecois , who long had been hoping for such a boon . Throngs gathered to watch the arrival of conference aides , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a friendly greeting from the crowd . Special squads were sent out to give an extra cleaning to the streets , where long-cassocked ab- , bots , friars and brothers , wearing black leghorn hats , and pairs of sisters in the picturesque robes of Old World orders , some of which are little seen on this continent outside French Canada . mingled in the streets with primly dressed mademoiselles and their uniformed escorts , older residents and children . Last night the boardwalk high above the St. Lawrence was crowded with strollers , and for the holiday-making residents and the visitors there was a natural show , the Northern Lights  --  Aurora Borealis ? that lit up a wide expanse of sky over the Isle d'Orleans and around the far horizon with a milky brilliance of which regiments of antiaircraft searchlights would be incapable . Residents assured visitors it was a lucky omen , for only rarely , they said , is the phenomenon seen at this time .                     