@@705888

txt With John R. Davies , former president of the National Republican Club , attempting to make President Roosevelt 's foreign policy the issue in his contest with Mayor La Guardia for the Republican nomination for Mayor at the primary election tomorrow , supporters of the Mayor countered yesterday with assertions that the sole issues were continuance of good municipal government and prevention of the return of Tammany control . Declarations that municipal good government was at stake in the Republican primary were made by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler , named by William M. Chadbourne , La Guardia Republican campaign manager , as chairman of a citizens committee to support the Mayor , in a statement , and by George Z. Medalie and Charles H. Tuttle , in radio speeches broadcast from WOK . Davies Chided on Petitions Dr. Butler declared there was no question of Republicans or Democrats , of New Deal or Old Deal , of peace or war in the coming general election . Mr. Medalie characterized Mr. Davies as " an elderly gentleman unknown and inexperienced " and said that if a Mayor had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shot with fraud , the people would drive him out of office in disgust . He added that Mayor La Guardia had won national approval for his skill , leadership and hurmmity and that his repudiation in the primary would bring contempt on the Republicans of New York City . Saying that Mr. Davies could not possibly be elected , even if by some wild flight of fancy he could be regarded as having a chance of being nominated , Mr. Tuttle characterized as " presumptuous poppycock " Mr. Davies 's statement " reading District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey out of the Republican party . " Replies to Attack on Dewey Quoting Mr. Davies 's assertion that Republicans would pay no attention to Mr. Dewey , who came out in support of the Mayor on Saturday , and that they would speak in no uncertain terms if Mr. Dewey ever offered himself as a candidate again , Mr. Tuttle said : " This extraordinary statement is worse than mere personal spite ; it is presumptuous poppycock . Any candidate so desperate as thus to arrogate to himself the power to declare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely forfeits his own pretensions to leadership and to confidence . " But the Republican party is not going to allow itself to dissolve in a wordy welter of personal feuds and spites . It is not going to sink to the level of becoming an ally of Tammany 14211 or its lackey in returning it to power . " In an appeal to whatever isolationist sentiment may exist among New York City Republicans , Mr. Davies in a statement issued cram his headquarters in the Hotel Commodore characterized Mayor La Guardia as " the Sancho Panza of those New Deal Don Quixotes who want to go rampaging around the world , shedding American blood in Asia , Africa and Europe . " Out to Save the Eagle " Attacking Tammany is a false issue in this fight , " Mr. Davies said . " If Judge O'Dwyer is a man and not a mouse it 's his rjob to take care of that fake . " My job is to see that municipal reform , for which I have fought all my adult life , is not made the mask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from being made the tail of the Hammer and Sickle . " I want no war unless Congress votes it . I want no second , no third , no fourth A. E. F. I want to kill the doctrine of the Indispensable Man in City as a prelude to killing that seed of dictatorship and totalitarianism at Albany and Washington . " When La Guardia starts calling up the big political artillery , he shows the extent of his panic . He has called up three ex-Republican candidates for Governor . I ask whom can he or will he call up next ? " The consecrated Republican men and women of those lost battles still believe in the Constitution of the United States . They still pray and work to prevent the Stalinization of the nation they love . They believe with me that campaign oratory is a solemn compact with the people . They will vote with me in the momentous and righteous referendum of Tuesday between 3 and 10 . The total wave of their votes will swamp false Republicans and false Americans . " Davies Held to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of a La Guardia Citizens Committee , Mr. Chadbourne said there was no real party leadership behind Mr. Davies 's candidacy with not one of the five county chairmen in the city supporting him . He contrasted this lack of leadership support with the membership of the Citizens Committee . Pronouncing the La Guardia administration as the most efficient , most progressive and the most liberal that New York has had since it became a great metropolis , Dr. Butler said : " Mayor La Guardia , President Morris and Controller and their ? associates have well earned any honor which the citizens of New York can give them . They have done much and they have much still to do . We , must not let Federal issues or State issues or matters of international Dolicy influence our judgment in any way . For the moment we are concerned and only concerned with the good government of the great City of New York . " Final appeals for the renomination of Mayor La Guardia will be made tonight in a series of primary eve rallies at Republican clubs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech from WOR at 11:15 P. M. Park Commissioner Robert Moses and County Chairman Thomas J. Curran will be the principal speakers at the Tenth Manhattan Assembly District Club , 290 Fifth Avenue , and their speeches also will be broadcast . Meetings in Manhattan also will be held at Republican clubs in the First , Seventh , Eighth and Twenty-third districts , with Controller , Mr. Morris , Robert P. Levis and Mrs. Katherine S. Weidlich among the speakers . Democratic Slate Unopposed The three Democratic candidates , District Attorney William O'Dwyer for Mayor , Supreme Court Justice Lloyd Church for Controller and Transit Commissioner M. Maldwin Fertig for President of the City Council , are unopposed in the Democratic primary . All three are to make acceptance speeches at a meeting to be held at the National Democratic Club , the date of which has not been made public . It is understood that the Democratic campaign will not reach its height until after the registration period , the first full week in October . Democratic leaders hope for a comparatively light registration , which , with organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more favorable to Democratic victory than a very large registration with a correspondingly heavier independent vote .                     