@@706071

txt " The crisis of equipment " is largely over and " the crisis of man power and woman power " will dominate 1942 , Prime Minister Winston Churchill told the House of Commons today . He asked authority to draft 3,000 , - 000 more men for military duty and to require women to join the uniformed services . The government 's plans , as outlined by Mr. Churchill , will probably be amplified in the course of a three-day parliamentary debate when Labor Minister Ernest Sevin and other Ministers answer criticism already made . The government proposes that the age for compulsory military service be raised from forty-one to fifty-one years . The 2,750,000 men between these ages to be called up would not be required to " march with the troops " but would perform " static or sedentary work , " releasing younger soldiers . Would Call Up Men of 181/2 At the same time Mr. Churchill announced that the calling-up age would be reduced from nineteen to eighteen and one-half years , providing an additional 70,000 men next year . The first half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and June 30 that year , will register Dec. 13 and will be called up in January . The second half will register early next year . Mr. Churchill asked permission to withdraw his government 's promise that no one less than 20 years old would be sent for service overseas . In order not to break up existing formations , Mr. Churchill now wants to send abroad men who have reached 19 years . Men who are not called up for the army may be assigned to work closer to the war effort than that they are at present doing . Men not accepted for the regular services may be required to . join the hitherto purely voluntary Home Guard , an organization of part-time soldiers described by Mr. Churchill as " our great prop and standby against invasion . " " The Home Guard , founded in the passionate emotions of 1940 , has become a powerful uniformed trained body , " said Mr. Churchill , and must not be allowed to deteriorate . Therefore , he declared , the time has come when the government must take power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Home Guard and compulsory attendance at drills and musters . The government plans later to make the Home Guard , although still a part-time organization , an integral part of the regular services . The Prime Minister spoke of registering boys and girls of 16 to 18% years in the hope that they would enroll for active duty . His proposals as to women were drastic , but perhaps not as drastic as had been expected . Only unmarried women between 20 and 30 years old would be liable for the present to compulsory service in the armed auxiliary forces . Since the Women 's Royal Naval Service has a waiting list and the Women 's Auxiliary Air Service is second in popularity , those conscripted will not have any choice in which branch they will serve . Most of them will be sent to Auxiliary Territorial Service , which is the women 's army . This branch needs 170,000 women , of which number t 's anti-aircraft forces need 100,000 . Mr. Churchill declared no woman would be forced into the lethal or combatant services , even in antiaircraft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of women . All women are already subject to industrial call-up , and the new powers will give only the right to call up women for the hitherto voluntary auxiliaries to the armed services . Those called would be permitted to enter one of the auxiliaries or some form of civil defense or special mobile industrial force . Declaring that Adolf Hitler , balked on the Continent , might at any moment turn on Britain " his baffled fury , " Mr. Churchill emphasized that , Britain , despite her requirements overseas , must maintain a .. o highly trained mobile army ready to repel any invasion threat . In maintaining such an army , he added , there must always be the greatest economy in war effort and the smallest possible amount of man power must be drawn from the munitions industry or kept in sedentary or static post . The Prime Minister declared the country 's air , defense  --  observers , anti-aircraft gunners , searchlight operators and all the rest  --  had done valiant work and that now , just as it was beginning to get the guns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of man power . Much of its work , he added , did not require physical strength , and while there was to be no forcing , he expressed confidence that he would get all the women he needed to relieve men for mobile duty . Mr. Churchill 's distinction between " mobile " and " static " services was interpreted as showing that Britain , after months on the defensive , was gradually moving to the offensive , not merely in Libya , but in other foreign fields as well as at home . He recalled that he had said befor that the timetable of munitions production ran thus : " First year , nothing ; second year , very little ; third year , quite a lot ; fourth year , all you want . " Germany started the war in the fourth year of her munitions program , he went on . The United States is passing through its second year , and Britain is at the beginning of her third year . Thus the balance , still in favor of Germany , will be rectified in time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Britons had to fight well-armed Germans with ill-armed or half-armed troops was now over , the Prime Minister said . For the future , he added , Britain had made all arrangements that the Germans would be fought on equal terms in technical equipment and a little later on in superior terms . The Parliamentary Labor party met today , and after a stormy debate decided to submit an amendment to Mr. Churchill 's motion on conscription to the effect that , since the government has widened its authority over man power , it should immediately take active control of all munitions industries and transport and establish unified national control of mines .                     