@@707546

txt The subsidy fight in Congress is now headed either toward a compromise or a Presidential veto . The Senate Banking Committee threw the hot potato into the reluctant hands of the Senate when it voted yesterday , 10 to 9 , to report out the Bankhead antisubsidy measure . The House passed the original bill banning practically all food subsidies on Nov. 23 , by a more than 2 to 1 vote . The roll call was 278 to 117 . Since then widespread protest has been heard from the public in Congress against banning food subsidies , and yesterday 's Senate committee action indicated the present narrow division of opinion in committee . As a matter of fact , the final 10-to-9 vote was not a complete reflection of the picture . Senator Burnet R. Maybank ( D ) of South Carolina , a friend of subsidies , voted for the Bankhead bill to get a bill reported . Republican Senators Robert A. Taft and Charles W. Tobey , who favor a compromise , also supported the Bankhead bill , it is under stood . for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats and five Republicans . Against the measure were seven Democrats and two Republicans Compromise or Veto Division on the Senate floor is believed to be sharply divided Many Senators now look to a presidential veto as a way out of their problem . The Bankhead bill would continue subsidies on sugar and vegetable oil seeds and fats , but would wipe out almost all other subsidies , estimated to cost met. $1,000,000,000 . Prior to final action , the Committee voted down , also 10 to 9 , the Administration 's recommendation to authorize subsidies tip to S1.500,000,000 annually , President Roosevelt recom- mended enactment of " a cost of food law " in his annual message , I and coupled it with his proposed universal service program . The Bankhead bill , as reported out , would continue the life of the Commodity Credit Corporation I from Feb. 17. when it now expires , to June 30. 1945 . It would increase its borrowing power from S3,000 , - 000,000 to ** It would require all banned subsidies to be liquidated by next June 30 . The situation now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed a similar measure to ban food subsidies as a means of keeping down living costs . Mr. Roosevelt vetoed the bill , and the House failed to override the veto . Accepting the President 's position , Congress then continued the Commodity Credit Corporation from June 30 , 1943 and placed no interim restriction on subsidies . Failing a present compromise on the Senate floor , or between Senate and House , this pattern may develop again , with another example of " government by veto . " A hot fight is expected on the Senate floor , but most opponents of food subsidies are willing to agree that Mr. Roosevelt will veto any blanket ban imposed on subsidies , in view of his strong advocacy . A compromise yesterday was offered by Senator Taft . This would allow 51,000,000,000 for food subsidies , but would cut out most roll-back subsidies . It was rejected .                     