@@706674

txt The balance sheet of the big Commando raid on Dieppe  --  now that troops taking part have arrived back in Great Britain  --  gives some ground for the opinion that it was justified by results . These results may be summarized as follows : 1 . Large-scale landing of an invading force , including tanks , on the most heavily fortified part of the German-occupied coastline of Europe has been proved to be a practical proposition . 2 . Ability of British Dominion , American and other United Nations units to co-operate successfully in a difficult combined operation requiring close co-ordination , I exact timing and careful staff planning has been demonstrated . 3 . Effectiveness of air cover for future invasion operations in Northern The has been plainly proved . The RAF succeeded in maintaining a strong air umbrella over raiding forces during the attack and during the voyage to and from Dieppe . Furthermore , British fighters achieved an outstanding air victory against the Nazis over the French coastal district . Diversion of Nazi Planes By destroying 91 enemy aircraft for certain , in addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the RAF de- that characterizes the motor of heavy German bombers . Foul- Dornier 17ZS flying at about 6.000 feet in echelon. headed toward the long lines of British ships . The bomb : - missed their targets . The first of the Dorniers soon was blazing from hits by antiaircraft shells as the others were hotly pursued by three Spitfires . ' The fist fell into the sea near shore . The next two tried desperately to evade the fighters only finally to butst into flame and fall into the sea . The nine-hour United Nations attack on Dieppe yesterday was primarily a victory-for United States , British and Canadian air power , according to three newspapermen who accompanied the attackers as official press representatives . The reporters witnessed the operation from widely separated points and wrote individual accounts of what they saw , but all agreed that the United Nations forces were clearly superior in the air and that a remarkable degree of co-ordination was attained by land , . sea and air units participating in the assault . Following are the three eyewitness accounts in part : By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ABOARD A MOTOR LAUNCH I RETURNING FROM OFF DIEPPE , 1 Aug. 19 . Delayed . ( IP ) ? I have just watched the RAF and the Royal Navy smash the Luftwaffe . The measure of the United Nations victory was not 91 aircraft shot down by British pilots and gunners but a long line of landing craft full of weary but triumphant men now passing our ship . They are homeward bound because of the magnificent job done by the little ships and great seamen of the Royal Navy and the headlong assaults of pilots of the RAF 's Spitfires , mustangs and Hurricanes . This combination broke a Gelman force of at least 500 aircraft seeking to blast the Commandos and infantry into submission and sink the armada of landing craft . Since dawn , when two FockeWulf 190s darted at us with machine-guns and cannon chattering , this tiny craft , which is about 100 feet long , and every other ship have been bombed and strafed repeatedly and have blazed back at the enemy . The first Commandos landed as we neared the French coast . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gun positions . As the light brightened we saw six Spitfires flying high overhead . We were still admiring them when there was a roar of planes to port and two Focke-Wulfs attacked our convoy . They swept over us with every gun firing , and ours answering theirs . One climbed out of the barrage , a second wavered and slid into the sea . We steamed through the smoke and in the early sunlight saw the burning houses of Dieppe and heard the rattle of rifle fire and the chatter of machine-guns . Periodically we were strafed by Nazi fighters . When we finally cast off , squadrons of Bostons flying very low were sweeping inland to bomb the second line of German defenses . Hard and dangerous in the summer air we heard the broken beat aircraft and pilots to the West , thus reducing if not the actual number of planes on the Russian Front at least the available German reserves . 5 . Bombing of the nearby air . drome at Abbeville by American Flying Fortresses  --  the second daylight raid within a week accomplished without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usefulness of these precision raids by the United States Army Air Force . 6 . Casualties are stated to have been heavy . The British admit loss of " some tanks . " Loss of some ships is probably to be expected ; 98 aircraft shot down is the heaviest loss the RAF has suffered in any single day 's fighting since the war started . Excellent Co-ordination 7 . Against these losses , however , can be set not only damage and casualties inflicted on the enemy , but invaluable experience which the United Nations have gained for future use when the time comes to invade the continent . The strength of German coastal defenses in this heavily fortified area have been effectively tested . 8 . Although full details of the raid are not yet available it is already possible to state that teamwork and co-ordination between the three services reached a point far beyond anything previously achieved . Air co-operation , both with naval units and land forces was stated to be excellent . 9 . In addition to these specific results less tangible effects of the raid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the raid has been received with enthusiasm which is already having a stimulating effect on workers in war factories and mines . Elsewhere , including Russia , the raid has also had a distinctly encouraging effect . 10 . Morale of British , Canadian , American and other United Nations troops has also bed tuned up by the Dieppe operation since it holds out the prospect of more raids in the future giving soldiers of armies now in the British Isles a long awaited chance to get at the Germans .                     