@@705088

txt A coordinated system of air , sea , and land defenses front Northern Canada to the tip of Cape Horn is being ironed out in discussions between the United States and strategically - placed Latin - American countries , according to reports here today . Confirming dispatches from South America that the United The Christian Science Vanua , . States is seeking to establish a network of New World army , navy and air force bases , diplomatic sources here predict the establishment of diplomatic as well as military agreements looking toward total hemispheric defense . Recalling that the United States Immediately invited Latin-American collaboration in the use of the eight Atlantic bases recently offered to this country by Great Britain , these same sources declare the United States is seeking a defense formula in which each New World country will have a part . The United States will provide the money and , at the beginning at least , the air , land , and sea equipment , while the Latin-American nations would provide the strategical base locations , it is said . At the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convince its neighbors to the South that any such agreement would bo entirely voluntary , that United States ' use of bases would not affect original sovereignty in any degree and that the whole affair is a co-operative one , rather than n one-sided job of hemispheric policing by the United States . Favorable Reaction Officials hero are greatly encouraged by what they term the almost unanimously favorable reaction from Latin America to the President 's Dayton , Ohio , speech . Noting that the President 's references to the strength of Latin-American democracy and to voluntary Now World co-operation were particularly pleasing to his Spanish and Portuguese-speaking listeners , observers here predict that the speech will set the tenor for defense negotiations . Asked to comment upon the reported negotiations , Cordell Hull , Secretary of State , has refused to go Into details but has admitted on several occasions that talks are being held " In the spirit and within the framework of the Havana Conference . " This conference empowered tile New World nations to formulate plans for their mutual military , cebnomie , and political defense against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aver that the United States is seeking military bases in Argentina , Uruguay , Brazil , and Paraguay , and naval bases in Brazil and Chile . Although diplomats both here and in Latin America deny that the negotiations have reached any definite stage or that any precise ; localities are tinder consideration , there Is reason to believe that conversations have gone farther than diplomacy is willing to admit .                     