@@710573

txt Garages Curtail Pick-Up Service ; Bromberger Sued to Bar Hearing Garage operators , charging that the police and traffic courts were " harassing and persecuting " them , have curtailed sharply all pick-up and delivery service and intend to eliminate it entirely unless city policy is altered , it developed yesterday . Meanwhile , in Supreme Court a garage worker started an action to bar Chief Magistrate Edgar Bromberger from hearing charges of overtime parking against him . The papers asserted that the magistrate was engaging in a " private vendet La with garage owners . " The plaintiff also asked the court to compel the clerk of Traffic Court to accept a plea of guilty and a $4 fine . On June 30 Magistrate Bromberger refused to accept the plea and ordered a full hearing tomorrow to determine whether owners were aware their cars had been tagged . The suit against Magistrate Bromberger is scheduled to be heard at 10 A. M. today . ' The new garage regulations were forced by the uncompromising attitude of the police and courts , Charles Moore , president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a systematic campaign had been started to tag automobiles left by garagemen outside of customers ' houses while motorists who use the streets to park all night were not molested . Mr. Moore estimated that in his area storage space was available for only seven of every ten car owners . The condition is worsening steadily , he said , with new cars coming off the assembly line and private capital " scared away " from new building by the city 's policy . The suit against Magistrate Bromberger was filed by Gilbert Feig , who alleged that he received a court summons when he was picking up a customer 's car near 248 West Eightieth Street and delivering it to the garage . Although he appeared in court , offered to plead guilty and pay the fine , he said the clerk told him it could not be accepted and he would have to appear before the magis.rate . Later Magistrate Bromberger refused to ' accept the fine and paroled Mr. Feig in custody of his attorney " like a common criminal , " the papers said . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all manner of inconvenience and annoyance " to the petitioner and that Magistrate Bromberger 's tactics " were strongly reminiscent of the actions of the petty tyrants who administered the courts of justice under Hitler , who , in their zeal , disregarded all provisions of law which hampered them in the achievement of their purpose . " Mr. Feig is represented by former Magistrate Louis B. Brodsky . " Call Service " Instituted A few garages in the congested West and East Side districts have notified their customers that " luxury service " has been discontinued but the majority have modified it by making it a " call service . " Under the latter plan the garage will deliver the car to the motorist only at a time specified by the owner and on the further condition that he will be available to take over physical possession of his property and agree to drive the garage man back to his building . In advising customers that pickup service had been eliminated , some places stressed that " the city is putting on a drive to clear the streets of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referred also to the fines , as high as $50 , that were levied last week by Magistrate Bromberger against car owners , although the person summoned testified he had authorized his garage to deliver his car early . Sol A. Herzog , counsel for the Metropolitan Garage Board of Trade , representing the bulk of the garages in the city , said the police and court attitude gave the business no other choice if it were to comply with the letter of the law . He said that pick-up service was for the convenience of the motorist , was not profitable and " garages ca n't afford to continue it under present city policy . " Charges Licensing " Hysteria " Regretting that the change in policy had " boomeranged into the face of the public , " Mr. Herzog charged that it was part of the " hysteria " aimed at leading to licensing of the business . A bill to that end approved by the City Council is awaiting- action by the Mayor and the Board of Estimate . The police drive against garagemen , Mr. Moore declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing on the bill to license garages produced testimony that hinted that the police and garagemen worked together and that cars especially marked were immune to summonses for overtime parking at night . Although that charge was disproved the police have continued to harass his members , Mr. Moore added . A similar accusation was made at the City Council 's public hearing . Mr. Moore charged also that policemen in unmarked cars parked near garages in the early morning hours tagged cars left outside by owners if the garage did not remove them from the street within an hour . He asserted also that the police followed garagemen making deliveries and singled out those cars for tags . In one specific instance , he said , four garage-stored cars were tagged while eight autos left on the street all night were ignored , although the garage helper called the condition to the attention of the police . In the last eight months , two of every three overtime parking summonses issued by the police were directed to car owners who used public garages , he added . Plan Meeting With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible city officials , Mr. Moore and Mr. Herzog said they were arranging Meetings with them and pending the outcome had advised their members to take only those steps necessary for their " economic protection . " Mr. Mqore insisted the garagemen were being penalized unduly in " the practical operation of their business " and said it was impossible to comply with existing laws and still satisfy customers . He likened the garage field to the milk business and said if the police actually enforced all regulations , milk drivers would not be allowed to leave cases outside of stores throughout the night . They would have to wait until the place opened and deliver the items then . " An equally impossible situation , " he asserted .                     