@@711831

txt In the same crumbling , green walled courtroom in which the abortive World War II . mass sedition trial dragged along for eight months in 1944 , a jury of six men and six women was impaneled here today for the trial of Axis Sally on charges of treason . justice Curren Three men and three women jurors are Negroes . Axis Sally , born Mildred E. Sisk in Portland , Me. , Nov. 29 , 1900 , but known as Mildred Gillars since the divorce and remarriage of her mother in 1908 , is accused of having participated in Nazi propaganda broadcasts to American soldiers and their families thruout the war . Sally , in an inexpensive black fur coat and wearing a bright turquoise and peacock blue scarf tied in a big bow around her neck , smiled confidently for photografers as she arrived at the courthouse in the marshal 's caged van from the city jail . Nine Deputies On Guard She walked unostentatiously into the courtroom , looking to fie ; lawyer . James J. Laughlin , for a greeting as she moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stationed themselves at the courtroom 's door and windows and a ninth took a chair inches behind Sally 's , as she reached her seat . As she slipped her coat from her shoulders to reveal a tight fitting black dress , her only sign of nervousness appeared in the " crushing and twisting of a white handkerchief she clutched in her right hand , the smiled a quick greeting to her sister , Mrs. Edna Mae Herrick of Ashtabula , 0. , who was sitting in the front row . Sally 's silver , shoulder length hair was rolled into soft end curls and carefully groomed for her courtroom appearance . A tiny gold chain hanging low around her neck was her only jewelry . Will Call Nazi Officials Court adjourned as soon as the jury was chosen and sworn . Government Prosecutor John N. Kelley , of Fort Atkinson , Wis. , announced that as soon as opening statements are completed tomorrow morning he will call Adelbert Houben as his first witness . Kelley described Houben to reporters as the broadcasting manager of the German overseas radio service , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be followed by Hans von Richter , assistant head of the United States zone of the German overseas radio service , Kelley said , Justice Edward M. Curran , like Axis Sally a native of Maine , is presiding at the trial , which is being held in the federal District court . Jurors Are Instructed Judge Curran instructed they jury " not to read any newspapers " nor " listen to any radio broadcasts " during the period of the treason trial . He said this trial is a " serious " and " important matter . " Some 36 persons paraded in and out of the Jury box before the lawyers selected the 12 ' men and women who will decide the fate of the defendant . Two alternate jurors , a man and a woman , also were selected . A total of 106 prospective jurors had been crowded into the courtroom , leaving seating space for only one spectator in addition to Sally 's sister . Fifteen reporters sat shoulder to shoulder just back of the rail separating the trial participants from the spectators . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 40 questions . At the request of Defense Lawyer Laughlin , Judge Curran inquired among other things whether they had : Any fixed opinions on capital punishment . Contributed to bundles to Britain . Lived in Germany , or spoke German . Belonged to the German-American bund or any other German organizations . Belonged to nith , or any other Jewish organizations . Written anything on the German war crimes trial . Formed any opinion on the Morgenthau plan for Germany . Any connection with the new Israeli government . Done any propaganda work for the British government . Formed any prejudices tor or against the policies of Roosevelt and Churchill . Faces Death Penalty Prosecutor Kelley told the jury before it was impaneled that the government will undertake to tiblish. that Axis ' Sally , during the war " willingly and knowingly ; accepted employment " for German propaganda broadcasts . He said it would show she participated on programs called " Midge at the Mike , " " Medical Reports , " and " Home Sweet Home . " Kelley said the government further will establish that she , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish race , the late President Roosevelt and his administration , ' Prime Minister Churchill , and the British people generally . " The lightest possible sentence on conviction is five years in prison , a $10,000 fine , or both ; the heaviest is death . Kelley said aftercourt adjourned that he believed it would take two weeks for the government to pre- ' sent its case . Laughlin has estimated it will take anywhere from a month to a year ' for the defense to call all its witnesses .                     