@@704565

txt Four years ago this morning , again two years ago , and again one year ago this month , a warning of present war was written in letters of fire on the European sky . For these are the fateful Ides of March , the same weeks Hitler chose in 1936 , 1938 and 1939 for the hammer-strokes that shattered international law and order in Europe . By the time the German Army had marched into the Rhineland and Austria and Czecho-Slovakia , the only arbiter in the Old World was the law of the jungle . Since the Rhineland occupation was the first of the German blows that made this war inevitable , it is worth recalling now that the events of 1936 are already a distant memory . We are still apt to think of the Rhineland coup as a German revolt against one of the more humiliating legacies of Versailles . But was it ? The imposed peace of 1919 was followed by the freely negotiated Treaty of Locarno ; and at Locarno Germany agreed voluntarily to keep the Rhineland free of fortifications and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not for the first time , that his Government would " scrupulously maintain every treaty voluntarily signed , even though coneluded before its accession to power and office . " Only a few weeks before the German war machine rumbled into the Rhineland , Hitler 's Foreign Minister , Baron von Neurath , assured the British that Germany fully intended to respect the Treaty of Locarno as long as others respected it in letter and in spirit . Yet on the morning of March 7 , 1936 , Hitler struck , with the excuse that French ratification of a new treaty with Russia had altered the whole basis of the Locarno pledges . Instead of negotiating peacefully , as the Turks did when they won the right to refortify the Dardanelles , Hitler chose to smash and grab . It is an absorbing " if , " but irrelevant now , to wonder whether France and Britain could have stopped Hitler without war if tney naa peen as resolute in 1936 as in 1939 . It settles nothing now to realize in restrospect that Germany could not nave nought any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rhineland coup enabled her to build . But an understanding of the Rhineland affair , and of what followed , is essential to any understanding of the present situation . For after the Rhineland " triumph " Hitler moved from one breach of faith to another . He stran ? gled the independence of Austria in 1938 after solemnly promising that he : had no such intention . He obliterated Czecho-Slovakia after having promised the British Prime Minister that he would respect the frontiers established at Munich . During those years Mr. ; Birchall of THE TIMES saw Germany 's frontiers littered with broken pledges ; he has told the story again , vividly and unforgettably , in his new book " The Storm Breaks . " Any one who still doubts Allied purposes in this war would do well to read the record once more . In view of what happened thrice during the Ides of March , is it any wonder that Allied leaders now insist on the disappearance of the present German Government as the most compelling of their war aims ? They can not foresee the frontiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1914 could foretell what 1918 would bring . In any case the new frontiers will only be the furniture of the new peace , just as the old boundaries were only the stage-setting of the Europe that Hitler destroyed . On the day the war began . Mr. Chamberlain said " it is evil things that we shall be fighting against  --  brute force , broken promises , bad faith . " The " evil things " reared their ugly heads in the Rhineland four years ago this morning , and repeatedly thereafter , until free men in France and Britain could stand the sight of them no longer .                     