@@704942

txt The country is really getting into its stride on the $10,000,000 , W0 defense program , President . Roosevelt said tonight at the end of a day devoted to inspections of the Boston and Portsmouth Navy Yards and a visit to the Army Arsenal at Watertown , a suburb of this city . The President expressed the hope that the arms manufacturing plants of the nation would be operating at full capacity by late Fall . Today 's tour by the President , carried out by train , boat and motor , covered half of a travel program which brought him into this New England Democratic stronghold for the first time since he was nominated for a third term , and which will end when he returns to Washington Tuesday . As he completed the day 's inspections , correspondents asked the President if he were satisfied with what he had observed on his visits to the defense projects . " Very much , very much , " Mr. Roosevelt replied . " Things are going along awfully well . I 'm very well pleased with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting into our stride . " I hope by late Fall all the Navy yards and Army arsenals will be at full production . The cheapest way of producing war materials is to run at full production . " Three-Shift Plan Put Into Effect ire estimated that production was now about 75 per cent- of capacity at the Watertown Arsenal and at almost full capacity at the Boston Navy Yard . His visit came at a time when three-shift operations had just been established at the Boston yard and the Watertown Arsenal in order to remove " bottlenecks " from production lines . The President 's tour , which he will continue on Monday with visits to Newport , R. I. , and New London , Conn. , has been described as non-political and concerned only with defense . Local arrangements here , however , created several coincidences which would usually be regarded as having political significance , including a long drive . through Boston itself over a route made public in detail well in advance of Mr. Roosevelt 's arrival . His visit here coincided with the holding of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows by one day an endorsement of the third-term candidacy by the State Federation of Labor . Neither by word nor action , however , did the President directly connect his political aspirations and his tour of inspection , although the appearance of the President could not help exerting some influence on sentiment , despite the disclaimers of campaign activity . Accompanied by an official staff , Mr. Roosevelt rode overnight on a special train from Hyde Park , where he had spent six days , to Portsmouth , N. H. He traveled from Portsmouth to Boston on the Presidential yacht Potomac , stopping briefly at Nahant to see his young- est grandchild , Haven , son of John and Ann Clark Roosevelt . With the President , to accompany him throughout his tour until he reaches Washington on Tuesday , are Secretaries Knox and Hopkins ; Senator David I. Walsh , Naval Affairs Committee chairman ; Brig . Gen.- Edwin M. Watson , the President 's military aide and a member of the White House secretarial staff ; Rear Admiral Ross T. , his physician , and Captain Daniel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invited to join the party temporarily , including William J. Donovan , who cruised on the Potomac today to report to the President on a secret mission abroad to which he was assigned by Secretary Knox . Greeted by Governor Murphy Governor Francis P. Murphy of New Hampshire greeted the President at Portsmouth and accompanied him on an hour 's tour of the submarine yard there . The Governor of Massachusetts was not present on Mr. Roosevelt 's arrival here , but the Governors of Rhode Island and Connecticut will meet him when he visits their States on Monday . No public appearances will be made tomorrow , as Mr. Roosevelt plans to spend the day cruising along the coast on the yacht , while keeping in touch with Washington through temporary White Douse headquarters aboard his train here . Crowds greeted the President when he left the train at Portsmouth to drive across the Piscataqua River to Kittery , where the Portsmouth Naval Base is situated . Here he inspected construction work on submarines and other operations of the station , where thirteen submarines are to be built under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ways , two others are in the first stages of construction and two old ones are being modernized . Portsmouth has been a naval base since 1800 . In 1917-18 it became the first government base in this country to build a submarine . Activities at the Portsmouth yard illustrate the speeding-up of naval construction . Several new shops have been built there in the last year and a half , while the total of employes is 6,000 compared to about 5,000 in the peak World War operations . Inspects Submarine Work Mr. Roosevelt was shown how standardization methods have been applied to submarine construction , with basic hull parts being stamped out of sheet steel in the yard shops . A cradle in the yards held the bare keel of the first submarine to be started under the new 1941 program . The President looked through the windows of one great shop to see a keel further advanced in construction , and then viewed a triple berth in which three new submarines are approaching the launching stage . These will be christened the Grayling , Grenadier and Marlin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fish families . Driving past the refitting basins , iMr . Roosevelt then saw two submarines , the Barracuda and Bass among the largest of their class , which are being refitted for service . These were launched early in the Nineteen Twenties and then laid up , but are now being recommissioned . Near by , moored to a dock and glistening in new dark gray paint , lay the Sailfish , the former Squalus , which sank with a heavy loss of life in May of last year , but was recovered , rebuilt and rechristened . During the morning tour , which ended when Mr. Roosevelt boarded his yacht at a dock in the Portsmouth yard , he was escorted by Rear Admiral John W. Wainwright , commandant of the yard . For the President 's protection on his trip from Portsmouth to Boston , the Potomac was escorted by the destroyer Maynard while at sea , and by a special detail of harbor police boats after the yacht entered inland waters . Presidential Salute Is Fired The Potomac drew up to the dock of the Boston Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Rear Admiral William T. Tarrant , commandant of the First Naval District , and his staff . The band of the Aircraft Carrier Wasp saluted him with ruffles and flourishes and played ' The Star-Spangled Banner , " after which a gun roared forth in the Presidential salute . This was the first visit by a President to the Boston Navy Yard in fifteen years . The yard , opened in 1799 , has built sixty-nine war vessels , the first of which was a sloop launched in 1813 . Today Mr. Roosevelt viewed $8,000,000 worth of new buildings and machine works newly erected or being built to expedite defense work . The yard now employs almost 9,000 men , a number greater than at any time during the World War . The largest project under way is the construction of a dry dock area for the repair and overhauling of capital ships . It will cost $2,545,999 and be completed next year . Mr. Roosevelt 's tour of the Boston yard was a succession of short drives and stops as he progressed from job to job , all part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of three working shifts a day . Mr. Roosevelt was driven past several wharves where heavy de-1 stroyers of the latest type were at anchor and then viewed several new destroyers under construction , some of which had not progressed beyond the steel-skeleton stage . During this tour the President drove to the dock at which the famous old frigate Constitution is moored . Later , on the drive to Watertown through Charlestown and Cambridge , Mr. Roosevelt was applauded by crowds which congregated in the thickly populated areas , but elsewhere the gatherings of people were slim , as was natural for a hot Saturday afternoon . The President was met at the Watertown Arsenal by Colonel Ronald Case , commandant , and a staff of technical experts who explained the work being carried out there under a program of rapid expansion . The ease with which the new standard 37-millimeter anti-aircraft guns can be manoeuvred was demonstrated , and there was a special showing of the " pilot model " of the new 90-millimetertype which soon will go into standard production . The bigger gun fires heavy projectiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maximum altitude range of 5,000 yards for the smaller gun . The Watertown arsenal casts barrels also for 8-inch and 16-inch coast defense guns , and manufactures carriages for all types including the railway car mounts for the mobile 8-inch guns . From the arsenal the President motored slowly back to the Navy Yard , where he embarked again on the Potomac for the holiday cruise that will end at Newport . The police took extraordinary precautions for the President 's safety while he was driving through the city , including the stopping of service on elevated railway tracks under which he had to pass .                     