@@710397

txt A bill to revise the country 's labor laws has been passed in the House by the decisive majority of 308-107 . In the Senate a companion measure , somewhat more moderate in tone , has reached the stage of debate on the floor and is expected to come to a vote shortly . There is no serious doubt about its passage ; the only questions have to do with the prospects for the addition of one or two stiffening amendments and the size of the majority it will receive . Despite the fact that both branches of Congress have assumed that the elections of last November included a mandate for general labor law reform , and despite the fact that they have spent four months preparing such legislation , much is heard of the possibility that these efforts will come to naught . That possibility stems from the fact that no one is quite sure what kind of legislation the President will approve and what kind would invoke his veto . Senator Byrd of Virginia took cognizance of this situation a day or two ago when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Mr. Truman to reject regulatory legislation even if he does not approve of all its provisions . And on Monday Harold E. Stassen urged that the President take the initiative in calling a conference with Republican Congressional leaders and that he make clear what he will sign and what he will not . On the other hand , the President went on record as recently as the end of last week to the effect that , while he regards labor legislation as the most important Government business of the year , he has decided to make no commitments or comments in advance of final Congressional action . Reports last night bore this out . Whether or not a veto of the labor bill that emerges from Congress would be , to use Senator Byrd 's words , a " catastrophe , " certainly it Would be deplorable if such legislation were to be permitted to die simply for want of a clear understanding between the President and Congress . Unfortunately it is not easy to find the key to such an understanding in Mr. Truman 's actions and pronouncements over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than once that he will not lend his approval to " punitive " or " vindictive " laws , but has never clearly defined these terms . Moreover , Congressional leaders have some reason for feeling that if they have any generally accepted meaning , they would apply more pointedly to Mr. Truman 's own proposal of May , 1946 , for dealing with strikes in seized plants than to any legislation suggested by Congress before or since then . ( That was the bill providing for the drafting into the Army of strikers who failed to return to work . ) Shortly after this the President vetoed the Case Bill . While criticizing some of its individual provisions , such as the use of injunctions by private employers , as too strong , his chief objection was that the measure did not provide " a permanent solution of our difficulties . " He feared , ? he said , that if the bill became law it might ' preclude the possibility of obtaining other , more inclusive , permanent legislation . When the November elections swept the Republican party into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly to general dissatisfaction with the Administration 's handling of domestic problems  --  particularly in the field of price controls and strikes . But when , two months later , the President discussed the labor issue in his message on the State of the Union his contribution was limited to a " Four-Point Program " which fell short of the needs of the times and left this controversial problem still in the lap of Congress . One of the four points called for extension of sbcial security , and hence was not strictly germane to the problem at all : a second called for the appointment of a new commission to " inquire into the whole field of labor-management relations , " and a third would have expanded the facilities in the Department of Labor for aiding collective bargaining . Under his fourth point , 1 the elimination of " unjustifiable practices , " he urged the outlawing of jurisdictional strikes and certain types of secondary boycott , but proposed no machinery for coping with major strikes ; made no suggestions for correcting the one-sided character of the Wagner Act , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monopoly power enjoyed by certain unions . The President has elected , in other words , not to assume the leadership in the field of labor , law reform , choosing instead to 4eave it to Congress to carry out the 1946 election mandate in that area . Under such . circumstances he would , it seems to us , be ill-advised to leave in doubt longer his views on the more controversial features , of the pending legislation . These views should be known by the appointed representatives of the two chambers when the House and Senate bills go to conference . They could then be considered at the same time that the points of difference ' in the bills themselves are being debated . This legislation is too important , and too much time and effort have gone into it , for it to be placed in jeopardy by ex post facto arguments .                     