@@709784

txt Plans are forming to bring television to almost the entire British Isles . It is now observable only within a 40-mile radius of the country 's single London station . Work is likely to be started in a few months on radio relay stations set up at 10-mile intervals to carry London programs to Birmingham . 100 miles distant . The Government 's British Broadcasting Corp .. which controls television as well as radio transmission . is carrying on research to run relay stations out from London to other provincial cities- . Meantime , the privately-owned television set manufacturing industry is bringing pressure on the government to erect five more television stations in the provinces as soon as materials are available . Would Mean 98% Reception Completion of all these projects would make it possible for 95% of the population of the British Isles to see television programs . This mass television reception could be achieved at considerably less expense than it could be in the United States because these islands are so much smaller and more thickly settled . Fewer relay stations would be required to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ television reception in the British Isles is. in any case , a long way off . The extended service to Birmingham . which will cost $2 million , will not be in operation for at least a year Of immediate interest to British television fans are the first post-war receivers , just beginning to appear in stores for demonstration purposes . Cost of these sets . including a 33.7 ; purchase tax , will be approximately 20 ' above pre-war levels . Pye Limited . one of the 14 manufacturers licensed by the Board of Trade to produce 78,000 sets this year . will make a table receiver which will retail for $140 plus purchase tax , and a chairside donsolelor $180 plus purchase tax . Held Up By Material Shortages Just when television sets will be available for public sale in Britain is an imponderable That is because of the shortage of materials . This shortage led the Government to put the manufacture of the sets on a licensing basis . But it 's anyone 's guess how successful the licensed manufacturers will be in obtaining the materials required to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20.000 receivers sold prior to the war are believed to he largely in good working condition after leaving lain idle since television broadcasts were suspended at the outbreak of the war in 1939 . Materials for the repair of these sets have been made available by the Government . Hence , no barrier other than expense of making these repairs has stood in the way of the owners viewing the programs which were resumed June 7 from B.B.C. 's station at Alexandra Palace in London . Daily transmissions are now being made to the London area from the Alexandra Palace station . General aim of the B.B.C. program builders is to provide " something for everybody . " Early program plans include items like fashion displays and cookery demonstrations , television quizzes , full length plays , guest nights and regular appearances of well-known dance bands . One of the B.B.C. 's two outside mobile television units has televised such sporting events as the tennis championships at Wimbledon . Children have shows of their own on Saturday and Sunday afternoons including transmissions direct from the Zoological Gardens . Visiting the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A mobile unit will pay frequent visits to a typical English village somewhere in Hertfordshire . It will visit the " local . " where the " regulars. " the dart and cribbage players , the landlord and his wife will gossip , play and work in the viewing public 's eye . The unit will call on the vicar , go around to the local flower show , look in at the cricket or football match on the village green . drop in at village meetings and socials . In short , it will intimately present the appearance , outlook and the life of that typical village . The mobile television units each consists of a large auto vehicle containing three cameras and associated microphones , Three methods have been employed to link these units with Alexandra Palace where the programs are rebroadcast to the public . First , a special television cable installed around the center of London is tapped at various places of interest , such as West , End theatres , main railroad terminals . and the Houses of Parliament . and direct transmission of television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Alexandra Palace is made by telephone cable connected to the special television cable . This makes possible transmitting television shows over a wide area , that is as far as the B.B.C. wants to run out the telephone cable . So far B.B.C. has limited the extensions to two or three miles , but it is planning to cover more territory ultimately . The third system of tying the mobile units with the Alexandra Palace station is used in areas beyond the reach of the other two methods of transmission It consists of relaying the television signals directly to the Palace by means of a mobile ultra short-wave transmitter mounted in an auto lorry The radio signals received at the Palace sre filtered and amplified and rebroadcast on the main transmitter .                     