@@710966

txt AU three Western powers have decided over the week-end that unless Soviet Foreign Minister Molotov brings some very unexpected concessions to tomorrow 's meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers there will be no use going on . It has been definitely decided by the Americans and almost as definitely by the British and the French that they will not take up the next item on the agenda  --  political principles  --  unless there is a substantial agreement on economic principles , including reparations . How slim that hope is can be seen from the text of a statement issued by the United States delegation today in answer to Mr. Molottovfs repeated charges concerning " acquisition Of German business properties by United States interests and profits of the United States on exports of coal- and lumber in Germany . " Denial Put in Writing Secretary Marshall had denied Mr. Moiotov 's accusations in Friday 's heated session , but he said that he would put his denial in writing by Monday , , because he , himself , challenged the Soviet delegation to put into writing by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zone in Germany . Mr. Marshall 's statement was circulated and made available to the press today . It begins by pointing out that the United States " long ago proposed a moratorium on the acquisition of foreign ownership or control of property in Germany , " but its proposal was not accepted . " The United States , however , has scrupulously carried out , in its own zone , the principle of the moratorium that it proposed , " the statement says . Declaring that " there is not one single case of German business property that has been acquired by United States interests during the entire occupation , " the statement concludes : " All goods shipped put of United States and United Kingdom zones and all services provided for foreigners out of German resources have been ' sold at world market prices . Not one penny of these proceeds is diverted to the use or advantage of the occupying powers . This includes both coal and timber . The United States invites the assistance of the- Germans and of the other occupying powers , in obtaining favorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from such exports are used to buy essential imports for the German economy . " Total exports from the bizonal area from Jan. 1 to Nov. 1 , 1947 , total $165,000,000 . " Exasperation Noted The emphatic tone of this note gives some measure . of the exasperation felt in American quarters over the Russian attitude . Similar ' irritation is felt in British and French circles , so hopes of saving the conference tomorrow are exceedingly slim . At the same time everybody agrees that Mr. Molotov wants to keep the Council of Foreign - Ministersgoing . Therefore the Western delegations are stealing themselves to expect the Soviet delegate to arrive at Lancaster House tomorrow- afternoon " all smiles and sweet reasonableness , " as someone put it this afternoon . Mr. Molotov may well offer some minor concessions and some apparently big ones , but if so they will be studied with extraordinary care . They will have to ' be really good to be acceptable , but nobody can figure out how they can be . The gap between the two sides is so wide and based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Council of Foreign Ministers that the Sovie Union would have to change its policies drastically overnight to propose acceptable compromises . Moratorium May Be Offered There is still talk of Mr. Molotov 's offering a moratorium on reparations , but that will almost certainly be turned down since it would only postpone the showdown . There is also the probability that the Russians will offer lo make their reparations contingent upon the rise of German production to 70 per cent of the 1938 level , but that would not solve the crucial issue of taking reparations from current production which the three other powers oppose in principle . So tonight most observers expect tomorrow to be the last effective day of the Council of Foreign Ministers . Certainly it will provide a final show-down , although that may have to be followed on Tuesday by another session to tie all the strings together . Guessing tonight is that Mr. Molotov will then strive hard to fix a firm date for another meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers as being the next best thing to keeping this conference going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ die and that is most likely what will happen . One other possibility that is being guarded against is a Russian proposal to turn the issues now being discussed over to the deputies of the Foreign . Ministers . That has happened few times before and on several occasions during this conference Mr. Molotov has tried to get certain questions referred to the deputies . British Voreign Secretary Bevin was especially strong in blocking most of these efforts but Secretary Marshall was right behind him . Neither of them nor French Foreign Minister Bidault , for that matter , desires to turn issues over to deputies , when the Foreign Ministers them-selves have demonstrated their inability to settle them . Only one declaration has been given to the deputies in this- session and the deputies have done nothing about it . A number of articles were sent to " drafting committees " but no drafting committee has been formed . One of the Foreign Ministers estimated today that the documents now at the disposal of the Council weigh more than 250 pounds . Today 's calm is therefore the lull before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of town and Mr. Bevin also rested . The French Ambassador gave a - cocktail party at the French Embassy , which was certainly the best contribution of the day toward international good-will . However , social occasions among the Foreign Ministers seem to remain just that and Secretary Marshall 's luncheon with Mr Molotov yesterday was no exception . They did not even mention the Council of Foreign Ministers or its problems .                     