@@709894

txt Secretary of State Byrnes asserted tonight that what " disturbs me most " was not " the lettered provisions " of the five peace treaties under discussion , " but the continued if not increasing tension between us and the Soviet Union . " In his radio report on the Conference of Paris the Secretary stressed that if peace were to be established " the idea of the inevitability of conflict must not be allowed to dominate the minds of men and tear asunder a world which God made one . " " We must be willing to cooperate with one another  --  veto or no veto  --  to defend , with force if necessary , the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations , " Mr. Byrnes said . He added that the foreign policy of the United States was based on that Charter . Calls for Understanding " The development of sympathetic understanding between the Soviet Union and the United States is " the paramount task of statesmanship , " Mr. Byrnes declared . He promised that the United States would continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of justice and the rights of others , as well as ourselves , to opinions and ways of life which we do not and can not share . " It is the " idea of the inevitability of conflict that is throttling the economic recovery of Europe , " Mr. Byrnes warned . " It is that idea that is causing artificial tensions between states and within states . " He rejected any belief that delays or setbacks in achieving our objective make armed conflict inevitable . " It is entirely possible that the failure or inability of the Soviet leaders to rid themselves of that belief lies at the very root of our difficulties , " he suggested . He expressed the hope that we never become victims of such an idea , and declared : " War is inevitable only if states fail to tolerate and respect the rights of other states to ways of life they can not and do not share . " " Every understanding requires the reconciliation of differences and not a yielding by one state to the arbitrary will of the other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union in mind , he said that if states were to reach agreements they must act in good faith and in the spirit of conciliation . Denounces Arbitrary Veto " They must not launch false and misleading propaganda against one another , " he said . " They must not arbitrarily exercise their power of veto . " " No state should assume that it has a monopoly of virtue or of wisdom , " Mr. Byrnes added . Any nation that abides by the principles he outlined , he declared , can " count upon the friendship and cooperation of the United States , irrespective of national difference or possible conflict of interests . " " The United States stands for freedom for all nations and friendship among all nations , " he said . " We shall continue to reject the idea of exclusive alliances . We shall refuse to gang up against any state . " The major part of Mr. Byrnes ' speech was given over to our relations with the Soviet Union , a further indication of the overshadowing importance Mr. Byrnes attaches to them as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " months since the writing of peace was attempted after Potsdam His discussion of other aspects of the Paris conference was calm and dispassionate , one in which he restated the position we took at the peace conference on such issues as Trieste , the Danube and reparations . Urging the exercise of reason rather than passion in reaching recommendations , he emphasized that " if this is to be lasting it must be a people 's peace . " In that direction , he contended that the conference provided adequate opportunity for the smaller states and the former enemy ' states to express their views on the treaties . Mr. Byrnes spoke from the reception room of the Secretary of State adjoining his private office on the second floor of the State Department Building . His address was broadcast over the national network of the National Broadcasting Company , stations WOL and WOR of the Mutual Broadcasting System , stations WWDC and WINX of Washington and va- rious , independent non-network stations . In taking up the Russian question Mr. Byrnes made it clear that we would not yield points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having Henry A. Wallace and his attacks on the . Administration 's foreign policy in mind , he voiced distaste of such criticisms as " being ' too soft ' or being ' too tough " ' " Neither accurately describes our earnest efforts to be patient but firm , " he declared . At the same time he counseled that " we must not lose faith , nor cease to struggle to realize our faith , because the temple of peace can not be completely built in a month or a year . " Mr. Byrnes deplored the Soviet tendency to regard states friendly to us as unfriendly to the Soviet Union and to consider unfriendly our efforts to maintain traditionally friendly relations with states bordering the U. S. S. R. He also deplored the talk of the encirclement of the Soviet Union . The voting of the Soviet Union and its satellites as a bloc he regretted , while denying there was any bloc action . in the votes on our side at Paris . " If the voting cleavage at Paris was significant , " he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not between the United States and the Soviet Union , or between a Western bloc and the Soviet Union . The cleavage is based upon conviction and not upon strategy or hidden design . " He frankly confessed bewilderment at the motives attributed to us by the Soviet delegation at Paris . He denied charges that we were seeking to enslave Europe economically , and objected to other charges that we had sought to enrich ourselves out of the war and to enslave European peoples . In denying these allegations he recalled what we had done for the Russians during the war . Then he said that we stood for social and economic democracy at home and abroad , the freest possible expression of peoples , for freedom and human progress , while extending the hand of friendship to Russians and all other peoples . As for other aspects of the Paris conference , Secretary Byrnes maintained that the treaties were as good as could be hoped for within any reasonable length of time . In defending the Trieste recommendation , he contended that the settlement voted by the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be arbitrarily disregarded . " " There must be no seizure of power in Trieste after this war as there was in Fiume after the last war , " he warned . He expressed hope for acceptance of the Paris recommendation on the Danube and that Yugoslavia would yet sign the Italian treaty .                     