@@712002

txt ? Robert Alphonso Taft , the Ohio Republican , is the : most influential single member of the United States Senate . He is the man against whom William Green , American Federation of Labor head , thundered at the recent Chicago Americans for Democratic Action convention , declaring he must be defeated in the 1950 Ohio election . He is the center around which the Republican-Dixiecrat Senate coalition forms , the organizer of the proposal to cut Marshall Plan aid 10 per cent , the intellectual leader of ' the forces that are dragging their feet in the Senate in a creeping filibuster against Truman proposals . Senator Taft is far and away the intellectual superior of other members of his own party in Congress , the hardest worker , the boldest , and most courageous . He is the man who has the audacity to stand up before conservatives in the closed GOP Senate caucus this week and tell them brutally that the Republicans must accept welfare legislation or perish , that mere obstructionism is not enough , and that something constructive must be offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Truman Senator Taft is. therefore , more clearly every day becoming the natural antagonist of President Truman , It is Taft vs . Truman in Washington today , Hardly a day passes but something from Senator Taft bobs up . On the housing bill the Democrats first thought to count Senator Taft out in backing the Truman proposal for 1,050,000 public housing units . By the time the bill got through the Senate committee , it was back at 810,000 units , which Senator Taft originally urged , The administration plan for a big nationwide health-insurance system is promptly countered , under Taft leadership , with the introduction by GOP senators of their own health program , providing 81.250.000,000 over five years to help states . Senator Taft is all set to play a key role in the revision of his own Taft-Hartley Labor Act , and he apparently controls the votes in the Senate to do it . That is true , too , in the administration plan to raise minimum wages to ' 15 cents . If Senator Taft backs 65 cents that will probably be the figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So far , at any rate , he has . seemed more in control of the Senate than Senator Scott Lucas ( D ) of Illinois , the so-called " majority leader . " Senator Taft has his ideas about federal aid to education , social security , public welfare . His views hdrrify some of his conservative ' members , like Senator John Bricker ( R ) of Ohio , for being " socialistic " almost as much as they infuriate Trumanites for being " reactionary . " Senator Taft does not mind . In his own dour , melancholy way he seems to be having the time of his life . The issue grows sharper as this session of Congress progresses . The Senate is way behind in its work . This is probably an- ' other part of the anti-Truman tactics . If the coalition can not block the " Fair Deal " legislation directly , it may achieve the same result simply by holding it up , as it did in the successful filibuster against civil rights legislation . Most people do not realize just how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts : No Big Bills Passed The House has passed every one of the regular big appropriations bills . The Senate has not passed one ; has not started them , even . The House now is approaching the red-hot political issues that come after the board has been swept clean of initial financial matters . Biggest issue is the new labor act . The 1950 Ohio election in which Senator Taft comes before his voters is going to a national spectacle . That now is certain . If Senator Taft comes through successfully , he may very well be the GOP presidential candidate in 1952 . He is certain to be a contender . Barely Elected He just squeaked through in 1944 when his latest six-year Senate term began . Nobody can tell now how the 1950 fight will go . The trade unionists are themselves afraid that a too-direct assault on Senator  --  Taft for his part in the Taft-Hartley Act may react against them . So they are changing their line to assail him as " the symbol of American conservatism " ( which , in a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broaden their appeal by getting in behind such liberal front organizations as the Americans for Democratic Action , It was before this group that Mr. Green made his anti-Taft blast last week .                     