@@706431

txt Mattle Pearl Manning , 14 years old , a blond and blue eyed wisp of a girl in a faded but neatly Ironed pink dress , said today that an argument with her 35 year old husband over whether he would make an eight mile trip to town for groceries caused her to shoot and kill him last Saturday . " He told me to shut up about the groceries or he would kill me , " the girl said without emotion in an interview at the Hamblen county jail . ' " I knew he meant what he said and I knew paw 's short gun revolver was in the other room , so I got it and shot him . " Ca n't Understand All the Fuss . The tragedy which brought her three months of married life to an abrupt close Is a simple matter to Mettle Pearl . She does n't understand , she said , why so much fuss is being made about it . She is sorry her husband is dead , but declares her action was " necessary . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courtroom of Juvenile Judge Fred Hartmann , where bond of $5,000 was fixed for her pending action by the grand jury . She did not take the stand or utter a word during the hearing . At the same time her father , Frank Morgan , was arraigned before Roy Purley , justice of the peace , and held on 5500 bond as an accessory in the slaying . Expect Quick Jury Action . The next session of the Circuit court in Hamblen county Is scheduled for the third week in June . It is expected the grand jury will act on the two cases before that time . Mettle Pearl was asked how long she had known her husband . Daymon W. Manning , before their marriage . " He had been coming to see me for two years , " the girl said . " He wanted to marry me and my father and mother did n't make any objections . " We were married here in Hamblen county three months ago by Preacher Hopkins , " she declared . " I was in love with him , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to quarrel with me and find fault . The first time was about three weeks ago when he could n't find a pair of pants he wanted . " After that we Quarreled 4 lot , and he told me several times he would kill me . Saturday morning while he was eating breakfast he said he was n't going to go after groceries . We had to have groceries , and I told him so . He told me again fie was going to kill me , so I got the gun . " Mettle Pearl and her husband lived with her father and mother on her parents ' plait farm . The accessory charge against Morgan is based on his original story to authorities that Manning shot himself . Morgan has also admitted that he threw the revolver down a well when his daughter handed it to him after the shooting .                     