@@710856

txt The Harriman report has won something even more important and timely than the gratitude of the British people . First reactions here indicate that criticism of the report will be confined to a welcome minimum . Great Britain will not find any great difficulty  --  either economically or politically  --  in complying with the many safeguards which are being erected around the Marshall Plan . There is very little disposition . here to feel that these positions constitute interference in internal British affairs . Leftists Busy In many respects , this lack of serious criticism is the most important contribution that Britain can make to the success of European reconstruction . Reports flowing in from the Continent indicate that extreme left-wing propaganda is doing its utmost to exploit those Harriman recommendations which seek to protect the American investment in European recovery  --  and make sure it will not be diverted to inefficient uses . Left-wing socialist opinion here in Britain has not yet expressed itself and probably will be dubious on this point . But virtually every other segment ofBritishopinion 3A3A4 ment of British opinion , ranging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tory Opposition , emphasizes the great benefits of the Harriman report proposals for this country . General Agreement All of these widely differing viewpoints are in general agreement that Britain needs European ' recovery and general world recovery quite as much as its own , and that , in fact , Britain can not reach its vital export targets merely by great efforts at home . This warm reception , which almost certainly will extend to United States Secretary of State George C. Marshall 's testimony before Congress , was all the more welcome because the weather vane could have pointed the other way . Not only Laborites but Conservatives have been sensitive to statements , such as that by Harold E. Stassen , that nationalization programs should be eliminated as a condition of Marshall Plan aid . As the Conservative London newspaper , Daily Telegraph , said : " Those of us who are most anxious to be rid of our own socialist incubus would be the last to desire this made a condition of American aid . " Relief Felt No one was sure here to what extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circles . The fact that the Harriman Committee  --  which would establish no such criteria  --  was so representative of American industry , and that Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg has warmly praised its work , has brought visible relief . This is not to say that British opinion is entirely happy with the Harriman reply . Its disapproval of the building of passenger liners in Britain has been almost universally questioned , sometimes with heat , Britain has been inordinately proud of its accomplishments in the shipbuilding field and reckons its liners Queen Mary , Queen Elizabeth , and Mauretania as among its most valiant dollar earners . Trade Strictures Cited The Government is expected to produce facts and figures on this point . It may be that passenger liners are not as quick dollar-earners as tankers in the short run , but it is felt that not all longer term measures should be scuttled . If the United States desires European recovery , as opposed to emergency relief , then it can be argued that an active merchant marine is one of Britain 's greatest needs . The British also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use American dollars for buying foods and raw materials in Canada , Argentina , and other third countries which traditionally supply them . Many here are arguing that the United States should not have sought so vehemently to impose sterling convertibility and multilateral trade on Britain , only to turn around and make all Marshall Plan aid in nonconvertible currency . However , comment on this point will have to await study of American reasons for this requirement . The full text of the report has only just arrived at the Foreign Office here and is not yet available to the general public . Published news reports were long , but necessarily incomplete on many vital points . Currency an Issue There is resistance here to United States pressure for devaluation of European currencies , which extends to the pound sterling as well as continental monies . The degree to which the Harriman Committee scaled down plans for capital expenditure and hence for longer term recovery likewise has been questioned . However , Britain 's own emergency program has been so drastic in this same direction that the Harriman report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolated cases , such as shipbuilding . As against these points of doubt , the Harriman report made a number of notably favorable recommendations which fit readily with British policy . The emphasis placed by Minister for Economic Affairs Sir Stafford Cripps on shifting from nonessential to essential industry was approved . The report recognized that too much austerity would be uneconomical  --  which is just the position taken by the British Government on this question . ' No Strings ' Welcomed The fiat statement that American aid should not constitute interference in internal affairs of the receiving countries was likewise welcome . As far as Britain itself is concerned , it is not felt that such provisions as the setting aside of local currency for special productive purposes , to offset sales of American supplies , will be difficult to reach agreement upon .                     