@@710194

txt After hearing testimony of carelessness , inefficiency , and neglect in the southwest treatment works in Stickney , the four Republican truslees of the sanitary district last night prepared charges against the district 's eivit enrolee hrmrd These charges , which maintain that the patronage system of the Democrats has sapped hundreds of thousands of dollars from taxpayer ? pockets , will be filed today at the regular meeting of the board of trustees , 910 S. Michigan ay . The meeting is open to the public . Those mimed in the charges will be James F. ! Spike ) Hennessy , superintendent of employment for the civil service board , John J. Touhy , one of the'five Democratic trustees of the district and a member of the civil service board , and Michael Whalen , a member of the board until his defeat at the last election . " Hired on Temporary Basis " As prepared by Trustee Anthony A. Otis , one of the four Republicans who were elected to the sanitary district in the last election , the charges include allegations that : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act by failing to fill positions in the district in a lawful manner . It has permitted the hiring of employes on a temporary basis in order to evade and circumvent the law . These temporary employes have been hired by a patronage committee rather than as provided by law ? thru civil service examinations and permanent appointments on the basis of merit . Tell Losses to Public Such violations have resulted in Inefficient operation of . the district 's plants to the detriment of the taxpaying public , a complete break . down of morale among the workers . and direct losses to the public thru destruction of plant machinery thru carelessness . The violations also have led to it lack of discipline in the plants and a conflict between the politically sponsored employes and the technical supervisors with the resulting lack of efficiency . The charges cite the statute which calls for the civil service board to investigate the efficiency of the workers  --  a responsibility which Hennessy yesterday admitted the board had ducked .. Board to Face Split After the charges are filed , the law ztipulates that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing . H was not believed that Touhy could sit In Judgment on charges against himself and the board will face a four to four split unless the Democrats are willing to vote against their own men . The members of the civil service board can be removed from the office by the trustees in case of an adverse finding . However , the statute provides that criminal prosecution of board members for malfeasance in office can originate with either the attorney general or the state 's attorney . Should the state 's attorney fall to act within 30 days after a case has been called to his attention , any taxpayer can petition the Circuit court for a special prosecutor to enter the case . The charges were based on the testimony of William Dundas , the district 's superintendent of plant operation ; Arnold IL Goodman , engineer in charge of the southwest plant , and Hennessy , who were called in yesterday by Olis , Michael J. Rudnik , J. 13 . Martin , and William Nordburg , Republican trustees . A picture of padded pay rolls , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political sponsors , of card games and a " bookie , " and of carelessness and inefficiency that have virtually paralyzed the sludge drying process at the southReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . Inquiry in Sewage Plant Waste ? ( Story starts on page 1 ) Republican Sanitary District Trustees J. B. Martin ( standing ) , William Nordburg , M. J. Rudnick , and Chairman A. A. Olis ( left to right ) , conducting inquiry into plant waste yesterday . Engineer Arnold H. Goodman as he told trustees that only half of sewage disposal plant employes are " satisfactory . " Supt. William Dundas , telling trustees that he had to refer incidents of insubordination or waste to the district 's chief engineer . ( TRIBUNE Photos west plant was drawn by the an swez-s of Dundas and Goodman . Goodman , sensitive to criticism 0 , a plant he has worked at since was started in 1939 , said that only about half of the workers now al the plant are what he would cal , " satisfactory " if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others could be re claimed , the , at least nine-tenths 01 them , " he said , " If it were n't foi the political patronage angle which exists in my plant and has existec thruout the sanitary district eve ' since I started to work for it in 1920 . " He admitted , under Olis ' question . ing , that if the workers were em dent , he could get along with about 25 per cent fewer employes , which would mean a pay roll saving of at least $450,000 to taxpayers . He admitted there had been card playing at the plant during working hours but said he has tried to stamp it out and he did n't think it had been going during the last few months ? " at least during the day . " Asked if politically sp onsored laborers had told technical superiors to " go to hell , " Goodman said it was possible and quite in line with the spirit thruout the plant which was at low ebb . Bookie Is Transferred He said that he understood one man had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had written to Dundas and complained that their husbands lost their paychecks by betting on the horses with the laborer who doubled as a bookie . Goodman said that most of the workers on his shift work.an eight hour day without sneaking away , but he could n't vouch for what occurred during the other 16 hours a day and on week-ends . He admitted that he 'd heard numerous rumors of such doings but was unable to follow them up . He said that when he reported insubordination or inefficiency to Dundas he had gone as far as he could . Dundas in turn told the Republicans that he could only turn such infractions over to William Trinkhaus , chief engineer of the district . Trinkhaus , in a glaring case such as the melting down of one of the plant 's four furnace boilers by three workmen who failed to keep water in it , would confer with the sanitary district trustees , Dundas said . Let Off with Suspension " I do n't know what would transpire there , " Dundas said . He admitted that the three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had recommended , but were let off with a six months ' suspension . Both men admitted that carelessness and inefficiency have contrib. uted to the lack of output of the sludge drying furnaces which last year turned out an average of 83 tons of dried fertilizer per day , compared with a rated capacity of 375 tons per day . However , Goodman insisted that faulty design was partly , responsible . Hennessy , Democratic press agent , who has held the post of superintendent of employment for the district at $5,000 a year since 1936 , warned the Republicans as they started to question him that his memory was " notoriously bad . " He proved it by not remembering offhand how many meetings the civil service board has held in any given month , how much time he spends in his office altho he thought it was " more than an hour a day , " and by not being able to recall whether the civil service board had ever made an investigation of worker efficiency as required by law . Wants Questions in Writing " Look , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hennessy told Oils . who was questioning him . " Than I 'll give you written answers after I 've looked up the information . " Among his duties , he said , arc signing the pay roll twice a month and investigating to see why workers wanted leaves of absence . " 0 , there 's a lot of detail work , too , " he said , " including the giving of civil service examinations . " Oils elicited the information that the last examination was given in 1941 altho the eligible lists are exhausted and more than half of the district 's employes are on a temporary basis , holding their jobs at the whim of politicians , " I do n't hire anybody , " Hennessy insisted . " I Just take who ever the patronage committee sends me . I mean the district 's employment committee . Joe Baran now Democratic candidate for city treas. utter ) was head of the committee . All I did was give ' em a paper to fill out . " The four Democratic trustees issued a statement charging that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attack " Trustee Oils has for some time past been quite insistent that control of sonic 200 temporary appoint . ments to sanitary district jobs be turned over to the Republican mi nority of our board , " they charged in a statement issued by A. F Maciejewski , president of the board and a Democratic holdover . " The Democratic members of the board do not share Trustee Oils interest in promoting the candidacy of the Republican machine 's choice for mayor of Chicago , " the state ment said .                     