@@711816

txt Postal inspectors announce yesterday that$88,500 in currency stolen from a mall pouch in Waukesha , Wis. , last Thursday had been'recovered intact in a Waukesha park . They ordered lie detector tests of all persons Involved in the shipment of the money from a Waukesha bank to the Federal Reserve bank here . The missing currency was still In its original packages , said J. M. Donaldson Jr. , acting chief postal inspector here . Act On Anonymous Tip An anonymous telephone call to the Waukesha police department Tuesday afternoon brought information that two boys had seen two sacks near a culvert in Frame park , Waukesha . Detective Moody Walter recovered the packages and Elmer J. Holmes , postal inspector in charge of the investigation , identified the money . In one package was $72,000 . In the other was $16,500 , including $6,500 in muMated bills . " The lie detector played a part in the recovery of the money , " said Holmes . He did n't elaborate beyond saying that one suspect had been cleared , after being given two Ile detector tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recovery of the funds to intensive investigation by postal inspectors , Waukesha police the slierill 's office there , and the Soo Line railroad , with lie detector help from Leonarde Keeler of Chicago and Charles M. Wilson , former Chicagoan who now heads the Wisconsin crime detection laboratory . Inside Job Indicated On the theory that the theft was an inside Job , they announced plans to question all persons involved in the shipment from the time it left the Waukesha National bank until postal employes on the Soo Line train discovered the registered mall pouch was missing . The pouch was found Saturday by two hunters In a clump of bushes 4 miles south of Waukesha . Registered letters had n't been removed but outer and inner pouches had been opened and the two packages ofcurrency removed . The man who telephoned the anonymous tip to police said he did n't want to get involved in the case but would identify himself later if his tip about two boys seeing money packages in the park proved of value . 