@@711443

txt Some careful barganing on the scope of the agenda for the proposed new Big Four conference on Germany , it is believed here , may be delaying the ? ' finish of allied talks at the Kremlin . - It is thought possible that Russia has sought to obtain certain minimum commitments from the western allies as regards both the Ruhr and the allied blueprint for western Germany before finally agreeing to a new Big Four conference on Germany . On the opposite side . it is virtually certain the western powers have certain advance stipulations of their own : That the seige of Berlin must be alleviated and that the new four-power talks must avoid propaganda techniques , with the Russians giving indication in advance that they are ready for serious , constructive discussion . Further Talks Foreseen For the second time since their initial meeting with Prime Minister Joseph Stalin , the representatives of the western powers  --  Frank Roberts , principal private secretary to British Foreign Secretary Ernest Beviii , and Walter - Bedell Smith and Yves Chataigneau , American and French Ambassadors ? have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aug. 9 session of nearly three hours was almost the same length as the Aug. 6 meeting with the Soviet foreign minister . A report of this latest conference has been received and discussed in London at the Foreign Office . It is expected here there will be still a further session with Mr. Molotov before all the issues are clarified , and that no final communiqu ? will be issued much before the end of this week . In Washington , Secretary of State George C. Marshall foreea .. i.t that there will be more meetings in Moscow between Mr. Molotov and representatives of the western powers , according to the Associated Press . " Our representatives have hien engaged in long discusSions , " Secretary Marshall said . " There probably will be others.1 Secrecy Maintaid ' S ? The curtain of secrecy remains Virtually intact . Usually well- . informed sources either are no longer well informed or are uncommunicative . The three western powers have proved they can.keep a secret , and for the Frenchwho are like H. Stringer of The Christian Science Monitor American congressmen in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But from the few brief comments available , it is suggested that whereas a communiqu ? was expected last week end announcing the time , plade , and possibly the agenda of a new session of the Big Four foreign ministers , devoted solely to the German question , a situation arose which necessitated postponement of that announcement . It is thought possible Mr. Molotov introduced new subject matter into the conversations of last Friday , Aug. 6 , which required the western envoys to seek new instructions from their governments . Commitments Asked ? It is uncertain precisely how vital were Mr. Molotov 's new stipulations , if stipulations they were . But it has been suggested here that Russia may have sought to nail down certain advance commitments from the western allies as the price either of opening the talks or of lifting the Berlin blockade . It is generally accepted , for instance , that Russia has two objectives which it will seek to put across at any new foreign ministers ' meeting : Postponement of western plans for a government of western Germany , and Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceivable , then , that Mr , Molotov not merely sought to assure that these topics will be included on the four-power agenda , but went further to seek certain allied pledges or assurances concerning these topics ? perhaps merely that they have top priority on the conference agenda , and perhaps something considerably more conclusive . Envoy Optimism Of course , it is difficult to see how the western envoys at , Moscow , unless exceptionally adept at poker faces , could have maintained their air of optimism of Mr. Molotov had gone so far as to demand an advance commitment from the West  --  before the prospective foreign ministers ' conference begins  --  that Russia will be given a voice in the Ruhr:and-that the allies will abandon their.plans for western Germany . So much for speculation . Meanwhile an air of confident optimism over the Berlin air lift  --  that allied venture which has afforded the western powers room and time for a diplomatic approach to Russia  --  continues to be expressed . By Edmund Stevens Staff Correspondent of ? The Christian Science Monitor Moscow Closer ? collaboration between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadcast by Moscow radio commemorating Russia 's declaration of war against Japan Aug. 9 , 1945 . At the same time , however , the Moscow press is publishing hints of action to curtail air transport of the western powers into Berlin on the ground that flight rules have been violated by the air-lift pilots . The radio broadcast , by a speaker identified only as Bronin , said the " fighting friendship and partnership " of Russia and the United States had clinched the victory over Japan . Peace Partnership Asked " Collaboration between the two countries is just as essential today as it was during the war , " the radiocast said . " Collaboration can assure a lasting peace at the present time . " The speaker went on , however , to draw a distinction between " the American masses , " who he said " realize this , " and American " reactionary circles , " whom he charged with " undermining collaboration . " By contrast with the broadcasts , comments in the Moscow press on the Berlin situation take a much more negative tone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities there have told German railway officials to stand by for a resumption of rail traffic to Berlin . But here in Moscow , Pravda takes the gravest view yet of the situation in the air corridor used by western planes flying to Berlin . Infractions Charged Pravda carried a Tass dispatch from Berlin quoting the Soviet military administration to the effect that despite previous warnings British and American pilots continued " systematic infraction " of the safety flight regulations in the air corridor over the Soviet occupation zone . Listing a series of instances , Tass declared that in three days ? July 31 to Aug. 2 inclusive  --  allied transport planes committed 62 offenses . It further alleged that British and American fighters had been buzzing Soviet territory . Among craft listed as involved in violations , besides numerous American C-47 's and ** was one low-flying American C-97 and one Sunderland Flying Boat . Plane Intercepted Tass further quoted " Soviet aviation circles " as charging that " Americans likewise commit another kind of infraction . " In particular last May , they unjustifiably invoked against a Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , measures provided for in a decision of the aviation directorate of the Allied Control Council , No. 132 , in the year 1946 . " This decision , Tass recalls , " provides for interception and forcing down of planes . flying on an unauthorized course and in prohibited areas . " Also from Berlin comes strong Soviet criticism of British authorities there- for permitting opening of " so-called exchange bureaus " for eastern zone marks . According to the Tass report , the main purpose of these exchange bureaus is " artifically and by illegal means to devaluate the marks of the German Bank of Issue ( eastern . zone marks ) in which Berlin workers are paid , and thereby to aggravate the material condition of the ' Berlin population . "                     