@@707013

txt The financial markets " very obviously " are reflecting . the nation 's satisfaction over the progress of the war . Emil Schram , president of the New York Stock Exchange said yesterday . However , Mr. Schram warned the public against purchasing low priced stocks without adequate investigation . Those who are unable to judge " intrinsic values , " or who are unwilling to be guided by these - values , should " stay out " of the market , the Stock Exchange ? head added . He pointed out that the Exchange requires companies whose securities are on its list to make avail able factual Information as to earnings and financial condition . - Those using the facilities of the Exchange . Mr. Schram said , are urged to avail themselves of this information and not be " intrigued only by the fact that particular securities may be selling at very low prices . " " The securities which are cheapest in price , " he concluded . " may . in reality , be the most expensive measured by the consideration of true worth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The financial markets are very obviously reflecting the country 's satisfaction over our progress and that of our Allies in this war . These markets are also reflecting the healthy conditions of the civilian economy and the increasingly bright prospects that . after the war Las been won , we are to have a stable order under our traditional system of enterprise and equal opportunity . This system LI insuring its survival by miracles of production . It is meeting a supreme test , amazing not only our enemies but our allies as well . " The vitality of our markets augurs well for the success of the forthcoming War Bond campaign . These markets are telling a story of confidence and , with confidence as a base , we should have no difficulty in attaining any goal which the Treasury may set for the April financing . " Free markets are open to all , as they should be , but access to them should not be abused . Those who are unable to judge ihtrinsic values , or are unwilling to , be guided by these values , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requires that the companies whose securities are on its list make available factual information as to their earnings and financial condition . The  --  Exchange urges that all who use its facilities avail themselves of this information and not be intrigued only by the fact that particular securities may be selling at very low prices . The securities which are cheapest in price may , In reality , be the most expensive , measured by the consideration of true worth . " 