@@709868

txt Motoring thru Palestine definitely should not be included in the plans of prospective American tourists in the middle cast in the near future . This was proved by a trip made in a Tribune car last night , when Jewish terrorist gangs went Into action after two weeks ' inactivity . It was 7:10 p. m. when the Tribune car passed the 4 kilometer 2IA , mile ) marker en route from Jerusalem to this modern Jewish city on Palestine 's seacoast . Twenty minutes later , at the same spot , terrorists blew up a large British army truck with a hand detonated land mine , then fired on the occupants I with heavy machine guns from ambush . Two British soldiers were killed and an officer and two soi1 diers seriously wounded . Stopped by Arab Youths Twenty miles farther on , near a big British detention camp at Latrun , flashing red lights and Bren guns brought our car to a halt while grim , nervous British troops inspected the credentials of this writer and bilis wife and searched the car for hidden weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the United States to sit for 15 minutes with the muzzle of a submachine gun held unwaveringly in her face . Jewish terrorists were concentrating on - mining roads last night and , the Tribune car blundered into that sort of trouble about 10 miles out of Tel Aviv . Speeding thru a small Arab village , the car was waved down by frantic Arab youths . Speaking no English , they got the idea across to us by pointing ahead down the road and ' shouting , " Boom . " Turning back , we tried another road Into Tel Aviv but after a few miles we met a British patrol blocking the road with the same warning , " Mines . " Gingerly , the Tribune car began picking its way back toward Jerusalem . Soon another British patrol explained it was impossible to return to Jerusalem because the road , over which the Tribune car had traveled only an hour before , now was mined in many places . British Serve Tea Seeing a girl in the car , the British officer in charge hastened away for tea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vehicles , gave us blankets and announced we had better plan to stay for the night . In the distance we could hear automatic fire and once or twice muffled explosions . For two hours the Tribune car was stymied while a radio truck blared reports of terrorist activities ? " an unsuccessful attempt to blow up a British troop train south , of Haifa ? a civilian car blasted by a mine near Jaffa , an Arab passenger hurt  --  a British noncom injured while removing a road mine north of Tel Aviv  --  a heavily guarded road leading to the high commissioner 's home outside Jerusalem found mined despite armored car patrols . " Shortly after midnight we were told the road to Tel Aviv was " probably clear " and we could try it . Thirty minutes later , after carefully making a detour around what seemed to be a long wire attached to a lump in the pavement , the Tribune car rolled into a Tel Aviv garage . 