@@707117

txt New York City had its first Sunday air raid drill yesterday morning . It was ordered by the Army through the Second Service , Command without previous warning to Mayor La Guardia or other city officials , but at its close the Mayor expressed his " complete satisfaction " with the manner in which the city had met the test . From the flashing of the yellow confidential alarm at 10:50 A. M. , which was the first notification of the impending alert to the Police and Fire Departments and the city 's protective services , to the all-clear at 11:5914 , A. M. , one hour and nine and a half minutes elapsed , but the public was actually barred from the streets for only ten minutes . The sirens were first sounded on the blue signal at 11:20 A. M. , serving as a preliminary warning to pedestrians and vehicular passengers to be ready to take shelter . The red signal , calling for persons to leave the streets and for traffic to halt , came at 11:35 A. M. and the second blue signal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theoretical Iraiders might return , . was at 11:45 A. M. 105,000 Wardens on Duty When the red signal sounded 105,000 air raid wardens were on duty , ? according to the Bureau of Operations at Police Headquarters . Seventy-five hundred policemen who were off duty reported to their precincts ; 9,000 auxiliary firemen appeared for duty at their firehouses ; 5,418 members of the City Patrol Corps turned out , and 7,980 workers of the Public Works Emergency Division responded , 430 of whom were staff members at control centers , and 7,550 workers // with operating batteries in the field . Many thousands of New Yorkers were worshiping in the city 's churches when the sirens first sounded . As soon as the yellow confidential alarm had been received , the Mayor had directed the Police Department to notify all churches that it was only a practice drill and that services need not be suspended . In most churches the pastors announced this fact and excused air raid wardens in the congregations to go to their posts . In some churches , however , the service was briefly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Avenue and Seventh Street , the congregation calmly followed the instructions of the pastor , the Rev. Ernest R. Palen , and filed into a shelter within the church , singing hymns as they did so . After the all-clear , the choir led a procession back into the church . Congregation Goes to Shelters At Christ Methodist Church , Park Avenue and Sixtieth Street , the Rev. Dr. Ralph W. Sockman interrupted his sermon to announce the alert and the congregation filed in orderly fashion into near-by shelters . Part of the congregation assembled in the lobby of the Hotel La Salle half a block away and sang hymns and recited psalms for the duration of the test . Holy communion service was in progress in the Cathedral of St. John the Divine when the sirens sounded . Canon Edward N. West announced to the congregation that there was an air raid warning and the 2,000 worshipers , led by a crucifer , two torch bearers and the choir , filed to the Cathedral Crypt , while the clergy at the altar continued the celebration of the service . Four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of the drill . The Rev. William King , who was preaching the sermon , told the worshipers that a practice drill was under way and that every one should remain in the church . No one left and there was no confusion . Fire Commissioner Patrick Walsh and 2,500 members of the Fire Department were attending a communion breakfast of the department 's Holy Name Society - at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria when the drill started . Commissioner Walsh hurried to City Hall but Assistant Fire Chief John J. McCarthy instructed the men to stand by . He told reporters later that the Mayor had given instructions the men need not report to their fire houses " unless it is the real thing . " Perhaps the most disconsolate of the city 's millions at the shrill sound of the sirens were the thousands of pleasure seekers who were waiting in line outside the Paramount Theatre , the Radio City Music Hall , the Roxy Theatre , and other motion-picture theatres . Some of them complained bitterly when the police and air raid wardens compelled them to leave their places and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tape was swung across the Radio City Music Hall line along West Fiftieth Street and the crowd was herded into the RCA Building . There , too , complaints were numerous that places achieved after an hour or more of patient waiting had been lost through the practice alert . Fighter Planes Fly Over A group of three fighter planes flew over midtown just after the first sounding of the sirens . The crowd on the observation level on the 102d floor of the Empire State Building was able to see their American markings plainly , while apparently people in the street below paid little attention to them . Wardens escorted the crowd from the observation floor of the building to the eighty-sixth floor . When the all-clear came through Mayor La Guardia issued a mobilization order for the Emergency Medical Services of Manhattan , Brooklyn , and Queens . The Manhattan mobilization at City Hall produced sixty-three. ambulances and ninety-seven field hospital teams , a total of 408 men and women . The Mayor quickly inspected them and praised their response . In Brooklyn , twenty-five ambulances and fifty-six teams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineteen ' ambulances and forty teams , consisting of 240 individuals , answered . Five persons were arrested during the drill for refusing to take shelter when ordered to do so by air raid wardens . One of the five , Carmelo de Maria of 485 Quincy Street , Brooklyn , . had an added charge of simple assault placed against him for allegedly punching a warden in the face . In his radio broadcast shortly after the drill was over , Mayor La Guardia made a cryptic reference to an earlier warning that a real attack was in prospect . " It was n't many Sundays ago that I was told to be on the alert , that a real attack was not unlikely , " he said . " The enemy does n't give notice when it intends to attack . " He said the test was successful and that the response of the emergency medical units was " beyond expectations . "                     