@@710386

txt Withl brated the holiday with extra ra -1 restrictions over the nation 's Gov-i itions of food , cigarettes and rice ! important figures in Japan held wine -- a cherished delicacy nowll almost unobtainable  --  all the most the dawn of Constitution Day today , Japan received the right tot fly her Rising Sun flag without . the stage in the capital . ! ? ernment and Palace buildings . A downpour of rain marred ! An announcement by Gen. Tokyo 's celebration and kept the Douglas abolished the ! crowd assembled in the palace previous regulation that speciallplaza to about 3,000 , huddled under i permission be obtained from the umbrellas . occupation authorities before displaying the red sun on the white field , the emblem that the Allies ! wiped from . land , sea and al ? in ' three and a half years of war . . At the same time , with all the pomp and ceremony of which the defeated country was capable , Japan today put into final effect her new Constitution renouncing war forever and basing the rule of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people . While the . wholes empire celeThree " banzais " went up from the crowd as Emperor Hirohito mounted the platform and waved his hat to the crowd . He remained standing in the rain about five minutes before returning to the palace , while the speakers , headed by Premier Shigeru Yoshida , pro-I ceeded with the scheduled program . General 's announcement restoring the Japanese flag came in the form of a letter to Premier Yoshida : " Let this flag fly to signify the advent in Japanese life of a new and enduring era of peace based on personal liberty , individual Liberty , tolerance and justice . " " With the effectuation of the new Japanese Constitution , there will be established in Japan a government erected on democratic principles by the free expression of the popular will , " the letter continued . This government is ' " composed of coordinate organs of state pow. er , fully responsible to the people , in whom sovereignty now rests , and dedicated to the realization and safeguarding of the sanctity of human freedom and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mark this historic ascendency of democratic freedom which this event has made possible , I believe it particularly appropriate that henceforth the Japanese national flag be restored to the people of Japan . " Premises that may be so marked , General said , are the National Parliament , Supreme Court , residence of the Premier and " residence of the Emperor , who assumes a constitutional role as a symbol of the state and unity of the people . " Cabinet to Resign Tuesday Li line with the start of the new Constitution , it was announced that the Yoshida Government would resign after the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday , when a date will be set for the first session of the new constitutional Diet . Under the Meiji Constitution , in effect since 1889 , the Emperor named the Premier . The new Prime Minister-now will be elected by the Diet that hhs just been chosen in two national elections . Parliament will sit for the first time under the new basic law about May 20 . Premier ' Yoshida , in a special message at this morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spirit as well as the letter of the Constitution a reality and to prevent corruptions such as ' made the liberal Meiji Constitution an instrument in the hands of the prewar militarists . " The new Constitution has manifested unparalleled progress in its thoroughgoing pacifism and impartial democracy , " Mr. Yoshida declared . " However excellent the new Constitution may be , the reconstruction of our country can not be attained unless we endeavor to understand the deep inner spirit of the Constitution and make efforts for the true realization of the sublime ideals expressed by it . Today 's ceremonies were held under the auspices of the Society for the Popularization of the Constitution ? an organization formed at Allied instigation to acquaint the  --  largest possible number of Japanese with the new charter . Hitoshi Ashida , chairman of the society , headed the group of members of the Cabinet , both Houses of Parliament and representatives of the courts and Government offices who participated in the ceremonies . Mr : Ashida urged the Japanese to be ready to " defend at the cost of our lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In an implied warning against a resurgence of totalitarianism or violent attempts against parliamentary government such as Japan already , has witnessed , even since the occupation , Mr. Ashida said " no optimistic viewpoint is warranted at this moment when we see the many difficulties lying ahead . " We must bear in mind what could become of the Japanese race should the people fail to understand the spirit of the new - Constitution and should the politics of Japan not be carried on along democratic lines . I urge the Japanese people to determine to defend the new Constitution at all costs . " Although Tokyo 's formal celebration overshadowed all others , all Japan today observed Constitution Day both as a time of solemnity and as a public festival . Ail large cities had ceremonies similar to those in the capital . Something like a new national anthem also resulted  --  a song , " Our Nippon , " written especially for the occasion . Since this was sung for the first time in the presence of the Emperor , it had the highest official blessing .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          