@@708934

txt Abolition of the Japanese Ministries of War and the Navy with a gradual broadening of democratic processes , including limiting the influence of the House of Peers , was promised today by Gen. Prince Naruhiko Higashi-Kuni , Premier of Japan , in his first press conference . While emphasizing that all plans for reorganization of the Japanese Government must have the approval of Gen. Douglas 's headquarters , Prince Higashi-Kuni indicated that his Cabinet hoped Ito keep many reforms in its own hands and that these included the Ipunishment of war criminals , which he said had already been started by the Japanese themselves . The Premier promised to an4iounce names and details , including the punishments meted out , ' within a few days . General suspended Asahi , Tokyo 's leading newspaper , for forty-eight hours for printing " inflammable " headlines and articles contrary to Allied policy . The Premier revealed that the Japanese Government expects to ask the Allied powers for " financial and material assistance " in rehabilitating the beaten nation . With such aid , he said , Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he asserted that he would attempt to discourage any ambition among the Japanese for a resurgence of their country 's power . While Prince Higashi-Kuni professed ignorance as to details of the events leading up to the war and said he had not been informed of the progress of the war , he declared that , in his opinion , his cousin , Emperor Hirohito , should not be considered a war criminal , im- plying that the Emperor had been led into the war by the Cabinet . The Premier 's first press conference was certainly the most remarkable ever held in Japan and probably no man of comparable political status in any country of the world had ever been subjected to such blunt questioning by news correspondents . Replying through an interpreter , he underwent this grilling without losing his aplomb . At the close of the two-hour session he invited the correspondents to give their views of Japan , which he said he wished to communicate to the Emperor . After correspondents had done so with utter frankness and without mincing words , the Premier agreed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war prisoners by the Japanese and Prince HigashiKuni 's role as an army general commanding the home air defense at the time of the atrocities took an accusatory tone . The Prince showed no offense when an Australian correspondent particularly let strong personal feeling guide the wording of his questions . Japanese reporters , who were present , but asked no questions , were aghast at this unprecedented treatment of a member of the Imperial household . The Emperor 's role in the war 's outbreak , especially as regards the Pearl Harbor attack , was the subject of a relentless barrage of questions , to all ? of which Prince Higashi-Kuni replied in essence that these details were " state secrets " beyond his present knowledge . He agreed to ask the Emperor directly whether he knew of the Pearl Harbor attack in advance . Rejects Onus of Executions About fifty Allied correspondents and photographers were received in a large room in the Premier 's office building , which resembles a mansion rather than a business edifice . The Prince . with an interpreter at his left , sat in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ screen . A small table in front of him held an ash tray and cigarette box . He wore a light tan Western-style business suit of summer fabric . The first question , setting the mood of the conference , was : " Did you give the order for the execution of the Doolittle fliers , or were you in any way responsible for their execution ? " " We regret that we were unable to shoot down any fliers here on Japanese territory , " he replied . " It seems that a few were forced to land in China . " " That does n't answer my question , " the correspondent persisted . " Concerning executions , " the Prince said , " that was the work of Imperial Headquarters here in Japan and I do n't know much about it . If such was the case in China , that was beyond my jurisdiction and it would have been beyond my power ' to issue such an order . " The Premier explained chat during the war he was a general in the army , charged with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with American fliers extended " only to the time we shot down a plane  --  after that it was someone else . " He said he had heard reports that fliers had been executed in Japan and added : " I am thinking of looking into this and , if there are any offenders , they will be punished without my awaiting an order from the Allied army . We will do this ourselves . " Data on Punishment Promised He added that the Japanese had already punished some " war criminals . " In response to insistent demands for names , charges and the punishments administered , he promised to obtain this information as soon as possible and give it to the correspondents through Brig . Gen. Legrande A. Diller , Gen. Douglas 's press relations chief . " The Army and Navy Ministers are still doing their work , " he said . " While the army and navy are on the way to being demobilized , they still have authority to meet on such cases . After demobilization is complete , with the permission of Allied headquarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as possible . " " If we abolished these ministries right away , however , there would be much confusion attendant to demobilized soldiers returning home , even if the ministries were abolished and smaller sections retained . " " On what grounds did the war government of which you were a member permit inhuman treatment of Allied prisoners ? " " In our system defense commanders were not part of the Cabinet . " The Premier added that he had often protested to Imperial Headquarters upon hearing reports of mistreatment and " they said they would think it over . " " Was the Emperor aware of the mistreatment of Allied prisoners ? " " I do n't think he was . " " Why did n't you tell him ? " " Here in Japan , the system is such that I was in no position to relate such things to the Emperor . What I told the Emperor must relate to my own jurisdiction as defense commander . " Pearl Harbor a State Secret " Did any member of the Imperial family know of the attack on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did n't know . It was a state secret . I do n't know whether the Emperor knew . We were not made to know . " Concerning Japanese secret societies , including the Black Dragon , the Premier said : " I think such organizations as the Black Dragon are not good for us and I hope they will dissolve of their oWn accord . If not , they will be dissolved by the power of the Government . " " Why does the Prime Minister say that when he knows the full papers of the Black Dragon Society were handed into the Home Office on Sept. 8 for liquidation ? " a correspondent asked . " We have n't had enough time to look into such things because we have been so busy carrying out orders from General 's headquarters , " he replied , and added : " I wish to create a committee to look into placing responsibility for the war . With the understanding of General 's headquarters we intend to try to punish such war criminals . " Says Emperor Was Deceived Asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in democratic countries regarded the Emperor as a war criminal and that there was a demand for his trial , the Prince replied : " I firmly believe that the Emperor is not a war criminal . He was deceived by military men who were close to the Emperor . He was not told the truth . " " Who were those men ? " " I shall study that . There were those elements . " " If the Emperor is allowed to remain on his throne , what guarantee have we that he will not be deceived again by the military of the future and allow another war to start ? " a correspondent inquired . " We shall see to it that such shall not happen again . " " How ? " " We shall tell the truth and assist him so as not to bring about such a war . " " Under the Japanese system can Japan start a war without the Emperor 's knowledge ? " " The system has been that the ( Cabinet decides upon such a problem and its decision is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Can he veto such a decision ? " " Up to now the Cabinet has been given full responsibility and in most cases the Emperor has not vetoed such decisions . " Emperor 's Veto Discussed " We assume , then , that the decision to attack Pearl Harbor was communicated to the Emperor by the Cabinet ? " " I do n't know about that  --  I had nothing to do with those matters at the time . " " May the Emperor veto if he de-sires ? " " According to custom here , if the Cabinet decides on certain things , the Emperor does not veto . " This discussion brought up the question of Japanese constitutional provisions respecting the powers ot the Cabinet and the Emperor 's veto , which the Premier professed he was unable to resolve . He promised to have " constitutional scholars " draw up an answer on this point . At the request of a correspondent , he then agreed to ask the Emperor directly if he knew about Pearl Harbor in advance . Asked " is n't it true that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the Prince replied " That is the fact . " Pressed further on the ' possibility that the Emperor had prior knowledge that the Pearl Harbor attack was planned , the Premier said : " That is a great state secret and we still do not know . It would be clear in due course of time , but we can not tell you now . I was in Europe at the time of the last war and did not know many things . It may take several years to bring out all the facts of this war . " An Australian correspondent took several minutes trying to establish whether Prince HigashiKuni ever had visited prison camps while inspecting defenses . He                     