@@712173

txt At 2 p.m. today a gold and scarlet banner bearing the king 's royal arms plus a Tudor rose swung to the top of the flagpole over Clarence house , the mansion chosen to become the official residence of Princess Elizabeth , Britain 's heiress to the throne . The hoisting of the flag meant that Elizabeth and Prince Philip , the duke of Edinburgh , had moved in after waiting for more than 18 months for the house to be modernized and outfitted in a style considered fit for a 20th century queen-to-be . Passers-by now always can tell when the couple are at home . They are in if the banner is up . Elizabeth and Philip arrived at the mansion with their personal belongings from Buckingham palace , the king 's home , a few blocks away . The place was ready . The plumbers , electricians , wood workers , plasterers , and Interior decorators , all were gone . The place was home like . There was a staff of 22 functioning like clockwork . These servants had been moved in nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the big day . Footmen Wear Green Just as at Buckingham palace , the king 's guard in black bearskins and scarlet were on duty at the gate , plus two blue clad London bobbies ( policemen ) In their tall helmets , Inside , the footmen wore green , instead of the Buckingham palace scarlet . Their outfits were marked with an " E " on the shoulder . Hitherto , Elizabeth 's banner has been raised only when she was on official visits to Scotland .. The king assigned her this banner In 1944 and approved differentiating his arms from hers by the addition to her banner of a rose which symbolizes the royal house of Indor . It was always the favorite badge of Britain 's first Queen Elizabeth . Two Sets Of Lions The rose is in the center of a silver bar which lies across the top of the royal arms . The royal arms have two sets of three rear ing gold lions on a red background . This , alone , was the banner which Britain 's crusading king . Richard Coeur de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century and which remained Britain 's royal emblem until the 17th century when King James 1 . incorporated the Scottish symbols . Soatland 's additions were a red lion on a gold background and the French fleur de his , which was the symbol of Scotland 's close associations with France since the 14th century . To balance the Scottish arms now on the British banner , James also threw in a gold harp with silver strings on a blue background for Ireland , a flag Witch Elizabeth , : hitherto , had flown separately . 