@@705858

txt The routing of a German infantry division in the Gomel sector of the Eastern Front was claimed by the Russians today . Gomel is about ? mid-way , between Kiev and the Smolensk sector where the Russians said expulsion of a strong Nazi spearhead from a 150-square-mile zone had dealt a heavy blow to the Germans . Red Army counterattacks in both vital sectors were understood to be continuing full blast . The Red forces which recently retook Yelnya , 40 miles east of Smolensk , are now reported advancing on Smolensk , after apparently shattering the main Nazi spearhead aimed at Moscow . Large quantities of material have been captured in mopping up operations , the Russians stated . Survivors Pursued The victorious Soviet forces on the central front , under the personal direction of Marshal Semyon Timoshenko , were declared in hot pursuit of survivors of the German forces . Here the Russians were reported officially to have reconquered 150 square miles of territory and 50 villages in two days . Following up Russian declarations that 20,000 Rumanians had fallen in the attack upon Odessa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been destroyed by Russian fliers , artillery and infantrymen in fighting at the approaches to Kiev , the Ukraine Capital . In the teeth of these sweeping Soviet claims , the Berlin radio today radiocast a report from what were described as " competent quarters " that German forces on the Central sector had captured the town of Vyazma , 90 miles east of Smolensk and only 130 miles from Moscow . Except to say that successful Red Army counterattacks on other sectors would relieve the pressure on Leningrad , Russian sources made no mention of the embattled northern city , round which the German Command claimed to have thrown a siege ring . Capture Not Denied In reply to direct questioning , 1 the Soviet Foreign Office spokesman , S. A. Lozovsky , would neither deny nor confirm German capture of Schliisselburg , the key railway junction east of Leningrad . Authorized German sources acknowledged today that Nazi forces had not yet succeeded in cutting Leningrad off completely from the rest of Russia and said the Soviet defenders were putting up a terrific battle . An outlet from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Previous assertions by the German High Command that Leningrad had been encircled referred only to the cutting of land communications , they declared . Dispatches from the front indicated that the great conflict for possession of the former capital of Russia 's Czars was becoming more bitter with each passing hour , with the Russians " firing from all barrels " ? as one German war correspondent put it . ' London also reported to have agreed to cut exports one third during war era . By Joseph G. Harrison Staff Correspondent of The Chrietian Science Montt* , WASHINGTON , Sept. 10 ? Lend ? lease imports from the United States are restricted to materials vital to the conduct of the war and are being used neither In competition with American industry and trade abroad nor in speculation and profiteering at home , the British Government has informed the United States . The two nations also are reported to have reached an agreement whereby Britain voluntarily will curtail its export trade by one third for the remainder of the war , thus regulating competition between American and British exporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cordell Hull , Secretary of State , said at his press conference in answer to a question as to possible British export cuts that British exports already had been reduced tremendously and he knew of no check being made as to possibility of cutting them further . The agreement is said to have been formulated after reports that the British were re-exporting lend-lease material , thereby injuring American exporters through the very goods paid for by American taxpayers . Minor Exceptions The British lend-lease statement , contained in a memorandum from Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary , to American Ambassador John G. Winant , categorically denies these charges and promises that " His Majesty 's Government has taken and will continue to take action to secure that these goods are not in any case diverted to the furtherance of private interests . " An official British statement pointed out , however , that there were several minor exceptions to the " no re-export " rule which are I felt to be unavoidable and which apparently have the full approval of Washington . One of these exceptions is that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption of the material in question shall be at least equal to the amounts received under lend-lease . " Other exceptions which apply to such lend-lease and paid-for materials as are restricted in the United States are as follows : 1 . " Material which is needed overseas in connection with supplies essential to the war effort for ourselves and our allies , and which can not be obtained from the United States . 2 . " Small quantities of materials needed as minor though essential components of experts which otherwise are composed of materials not in short supply in the United States . 3 . ' ' Repair parts for British machinery and plants now in use , and machinery and plants needed to complete installations now under construction . so long as they already have been contracted for . " Limitation Set Furthermore , London declares that materials similar to those received . under lend-lease and of which there is no shortage in the United States will not be exported " in quantities greater than I those which we ourselves produce or buy from any source . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in connection with food sent from the United States . " Food distribution is carried out in the United Kingdom by wholesalers , to whom the Government sells food as principals . In fact . the Ministry of Food has established a close control over all distributive margins so that neither the wholesalers nor the retailers receive any greater remuneration than is adequate to cover the cost of services performed . " No food obtained on lend-lease terms is , or will be , sold at uncontrolled prices . Thus the general arrangements as regards the issue of lend-lease food fit into His Majesty 's Government 's policy of stabilizing the whole price levei of foodstuffs , a policy to which the Government contributed Z100,000,000 a year . " British Trade Restricted Mr. Eden assured Ambassador Winant that " owing to the need to devote all available capacity and man power to war production , the United Kingdom export trade is restricted to the irreducible minimum necessary to supply or obtain materials essential to the war effort . " Thus British exports , according to the memorandum , have been more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for sterling bloc countries , and to acquiring foreign exchange , principally in the Western Hemisphere . The reported agreement restricting British exports is seen as dovetailing with the export policy outlined by Secretary Eden . The United States Government is known to have no wish to cut off all British export trade , since it is recognized that Britain not only must obtain credits for purchase of materials not available in the United States but also must preserve its economic life . The agreement is thought to have been the result of conversations here between John Maynard Keynes , British economist , and American diplomatic and commercial officials The question of British export trade was brought up by American exporters , some of whom have objected to the lend-lease program so long as Britain continued to maintain competitive trade .                     