@@709532

txt Compulsory arbitration seems likely to emerge as the Administration 's long-range answer to paralyzing tridustrywide strikes . A check among key Government officials shows that it heads the list of their " permanent preventives " - This idea of forcing employers and employes to arbitrate their wage disputes and other differences is not a new one . It has been proprosed in Congress from time to time by individual members but never with Administration backing . These proposals never have made any progress . To make the idea of compulsory arbitration more saleable to Congress , it is being given a new twist  --  a judicial twist . The latest suggestion among top Government officials is that a law might be passed which would provide for court review and final settlement of disputes in cases where collective bargaining has failed and where a strike threatens the national welfare . Limited To Basic Industries The scope of compulsory arbitration would be limited to basic industries and services on which V ? welfare of the nation depends ? such as co I , steel , transportation , communications and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not yet been worked out the general idea is : Original jurisdiction over arbitration cases would be given to a special commission or . perhaps , a labor relations court . The " reasonableness " of arbitration awards could be appealed to the Supreme Court by either management or labor . During arbitration , working conditions would remain unchanged ; the final award would be retroactive . Enforcement would be through injunctions . Workers who walked off their jobs would lose their employe status and if they became pickets would be subject to criminal penalties . The significance of this new idea goes far beyond the mere use of the dispute-settling machinery offered by the nation 's judicial system . Wage-setting might well boil down to a court determination of how profits are to be divided between owners and labor , just as the courts determine the ownership of property in dispute . Anti-Trust Lawn . an Alternative A much-discussed but less-favored all ernative to compulsory arbitration is application of the anti-trust laws to unions . ' Under present laws one union can call a strike co ' , - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they chose , could band together to call strikes simultaneously in a number of key industries . Those Government officials who are considering application of anti-trust laws to unions ? and this would require additional legislation ? would make it unlawful for unions to band together to shut down one whole segment of the economy at one time . They would force unions to be no more than companywide , not industrywide as at present . The anti-trust approach would hit directly at the concentration of economic power in the hands of the big union hoses . And top Government officials are aware , of course , that these same union bosses also wield considerable political influence . For that reason many officials are inclined to dismiss the antitrust proposal as " too difficult of enforcement . " In Congress , however , the anti-trust route is certain to get considerable attention in the coming investigation of labor disputes . their causes and cures . One reason why unions are so worked up over the Case Bill is that it puts the camel 's nose under the anti-trust tent by outlawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Congress regarded the boycott as a trade restraint . The suggestion that the Labor Relations Act be balanced to make labor more responsible for the exercise of its privileges and to remove discrimination against management pops up frequently in official Government discussions . But this is considered as politically dangerous as the anti-trust route . It would mean curbs on the unions . President 's Action a Question Mark Of all the major long-range anti-strike proposals ' under consideration , compulsory arbitration is considered the least dangerous politically That is one of the chief reasons why it heads the list . There is no certainty , however , that President Truman will support either this or any other permanent legislation to curb strike shutdowns in industry . Action will depend on how dark or how bright the labor front looks in the fall and winter . Any plan for compulsory arbitration of labor disputes will , of course . run head-on into strong opposition . The compulsion would cut two ways , restricting both management and labor . But those Federal officials who believe the time has come when such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think the opposition can be overcome . They count on a combination of proper timing and potent arguments to mobilize public support for compulsory arbitration . The " proper " time may come early in 1947 Wage and working condition contracts signed this year will be expiring then , and all indications today are that another round of paralyzing strikes will be in prospect . There are no national elections in 1947 . So , politically , it would be as good a year as any to try the reform . Officials point out that it was demonstrated this year how quickly public sentiment de , mends action when strikes hit basic industries affecting the public welfare . The House , for example . incensed by the railroad strike , passed President Truman 's emergency seizure and draft bill after only 40 minutes consideration . Need " Final Voice " Those who favor compulsory arbitration take the position that there should be a final voice somewhere to tell labor and management . especially in the basic industries and services , where they must settle when traditional bargaining methods have failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strike . Such power , they argue , is not in conflict with the democratic process At this point'the judiciary is brought into the picture . These officials contend that civil suits ore nothng more than compulsory arbitration within boundaries set by law and custom . The findings of the Supreme Court are binding upon parties to a legal dispute , and court decisions are enforced by compulsion . Such an arbitration process would , of course . take considerable time . But its advocates think the system would work after it once became a part of the accepted way of doing business . The proposed court procedure is designed to do more than ** tie labor disputes into a well-accepted method of settling legal arguments . It would take arbitration outside the field of politics . If , for example , the President were to pick the arbitration hoards , he could pretty well determine their decisions in advance by selecting men with definite social and economic learnings . The court review , says its proponents , would tend to minimize chances for this .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       