@@711182

txt The City of Newton today contracted for the building of what Mayor Theodore R. Lockwood termed the largest single veterans housing development of its kind ever constructed in New ngland. or In the presence or governor Bradford and Carl Mullen , Newton Commissioner of Veterans Housing , Mayor Lockwood signed contracts with the Kelly Corporation of Arlington , Mass. , to construct 415 three-bedroom homes for local veterans at a cost of $7,820 to the buyers . This low purchasing price is made possible , Mayor Lockwood disclosed , by building on City-owned land with the City providing all utilities and streets . The development is planned for the safety of school children , attractive home arrangements , and landscaping . Work will begin at once in clearing the proposed site on waste lands in the Oak Hill District , where the City has taken some 140 acres for development . First veterans will move into the community about Aug. 1 , Mayor Lockwood figured . Mayor Confident " I am confident , " Mayor Lockwood stated , " that Newton 's veteran housing project is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 development from the standpoint of the contractor , land development , and protection of the veterans ' and community 's interests . " The contract was negotiated after months of extensive study of veterans ' housing needs in the city by Warren Oliver , president of the Newton Cooperative Bank , Frederick Hawkins and Mr. Mullen , who comprise Newton 's three-man Veterans ' Housing Department . Joseph F. Kelly , President of the Kelly Corporation , signed for the contractors . In planning the project the city has had the assistance of John Dobbs , former Regional Housing Expediter under the National Housing Agency , and now Vice-President of the Kelly Corporation . Unique Project In many respects , the Newton development will be unique . Virtually no other builders have attempted to erect three-bedroom houses at anything like the low price of $7,820 . No such houses could be built at that low price without some subsidization by the community . The formula followed by the City is unlike any other veterans housing developemnt . Without actually going into the real estate business , the City has provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the capacity of veterans to buy through GI loans . Picture : Page 2 Newton Mayor Expedites Housing Bra Staff Photographer Mayor Theodore R. Lockwood of Newton , Mass. ( seated ) signs a contract for construction of 415 single-family homes for that city 's war veterans . Gathered around him are , left to right , Governor Bradford , JOseph F. Kelly , President of Kelly Corporation , ' which will build the houses ; John Dobbs , former Regional Housing Expediter for the National Housing Administration , and Carl Mullen , Newton Commissioner of Veterans ' Housing .                     