@@711607

txt Senator Wayne L. Morse ( R ) of Oregon ? in Massachusetts on a speaking tour ? is demonstrating his highest concept of political ethics . Although , on occasion , an outspoken critic of Republican Party policy  --  especially the Taft-Hartley Act ? he is urging " constitutional liberals " to stay aboard the party vehicle . In fairness to the party , Senator Morse explained at a press conference in Boston . individuals elected on the Republican ticket " can not take everything from the party and not put anything back . " " Because we have constitutional liberals who are constantly challenging , " Senator Morse continued , " we are building up a truly progressive party . " Tough Assignment The former dean of ' the University of Oregon Law School , does not have an easy campaign schedule . The Republican Party has assigned him to speak at numerous rough and - tumble forums and at labor meetings . " Some of the reactionary Republicans are waking up to the fact that it is not a bad idea to have a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a smile . However , he added , " I think black Republicanism died at the Philadelphia convention and our party is going forward under the constitutional liberalism of Dewey and Warren . " In recalling his battle to sustain President Truman 's veto of the Taft-Hartley Act , Senator Morse said that " nothing could be further from the truth than to say Wayne Morse is the voice of labor . " Reason for ' Big Stick ' The " big stick " provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act were enacted , he said , because in 1947 labor was " acting outside the framework of public opinion . " Lately , the Senator has found that increasing numbers of thoughtful employers agree that I changes in the procedural provisions of the Taft-Hartley Law are desirable . The alterations he seeks to incorporate in the labor law were incorporated in the Morse-Ives bill , he said . Unless changes are made , he warned , the resentment of labor groups will be felt seriously by the Republicans in 1950 and 1952 . Discussing - other campaign issues , Senator Morse said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inequities in the farm-support program . However , " I want to make it clear to consumers of the East and generally that their interest is not to be found in elimination of the farm-support program , " he said . Senator Morse is at Mount Holyoke College , South Hadley , Mass. , today . He spoke at Harvard University last night .                     