@@711532

txt Public opinion researchers are now inquisitive on a global scale . What kind of jewelry do the people of Argentina prefer , antique or modern ? Do Australians dream of living in the big city or a quiet country town ? Or do they prefer a borne on a farm ? What percentage of Frenchmen are left-handed ? Do most Americans believe in life after death ? And how do their beliefs compare with those of Eng-lishmen ? All these questions and hundreds of others are being put by the global poll-takers . Some of the replies are sought for purely human interest reasons . Other polls are financed by business firms searching for markets or testing their public relations . Some questions are aimed at increasing international goodwill and understanding . Many are in the realm of statistical research . Here in this Allegheny mountain resort village , a couple hundred authorities on polltaking have been meeting for the Third International Conference on Public Opinion Research . Members of the World Congress on Public Opinion Research came from abroad for the first annual meeting of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association for Public Opinion Research . These foreign poll-taking ? experts discussed problems of testing public opinion with their American colleagues , some of whom also operate on a global scale . They tried to iron out common problems such as techniques of sampling opinion and surmounting language and cultural differences in getting their questions to mean the same thing in different-nations . Accusing Fingers They report some interesting obstacles to their poll-taking . Alberto J. Costelli , an Argentinian , found himself in hot water while conducting a survey of jewelry ownership in Cuba . A diamond imbedded in the floor of the Cuban capitol building was stolen ; encl.:eon:ie. accusing fingers were pointed at the people who had been going about asking what kindi of jewelry people had . Jorge Mendez Munevar. from Colombia , had his ballots confiscated in one city , while conducting a political poll . The local authorities thought people so inquisitive about political affiliations must be subversive , and reported the matter to government headquarters in Bogota . Lief Holbaek-Ilanssen , a Norwegian , reports another kind of difficulty . Norwegians often insist on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coffee , frequently a two-hour process . Mr. Holbaek-Hanssen flew over to the U. S. from Oslo , to attend the conference . He operates a polling organization known as Fakta ( Facts ) which has tested Norwegian opinion for industry , labor , newspapers and political parties . Mr. Holbaek-Hansen , a large blond man in his early thirties , started as a market research consultant in 1944 . He now has an organization of eight central office employes and 200 interviewers . Market research is still his major activity and he 's done work for Lever Bros. , the British Export Trade Association , and the Norwegian agent for CocaCola . Recently he conducted a study on nationalization of Norwegian industry . His sponsors were the big Norwegian union , the Workers Professional Union , a newspaper and the Labor and Conservative Parties . He found that while people had sharp views for or against nationalization , generally they did n't understand what it was . They confused it with the strong Norwegian cooperative movement . Another survey he conducted for the Norwegian National Association of Wholesalers and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine especially whether customers thought the number of people in the distribution trades could be reduced to help solve the country 's labor shortage . Mr. Holbaek-Ilanssen has had some difficulty in conducting polls for newspapers , however . Folk being interviewed suspect that he represents the political opinion of the newspaper for which he 's interviewing . As a result , he 's asked a committee of five professors at the University of Oslo to formulate his questions . Lesson in Liberty Raul Gutierrez Serrano of Cuba operates another independent concern , the Institute of Public Opinion and Applied Psychology . with headquarters in Havana . His firm , which employs about 40 people , conducts several kinds of public opinion research . One facet of this includes two polls a month for Bohemia , a leading Cuban magazine . One of these , tor example , asked Cubans what they think constitutes liberty . Mr. Gutierrez Serrano also does market research and industrial psychology work for industry . He has conducted surveys for H. Upmann , big Cuban cigar manufacturing concern , about consumer reactions to its products . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bacardi Rum Co. and Standard Oil of Cuba concerning transfer . selection and classification of employes . Mr. Gutierrez Serrano , like the Gallup . Roper and Crossley organizations in the U. S. , got his big push from correctly predicting the outcome of a presidential election . In the last Cuban election , he forecast that the underdog of the three candidates would win on this first ballot , and predicted the winning ? candidate 's vote within 2% . Something over 90% of world-wide opinion testing is still done in the United States . However , shout 30 other nations have polling agencies , and another 10 are expected to start polling soon Five countries behind the Iron Curtain ? Finland , Czechoslovalda , Poland . Romania and Hungary  --  have polling agencies of some kind , although only the Finnish one is operating freely . One in Yugoslavia is starting up . Gallup and Soper Abroad The two largest U. S. opinion research Arms , Gallup and Roper , both have overseas connections , . and do a large percent of the global polling . Gallup has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including Britain . France , Italy . Finland , Sweden , Norway , Denmark . Holland . Canada , Australia and Brazil . These are ownea in the various countries . where they may conduct polls for business as well as for the Gallup network . As the International Association of Public Opinion Institutes , they try to surveyone common question a month , usually of the wide public interest type , using a U. S. coordinator as the clearing house for the information . A. recent question asked in these twelve nations , for example , queried people on what they did with their leisure time the previous evening . The second big privately owned opinion research organization is the Institute of Public Opinion Research , Inc. , owned by three U. S. public opinion researchers , Elmo Roper , Elmo Wilson and Joshua H. Powers . Elmo , Elmo and Joshua sp.es11 , : e in making queries abroad for industry , trade associations and publications , largely on market and public relations research problems . Surveys for Standard Oil of New Jersey , for example , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil industry in the economy of the country . The International Roper organization has overseas agencies which operate in most of Latin America , Mexico , Cuba and Puerto Rico . IT . also has working agreements with opinion research companies in England , Sweden , Norway , Denmark , France . Belgium and Italy . A U. S. headquarters staff of a dozen executives and analysts directs the operations , utilizing the facilities of outside statisical concerns . Australian Public Opinion Polls , of Melbourne . is . associated with the U. S. Gallup organization . Roy Morgan , a former Australian journalist . heads the organization . Six Australian newspapers backed the founding of the poll , and sale of findings to them has provided the necessary revenue for running the organization . Cluttered Blind Is Cleared Mr. Morgan 's organization has asked about l00 different questions of Australians since its founding in 19:1 . Although Mr. Morgan gladly will provide a list of some of the questions he has asked his countrymen , he says he has a hard time remembering them off hand . He lies schooled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast and somewhat bizarre collection of miscellaneous information clutters up his mind . Greatest interest among Australians is in forecasts ' of elections and referendums . Among other things , the Australian organization found that Australians were n't in favor of following the mother country in suspending the death penalty for five years . In another survey .. it determined that the Australian public favored public servants having to swear allegiance to the British Ring ( a communist control . measure ) . Some other findings : Australians prefer British to American movies , although this would n't ha-re been true a few years ago . In case of war between the U. S. and Russia , 69% would favor the U. S. and 1% Russia . Of those favoring the U. S. , 54% thought Australia should join the U. S. in fighting . When asked if they wanted price controls to continue , 61% said yes , 31% wanted them to stop . A fantastic 73% of Australian men and 56% of Australian women listened to a radio broadcast of a cricket match with an averaging listening time of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ global potters the past year . operates the Gallup-affiliated French Institute of Public Opinion . Dr. Stoetzel is also a professor of sreanlpgy and social psychology at the University of Bordeaux and will conduct a course in " - public opinion and the cinema . " at the Sorbonne 112 Paris this school year . Polls Underground His institute , which has asked more than 2,000 questions since its founding in 1938. conducted a few underground polls during the German occupation . It also does market research for French industry . The French Institute has asked people many questions about political affiliations , customs and morals . It 's asked Frenchmen what they eat and how much they sleep . It found that men sleep less than women but sleep better , a finding which Dr. Stoetzel believes has medical interest Colombia 's Jorge Mendez Munevar has been doing market research for the international Roper organization . Thus far all ins clients have been U. S. industries , magazines or trade associations . However , in the ensuing year lie hopes to interest the Colombian government , newspapers and business men . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faces in many areas of the world . Basic vital statistics and census figures are scanty . Hence the public opinion researcher has trouble in determining numbers of persons in various economic levels and finds it difficult to organize his samplings . Furthermore , people are suspicious of the interviewer 's intent . They fear he is doing some kind of espionage , or is a government agent checking up for tax or draft purposes . This makes interviewers hard to get Dr. Mendez has used his students and friends to collect information for his polls . A young man about 30 , he teaches 18 hours a week of economics at the National University in Bogota and at the Gimnasio Moderno , a leading Latin-American business school Dr. Mendez is also a lawyer for the Standard Oil Co. of Indiana in Colombia , and from time to tune writes sports , financial and political commentary for a Bogota newspaper . Overcoming Suspicion Alberto J. Costelli , a tall , bespectacled Argentuuan , is vice president in charge of the Latin-American division of International Public Opinion Research , the world-wide Roper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his pollers through contacts with local universities and busiriessmen , and by publishing articles in the press of countries to the south . He . too , is anxious to get Latin American firms interested in having market research studies made . For example , says he . the Argentine has been exporting hides for years , but has never had a survey to determine what kinds are especially wanted in the U. S. and other countries . He thinks Brazilian coffee growers and Chilean wine makers should be interested , too . Also in the business of sampling overseas opinion are a few U. S. advertising agencies and market research firms . J. Walter Thompson and Grant Advertising to name a couple . The United Nations Educational . Scientific , and Cultural Organization has an international opinion division , and the U. N. attempts to follow trends of world opinion by analyzing editorial views and radio commentaries in 35 nations . The World Congress meeting here expects to conduct some international surveys on a non-profit basis when it gets organized . Stuart C. Dodd of the Washington Public Opinion Laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a plan for another international polling service which might be operated either by the World Congress or independently , - The plan for this agency calls for its doing work on an annual fee basis for State Departments of various nations , for the United Nations . and for private industry . Subscribers to this service would have the right to nominate questions ( which might or might not be accepted ) and would have first release of the finding .                     