@@709046

txt Letters to The Times World Bomb Control Sought Preliminary Demonstrations of Power Suggested as First Step To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We Americans have little ground for pride or satisfaction in the fact that our country is the most powerful in the world unless we have the courage to assume the responsibility which comes with power and to make positive use of our power for good . We are not using our supply of atomic bombs and our ability to produce them to devastate and conquer the world and we have no intention of so doing . This is a purely negative virtue . It has been proposed by the President and in Congress that we outlaw the use of the atomic bomb . Even if there were a practicable way of doing this , the result would simply nullify our scientific work in creating the bomb and leave the problem of peace in the same highly unsatisfactory condition in which it was before the bomb was invented . Steps for Good Suggested Ways of making positive use of our power for good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other countries . The steps to be taken in this direction have been made fairly obvious : 1 . An important preliminary step is to convince our own people and those of other countries that the atomic bomb has the potentialities which our scientists do not hesitate to attribute to it . At present the Japanese appear to be the only people who fully appreciate this . Popular knowledge throughout the world of the power of the bomb would greatly aid our Government in making prompt , peaceful and positive use of our present power . I am not suggesting that the power of the bomb be brought home to other people in the way in which it was to the Japanese , but I believe that further convincing demonstrations would be most useful . The proposed test of the potentialities of the bomb in naval warfare , both when exploded on the surface and under water , should be given wide publicity in foreign countries as well as here . Further tests of its effect on land should also be made , for example , a demonstration in the Gobi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian military experts . World Government Control 2 . A step which could be taken immediately is to substitute potential bombing power for the power represented by an army of occupation in the control of the defeated nations . The great advantages which could be gained in this manner are clearly pointed out in an article by a member of the RAF in the November issue of Harper's. 3 . The final and most vital step is the organization of a world government of sufficient power and integrity to be entrusted with the use of the atomic bomb to enforce peace . To discharge our responsibilities in this respect we must not only make a firm offer to turn over the manufacture of the bomb to such a government but must also take active , courageous and immediate steps to create such a government . The best short exposition of this which I have seen is contained in Einstein 's article in the November Atlantic , recently reprinted in part in THE TIMES . It is generally recognized that our present position of power will not continue for more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty of every American to urge our Government to take immediate steps for making positive use of our power for good ? ROBERT W. BYERLY . New York , Nov. 3 , 1945 . Candidate Kelley Excepts To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was rather puzzled by your endorsement for Borough President of the Bronx . You choose Mr. Stephens although his name will not appear on the ballot . Surely you can not be serious in believing he stands a chance . But more amazing was your pointing out the lack of a Fusion candidate in the Bronx . Did you ever hear of the Flynn-Knewitz machine ? Members of City Fusion , the Citizens Union and various independents tried such an arrangement , but Mr. Knewitz will not permit any alliance that might endanger Mr. Flynn 's control of the Bronx . The Liberal party wanted a Fusion candidate . Mr. Knewitz turned down any approaches before they could even be presented . Good government in Bronx County will never receive aid from either Knewitz or Flynn . That THE NEW YORK TIMES should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond belief . Do you really want clean city government or do you give it lip service by your gesture at the Nn npa grnnp JAMES BERNARD KELLEY , . Liberal party candidate for Borough President of the Bronx , endorsed by the Citizens Non-Partisan Committee and the Veterans Non-Partisan Association . New York , Nov. 4 , 1945 . Army Reforms Held Necessary To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Having won the greatest war in history we now propose to replace our War and Navy Departments , which won the war , with three new divisions , Air , Naval and Ground Forces . In effect this is what England did in the last war , and look what happened to England in this war . Her navy , without its Naval Air Service , was helpless , so she lost the Repulse and the Prince of Wales , and Crete and Norway happened . There is little wrong with our general set-up that a little democracy wo n't cure . However , our 90 mm. gun had 300 feet per second lower muzzle velocity than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly twice the armor and was more maneuverable than our tanks . Our soldiers had foot trouble due to poor shoes and pneumonia due to poor clothes . It is a detail like one of these that escapes investigation once the question is raised to the level of those who talk of a complete change in the set-up . Let 's correct the defects in the existing system first and talk about a major change in the set-up later . STANLEY M. UDALE . Detroit , Mich. , Oct. 25 , 1945 . French Elections a Puzzle Results of Voting Processes Held to Have Bearing on Foreign Policy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There is more to the recent French elections than meets the eye . Two entirely different processes were employed . The referenda , on the one hand , contained , of necessity , a clear yes and no proposition , such as we usually associate with the majority system of voting . A clear question was asked and a clear result obtained . The elections to the Constituent Assembly , on the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the modification consisting in the comparatively small size of the average constituency . No surpluses could be transferred from one department to the other . Such a system will , to a large extent , freeze out the small parties , , and this was accomplished . The seats which they failed to gain accrued to the major parties . Apart from this , there developed a neck-to-neck race of the three major parties ? in other words , a stalemate . Nobody won , and no clear-cut result was brought about so far as the National Assembly is concerned . For the time being this fact is being overshadowed by the victory obtained by General de Gaulle in the referenda , and it is not unlikely that an attempt will be made to institutionalize this situation by abolishing the parliamentary system of government , and bestowing upon the executive some form of independence from the Chamber . Many of our French friends are aware of the drawbacks of the separation of powers ; they may none the less feel that such a system is preferable to a permanent state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not unlikely to develop even if the Big Three should maintain their present ascendancy . There is , of course , no guarantee that this will be the case . It is not at all unlikely that the responsibility for the Government will come to rest upon the two major Centrist parties  --  the MRP and the Socialists  --  and that they will be blamed for everything that goes wrong . Since Communist strength seems to have reached the saturation point , this may sooner or later lead to the emergence of a strcg Rightist party . If , in addition , the Communist party line should ever revert to the unqualified opposition to every " bourgeois " Government characteristic of it before 1934 , political paralysis in the French Chamber would become as complete as it was in the German Reichstag after the elections of September , 1930 . The most amazing aspect of the developments of the past several months concerns the position of the Socialists , and in particular of Leon Blum . In the cantonal elections , held under the majority system , the Socialists emerged as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamber elections of 1936 . Any , decline in the Communist vote in future elections would have benefited principally the Socialists , who for that reason could have expected to be the dominant element of the Left . By securing the adoption of proportional representation ? an old demand of the Second International , which few oldline Socialists can bring themselves to forget  --  they relegated themselves from a position of uncontested leader- ' ship to one of secondary importance . So far as the world at large is concerned , the implications contained in this fact in regard to French foreign policy should be obvious . FERDINAND A. HERMENS . South Bend , Ind. , Oct. 29 , 1945 . Standards Do Not Add Up To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Arthur Krock 's column in THE TIMES of Oct. 23 was most helpful in clearing some of the dust from the mental atmosphere overhanging the current controversies between labor and management . It is difficult to see how a nation can have a fifty-two-hour standard of living on forty hours of Work any more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traveling only forty miles . One who voluntarily chooses a forty-hour standard of living should , of course , be allowed to limit his labors to forty hours . But in so doing he must be willing to see his neighbor drive by in a nicer car than he can afford , while he enjoys the beauty of the landscape as he reposes under the shade tree . He must also be willing , if the nation follows his lead , to see other nations work fifty-two hours and overtake or surpass us in the products of peace or war . F. A. HARPER , Professor of Marketing , Cornell University . Ithaca , N. Y. , Nov. 2 , 1945.                     