@@707108

txt CITY ENFORCEMENT OF OPA 'S CEILINGS ATTACKED IN COURT Mayor 's Use of Short-Weight Law Challenged in Suit by Food Merchants 1,015 ADMITTED CHARGES Summonses Served on 1,370 So Far  --  Produce Strike Off ? Parley on Meat Today The authority of Mayor La Guardia to enforce the Federal egg price ceilings by invoking the city 's short-weight and short-measures law was challenged by organized food merchants in the Bronx Supreme Court yesterday . At the same time Federal and city authorities arranged to confer this morning on the growing meat shortage , including the difficulties of the kosher shops . An order signed by Supreme Court Justice Louis A. Valente in the Bronx directs the Mayor , Markets Commissioner Daniel P. Woolley and Joseph Ainlee , director of the Bureau of Weights and Measures , to show cause tomorrow why they should not be restrained temporarily from issuing summonses or notices to retail grocers for alleged violations of the Office of Price Administration ceiling prices . Sidney Schwartz , attorney for the Butter and Eggs Merchants Association , 6 Harrison Street , obtained the order on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association . The order and the summons and complaint were served on the Mayor and Markets Department officials shortly after Mayor La Guardia had announced that the department up to last Saturday had served 1,370 summonses in its drive against violators of food ceilings . 1,015 Admitted Charges The Mayor said that of those charged with violations , 1,015 had admitted the charges , fifteen had been held for action in the Magistrates ' courts , 136 cases had been adjourned after the retailers had expressed willingness to testify against wholesalers , and 205 cases were pending . Commenting on the injunction action , Mayor La Guardia said : " I welcome it . The question is whether the city has the power to protect the consumer . We can not ignore this matter of overcharging . If we do , we countenance it . As to regulation , whether it is wise or not , that 's up to the Federal Government . " The people have to eat and , as long as I am Mayor , they are going to eat . If I let this thing go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the // City Enforcement of OPA Prices Is Challenged in Court Action old prohibition days . I am going to enforce the law even at the risk of being misunderstood and abused . " A. measure toligive the Mayor authority to enforce price ceilings was killed in the last session of the Legislature . The bill provided that the Law Department of the State and the law departments of municipalities should enforce Federal price-ceiling rules and orders . Such departments would have been required to send investigators into markets and stores and , where war price regulations were violated , the law departments would have been required to prosecute actions to collect damages and penalties provided under the war-price regulations .. The measure was sponsored by Senator John J. Dunnigan , Bronx Democrat , and Assemblyman Robert Crews , Brooklyn Republican . Produce Dealers Make Truce Following a conference with Mr. Woolley produce buyers and receivers who had threatened to call a strike against tie-in buying practices by which wholesalers unload unsalable vegetables with those in demand , announced that they had agreed to a five-day truce . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association , will act as a clearing house for complaints to be transmitted to Commissioner Woolley . The complaint in the injunction suit will be filed in the Supreme Court in the Bronx this morning . As summarized by Mr. Schwartz , it alleges that inspectors of the Bureau of Weights and Measures summoned the complainants and other retailers in an attempt to enforce OPA regulations . " We contend in the complaint that the individual complainants did not violate Section 833.16 of the City Administrative Code , " declared Mr. Schwartz , " inasmuch as eggs sold or offered are not sold by weight or measurement , as set forth , but by the dozen . " We also claim that the defendants , under the guise of enforcing Section 833.16 of the Administrative Code of the City of New York , are attempting to enforce regulations promulgated by the Office of Price Administration . We point out that the resolutions of the OPA have been promulgated under the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 as amended by an Act of Congress of the United States and Executive Order No. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1942 . Jurisdiction Challenged " It is our contention in the complaint that the enforcement of the said OPA regulations is restricted to the Office of Price Administration and its agents and agencies . We claim that the city is not an agent of the OPA and is acting outside its jurisdiction . " We contend that the said acts on the part of the city and its agents are unjustifiable and unlawful , inasmuch as we feel they are not vested with proper jurisdiction to enforce Federal price regulations . " Furthermore , it is our contention that at no time have the storekeepers been required by law , rule or regulation or ordinance to sell consumers eggs measured by scale weight . " We feel that the attempt to enforce price ceilings under the guise of short-weight and shortmeasure laws is an abuse of court process , furthermore , because the paper which purports to be a Municipal Court summons and which has been served on various storekeepers , has been changed . The district where the so-called summons is returnable is omitted . On the summons is stamped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Room 1500 , Municipal Building . As we ' point out in the complaint , we feel that this is contrary to the provisions of the Municipal Court Code of the City of New York , inasmuch as Room 1500 is not a recognized courtroom of the Municipal Court . This change thereby emasculates the said form of summons from its vitality . " We state further in the complaint that the recipients of these summonses are entirely confused as to the real import of the proceedings . " Following service upon Mayor La Guardia and the Markets Department authorities , the summons and complaint and the order were turned over to the office of the Corporation Counsel . Earlier in the day Mayor La Guardia disclosed that Commission-1 er Woolley was submitting to OPA authorities forms showing specific cases where retailers charged wholesalers with price ceiling violations . " We are submitting to OPA cases where the retailers turn over their invoices and make definitely complaints of overcharging by the wholesalers to them , " said the Mayor . To date $4,915 in " penalties " have been paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violating the short-weightl and short-measure laws , according to the Mayor . He declared he might disclose the names of wholesalers charged with ceiling viola- ' tions within the neat few days . " We do n't want to collect fines , " he said . " What we want 's to get food for the people at ceiling prices . Specifically , we are going to ask the OPA to see that.we get compliance or else cut:gr.ff their supply of ceiling-priced , or rationed commodities . " Furthermore , the Mayor announced that he would confer with Commissioner Woolley this morning on plans for an all-out drive . against ceiling price violators in the potato market . " I would like to see the OPA get more personnel , " the Mayor observed . " After all , it is Federal regulations we have to depend upon . By that , I mean , you not only must have local enforcement but you have to go up and plug up the holes in the country and other places to prevent higher prices here . " At closing time , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ninety retailers charging wholesalers with ceiling price violations on assorted eggs . The District OPA. also received from the Markets Commissioner the names of forty wholesale meat dealers for checking as to price ceiling violations . Furthermore , the District OPA will start checking the operations of eggs and potato dealers on information turned over by Mr. Woolley . The OPA has affidavits in two cases alleging wholesale potato dealers took " cash on the side . " Wholesalers found guilty of ' such practices may have their rights to operate in business entirely suspended . Edward L. Coffey , chief attorney for the District , OPA , declared that the retail pork . price ceiling violation hearings begun in- the forenoon already had shown a salutary effect in bringing retail prices into line . The hearings were the first of sixty-three cases involving retailers charged with violating the ceilings effective since April 1 . A number of dealers found guilty 3f pork ceiling violations were ordered , temporarily to suspend dealing not only in those products but in any other products covered by red coupons , such as meats , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortage that is reported growing more acute in various sections of the city , Regional and District OPA officials will meet at District OPA offices in the Empire State Building this morning at 11 o'clock . They will confer with other Fed-1 eral authorities , city officials and trade spokesmen . Scheduled to attend are Markets Commissioner Woolley ; Robert A. Hanson , Deputy Regional Administrator of the FDA ; Chester Hainan , State superintendent of FDA ; Jack Kranis , general counsel of the Federation of Kosher Butchers of Greater New York , and Joseph Eschelbacher , executive secretary of the New York State Retail Meat Dealers Association . The conferees are to go over the whole meat supply situation . RESTAURANTS COMPLAINING Henkel Says Their Rations Are Inadequate to Needs With a shortage of supplies , restaurants are faced with a difficult problem in trying to take care not only of normal requirements but of extra wartime demands , Paul Henkel , president of the Society of Restaurateurs , declared last night at the monthly meeting of the organization at Massoletti 's Tower Restaurant , 70 Pine Street . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city served 2,500,000 meals daily . Because of rationing , dining out has increased to the point where the daily average of meals served has grown to 3,500,000 . He said it had become evident that the country could not produce enough food for its own demands , regardless of lend-lease or needs of the armed forces , " it being estimated that it would take 30,000,000 more acres than are now cultivated , and there is not enough labor or machinery available to cultivate the additional acreage . " He pointed out also that the poorer people , " in the bottom third of the population , " now have enough money with which to buy food that heretofore had been bought " by the upper two-thirds . " He warned that the supply of available food must be stretched and thinned " so the bottom third will eat better than before , the middle third less , and the most scaling down must be done by the top third . " Mr. Henkel said that the government plans for civilian economy were far more drastic than most persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be eliminated , " he said . He declared that some of the officials in Washington were toying with the idea of establishing " government cafeterias . " The ration program , calculated to have the housewife and the restaurants on an equal basis , so far as supplies are concerned , has not been carried out , he said , because the housewife receives sixteen points a week for each person , equivalent to two pounds of meat , , or 4 4-7 ounces a day , whereas the restaurants receive 3 1-5 ounces a day .                     