@@708007

txt Italian Communist and Socialist parties officially allied themselves this week to bring about republican rule in Italy and while en route to this goal to achieve four main alms . These are : ( 1 ) Permanent unity of action for deliberation of Italy from its present tragic situation . ( 2 ) Total destruction of what is left of Fascism , which they consider is plenty . ( 3 ) Elimination from the political scene of all reactionary forces . ( 4 ) Adoption of a wide policy for union of the working classes . On joint organizing committee they have formed , the three Communists are Palmiro Togliatti , Guiseppe di Vittorio , and Giacome Pellegrine , and the three Socialists are Pietro Nenni , Orestl Lizzadri , and Ezia VillaAi . Signor Togliatti is Minister without Portfolio in the present Italian Government . Basis of Merger The alliance is not the same thing as a Communist-Socialist merger which has been under discussion among members of both parties in connection with a possible formation of a " popular front "  - -  a union of left wing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party , the Christian Democrats . In this connection , Avant ! , an organ of the Socialist Party , writes , " Much has been said during the last few weeks about the merging of our two parties . This is still premature and the parties will not join for purely sentimental reasons . Although the merger is not a starting point , yet it is a goal to be reached because it is the result of unity in action which has entered ' into a more positive Fascist minority and reactionary forces behind the scenes . " Commenting on the aims in which the steering committees of the Communists and Socialists have brought about a new alliance , Unita , the newspaper of the Communist Party , observes , the " policy of the Communists and Socialists had clearly laid down promises which lead to the building up of a true militant and progressive democracy out of the present disastrous situation . " The chief concern of all , is to relieve as quickly and decisively as possible the misery of the working classes distressed by the tragic inheritance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that the union of the working classes is an essential condition to strengthen the anti-Fascist union and we call on all honest Italians , bound to the working classes , and mainly workmen and rural classes , besides the ( Roman ) , Catholic intellectuals who are gatheiing together and guiding the Christian Democrats , to collaborate with us . " Where the Christian Democrats see themselves in relation to both the Communists and Socialists is indicated by the Party 's organ , Il Popolo . Party of Breadwinners Recalling Don Sturzo 's statement in a recent message radiocast from the United States to a Christian Democrat 's congress in Naples , that they are a party of checks and balances , the paper comments , " it is a party of breadwinners which is trying to raise the level of , and train , a new guiding class capable of substituting for the past and unsuccessful mid , dle-class patties and regenerating the corrupted social conscience through fresh spiritual forces . " The Christian Democrats Party is therefore able , owing to its check-and-balance positions , to accomplish a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of solidarity and social collaboration within which all labor forces must find themselves pledged organically for the work of reconstruction . " For this reason Don Sturm  --  veteran former leader of the party now in the United States  --  has rightly defined it as a Party of checks and balances . " Difficulties Outlined One of the difficulties in the way of the formation of a " popular front " in Italy is the different attitudes of the Communists and Socialists toward the Christian Democrats . The Socialists say they stand uncompromisingly for the removal of all " liberal monarchial " influences and are uncertain of the Christian Democrats ' ultimate position on the question of the monarchy , and therefore have reservations in regard to collaboration with them , The Communists seem to be taking a more flexible line and are willing to co-operate more closely at this formative pei fad in Italian politics . It was the Communists , Social- ists , and Christian Democrats jointly who reconstituted the Italian General Confederation of Labor in Rome on June 12 . This organization for members of revived free workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a national federation for all branches of production , a Federal Chamber of labor for every province , a local and provincial labor union for every class of productive activity . Provisions Listed Its constitution is based on three main ' provisions , 1 . A democratic system for elections for posts with proportional representation for minorities . 2 . Reciprocal respect for political and religious opinions . 3 . Independence of political partiep as such , each member being free to belong to any democratic political group . It now has a temporary directorate composed of 15 members and a general secretariat including Guiseppe di Vittorio , Communist , Oreste Lizzadri , Socialist , and Achille Grand ' , Christian Democrat . Di Vittorio and Lizzadri are members of a new joint organizing committee for the Communist-Socialist alliance . Closer Collaboration This alliance is regarded as a setback for long-term plans of the Italian Liberal Party  --  on the extreme right wing of the formal Italian political lineup  --  since it has been the opinion in the highest liberal quarters that the Socialists could be coaxed away from a closer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tighter with them with the possi bility If not the probability of a merger in due course which may broaden into a " popular front " if the Communists and Socialists can reach an agreement regarding the attitude to the Roman Catholic Christian Democrats , and the Christian Democrats are more responsive to Communist advances than they have been in the past . Such a development would bring about a bloc outside which would be the other three parties represented in equal proportions to the others on the Italian Government and administration of the City of Rome  --  the Action Party , Democratic Labor , and Liberals . These divided within themselves on various matters in which the Communists and Socialists united , notably on the question of the monarchy solution which was deferred until after the war .                     