@@704917

txt Full Aid to Britain Urged Havana Conference Outcome Regarded as Blocking Previous Plans To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : . The government seems to be fumbling a high fly like the worst sort of baseball rpokie . Hitler and Mussolini certainly hit a high fly for any State Department or any military expert to handle , but surely the American people have a right to expect that their officials should not act like greenhorns from the minor leagues . A good majority of opinion backed the President when he came out for all aid to the Allies , short of war . Many informed persons were even willing to risk war because they were convinced that the crisis in world history was a real crisis . It looked as though the United States was awake to reality . Then the State Department worked out a policy of hemisphere defense  --  a policy that has now been established by the Havana conference . Immediately the Army and Navy chiefs have to block aid to Great Britain on the ground that we do not have enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Hemisphere is enough to give any military or naval man blind staggers . So the foreign policy of America bogs down between two contradictory aims . No authority has denied that the foundation of American defense is still the British fleet . But no authority will sanction the release of even sixty destroyers to support the British fleet . Hitler could n't ask for a better situation . The spectacle of a democratic government swallowing a camel ( hemisphere defense ) and straining at a gnat ( sixty destroyers for England ) must give the Nazi War Council great satisfaction . WILLIAM REITZEL , Acting Chairman , Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies ( Philadelphia Branch ) . Philadelphia , July 30 , 1940 . Sacrifice Held Necessary To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is somewhat ironical to witness the unanimity of the country over the idea of calling out the National Guard and the organized reserves for a year 's training and at the same time the dissension over the idea of conscription . In other words , Mr. Lewis , the couples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our myopic Republican Senators seem to think that it is all right for the militia and the reserves to sacrifice a year out of their lives for the sake of national preparedness , but that this is too great a sacrifice to impose upon other persons . After all , the guardsmen and the reserves are citizens too . They are , moreover , patriotic citizens who sacrifice their time and their vacations for military training against the day when this nation must protect its independence . They will respond to a call to active duty because they realize more than do most of their fellow-citizens that these times call for personal sacrifices . The sooner the great mass of Americans realize that sacrifice of income , time and convenience is the basis of adequate national preparedness , the quicker will the nation reach such preparedness . For Americans to shun such an opportunity for sacrifice and service is to demonstrate a lack of patriotism and moral strength and is itself a most potent argument for conscription . ROGER BARTON . Pleasantville , N. Y. , July 31 , 1940 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " To Anacreon " Song To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ' Every so often some one discovers that the melody of " The Star-Spangled Banner " is derived from that of an eighteenth century drinking song called " To Anacreon in Heav'n " and retails this knowledge to the public at large . That would be all right . if the informant did not usually convey the impression that somehow this is a naughty business , comparable , say , to a spinster lady 's discovery that her favorite hymn is based on the tune of " Mademoiselle From Armentieres . " And here we have Herbert Bayard Swope assuring the Rev. Dr. Romig that " To Anacreon in Heav'n " is ribald . I protest . Either I am so far gone in sin that ribaldry no longer affects me , or Mr. Swope 's sensibilities have , been so demoralized by the tin-can banalities of " God Bless America " that he is more easily shocked than most persons . If " To Anacreon " is ribald , " Drink to Me Only With Thine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Stein Song " is downright bawdy . Of course , there is always the possibility that Mr. Swope is unfamiliar with the song he maligns . If so , I should be glad to send him a copy of those very tame verses . I doubt if they will give him much of a frisson , though . But he might like them enough to learn to sing them with " avidity " ? to use his own curious expression . They might even , in spite of his blushes , displace " God Bless America " in his heart . DUDLEY PITTS . Centerville , Mass. , July 31 , 1940 . Fifth Column Hysteria Condemned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEV7 YORK TIMES : Indiscriminate hysteria regarding the so-called " fifth columnites " is in danger of doing serious injury to the exile families now under the care of the several national refugee committees and awaiting resettlement : ? These families are under the constant care and supervision of these committees . They entered under affidavit by responsible citizens and after examination by our consuls abroad . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or community committees which are charged with their care and supervision . Surely , this is preferable to turning them loose or herding them together . If our people are allowed to get excited over these families which came here to save their religious and political freedom , two things are likely to happen : the innocent will suffer unjustly , and from just this sort of indiscriminateness the guilty are likely to escape . CHARLES S. MACFARLAND . General Secretary Emeritus , Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America . Mountain Lakes , N. T. , July 29 , 1940 . Our Puzzling Population Technical Terms Held to Arouse Alarm When None Is Necessary To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES I ' I read with interest in THE TIMES of July 27 the report of Professor Carle C. Zimmerman 's address at Harvard in which he said that unless the United States is to revert to the status of a second-rate power and give up what are considered American ideals , its families must average four children each . Let us examine Professor Zimmerman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per family on the average to " replace " the population , or keep its numbers stationary . At the present time the birth rate is slightly below replacement level . As Professor Zimmerman says : " At the present rate of birth our population is destined for a decrease in numbers . " All this may sound very alarming , but the alarming part is caused by the terms , phraseology or language that students of population use and not by lack of births or population . For example , while it may be said in technical language or with a technical meaning that American mothers are not having enough babies to keep the population growing , nevertheless American mothers are having enough babies to keep the population increasing for fifty years and add about 50,000,000 people to the present total of 132,000,000 . These statements may be very confusing to any one who has not been initiated into the secrets of the population fraternity , but they are elementary to the statistician . Incidentally , it is one of many examples of how social scientists are misleading the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do . If the American people took Professor Zimmerman 's advice and immediately began to have an average of four children per family , the population of the United States would increase considerably more than 50,000,000 and would keep right on increasing until in a few centuries they would be crowding each other into the sea . Of course , this will never happen , because there are such things in the world as wars , famines and revolutions to prevent it . Professor Zimmerman is advocating a higher birth rate , but even if our birth rate decreases 25 per cent during the next forty years we are likely to have 20,000,000 more people by 1980 than we have at present . This does not count any net immigration . . When we realize that at the present time we are losing as a result of soil erosion the equivalent of 200 forty-acre farms each day , that our mineral resources are being used too rapidly and that millions of people are roaming the country looking for economic opportunity , an increase of 20,000,000 more people will certainly not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington , July 30 , 1940 . One-Minute Silence Suggested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Some 50,000 people in Britain and overseas are now observing a one-minute silence at one minute to 9 each evening . The idea has been taken up widely in the three services and among civilians , and the silence Is also being observed in France and other of the enslaved territories . Could not a similar proposal be sponsored in , America ? It has no political associations and can cause no offense to the churches or even to those who acknowledge no definite faith . The power of silence is immense , and properly used it can be turned to great and good ends . The observance would help to bring English-speaking peoples everywhere into more friendly and understanding contact . At this grave hour when the freedom of Britain and America is at stake , no step should be missed which would help to increase faith , courage and tranquillity within the democracies everywhere . I hope the silence will have become truly national in scope and effect by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now supported by the nation 's leaders in church and state . W. TUDOR POLE . London , July 17 , 1940 . Recommended Reading To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : . As a teacher of English for many years , I recommended supplementary reading to young men . I have just reread Edward Bellamy 's " Looking Backward . " It would be an interesting mental task for voters to reread a book written fifty years ago which was such a. great influence on men then and since in power . How far have its ideas been carried out and by which party ? ELLEN E. GARRIGUES . New York , July 29 , 1940.                     