@@707335

txt One of the phonograph record companies has succumbed in large part to Mr. Petrillo 's demands . It has signed a four-year contract with him agreeing to pay fees on every record it sells , ranging from one-quarter of a cent on records selling for 35 cents to 5 cents on a $2 disk . It has still not been made entirely clear to whom these fees are to be paid . According to earlier reports they were to be paid to the musicians actually engaged in making the recordings . It was understood that the musicians , in turn , would be taxed by the Petrillo union to aid its unemployed members . Later reports , however , are that the fees will be paid by the record company direct to the union and not to the musicians making the disks . Either of these arrangements would be unsound in principle , though the second would be the worse . In either case Mr. Petrillo would bey levying a private tax  --  in one case on employers , in the other on members of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of his union were in fact as well as theory merely voluntary members free to remain with or to leave the union as they saw fit . But their membership is , in fact , obligatory . Through the irresponsible powers that Mr. Petrillo is free to exercise under existing law a musician , no matter how competent , can be effectively prevented from making a livelihood unless he is a. member of the Petrillo union . Nevertheless , the membership of the union would presumably retain at least a nominal control over the funds that they were forced to turn into its treasury . If the fees on record sales are to be paid directly to the Petrillo union , however , the resulting situation would be much worse . In that case Mr. Petrillo would be levying his private tax on employers . At best he would be administering a private system of unemployment relief . But there would be no public control whatever of the manner in which he used these fund : . If only a small part of the funds actually went for paying unemployed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to increase the salaries or expense accounts of Mr. Petrillo and other union leaders , neither the record companies nor the consuming public that ultimately paid this private excise tax through higher record prices would have anything to say about the matter . If Mr. Petrillo can succeed in getting this principle established , he will render himself and his fellow union leaders financially independent even of the members of their own unions . It would be lacking in clarity of thought to put the primary blame for the resulting situation either , on Mr. Petrillo personally or on any record company that succumbs to his terms . The primary blame must be placed on the Administration and Congress , who , by their official labor policy , have placed in the hands of labor leaders the private irresponsible powers which enable them to drive such anti-social bargains .                     