@@712042

txt With the forthcoming lifting of the Berlin blockade , Russia has suffered a major strategic defeat in its effort to advance west of the Elbe . Moscow has failed in its purpose of driving the western Allies out of Berlin . It has failed in its purpose of halting construction of a west German state . With the decision to reconvene the Council of Foreign Ministers on May 23 , the stage is set for basic discussions between Russia and the West , in a remarkably clarified atmosphere and under conditions of relative strength and resolve which have altered radically since a year ago . New Strategy Weighed When the Berlin blockade and the western counterblockades fall to the ground on May 12 as agreed , an entirely new phase in East-West relations will commence . Having failed to capture Germany through the economic siege of Berlin and Communist infiltration and propaganda , will the Kremlin now begin to lay its lines for a new kind of strategy ? There are those in high diplomatic positions here who believe the Council of Foreign Ministers will see Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tactics . Reporting from Paris , Reuters said a genuine political understanding with Russia was regarded as out of the question in French diplomatic circles . ) Shift to Asia Seen But there are others who think Moscow has now concluded that Stalinist communism faces an implacable stone wall at the frontier of Germany 's Soviet zone . Confronted with this situation and with the Tito incident still unresolved inside its own eastern bailiwick . Russia , it is suggested , is now turning its major attention temporarily to Asia , determined to exploit to the full the Communist triumph in China and attack the western powers ' vulnerable Asiatic flank . Should this be Prime Minster Joseph Stalin 's realistic assessment , the western powers conceivably could now count on a general alleviation of tension all along the western marches , including even the Greek bastion , and possibly on Moscow 's acceptance of the Bonn Constitution for all Germany . subject of course to agreement that Germany be maintained as a neutral buffer state . West Keeps Airlift No one can foretell in advance the outcome of the meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can even guarantee that , should the council sessions make little progress , Russia might not attempt to reimpose the Berlin blockade . The brief communiqu ? simultaneously released in London , Washington , Paris , and Moscow May 5 contained no guarantees against reimposition of the Siege . It hardly is likely , however , that the Russians would reinstall the blockade which has hurt them worse than the West . But the United States and Britain are not folding up their airlift armada until that is absolutely certain . Certainly several good omens for East-West agreement now are visible . Moscow , which usually installs new men for new policies , has just staged a drastic change-over of its top diplomatic and German officials . a reshuf fling which has affected Vyacheslav M. Molotov , Andrei Y. Vishinsky , Marshal Vassily D. Sokolovsky , and now even Gen. Vladimir Kurasov at Vienna . In return , Moscow can note that in the United States chief officials formulating foreign policy have retired beginning with former Secretary of State George C. Marshall himself and including tormer Ambassador to Russia Walter Bedell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  who was far more than a defense secretary . Similarly , with the retirement of Gen. Lucius D. Clay and former Undersecretary of War William Draper , tough policy makers for Germany are going . Thus the air has been cleared for a fresh start on both sides . Utilization of this opportunity remains to be seen . Count Carlo Sforza , Italian Foreign Minister , declared jubilantly in London that lifting of the blockade was the " first fruit of the Atlantic Pact . " His comment epitomizes the changed atmosphere since a year ago .                     