@@708511

txt A broad inquiry into food production and distribution has been authorized by the Senate and proposed in the House . These inquiries appear to have been prompted by the fears of an impending food shortage . But it is important to keep in mind that civilian per capita consumption in 1944 was at an all-time peak . The Survey of Current Business noted recently : Civilian per capita consumption of food in 1944 was 9 per cent above the 1935-39 average . Moreover , the wartime increases have been accompanied by a general improvement in the nutritive content of the national average diet and apparently by some reduction in the disparity among the diets of various segments of the population . It seems clear that the anticipated moderate reduction from this record supply will not cause any serious difficulties . Except for products like meats , sugar , butter and cheese , it seems probable that per capita consumption in 1945 , although somewhat lower than last year , will still be in excess of that in the pre-war period . Thus , for example , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 420 pounds of fluid milk and cream per capita , as compared with only 340 pounds before the war ; 358 eggs , as compared with 298 ; 24 pounds of poultry , as compared with 21 ; 142 pounds of fresh fruits , as compared with 138 ; 45 pounds of corn products , as compared with 39 ; 16 pounds of coffee , as compared with 14 . With many important foods unrationed  --  grains , eggs , poultry , milk and fresh fruits and vegetables ? it is unrealistic to talk as though we were faced with a food famine . That shortages will prevail seems evident , but these shortages will reflect the expansion in demand which has accompanied the large wartime increase in incomes . For some products an uneven geographic distribution of available supplies will accentuate these shortages . This situation has been particularly evident for meats in recent months . We will not have all we would like to have , but we certainly will have enough to give us an adequate diet . When conditions are contrasted with those in other countries such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more evident . Much misleading information and many ill-informed rumors have been circulated concerning the food situation . In some quarters , for example , it is maintained that civilians are being deprived of large amounts of food because of lend-lease shipments . A clear statement of the factors affecting the available supplies and how they are distributed will be very helpful . It is doubtful that the committee can do much to increase our food supply ; it probably can do a great deal to dispel many of the rumors . Some of the questions to which answers should be sought include the following : How have wartime regula- tions affected the supplies of particular products ? To what extent , if at all , have the armed forces accumulated excessive stores of food products ? Has there been any substantial spoilage of such items ? To what extent have supplies been restricted because of inadequate transportation facilities ? To what extent is the black market diverting supplies from legitimate uses ? Have the available civilian supplies been distributed equitably ? If they have not , to what extent has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These are a few of the questions which could be profitably examined by this committee . The proposed investigation would probably be more fruitful if it were conducted by a joint Congressional committee rather than by separate and competing committees in each house of Congress .                     