@@709842

txt A plenary session of the Conference of Paris adopted without discussion today the scheme for speeding up its work devised Tuesday by the Big Four Foreign Ministers . This included limitation of speeches , presentation of commission reports by Oct. 5 and the completion of the conference by Oct. 15 . At the suggestion of Secretary General Jacques Fouques-Duparc the conference also authorized the Secretariat to supervise the commissions and to draw up within twenty-four Tours , with the chairmen of the zommissions , new schedules to hasten their work . This display of exemplary behavior by a conference not always noted for it took about ten minutes . But the conference was delayed for exactly an hour by an oratorical passage at arms that resulted when Secretary of State Byrnes , the chairman , interrupted a Yugoslav attack on Greece to say that Greece had withdrawn her request to discuss her claims to northern Epirus . Again it was the Russian bloc versus Greece and again it was Edvard Kardelj of Yugoslavia , backed from the floor by Soviet Foreign Minister Molotov , who tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the thrice-debated question of the Albanian frontier . Earlier today the Greeks had informed the secretariat that they had withdrawn their request that the conference discuss the Athens proposal to ask the Big Four Foreign Ministers to settle the territorial issue between Greece and Albania over nothern Epirus . The conference had agreed Aug. 30 to discuss the question at the next plenary session , but the matter had been forgotten by the time the next session was held . The Greeks were content to // leave it at . that by quietly withdrawing their motion . But the Russian bloc wanted the conference formally to record a decision that would take the subject off the agenda and thus reverse the conIference 's earlier approval : in face of bitter Russian opposition . When Mr. Byrnes , in the chair . called the meeting to order and told how the Big Four had agreed to speed things up , M. Kardelj asked for the floor and began talking of Greece and Albania . He spoke in Russian but he was understood by Charles Bohlen of the United States , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying . Mr. Byrnes interrupted M. Kardelj to say that the meeting had been called for a fixed purpose . and he could speak only if he were making some motion . Mr. Byrnes said he would entertain a motion of the Greek-Albanian question , but would not permit a speech without such a motion . A Ukrainian delegate objected from the floor , but was ruled out of order . Mr. Byrnes then let M. Kardelj continue on the assumption that he was making some motion . M. Kardelj next said he wanted to make a proposal . He recalled the conference decision Aug. 30 to discuss the Greek issue at the next session . He insisted that the issue should not be allowed " to disappear from the agenda " and proposed a formal decision of the conference to remove it . Mr. Byrnes announced that the Greeks had withdrawn their motion , and the Greek delegate confirmed it . Mr. Molotov wanted to know if this meant the previous decision of the conference to discuss it was " annulled . " Mr , Byrnes would say only that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference . Mr. Molotov arose three times to press his point . Finally Mr. Byrnes said that according to the rules it could be nut to a votd only if someone opposed a . Greek withdrawal of the proposal . He asked Mr. Molotov if the Russians wanted to oppose it . The Russians did not and Mr. Molotov contented himself with having the last word by saying he was gratified that the decision was " annulled " ? although Mr. Byrnes did not express it that way . It is understood that the Greeks have received assurances from United States and British delegates that they will urge the Big Four to discuss the delimitation of the Albanian frontier . Hence the Greeks were willing to forego such a discussion on the floor of the conference . Meanwhile in the Italian Political and Territorial Commission Senator Tom Connally of the United States delegation succeeded in defeating a Polish amendment toenlarge the field of prosecution and include new categories of war criminals to be brought to trial by Italy . The Yugoslays. however , obtained acceptance of a. provision obliging Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objections . A subcommittee of the Hungarian treaty commission reported favorably on Czechoslovakia 's demand on Hungary for a fifty-six mile bridgehead across the Danube opposite Bratislava on the condition that provision be made for its Magyar population . The Italian Political and Territorial Commission adopted the sections of the treaty relating to Albania and Ethiopia and Article XXXVIII concerning war criminals . To- press her move for more extensive prosecution of war criminals in Italy , Poland brought her chief expert . Dr. Manfred Lachs , to address the commission . Dr. Lachs has written a widely-quoted book on the war criminal problem and prepared Poland 's case in the Nuremberg trials . Combating Dr. Lachs ' claims , Senator Connally pointed out that the treaty text was comprehensive and that the . Polish plan might possibly require prosecution for acts that were not crimes at the time committed . The Polish text , with the exception of one small drafting change , was voted down with only the Slavic group and Ethiopia favoring it . The Trieste subcommittee was stalled through the major part of its sessions over fixing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the United States delegates back admittance of all who were residents June , 1940 , the Yugoslays wished to set as the date the day on which the treaty went into force , which might conceivably disqualify a certain number of Italians . According to the Bratislava bridgehead recommendation to the Hungarian Commission full human rights in the Czechoslovakia Republic would be guaranteed to the Magyars in the region . They would voluntarily be transferred to Hungary or come under the terms in any bilateral agreement between Czechoslovakia and Hungary on this subject . Whether the full commission will approve the recommendation at this juncture is uncertain . If the United States and British delegations maintain their original stand , as did the Australians in subcommittee , they will wait to see how the transfer question is settled before approving cession of the bridgehead by Hungary . The Military Commission reached a decision that within six months after the treaty with Bulgaria is effective , Bulgaria shall disband all but 65,300 of her armed forces . The commission passed an Article forbidding the training of all but the permitted cadres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of weapons . Motor torpedo boats were barred in Bulgaria after a lively debate between British and Slavic experts .                     