@@712105

txt Led by George Dandrow , president of the alumni association , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology commencement academic procession marches from robing at the Massachusetts State Armory to the ceremonies in the Rockwell Athletic Cage . Immediately behind Mr. Dandrow are Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Dr. James F. Baxter , 3d , president of Williams College , commencement speaker , left , and Dr. James R. Killian , Jr. , MIT president . Behind . Dr. Baxter is Rear Admiral Morton L. Deyo , Commandant , First Naval ? District , and his ? aide . 979 degrees were awarded . Story : Page 2.1 Education that provides a sound sense of values and ample sources of inspiration is a vital need in the United States , Dr. James P. Baxter 3d. , president of Williams College , told the Massachusetts Institute of Technology graduating class today . Unless these qualities are available to supplement knowledge and skill , 11 , r . Baxter said , man too often tends to become " a machine stuck on dead center . " MIT 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Athletic Cage where only two months ago Dr , James R. Killian , Jr. , was inducted as the institution 's new president . This year 's graduating class of more than 900 was the largest in MIT history , More than half the men receiving degrees were veterans of World War 11 , 947 Win Degrees Degrees were awarded by Dr. Karl T. Compton , president of the MIT Corporation , who resigned as MIT president to head the Research and Development Board of the National Military Establishment in Washington . A total of 979 degrees were presented to 947 candidates , 32 of the men receiving both the bachelor of science and master of science degrees . Dr. Baxter contended that if Aristotle could visit Washington today he would be perhaps troubled most by " the difficulties that now stand in the way of the man who wishes , as he wished , to take all knowledge for his province , and the low standard of political competence achieved by the average American citizen . " Today 's specialization , which results in technical jargon in virtually every field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes even to them ? is an example of the hrst condition , he held . And American political incompetence is demonstrated , he held , by the fact that only f.aIf the eligible voters actually cast a ballot last November . Humanities Stressed Stressing the importance of the humanities in education , he told the gathering that " in Whatever area we live and work , we need what literature , art , music , history , philosophy , and religion can give us . " He credited American religion with having played a substantial part in checking the influence of socialism in the United States , " For religion in America in its many varieties has never been a state affair . " he said . " has never emphasized or sought to promote man 's dcoendencie on the state but rather his self-reliance and his personal relationship to God . " It has been a powerful contributor to the dynamics of individual enterprise , and as its influence has weakened the road to socialism has thereby been made easier . Killian Voices Warning " It is significant that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well , though I do not mean to imply that all advocates of the extension of government are godless . " Dr. Killian. meanwhile , warned against methods of combating communism that might " damage our basic liberties more than the conspirators in our midst . " " Our strength and stability lie not in a vain effort to impose an embargo on communism or in insulating our young people from the ideological conflicts of the day , but rather in diligently demonstrating day in and day out our deep and abiding faith in our free society and in its capacity for self-improvement , " he contended .                     