@@712511

txt The French National Assembly has opened a debate on the German problem which may prove to be as important to the whole Western World as were the Marshall Plan and Atlantic Pact debates in the Congress of the United States . Immediately at issue is French approval of the program for Germany agreed upon at the recent Foreign Ministers conference , which contains such , to French opinion , distasteful features as virtual cessation of the dismantling of German industries and admission of Germany to the Council of Europe . Immediately at stake is the fate of the latest French Government , which was formed only after a prolonged interregnum and whose quick collapse might - easily convert another Cabinet crisis into a crisis of the whole French state . But both the issue and the stakes extend beyond the confines of France . They involve the future relations between France and Germany , which are the key to the economic integration of Western Europe urged by the United States and to the political unification sought by the Europeans themselves . Therewith they also become the key to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community and as bulwark in the defense structure of the United States . The relations between France and Germany have dominated European politics for centuries and have frequently decided the issue of war or peace , at least in the eyes of Western nations which often lost sight of the Russian problem that loomed up behind , and largely determined the character of , the martial facade of Germany . But France and Germany could be arbiters of war or peace only so long as they were major Powers able to pursue their own sovereign ambitions . Now , as a result of a century and a half of strife stretching from the Napoleonic to the Hitlerite wars , both France and Germany have exhausted themselves and have become secondclass Powers unable to defend themselves alone , while Russia has risen to become the biggest military and economic Power of the European continent . That confronts both France and Germany with a new situation which compels them to make the same adjustments in their traditional policies that the United States had to make in the face of the same Soviet menace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself on at least one front by weakening the other . Now , in the opinion of an increasing number of both Frenchmen and Germans , there is only one way in which they can save themselves . That is not only by learning to live in peace with each other but also by cooperating with each other and combining their strength with that of the rest of the Western World to balance Russian power . The necessity for such a development is so obvious that it is acknowledged and proclaimed as an aim by virtually all Western spokesmen , ranging from Socialist Foreign Secretary Bevin to nationalist General de Gaulle . It is one of the major objectives of the United States , which sought to pave the way for it by the program now before the National Assembly . But before this goal can be attained many obstacles must be removed . And the chief of these obstacles is the French fear of a reviving German nationalism and a new Rapallo which would expose France to a new Russo-German combination . There is no doubt that any German trends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeping in mind recent history will deny France sympathy on that score . But it is also necessary to keep these factors in their true perspective and take account of the urgent necessities of the present situation . Certainly German nationalism , now confined to occasional outbursts of extremists , will grow rather than diminish with continued foreign rule , as the Russians are finding out in their zone , and Rapallo , which was a plausible policy when both Germany and Russia were weak and ostracized , could now lead Germany only to national suicide under the Russian knout . Moreover , as far as France is concerned , these dangers are at the very least diminished by the North Atlantic Pact , which guarantees French security against Germany as well . And they can be neutralized entirely by including Germany in a Western Europe which will provide an outlet for German energies while keeping the Germans a minority in its controls and councils . It must be hoped that the French National Assembly will keep these considerations in mind and act accordingly .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     