@@707551

txt Vast Amount of Work Is Still to Be Done Before Attack on Continent Force Headquarters eventually evolved into a smooth-working and integrated command , which could call upon specialists of all types from civil affairs officers and political and psychological experts to men who knew the finest details of supply . And it will undoubtedly serve as a rough pattern in the creation of the supreme Allied headquarters in Britain . It was natural , too , that having built up and tested a smooth-working combat team in North Africa President Roosevelt , Prime Minisand British navies will probably serve under him . The organization of the air forces differs from that in North Africa . Air Chief Marshal Trafford L. Leigh-Mallory , head of the British Fighter Command , will head all tactical air forces , British and American . He apparently has two principal subordinate commanders under him , possibly Lieut . Gen. Lewis H. Brereton in command of American tactical air forces ( for the close support of ground armies ) , and Air Vice MarThe Supreme Allied Command for the invasion of western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies prepared to open a new and climactic phase of the war . By some the arrival of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , Supreme Allied Commander , and of his deputy , Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur W. Tedder , in Britain was misinterpreted as indicating the imminence of invasion . But reports from England clearly showed that the greatest D-day of the war was still relatively distant , Major preparations of every type were still incomplete , and the details of organization and command had not yet been worked out , The first requirement will be completion of the organization of the High Command and a careful definition of the duties and responsibilities of each of the members of the command " team " so that overlapping authority and friction will be eliminated . Integrated Force Is Aim Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Supreme Allied Commander , emphasized in his first statement in England that his fundamental policy , which helped him to success in North Africa , will continue to be his fundamental policy in Britain. , General Eisenhower is determined to create an Allied com mand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insistent upon the elimination of national frictions and the absolute meshing of all members of his staff  --  regardless of nationality  --  into an integrated whole . Coordination of effort , the creation of a fighting team by force of will and personality is " Ike " Eisenhower 's forte ; that will be his principal job in England . In Algiers , the principal staff jobs in Allied Force Headquarters were " double-banked " ; that is , a British officer and his American " opposite number " filled each job normally occupied by one man . This procedure was necessitated by the differences in military terminology and organization between the British and American forces . It was in part the cause for the creation of a bulky and very large supreme headquarters to which several thousand officers were attached . A bon mot in North Africa in the early days when our combat troops were few in number was to the effect that " never in the history of human conflict have so few been commanded by so 1 many . " But the North African Allied ter Churchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal architects ? now that the main job in the Mediterranean has been completed  --  to Britain . Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Tedder , a quiet , slight , 1 competent but most unobtrusive man , is General Eisenhower 's new deputy supreme commander . The two men  --  one American , the other British  --  were closely associated at Algiers , where Tedder commanded Allied air forces under Eisenhower , and each came to have great respect for the other . Montgomery and Bradley Named No supreme ground commander under General Eisenhower has yet been named . General Sir Bernard L. Montgomery , of Eighth Army fame , a very popular figure with the British public and with the average British Tommy , who was probably selected primarily because of this factor , will command the British groups of armies participating in the invasion . Lieut . Gen. Omar N. Bradley , who led the American Second Corps in the closing days of the Tunisian campaign and in Sicily will command an American Army or group of armies . Probably his exact role is still undecided . The naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ramsay , who organized the evacuation of Dunkerque and who had important amphibious experience in the Mediterranean . Rear Admiral Alan Kirk , U.S.N. , and other admirals of " the American shal John Henry d'Albiac in command of the British tactical air forces . Separate Bombing Forces Lieut . Gen. Carl A. Spaatz has been designated as commander of " the ' American Strategic Bombing Force operating against Germany , " and apparently Maj. Gen. James H. Doolittle , who is the new commander of the Eighth United States Army Air Force , will serve under him . Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur T. Harris , formerly commander of the Bomber Command of the Royal Air Force , will command the British Strategic Air Force . These two strategic forces , both concerned primarily with the bombardment of targets in the interior of Germany , apparently are not directly under General Eisenhower 's command , but may come under it prior to the invasion . Many other important high commands and subsidiary commands remain to be filled , and the inevitable shifts in staffs and subordinate officers tchAt any such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , plus the necessity for a clear-cut definition of authority and a better integration of command functions in the new set-up in Britain , is one reason which seems to indicate beyond much doubt that no invasion is coming the day after tomorrow . But there are many other reasons . Supply is one of them . The use of Britain as a base greatly simplifies many of the problems that we shall face in the invasion of western Europe : stockpiles of munitions of all sorts undoubtedly have been built up there during the past years of war . The British Isles are already well developed as a base of supplies and they lie close to the western coast of Europe . But these stockpiles have to be " topped off . " Undoubtedly there are many items of certain types that are still unavailable in sufficient quantity in Britain . And only now , after the strategic plan has been definitely agreed upon , can the flow of troops and supplies to Britain be reaching its peak . Moreover troops reaching Britain must have the benefit of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to regain their land legs after a crowded sea voyage . Many of them must have special rehearsals in the difficult technique of amphibious assault . The air support for the invading armies must be most carefully organized and trained . Germany and German-occupied Western Europe must be materially " softened up " before invasion is attempted . Partly because of the bad weather of winter , partly because of increased German defensive strength , the air blitz against Germany has not been quite as widespread or as intensive as had been hoped . Weather Important Facto : : In the past our invasions of enemy territory have usually been heralded by an intense preparatory campaign of bombardment of enemy airfields , of communications , and sometimes of coastal defenses . In Western Europe it is probable that such a bombing campaign will have to be protracted . Clearly no such bombardment has yet been started . To use our air power to fullest advantage we must be able to anticipate a protracted period of good , clear weather ; to use small landing craft in the Channel we must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not be too high ; to land on the French coast the tides should be right . But weather has an even more important bearing on the whole strategy of the war in Europe than its localized effect in the Channel area alone . Obviously the Germans should be fully engaged o all fronts simultaneously if an invasion is to be a success . It would be tempting fate to attempt an invasion of Western Europe if the Germans were not fully occupied on the Russian front .                     