@@706374

txt Current American shortages of tungsten carbide , vitally needed for machine-tool production for the war effort , are due to a monopolyseeking patent - pooling arrangement of the General Electric Company with the Krupp armament works in Germany , a Senate committee was told today . John Henry Lewin , an assistant to the Attorney General in the Justice Department 's anti-trust division , made this accusation to the Senate Patents Committee , which is considering a bill to " draft patents " as a means of expediting war production . In its effort to accomplish the monopoly , Mr. Lewin told the committee , General Electric managed to run the price of tungsten carbide up from 850 a pound , which the company at first admitted was " high , " to $453 a pound , more than the price of gold . The monopoly effort was successful in eliminating all American competitors , he stated , adding that it continued successful until the latter part of 1940 , when a Federal court held that the original patent basis of the monopoly had no legal validity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent new or exclusive discoveries . The witness complained that the department had been repeatedly blocked in seeking anti-trust action against General Electric by continued court postponements of trial on the appeal of the defendants . The latest postponement , he said , was until June 15 . Criticism of Postponements This comment , along with another by Senator Clark of Idaho referring to a similar postponement of another anti-trust case against the same company , brought sharp criticism from committee members . Senator Clark read from a dispatch appearing yesterday , which said that James V. Forrestal , Under-Secretary of the Navy , and Robert P. Patterson , Under-Secretary of War , had asked a Federal judge to postpone trial of a case against the company which charged it with seeking to monopolize the electric light bulb industry . " Does this mean , " asked Senator Bone , committee chairman and one of the three sponsors of the pending bill , " that because we are in a war all criminal proceedings against great monopolistic corporations are to be suspended for the duration ? I wonder if these officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he refused to answer the draft calL " Senator La Follette , a co-author of the pending bill , said that he thought he could assure Mr. Bone that no such outcome was likely . When Senator Lucas protested against " impugning the motives " of Messrs . Forrestal and Patterson and attacking " corporations which are going all-out for the war effort , " Mr. Bone replied that perhaps the committee should let the action " speak for itself . " " Well , I speak for myself , " Mr. LaFollette retorted , " and I want my comments to stand . " Control of Markets Charged Mr. Lewin described tungsten carbide as a super-hard product from which cutting machine tools can be made which are far more efficient and speedy than those of steel or any other material . Its development had resulted from the researches of a considerable number of independent inventors here and in Europe , he said , but from 1928 to 1940 , General Electric and Krupp , he asserted , had pooled patents which they both held in a manner " which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such hard metal composition and tools containing the same , cutting off American imports and exports , dividing up world markets between American and German interests by cartel agreements , permitting the Krupp company since 1936 to decide who should become American manufacturers and the fixing and maintaining of unconscionable and prohibitive prices and resale prices . " During this period , he said , German manufacturers had sold about twelve times as much of the vital material as had those in this country . He quoted from a " Fortune " Magazine article a statement that " many experts " believe this to be " one of the great secrets of German rearmament . " " In contrast with the situation in Germany , " Mr. Lewin continued , " the present drastic shortage of this essential material in this country is notorious . The need to produce it , to retool our manufacturing plants with it , and to instruct workmen in the use of such tools has constituted one of the principal bottlenecks in our present production program . " The activities which these documents ( department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reveal are considered by the department directly responsible for the disadvantage at which this country finds itself in. comparison with its enemies in the use of tungsten carbide and other hard-metal compositions , and in the rate of production which the use of such hard-metal compositions in machine tools makes possible . " Mr. Lewin added to his statement the charge that " as late as December , 1939 , after the outbreak of the present war , the American companies ( G. E. and subsidiaries ) were making plans to extend their agreement with Krupp until after 1950 " and seeking " to keep the Krupp name out of any correspondence , particularly telegrams , that might reach improper hands . " Furthermore , he said , the obligation of General Electric to return to Krupp at the termination of the agreement all the patents contributed to the pool by Krupp " remains unimpaired at the present time . "                     