@@711563

txt Russia 's uncompromising stand on the veto power vested in the permanent members of the Security Council is the key to the Soviet attitude toward the United Nations . The present crisis over the appeal by the western powers to the UN on the issue of Berlin apparently has not altered the basic Russian approval of the idea of a world organization . But it has intensified the Soviet position that there must be no toe-treading upon their concept of sovereignty . The case as presented by deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Y. Vishinsky in Paris serves to underline a fundamental Soviet concept regarding the UN . It is that Russia does not intend to accede to a situation where on some crucial issue they might be outvoted on a mechanical parliamentary basis and by decision of a capitalist majority . Soviet Determined Short of this the Soviets appear fully determined to remain in the UN . Despite all the opposition which Moscow has raised to UN , there are observers here who believe the Kremlin considers it an important obstacle to that crystallization of hostile forces which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be assumed to realize that , should they and then supporters withdraw from the UN , the organization would promptly develop into a rallying point and coordination center for an anti-Soviet world coalition . It is for this very reason , namely for preventing such a development , that many observers here expect the Soviets to stay in the United Nations . Moscow View This does not mean , however , that the Soviets will withdraw from their essential stand of opposition on such matters as the veto . The Soviet concept is that the leadership of UN must be firmly vested in the great powers , who in Russian eyes bear the prime responsibility for maintaining world peace . Rejecting any claims that the UN should evolve into a sort ofsuperstate or world government , the Soviets have always insisted that voluntary accord of the great powers is essential to its proper functioning . Once pressure against a major power through the UN framework were permitted , the Soviets contend that the UN would cease to be a genuine international body working in the interests of world peace and would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its will on other nations . Speaking concretely , the Soviets consider that without a veto right they and their supporters soon would find themselves in a situation reminiscent of the League of Nations days . The Russians say that from the outset , the Soviet Union was excluded from the league by its founders and that the organization functioned for more than a decade as the center of an anti-Soviet coalition led by Britain and France . In that capacity , the league even sponsored intervention against the Soviet , the Russians charge . They point out that not until 1934 , when the rift between the Axis powers and the western democracies widened and the future aggressors broke away from the league , was the Soviet Union admitted as a league member . Mistrust Kept Despite their league membership , the Russians never quite overcame their mistrust of the organization . They feel that their original attitude toward Geneva was vindicated when the league in 1939 proved unable to halt the outbreak of the European war but shortly afterward resorted to the strongest measures against the Soviet Union for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admit the possibility of collaboration with the capitalist world over fairly extended periods , Marxism and Leninism never permit them to lose sight of the contingent character of such a collaboration conditioned by basic contradictions between the socialist and capitalist systems . For this reason they insist collaboration can be effected only on a voluntary basis of full equality between the two camps .                     