@@708852

txt ALL CITY ' LETS GO ' Hundreds of Thousands Roar Joy After Victory Flash Is Received TIMES SQ . IS JAMMED Police Estimate Crowd in Area at 2,000,000 Din Overwhelming By ALEXANDER FEINBERG Five days of waiting , of rumor , intimation , fact , distortion ? five agonizing days following the first indication of a Japanese surrender , days of alternately rising hopes and fears  --  came to an end for New York , as for the nation and the world , a moment or two after seven o'clock last night . And the metropolis exploded its emotions , harnessed for the most part during the day , with atomic force . " Official ? Truman announces Japanese surrender . " These were the magic words , flashed on the moving electric sign of the Times Tower , at 7:03 P. M. that touched off an unparalleled demonstration in Times Square , packed with half a million persons . The victory roar that greeted the announcement beat upon the eardrums until it numbed the senses . For twenty minutes wave after wave of that joyous roar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those in the crowds in the streets tossed hats , boxes and flags into the air . From those leaning perilously out of the windows of office buildings and hotels came a shower of paper , confetti , streamers . Men and women embraced  --  there were no strangers in New York yesterday . Some were hilarious , others cried softly . By 7:30 P. M. the crowd in the Square had risen to 750,000 persons ; by 8:45 it had swelled to 800,000 and the number continued to rise . People were packed solidly between Forty-third Street and Forty-fifth Street . Individual movement was virtually impossible ; one moved not in the crowd but with it . At 10 P. M. Chief Inspector John J. O'Connell estimated that 2,000 , - 000 persons were in the Times Square area from Fortieth to Fifty-second Street , between Sixth and Eighth Avenues . This constitutes an all-time record , police officials said . At that hour people were still pouring into the Square from subways , buses and on foot . Those at the north end of the // Square heard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their shouts rumbled down to the south end in time to meet and merge with the tremendous victory roar that greeted the visual announcement . Whistles , - screams , cheers , horns , were followed in short order by the clang of fire engines and the wail of police car sirens . The merrymakers persevered even as early morning came . At 12:30 A. M. there were still , by official count , 1,500,000 in Times Square , and as late as 3 A. M. there were still 500,000 in the square . All over the city the reaction was the same , although elsewhere the demonstration was on a lesser scale . Greenwich Village was a madhouse . In Queens thousands staged impromptu parades , sang and danced . Emperor Hirohito was hanged in effigy to electric light poles in the Bronx and other boroughs . The burghers of Brooklyn surged into the streets , shouting , cheering , embracing , singing . Staten Islanders organized parades . Flags Everywhere in Evidence Everywhere noisemakers were in evidence . Automobiles , taxis , trucks ran through the streets with passengers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even on engine hoods , shouting and blowing horns . Thousands of pedestrians carried small American flags and there was hardly a vehicle that did not display the Stars and Stripes . The sacred dragon dance , reserved for the Chinese New Year and in itself a symbol of peace , was called out for the celebration in the crooked , narrow streets of Chinatown . Four ritualistic dragons led processions through Mott , Doyer and Pell Streets while men , women and children standing on the sidewalks and on fire-escapes cheered and waved American and Chinese flags . The war 's end , coming at a time when gloom pervaded the city ? reports through the late afternoon dealt principally with speculation that the Japanese reply would prove unsatisfactory  --  sharpened the reaction . It was instantaneous and wild . But beneath the noise , the surface hilarity , could be detected a feeling of deep release . All day long  --  and for many persons , ever since 2 A. M. Tuesday , when word first came ? that the Japanese reply was on the way ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fell like a barometer in a freak storm . Crowds there were everywhere , and celebrate they did after a fashion , but generally they were sluggish , unsmiling , uncertain . As hour dragged after hour the prevailing mood became one of expectancy , then impatience , and finally one of dismay . The half hour of waiting after 6:30 o'clock , when word was received that simultaneous announcements would be made in Was:Lington and the other Allied capitals at 7 P. M. , was worst of all . Thousands of persons  --  among them many who do not consider themselves devout  --  went to places of worship during this period of almost unbearable suspense and prayed for the coming of peace . Mayor La Guardia proclaimed Sunday as World Peace Day and urged all churches , veterans ' groups and patriotic societies to take part in a mass celebration to be held at 3 P. M. that day at Central Park . The Mayor In a broadcast over WNYC from his home , Gracie Mansion , at 7:30 P. M. read a proclamation designating Wednesday and Thursday as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except those necessary for the maintenance of public health and other vital services , to remain closed on those days . While he did not seek to put a damper on celebrating , the Mayor pleaded with New York 's citizens to be orderly . Celebrants who become rowdy and destroy property , he said , are not joyful people but persons with " hatred in their hearts . " Crowds in Square All Day While celebrating of one sort or another went on in all sections of the city and its environs from the first indication of Japanese acceptance , all roads seemed to lead to Times Square for those who obviously were not going to work yesterday . Many who had been in the Square at night stayed on through the day . The daytime crowd grew steadily during the morning and reached its peak soon after noon . In the afternoon pedestrian traffic flowed in and out of the area in sand-shifting patterns . At one moment the streets would be jammed and ten or fifteen minutes later there would be ample walking room . Then the crowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to side streets proved futile for the most part . Trucks laden with merrymakers , horns blowing , pulled through Broadway and Seventh Avenue . Hawkers shrieked their wares  --  whistles , horns , V-J buttons . Pitchmen who set up shop on Forty-second Street and side streets got plenty of attention from knots of curious service men and women . Boys and girls sauntered along or simply sat on the curb . An army of " white wings " from the ' Sanitation Department succeeded from time to time in partly clearing up the paper mess left over from Monday 's celebration only to have a fresh shower descend . In the garment center the streets ran deep with strips of startlingly bright material . Here brilliant patches of cloth , feathers , hat , trimmings , cards of buttons and even a deck cushion were mixed with the paper and confetti . By noon police had stopped traffic between Fortieth and Forty Eighth Streets except for crosstown traffic at Forty-Second Street . To many the endless parade ) of pedestrians seemed pointless as it continued all day with no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to shut off the flow . In Times Square and in near-by bars kissing became a popular and a public pastime . One girl kissed en Army man and just to show her impartiality as between the services she promptly found a sailor and gave him a similar salute . The initiative was by no means confined to the girls . One sailor firmly took hold of a girl and as he gave her a longer-than-movie kiss a shipmate jokingly fanned him . It was evident that formal introductions were definitely non-essential . As always there were exceptions . One girl , her lipstick smeared , marched down the street , indignant . " They do n't ask a girl 's permission  --  can I kiss you ? ? they just grab , ' she said . The , were on the whole , however , ere good-natured and considerate . When they became noisy and boisterous , the celebrants did not display ugliness or pugnacity . Small boys carried placards on which were written " Hang the Emperor " and " V-J Day . " A group of five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete with horn , drums and bandaged head . Another group carried a large picture of the late President Roosevelt . Brig . Gen. Elliott Roosevelt and his wife , the former Faye Emerson , were in Times Square by day . They sat for a few minutes on a ledge near the police booth at Forty-third Street . A sailor turned to General Roosevelt and said he wished the general 's father could see the demonstration . " I do , too , " said General Roosevelt quietly . Many False Alarms Sounded The full complement of the city 's police force and fire-fighters were mustered for the day and remained on duty in shifts during the night . Police were aided by Department of Sanitation officers and members of the City Patrol Corps . Fire alarms , mostly false , ran the firemen ragged . In Manhattan , thirtythree false alarms were sounded within two hours after the victory announcement . Brooklyn firemen responded . to fifty false and answered twenty-five calls to extinguish bonfires in an hour . Fifteen effigies of Hirohito were hung on telephone poles along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming the target for pot shots by soldiers , sailors and small boys . They later were hauled down and burned . Coney Island was a mecca for celebrants during the night , the crowd being estimated at 500,000 persons . Poignant scenes , reminders of the toll taken by war , were enacted as church bells sounded the coming of peace . Framed in the entrance of their home an aged couple looked out on the street celebration . In the window was ? a service flag with a gold star . A man in the subway told of his children waking him at 3 A. M. yesterday . They would n't go back to sleep , he said , until he assured them their big brother would soon be home from the war . Festive was the word for , the celebrations in the American-Italian communities of the city . In the areas of Gowanus and Park S7ope , Brooklyn , tables were brought to the streets and food , wine and liquor were offered to passers-by . News of the Japanese capitulation was received with shouts of jubilation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Music Hall the news was flashed on the screen during the stage show presentation and the audience of 6,000 rose as one , cheering . In many homes persons who had been listening at the radio all day held parties in the evening . By far the greater number , however , went out to celebrate , even if it was nothing more than to dance in the streets . Bars and dance halls did a flourishing business and night clubs reported champagne parties reminiscent of New Year 's Eve . Many restaurants and bars of the better sort , particularly in the Times Square area , were closed all yesterday . Their proprietors admitted in some cases this was a precaution against vandalism and disorder but in others said they wanted to give their help a holiday . Department stores without exception will be closed today as will virtually all offices , mercantile establishments , Government offices and war plants . The status of bars and package liquor stores was uncertain late last night but indications were that most of the bars would be open and most of the stores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took their drinks out into the street . On the East Side , along Third Avenue In midtown , block parties were started with groups buying a barrel of beer and tapping it on the street . Harlem held an uproarious celebration . Couples jived in the streets and the crowd was so large that traffic was ? halted and sprinkler trucks were used to spray Seventh Avenue and Lenox Avenue to disperse pedestrians and permit vehicular traffic to proceed . Hospitality and good cheer were the order of the night on the lower East Side . Here , as , in the ItalianAmerican sections , tables were set up and food and drinks were served . A movie house on Delancey Street lost half its patrons in less time than it takes to sound a fire alarm when the surrender news came . Everybody , it seemed , wanted to get out . and celebrate . At an early hour , this morning the city had not , tired ' of the fun . It began to seem that the celebrants would outlast the street cleaners . Three thousand Sanitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleaning up the hundreds of tons of torn paper . At 6:45 o'clock this morning the total force of 10,000 was due to report , but their chief has given them what would appear to be an impossible task . The men were to remain on duty , according to his orders , " until the city is clean . "                     