@@708181

txt The crippled remnants of the two Japanese naval forces that tried unsuccessfully to deal a death blow to the American foothold in the Philippines were fleeing westward under full steam today with our carrier planes in pursuit and inflicting additional damage . The southern Japanese force that lost at least eight ships in Surigao Straits streaked northward along the western coast of Leyte during the night . It steamed into the Camotes Sea this morning , apparently trying to join the rest of the Japanese fleet that had fled back westward through San Bernardino Strait ' after taking a terrific licking off Samar . The southern force originally was estimated at fourteen to fifteen ships , now was reported down to one heavy cruiser and five destroyers . This force was attacked near Zoaol at mid-morning by Wildcats and Avengers from the light carrier force , using rockets and bombs . By noon the cruiser was severely damaged and down at the stern and doing a continuous left turn at slow speed . One destroyer was down in the bow and its anti-aircraft fire had been silenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The northern Japanese force , originally estimated at twenty-five ships , fled toward the Visayan Sea . Scout planes from carriers located the Japanese units last night which were to be finished off at leisure after daylight . The fleeing ships were attacked repeatedly today . Admiral Thomas C. Kinkaid , pausing for the first time since the battle began , revealed at a press conference that our submarines had furnished information two days in advance on the enemy fleet bearing down on Leyte . This information , he said , enabled him to make the most effective disposition of his forces . Carriers Get High Praise He said that the air and naval battle was of extreme importance and added that had the enemy fleet succeeded in getting into Leyte Gulf , it could have destroyed all of our ships and shelled the land forces . " The situation could have been desperate , " the admiral said . Admiral Kinkaid had high praise for the light carrier force that held off the Japanese fleet off Samar all morning until help arrived from the carriers to the south early in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unbelievable , " he commented . The northern enemy force was divided into two groups and according to the admiral their gunnery was inaccurate . He said the Japanese fleet was greatly augmented by the timely arrival of land based bombers . Throughout the battle with the Japanese forces Admiral Kinkaid walked calmly up and down the bridge of his ship , quietly giving orders . He wore his tin hat most of the time because there were so many air raids and alerts . His refusal to be drawn into a trap set by the Japanese Navy helped foil the enemy 's daring attempt to annihilate our Philippines naval forces with a quick one-two punch . Japan 's admirals , it was evident today , had hoped to crush our Leyte invasion forces by drawing our fleet off balance with a blow from the south , while a second and larger fleet attacked from the north in what was intended as a knockout . This enemy strategy might have succeeded , but actually it ran afoul of the counter-strategy of Admiral Kinkaid , commanding the Allied Seventh Fleet , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Admiral Kinkaid detected the trap and stayed out of it . The battle began early in the morning when PT boats , patrolling the southern Surigao Straits , collided with an enemy force of about two battleships , three cruisers and six destroyers . The little speedsters flashed word back to Amerlimn battleships under Rear Admiral Jesse B. Oldendorf . The enemy force , which had sneaked through the Mindanao Sea from the Sulu Sea in darkness , entered the Surigao Strait at a point where the passage was not more than twelve miles wide . II . S. Destroyers Close In Admiral Oldendorf was ready ' and waiting there with his battleships  --  some of which had been sunk at Pearl Harbor and later raised and refitted  --  and cruisers and destroyers . But he permitted the Japanese to move twenty-two miles up this slough before he opened up on them . When the Japanese warships reached the vicinity of tiny Kanihaan Island , between Dinagat and southern Leyte , the destroyers closed in swiftly and opened a torpedo attack . Shortly thereafter the sixteen , eight and six inch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Japanese fleet . From this flagship I watched the great shellbursts light the skies and turn the night into day . The Japanese our fleet pursued the enemy ships to the southern end of the straits . Most of the damage to the Japanese was inflicted by surface gunfire , but after daylight our torpedo planes sped to the attack and hit a battleship with a torpedo . three 500-pound bombs and 500 100-pound bombs . The dreadnaught was left dead in the water , listing and burning . Teatsworth 's dispatch said 500 100-pound bombs but transmission was believed garbled . The rest of tht , Japanese strategy unfolded pointblank . Big enemy forces were reported about thirty miles east of the Samar valley , north of Leyte . They , had moved eastward from the vi cinity of Mindoro and through the San Bernardino Strait in an attempt to drive a wedge between Admiral Kinkaid 's light carrier force and Admiral William F. Halsey 's big , fast carriers . The Japanese opened the action , which was , a good break for us . The light flat-tops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface contest , so they eluded the attackers . Within a short time Admiral Sprague had sent hundreds of Wildcats and Avengers into a concentrated attack against the Japanese . The American pilots worked over the Tokyo Express with all the spirit and confidence of men who had on the previous day shot down more than fifty pilots . For five hours our carriers threw planes at the Japanese and by mid-day the enemy had more fight than he wanted . The Japanese warships began to backtrack to the north . Later we brought up carrier reinforcements and the rout was ac , celerated . Prior to the naval battles the United States small carrier force scored its most impressive victory over the Japanese in a day of hectic fighting over the Leyte area Tuesday . Wildcats and Avengers from the baby carriers downed forty-nine Japanese twin-engined bombers and seven fighters with a loss of two United States planes and one pilot . Preliminary estimates also show your fighters scored another seven probables against the force of at least 100 Japanese planes that ' made three major strikes on the carrier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small carriers . The Japanese struck first at 7:55 A. M. with about eight planes . From 11:15 A. M. to 1:30 P. M. they made a series of attacks with about fifty planes . The last attack started about 5 o'clock the same afternoon and lasted intermittently until 10 P. M. Naval officers described our interception of enemy planes as " uncanny . " Not more than eight or nine of the enemy aircraft got through to Leyte Gulf , and most of those were shot down .                     