@@706547

txt Stanley Johnston , Chicago Tribune writer , did a fine job of reporting the battle of the Coral sea , says one of his shipmates aboard the U. S. S. Lexington , but neglected to tell the heroic part he himself played in the final hours of the big aircraft carrier . Lieut . Comm . Weldon 0 . Hamilton , squadron leader who first sighted the Japanese carrier Ryukaku and planted the first heavy bomb in the middle of its broad flight deck , reported today that Johnston , the only reporter aboard , was one of the real heroes of the Lexington . The commander 's own part in the battle was sidetracked in an interview until he told of the newsman 's extracurricular activities . It , was learned thru Vice Adm . Russell Willson , chief of staff  --  not thru Johnston  --  that Johnston had been cited for bravery in the Coral sea battle and that the citation Was in the , hands of . Adm . Ernest J. King , commander in chief of the United States fleet . ) Notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notes and news diaries he was worrying so much about , " Hamilton recalled . " When I got back to the Lexington she was badly crippled by torpedoes and bombs . One of the first men J saw was Johnston . " Soon it became apparent the Lexington was in a bad way and Johnston went below decks for his papers and personal effects . He came up a little later , but did n't have any diaries . He was lugging a badly wounded seaman . He dashed down again , still after his notes . Pretty soon he returned , carrying another injured man . " I do n't know how many times he repeated the performance . Every time he insisted he was going after his stuff , and every time he came back with a wounded of burned sailor . He risked his life time and again . " One of Last to Leave Ship . When orders came to abandon ship , the flight command was told to , go aboard a nearby destroyer , along with the wounded . The rest of the crew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was supposed to do , " Hamilton chuckled . " I told him to cable his editor for instructions . " What Johnston actually did , Hamilton said , was to go overside with the last remaining seamen , and swim to the destroyer thru an oil coated , choppy sea . Hamilton , leading one of foul squadrons in the attack on the Ryukaku , planted a heavy bomb on its flight deck . Torpedo planes attacked at the same time and the carrier soon sank                     