@@706637

txt Motorists driving in the city must use only their parking lights , or shaded headlamps that are no brighter , under a new traffic order by Police Commissioner Valentine made public yesterday by Mayor La Guardia in his weekly radio " Talk to the People " from City Hall . Under the order , which will become effective this week upon publication in The City Record , cars not equipped with parking lights ' must shield , hood or paint their ordinary headlights so that they will cast a light no stronger than that of parking lights . The rule applies between a half hour after sunset and a half hour before ' sunrise . The restriction on automobile I lights will intensify the city 's ' dimmed-out condition because of orders issued by the Eastern De- I fense Command of the Army . City officials and Army authorities , working in cooperation , have been studying the skyward light cast by motor cars , especially those speeding on upgrades . The new regulation announced by the Mayor is expected to eliminate this contribution to sky glow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Commissioner Valentine 's order , as made public at City Hall by the Mayor : By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 435 of the New York City Charter , I hereby promulgate a traffic regulation , to be known as Section 84 , to read as follows : Sec. 84 . Automobile headlights . Any person operating a vehicle in the City of New York between one-half hour after sunset and one half-hour before sunrise must operate such vehicle with parking lights only . If parking lights are not provided on such vehicle other headlights shall be shielded , hooded or painted so as to emit light no stronger than parking lights . During the present war emergency I hereby revoke any regulations heretofore promulgated by me inconsistent with the provisions hereof . LEWIS J. VALENTINE , Police Commissioner . The charter section to which the order refers makes it effective I after filing with the City Clerk and publication in the City Record . It makes violation of the regulation a misdemeanor tryable by a Magistrate 's Court , and punishable by a i fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than thirty days , or both . The traffic regulation apparently superseded by the new order forbids operation of motor vehicles between one half-hour after sunset and one half-hour before sunrise unless they are equipped with two lighted front lamps , having light sources of equal power , visible from a point at least 500 feet ahead and emitting white or yellow light . The rear ied light must also be visible 500 feet . Under the State Motor Vehicle law the headlights must reveal objects straight ahead in the highway for a distance of 350 feet , if on the highest power of a multiple-beamed switch , or 200 feet on a lower power . Single-beam headlights must reveal objects 200 feet ahead . Tho present city police regulations refer to the State Motor Vehicle Law for parking light requirements . These call for two front white lights clearly visible from a distance of at least 500 feet and a rear red light visible from the same distance . Previously city regulations had forbidden the use of unshielded bright or glaring lights , a rule that had not been strictly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ La Guardia , when asked to clarify the order and to supply information about exceptions , method and time of enforcement , penalties for violations and other details , said that such information must come from Commissioner Valentine . Later , under instruction from the Mayor , the Police Department made available the answers to some of these questions . Enforcement of the order , it was indicated , will be on an elastic basis , with some leeway being given to offenders for the first ten days or so , giving the driving public a fair chance to familiarize itself with the new regulation and to make necessary changes on car lighting equipment . Thereafter the Police Department will hold drivers strictly accountable . Emergency vehicles , such as Police and Fire Department cars , ambulances and the like , will be excepted from the provisions of the new regulations when being used for appropriate purposes . Penalties for violations will be imposed at the discretion of the magistrates . Mayor La Guardia said that he ' expected the cooperation of all drivers of motor vehicles in carrying out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the effect of the new regulation on out-of-town drivers , coming from areas where no such restrictions were imposed , and upon local drivers entering such areas , he said that it would be " just too bad . " " You wanted a dimout , " he said . " Well , you 're getting it . " It was indicated at Police Headquarters that tolerance would be shown to out-of-town drivers for a time , but that . eventually they would be expected to conform to local requirements . New York drivers entering other jurisdictions , it was indicated , would of course have to have lights complying with their laws .                     