@@711070

txt atilt another cut has been made In fuel exports in order to keep the " home fires " burning . The Commerce Department has just announced that an additional 599,000 barrels of gasoline and fuel oil have been clipped off the export quota for the first quarter ? January , February , March  --  in order to divert more oil to American homes . Despite the touch of spring which pushed up the temperature and cut down fuel consumption in many parts of the country in recent days , the fuel shortage is still critical and there is deep concern here over the situation . Congress has been greatly agitated over the problem and still is . The industry , perhaps more keenly aware of the far-reaching implications of the shortage than any others , is exerting every effort to help surmount the crisis . Frantic Efforts Government authorities have been working strenuously to find ways to " make both ends meet " until the industry can be expanded sufficiently to keep up with the enormous postwar demand . It is only a matter of time until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be several years , as authorities see it now . It all boils down to the essential need for more steel and for the time to convert that steel into larger plants , more tank cars , tankers* and pipe lines . Already an embargo has been clamped down on all oil shipments from the East Coast until March 31 . Some members of Congress want all shipments stopped . The House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce has just demanded an embargo on all foreign fuel shipments for the next four days . More Oil for U. S. Use The latest cut in the export quota followed a 48-hour suspension by the Commerce Department of all petroleum licenses , pending a reassessment of the urgency of foreign needs . As a result of this reassessment and the 599,000 barrel cut , the new quOta will save for American use : 10,000 barrels of aviation gasoline . 452,500 barrels of other motor fuels . 106,000 barrels of kerosene. 5,500 barrels of gas , oil , and distillate fuels . 23,000 barrels of industrial fuel oil . Australia took the sharpest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Honduras 500 barrels . The total amount of petroleum products tagged for foreign ports during the first quarter now totals only slightly more than 9 , - 000,000 barrels-24 per cent less than the original quota for that period . American wells and refineries now are producing more than 5,000,000 barrels ' a day . Embargo Plan HitIn objection to the four-day embargo proposed by the House committee , William C. Foster , Undersecretary of Commerce , explained that " an embargo , even for several days . would result in a change of schedules which would have serious consequences . " He said it would result in disrupting the movement of fuels into both the domestic and foreign trade , and added , " We have no power whatever to direct products to any particular domestic use area . " Fuel oil still is going from the West Coast to occupied Japan and the Ryukyu Islands , although on Jan. 30 oil shipments headed in that direction were drastically cut from 1,600 ; 000 barrels of gas , . oil , and distillate fuel oil to 600,000 barrels . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipments to England or to France . Other efforts to reduce fuel outgo and divert more to American homes and industry include : Requests to all foreign buyers to pare down their purchases to the absolute minimum . Navy Co-operation Navy co-operation through making available 50 operating tankers for commercial use  --  ships which it formerly chartered from the Maritime Commission . Suspension of transfer of any United States tankers sold to fortign purchasers during the shortage .                     