@@710075

txt WASHINGTON , Jan. 6 ? Evidences are beginning to appear that American critics of B. M. Baruch 's atomic energy control plan , and of the tactics he employed in driving it through the U. N. Commission , will attempt to use his retirement as United States delegate to revise his plan downward . From the beginning of this long negotiation they have charged that his firm stand , for a system in which no signatory nation could veto punishment of any other for an infraction unduly stressed an " academic " detail and prevented a " practical " solution in which Soviet Russia would be a full and faithful partner . Their efforts to modify United States policy as they have suggested may be expected now to increase rather than to subside . Henry A. Wallace and some distinguished press and radio commentators have been the leaders in this enterprise , and the public is well aware of their views and their identities . But they have been privately encouraged by official persons in what are known , in Washington jargon as " the lower echelons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the Cabinet plane itself . The President and Secretary of State Byrnes , whose attitudes Mr. Baruch was simultaneously forming and representing , supported him throughout . Any probable successor to Mr. Byrnes , particularly if he should be General Marshall , would not reverse this record . But this did not change the criticisms of certain subordinates . Before these criticisms , guided or reflected , or both , by public champions of modification , gain any new momentum , however , the country will hear reiterations of Mr. Baruch 's position from sources without which no atomic energy foreign policy can be made . These will be couched in unmistakable language so that anyone who may look for appeasement of the critics , now that Mr. Baruch has resigned , will realize that in this respect the situation has not changed . Perhaps the most important source is the Senate , to which a control treat must be submitted for two-thirds approval before the United States can assume the obligations of an international system . The President and the Secretary of State can draft and support a treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much waste paper . On foreign affairs the Majority Leader of the Senate is Mr. Vandenberg , also its president pro tempore . He has already gone on record as saying that the Baruch plan must not be compromised in any material way , and the ban on a " secondary veto " is material . Later in the week , speaking with Mr. Byrnes at Cleveland , Senator Vandenberg undoubtedly will make this even more emphatic . But today , in response to a question from this correspondent , he said : In my opinion , if there is one thing on which the attitude of the Senate can safely be prophesied , it is that the Senate will not approve the slightest deviation from a system of discipline in the development of atomic energy which will make bad faith absolutely impossible before the United States gives an inch in the matter . No plainer endorsement of the sine qua non of the Baruch plan , and of the recommendation in Mr. Baruch 's letter of resignation to the President , could be given . The recommendation was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until a satisfactory control and inspection plan was created and ratified by treaties . And few here doubt that a majority of the Senate , probably an overwhelming majority , agrees with Mr. Vandenberg . The timing of Mr. Baruch 's resignation aroused hope in the breasts of his critics that he had lost some or much support from the administration and was retiring for that reason . If the Russians , who have said harsh things about the American representative as well as his plan , had something of the same hopeful suspicion , the timing could account for that also . Though Mr. Baruch created an impression that he would retire when he had completed the " first phase , " acceptance by the Atomic Energy Commission , he did not do so immediately . And in that holdover period he told at least one inquirer fiat he felt he should stay on a while longer . He changed his mind for what seemed to him good and sufficient reasons , the chief one being that he felt sure his work would go on without material change . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the circumstances . The President sought instantly to make it clear that this impression is unfounded . But even if there were foundation for it so far as the administration is concerned ( though there is no trace of that ) , the attitude of the Senate remains the major factor . Mr. Vandenberg has ventured a " prophecy " as to that , not much of a venture in the view of those who have some knowledge of the matter and an appreciation of Mr. Vandenberg 's influence in the premises . The Senate will agree to nothing substantially less than Mr. Ba , rush 's reservations , which  --  it should be noted  --  do not preclude preparations for the general disarmament urged by Russia in parallel with atomic disarmament . He can , therefore , rest for a while at Hobcaw with the consciousness of a hard task well done and with reasonable certainty it will not be undermined by his successors . Mr. Austin 's personal approach is often milder , and his fairness of mind impels him ever to see the good points in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowing the Senate 's importance in the negotiation and Mr. Vandenberg 's ability to appraise its viewpoint , could not successfully surrender if he were disposed to do so . And there is no justification for ? tiny suspicion that he . is so disposed . * ..  --                      