@@706977

txt Local governments are depending more and more upon " service charges " to provide extra revenues to meet increasing costs . according to the Municipal Finance Officers Association . Many new revenue sources are being tapped through service charges not only to produce money , but to spread more equitably the costs of government among those who receive its services . Additional money is necessary because real estate taxes , while still the most productive means of financing local government , are not so hmaless as they once seemed . According to a report by the director of the Municipal Advisory Council of Michigan , many cities have shifted some services formerly financed by the property tax to a utility or selfsupporting basis . This is particularly true of sewage disposal services where costs , paid formerly from general taxes , now are financed from charges based on water consumpttbn and billed with water statements . Although fees and charges for special services have been relatively unimportant items in local government budgets . averaging about 5 ' 7 , of total municipal income , they promise to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The report makes the following observations on what cities are doing in the service charge field : Garbage collection : Cities in recent years have made more extensive use of the licensing power and the customer service charge . with one city transferring the cost of garbage collection to the department of water service . which is supported by water and sewer revenues . Licenses permit fine : Revenues from inspection fees . building permits , liquor licenses. fines. etc have not been increased by any great amount . The most important development has been the expansion of revenues from business licenses , particularly by making amount of the license dependent upon volume of business or number of employes of an establishment . In a few cities licensing powers have been extended to include more enterprises Higher police fines =parsed in some cities met with only temporary success because public indignation and protest eventually put a stop to excessive fines and fees . Golf course , : As a rule municipal golf courses have been made more than self-supporting . In many cities , profits from such operations help finance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have increased revenues during recent years and p-ospects are good . Trailer camps. : Trailer camps and tourist parks of many cities are financed from general takes . Some municipalities believe they should he placed on a fee basis- to obtain revenues sufficient to cover operating costs . Parking meters , : Parking meters are the most successful new source of municipal revenue . Cities which have installed them report excellent results in revenue with public resistance not as great as expected . Recreation centere. : Some attempts have been made to place recreational facilities on a self-suppoiting basis , but with success In only a few cities .                     