@@712554

txt The stage in Studio 3-B , RCA Building , looked like a flowering hillside of dolls . There were more than 1,000 of them dressed in red and white ruffles and fabrics of a hundred hues . They were here from many states and their stopoff at Rockefeller Center was only for assembly and prize-winning purposes , for these dolls are traveling south to lonely one-room schoolhouses . Many hitherto doll-less little girls in the Appalachian and Ozark Mountain regions stand to gain by this doll migration . For the second year it will spread holiday cheer among underprivileged families reached through the Save the Children Federation . Needles Fly Into Action In front of the tall bank of smiling bisque and china faces stood Miss Nancy Craig , known to many radio listeners for her program , " The Woman of Tomorrow . " It was she who cooperated with the federation in making the appeal several weeks ago by announcement of the Dress-aDoll contest , and now she was here to list the winners . As a result of her earlier broadcast hundreds of women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coast to coast flew into action . The prices were a genuine inducement , but the greatest incentive according to those who read federation mail was the opportunity of sending a doll to a deprived mountain child . Galaxy of Dolls ? Top honors went to a doll in cm:ranting blue velvet , dressed southern belle style , with lace : trimmed pantalenes and flattering hat . She had been dressed by Mrs. Merrill I. Blanken of Philadelphia and of all her charms not the least was the fact that she " zippered up the back . " Called to the mike , Mrs , Blanken could not find words at the moment except " Thank you , " when told she had won a Renault car , but she said afterward that she had two little ; girls of her own and she knew what it meant to a child to have a doll that " was fun to dress . " The whole assignment of shopping for materials and making the costume took about a day and a half . she said . Elsewhere in this galaxy dolls from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and all points East were a cowgirl doll , complete with horse ; doll on skis ; bridal dolls ; dolls made by grandmothers and one by a man ; dolls contributed by children . Livening up . the stage and - a few sizes larger than the dolls were several youngsters including two now playing in current Broadway hits . They were Betty Lou Keim from " Texas , Li'l Darlin ' " and Herbert Coleman from " Lost in the Stars . " It was a jolly turnout , but actually this was only half the story . Only the stageful of dolls will ever know the rest  --  what happens when a little girl takes her first doll into her arms .                     