@@706198

txt One South American country was prepared to break off relations with the Axis powers from the scene of the conference of American Foreign Ministers , now under ' way here , and thereby force a decision by the conference itself , should Argentina unduly delay in joining with the other American republics on this/ issue , according to a well-substantiated report to- I day . In conference circles the report , which , for obvious reasons , lacked confirmation , named the country in question as either Brazil or Uruguay  --  probably Brazil . President Getulio D. Vargas of Brazil , before a meeting of Brazilian editors yesterday , asserted that Brazil had reached her decision as to the course to pursue and was no longer neutral , now that the war had come to this hemisphere . There could be no divergence of opinion among Brazilians , he remarked . President Vargas was revealed , in this incident , as taking a firm grip on the situation with regard to the conference action . He was stated to be in direct contact with Acting President Ramon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Vargas Talks to Argentine Head Tonight , President Vargas talked with Foreign . Minister Enrique Ruiz Guinazu of Argentina in the presence of Foregn Minister Oswaldo Aranha of Brazil . Dr. Ruiz Guinazu then conferred with UnderSecretary of State Sumner Welles , head of the United States delegation , and talked with Chilean Foreign Minister Juan B. Rosetti . However , it was indicated that Argentina was not yet prepared to agree to vote for a resolution on general severance of relations with the Axis . Conference circles believed she would reach a decision on that major point by the middle of the week . For the present , her delegation here , headed by Dr. Ruiz Guinazu , was trying to encourage a compromise solution . According to a version of the report circulated in informed circles , the German and Italian Ambassadors to Rio de Janeiro , in notes to Dr. Aranha , had taken notice of intimations that Brazil intended to sever relations with their governments and had declared such step would mean war by their countries against Brazil . President Vargas , incensed at these Axis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech before the Brazilian editors as an immediate reply to the Nazi and Fascist envoys . A reply by diplomatic channels had not yet been made . According to authoritative estimates , if a vote were held today , nineteen of the twenty-one American republics would be for the joint break in relations with the Axis . The two doubtful on a showdown are Argentina and Chile , whose situation is described as hopelessly confused for the moment . Chile 's delegation is sharply didided between pro-Nazis and proAmericans . The Chilean attitude , complicated by domestic politics including a Presidential campaign , also may be influenced to an extent by the decision Argentina finally makes . For Argentina , Acting President Castillo is quoted in reports from Buenos Aires as being prepared to put rigid restrictions on Axis nationals , prevent misuse of communications facilities by the Axis , join in safeguarding the hemisphere and consider the classic rules of neutrality as not applicable to this hemisphere  --  an extension of Argentine nonbelligerency in favor of the United States . The negotiations here for a definitive settlement of the boundary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interAmerican unity  --  have reached a final phase . The two countries were reported to be near accord , but details must yet be decided . The prospect was declared encouraging , but veteran observers would not consider the case solved until the final " t " was crossed in an agreement . While the sum total of observations of the three days of the conference to date indicates final decisions that ' will express a unity of policy among the countries represented in a stand against the Axis , propagandists for the Axis here are very active in spreading rumors of dissention and in predicting that the conference will fail . In the corridors of the Copacabana Palace Hotel , where the United States and several other delegations have their headquarters , mysterious persons of German type often casually approach groups of delegates and correspondents . From Buenos Aires arrived yesterday the Argentine-born editor of the pro-Nazi newspaper Pam ; pero . He was unable to get pas ' sage by Pan American Airways plane or an American ship and came on an Argentine freighter ; but he has as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference . The automobiles of Axis diplomats are to be seen continually at the Spanish Embassy . It is believed the Spanish Ambassador and his staff are not idle in campaigning for the Axis , using the argument of blood ties in their approach to Latin American officials . However , their efforts are meeting strong opposition . Once the major political issues are settled , the conference will concentrate on the economic problems outlined in pending resolutions . Under - Secretary of Commerce Wayne C. Taylor will then play a major role for the United States as a member of the economics committee . Mr. Welles is a member of the defense committee , dealing with political matters . The pending resolutions contemplate a closed hemisphere economy during the war emergency and to ease the post-war period . They would provide for the support of national economies , economic defense and joint action in dealing with post-war questions . Other proposals cover the machinery for hemisphere military activities , probably through a board sitting at Washington ; hemisphere adherence to the Atlantic Charter , and strict , joint measures to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The ground work for decisions on all these matters is being laid in conversations among the delegates . Dr. Eziquiel Padilla , the Mexican Foreign Minister , who is chairman of the Economics Committee , is emerging as an outstanding figure of the conference . He has declared Nazism " enemy No. 1 " of the Americas and his first plenary session speech , delivered extemporaneously and calling for hemispheric unity in the face of Axis aggression , took the conference by storm .                     