@@704811

txt As Prime Minister of a nation that soon may be called upon to withstand singlehanded the invader who has overrun most of Western Europe , Winston Churchill appealed today to the people of France , over the heads of their present government , to stay in the fight , which , he declared , was far from lost . Great Britain , he announced , intended to fight to the death and redeem her pledges to Czechs , Poles , Norwegians , Netherlanders and Belgians . If victory should crown this empire 's efforts and sacrifices , the people of France , he said , would share in the benefits . But he said that Britain had not released France from her treaty obligations to shun a separate peace , and if one were made now with the enemy , the French Government would be throwing away opportunities and casting away its future . Then , in one of those perorations for which the soldier-statesmanauthor has become famous , Mr. Churchill concluded : " What General lMaxime Weygand called the Battle of France is over . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle depends the survival of Christian civilization . World Depends on Britain " Upon it depends our own British life and the long continuity of our institutions and our empire . The whole fury and might of the enemy must very soon be turned upon us . Hitler knows he will have to break us in this island or lose the war . " If we can stand up to him , all Europe may be freed and the life of the world may move forward into broad sunlit uplands ; but if we fail , the whole world , including the United States and all that we have known and cared for , will sink into the abyss of a new dark age made more sinister and perhaps more prolonged by the lights of a perverted science . " Let us , therefore , brace ourselves to our duty and so bear ourselves that if the British Commonwealth and Empire last for a thousand years , men will still say : ' This was their finest hour . ' " It was a difficult task that faced the Prime Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the accompaniment of cheers , the loudest of which came from the Labor benches . He fulfilled his assignment well , and afterward the debate on the merits of his explanations and arguments was negligible , partly out of defer- ence to the national emergency , partly because he had presented his case so well and partly because next Thursday members will have full opportunity to let off steam in a private session . Criticized for Flippancy The only criticism voiced in the lobbies afterward was that he had been too flippant in his comments on Italian naval strength . The primary aim of the speech undoubtedly was to preserve what is left of the battle front in France . As he spoke rumors were circulating here that the Italo-German peace terms would he too tough even for the stricken French to accept and that they would be faced with no choice but to continue the struggle from across the Mediterranean if their armies are driven into the sea at Bordeaux . Should this prove true , it was thought that the Petain government would fall , to be succeeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was Mr. Churchill 's aim apparently to awaken his somnolent , complacent countrymen to the reality of the danger facing this island and at the same time convince them that theirs was not a hopeless struggle . Coolly , calmly he analyzed the strategic situation and undertook to show that , while this nations is in peril , it had resources and means not only for defending itself but for winning this war as it did the last one , when the seemingly invulnerable foe suddenly collapsed and the Allies were so " glutted with victory " that they cast it away . Thirdly , he undertook to scotch incipient head-hunting by those members of the House inclined to hold an " inquest " on past governments and " indict " those responsible for Great Britain 's unpreparedness to match the enemy 's steel . There are no distinctions , he declared , between members of the present government , formed in a crisis . Cites Blunders in Field What he called the " colossal disaster " in France , he declared , was caused by failure of the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they knew the French front was " decisively " broken at Sedan and on the Meuse . This blunder , he said , caused the loss of fifteen or sixteen French divisions and threw all nine B. E. F. divisions out of action at a critical time when these forces might have turned the scale from defeat to victory had they been available against the depleted , exhausted enemy . Without recrimination , Mr. Churchill told the House that the result was that at the final showdown only three instead of a possible twelve or fourteen British divisions  --  all that this country had promised to send to France in the ninth month of the war  --  stood beside their French comrades in the line . These troops , he said , suffered heavy losses but fought well . In the last few days , the Prime Minister said , scores of thousands of men had been brought safely back from France to continue the struggle on home soil . Seveneighths , or 350,000 of the 400,000 men shipped across the Channel to serve under the French commander , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had under arms to repel an invasion 1,250,000 men and 500,000 home-defense volunteers , " only a portion of whom are armed " thus far . Next Mr. Churchill took up this country 's military situation in the event that her last ally is rendered hors de combat . Britain still had her fleet , which he declared fully able to cope with an attack on a large scale . Naturally it could not prevent landings by parachutists or small scattered landing parties , but Mr. Churchill said he was satisfied that the land defense forces were adequate to meet that danger . Pointing out that this island is ringed by mine fields , the channels of which are unknown to the enemy , he said the Admiralty was not unaware that Chancellor Hitler might use new , untried devices and strategems . Without going into detail , he said preparations had been made for such an eventuality . Here the Prime Minister indulged in one of those flippancies which in the past have been followed by unhappy sequels when he said that if the Italian Navy wanted to battle Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glad to give Premier Mussolini " safe passage through the Strait of Gibraltar in order that he may play the part to which he aspires . " This brought laughter and some cheers , but many in the House felt it wculd have been better left unsaid . Mr. Churchill , who has had considerable experience directing operations of forces sent overseas to effect landings on hostile soil , estimated it would take 200 to 250 ships to send even five divisions of German troops to invade this country . He declared such an expedition was almost certain to be spotted by air reconnaisance or naval units and sunk or blown to bits with all equipment either at sea or in attempting to land on these shores . It was a pity , Mr. Churchill said , that quantitatively the British Air Force was not equal to Germany 's , but qualitatively , he said , it had shown itself superior . Casting up the balance of debits and credits after ten months of war , Mr. Churchill said that the Geman conquest of a large part of the coast of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this island and had added to the problems of the navy . On the other hand , instead of diminishing the effectiveness of the blockade , it had enhanced it . If Herr Hitler succeeded in harnessing the industries of the conquered countries to his own war machine , it would increase his armament output , but this , Mr. Churchill pointed out , could not be done over night and meanwhile munitions , airplanes and pilots would be pouring in here in increasing volume from the United States and the Dominions , Mr. Churchill did not profess to see how any of Herr Hitler 's advantages could be made to count before the Winter , while " almost all of Europe writhing and starving under his heel " would place a back-breaking strain upon the Nazi regime .                     