@@704576

txt Estimate Board Acts After Stormy Five-Hour Hearing at Which Labor Assails Mayor HE PROMISES TO CONFER But Quill Derides Pledge That Men Will Be Taken Care of Under Unification The Board of Estimate authorized yesterday , at the close of a stormy five-hour public hearing , the condemnation and removal of the Second Avenue elevated structure north of Sixtieth Street , of the Ninth Avenue structure south of 155th Street , and of the Fulton Street line and the Fifth Avenue and Broadway elevated spurs in ' Brooklyn . The board directed that the cost of the removals be assessed on the basis of one-third on the city , one-third on the borough affected and one-third on the own-ers of abutting property . Steps to carry out the board 's au- I thorization will be taken soon by Corporation Counsel William C. Chanler . The removal of the elevated structures is part of Mayor La Guardia 's general transit unification program . The city will receive , as the result of betterment assessments , about $10,500,000 , to be used to fill the gap between the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of city bonds to be issued outside the debt limit by ' virtue of the constitutional amendment adopted last year . Transport Union Objects The public hearing that ended in the condemnation vote was held while 2,500 members of the Transport Workers Union , C. I. 0 . affiliate , picketed City Hall and a group of union leaders , headed by former Councilman Michael J. Quill , warned the board that the union would not stand idly by and see 4,600 men thrown out of work because of demolition of the elevated structures before adequate substitute facilities were ready and proper jobs made available to them . Just before the public hearing began Mayor La Guardia , on his way to City Hall from a luncheon appointment , drove through the picket line encircling the entire City Hall Park area . Members of a police detail of 300 men under Deputy Inspectors James Wall and Louis Costuma held back the line while the Mayor 's car entered the plaza from the Broadway side . The picketing was started despite an announcement by the Mayor in the morning that he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headed by Mr. Quill , at City Hall at 9 A. M. on Monday regarding the status of the 27,000 employes of the Interborough and B. M. T. ' systems after the city takes them over and makes them city workers with civil service status . Word of the conference was given out by the Mayor himself , in the presence of Sidney Hillman , vice president of the C. I. 0 . and head of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America . It was indicated that the appointment was arranged through Mr. Hillman 's good offices . According to officials of the Transport Workers Union , it was the first time in eighteen months that the Mayor had heeded their repeated requests for a conference on the status of the Interborough and B. M. T. employes under unification . Members of the executive boards of the international and local transport workers ' unions have been summoned to a special joint meeting for 12:30 o'clock this afternoon at Transport Hall , 153 West Sixtyfourth Street , John Santo , international secretary-treasurer , announced early this morning . The meeting will take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quick Board Action a Surprise The action of the Board of Estimate in adopting the condemnation resolutions immediately after closing the hearings came as a surprise to the 300 representatives of Bronx civic groups and transport workers who thronged the chamber throughout the afternoon . It brought a protest of " railroading " from Borough President James J. Lyons of the Bronx , who assailed Mayor La Guardia for not " having the courtesy to hear what has been said here by the people of the Bronx . " The vote on the resolution and the method of assessment was 13 to 3 , with Mr. ' Lyons and Borough President Stanley M. Isaacs of Manhattan voting in the negative . Mr. Isaacs based his vote on what he termed the " outrageous , unfair and shocking " apportionment of the assessments , and served notice that at the next meeting of the board he would introduce resolutions to reopen the Sixth Avenue elevated removal proceedings and those involving the Sixth Avenue spur to Fifty-ninth Street , the Thirty-fourth Street spur and the Forty4econd Street spur in order to revise the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in line with the board 's action of yesterday . Mr. Isaacs fought for assessment of the removal coits on the basis . of half on the borough and half- , on , the abutting property owners , - as , was done in the cases he will seek to have reviewed . His denunciation of the desire of Brooklyn property owners to saddle as much as possible of the cost of the removals on the city as a whole and the other taxpayers of the borough , while retaining for themselves the substantial gains due to removal of the structures , led to a spirited clash with several spokesmen for Brooklyn civic and realty organizations . Defends Method Controller Joseph D. , sponsor for the condemnation resolutions , said he regarded the assessment method adopted by the board as fair because the removals were part of the general unification plan and would benefit the city as a whole . His viewpoint was shared by Borough President John J. Cashmore of Brooklyn and Acting Borough President James J. Halloran of Queens . Mr. Halloran was asked by Mr. Lyons to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote on the condemnation resolutions , but Mr. Halloran replied that he could not do so , since he was trying to legislate for the city as a whole . The effect of the board 's ' action on the fate of the elevated structures remained uncertain , even after the vote was taken , because earlier in the day the City Council Committee on State Legislation reported out a resolution providing for indefinite postponement of demolition of the Second and Ninth Avenue lines and directing that they be operated by the city , even after unification , until adequate substitute facilities were provided , exclusive of existing lines that might be connected with the elevated routes . The resolution was amended by the committee after several speakers , including Harry Sacher , counsel for the Transport Workers Union , had denounced it as " phony . " Many Barred from Hearing Several hundred persons were unable to gain admittance to the Board of Estimate chamber for the hearing and there were vigorous protests over the failure of the city to provide ample room for those who desired to attend . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for parliamentary rules and a general ' . , of " steamroller " tactics . At the close of the hearings Mr. Lyons voiced the belief that some of the condemnation resolutions were illegal and that litigation that , would result might well endanger ? the entire transit unification program . The Bronx civic groups , headed by former Transportation Commissioner Charles V. Halley Jr. , and Lowell H. Brown , . engixteer , urged retention of the Second-:and-Ninth Avenue elevated structures ; as necessary arteries of travel for : many thousands of residents ' of the- borough . Fully a score of civic , work ; ers and spokesmen for - property. owners urged the board . to poet.pone demolition until adequate substitute facilities were provided . The labor situation was in the limelight throughout the hearings , with leaders of the Transport Workers Union and the C. I. 0 . taking turns in denouncing Mayor La Guardia 's attitude toward the 2,800 men employed on the Second and Ninth Avenue lines and the 1,700 men working on the Brooklyn lines . Mayor La Guardia , who remained , in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignored a request by Borough ' President Lyons of the Bronx that he sit during the hearings . Mr. Quill , speaking as international president of the Transport Workers Union , referred to the Mayor as a " double-crosser , " a " would-be Napoleon " and a " gocalled liberal . " He derided the Mayor 's promise that the men on the elevated lines would be taken care of under unification . The union , Mr. Quill said , did not trust the Mayor or put faith in his promises since the " doublecrossing " of the men who lost their jobs : . when the Sixth Avenue line was torn down . Later it was said liynnion spokesmen that the Mayor had , sought on Wednesday through intermediaries , to get the union to call off the picketing demonstration . Criticizing the Mayor for " wandering all over Alabama and taking care of the European situation , the Mannerheim line , the Maginot line , the Siegfried line and the Stalin line , " Mr. Quill demanded that he take care of the interests of the workers on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleading is no good we will stand up like American workers and fight for our rights , " Mr. Quill concluded . Is Assailed Council President Newbold Morris , presiding in the absence of Mayor La Guardia , clashed with Harry Sacher , counsel for the Transport Workers Union , who referred to Controller as a " Wall Street plunger " in connection with aspects of transit unification . Mr. Sacher said the union was not satisfied with mere promises of continuity of employment for the men now working on the Ninth and Second Avenue lines . Dissatisfaction with " empty promises " also was voiced by Allan S. Haywood , national director of the C. I. 0. , who said the full strength of that organization was behind the Transport Workers in their fight for recognition of existing collective bargaining contracts with the Interborough and B. M. T. after unification . Almost all the pickets carried placards appealing for retention of the elevated lines and preservation of the jobs of the men-employed in their operation . Some of the placards demanded the ' right to collective bargaining after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanting to fulfill every contract with the bankers but to break all contracts with labor . The big police detail had no trouble with the pickets and was assured by union leaders before the picket parade began that there would be no disorder . Proponents of demolition of the Second and Ninth Avenue lines had their innings late in the afternoon when spokesmen for the West Side Chamber of Commerce , Real Estate Bard of New York and other civic Ana real estate groups presented Weir arguments for removal of the old structures . Still later the . Brooklyn advocates of demolition had their turn , with Herbert L. Carpenter , head of the Mayor 's Committee on Removal of Elevated lines , introducing a score of speakers , representing the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce , the Downtown Brooklyn Association and other organizations of the borough . Court Requests Approved The Board of Estimate adopted resolutions authorizing requests to the Federal courts for approval of the Second and Ninth Avenue con-. demnations . Such approvals are necessary because the lines are now in. receivership . The board also Voted - for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After voting to ? ask the Transit Commission for leave to condemn Part of the Lexington Avenue elevated structure in Brooklyn the board adopted a resolution introduced by Controller authorizing changes in the B. M. T. unification plan to place in trusteeship , until the date of unification , the 90 per cent of various classes of securities deposited under the plan . The plan now calls for immediate cancellation of these deposited securities . The purpose of the change , it was said , is to keep holders of undeposited preferred stock in the B. M. T. and the Brooklyn and Queens . Transit . Corporation from obtaining any substantial advantage over securityholders who have assented to the plan .                     