@@707070

txt Nine governments , including those of Soviet Russia , the United Kingdom and China , have already accepted the invitation to the United Nations conference of technical experts on post-war food problems which will open in this country April 27 , Secretary Hull said today . He expressed particular pleasure that Soviet Russia was among the number . Thirty-eight governments have been invited : Others that have accepted are Australia , New Zealand , the Dominican Republic , Panama , Paraguay and Uruguay . The place where the conference will be held has not been announced . There have been reports that it might be held in the South or in Des Moines . Columbus , Ohio , put in a bid today through a letter to Secretary Hull from Representative Vorys . Mr. Hull expects that a date will be announced soon for the conference on ways of assisting refugees in Europe . It is expected to be held in Bermuda and is to be essentially an exploratory conference between Great Britain and the United States . The best possible attention had been given for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of refuge for the distressed peoples and many countries in Latin America and elsewhere have been consulted on the question of receiving refugees . All interested nations will be kept informed of the progress made in the Anglo-American conference , he stated . Asked about Canadian reports that as one result of his talks with Anthony Eden , the British Foreign Secretary , Britain and the United States were planning for a post-war world organization along the lines of the British Commonwealth of Nations , Mr. Hull said he had nothing on the subject and it was more or less news to him . Another question put to the Secretary of State concerned agitation for Congressional representation in the American delegation , Mr. Hull threw cold water on the suggestion by emphasizing that it was to be a meeting of technical experts . He said , however , that he was ready at any time ' to talk freely with those interested in Congressional representation . Coincident with the announcement of acceptances to the Food Conference , it was indicated that any proposal to bar the press and channel all news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not abandoned . Representatives of the press will be permitted to be present , although limitations on their number and access to delegates may be imposed , and a press relations office will be established to facilitate their work , as is customary at international conferences . The idea that the press might be barred stemmed from informal remarks made by President Roosevelt at a press conference when he said that parleys did not succeed as well when representatives of the press were present as when they were not , as in the case of his meeting with Prime Minister Churchill in Casablanca . He voiced the hope that news men would not cover the conference . Mr. Roosevelt is reported to have exchanged views afterward with some of his press relations officers . Stephen T. Early , Presidential press secretary , said today that an office would be established for assistance of the press in reporting the conference directly . Elmer Davis , chief of the OWI , said his office " never has wanted to cover anything for the press of the nation , and I do n't think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mr. Early had been told by the President , Mr. Davis added , that he wanted the nation 's newspapers to get all the news of the conference . " Is it the plan to bar newspaper men from the premises on which the conference will be held ? " be was asked . " I ' know of no such plan , " Mr. Davis replied . " There certainly will be reporters on the premises . " Makes Arrangements Michael J. , veteran chief of the State Department 's press relations office , has been consulted since it was decided not to oppose permission to the press to be represented and is now engaged in making arrangements . Mr. Early was asked about a report that some time ago editors h ? d been re-21 ? sted not to s-md.correspondents to the conference . He denied knowledge of any such request . And Mr. Davis said present plans do not contemplate barring reporters from covering the meeting as they would any other important gathering . Seemingly reflecting something of the original viewpoint here , Mr. Davis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press could do " quite a lot of damage " by pitting country against country if controveries arose within the conference . There were some other indications that President Roosevelt still clung to a hope that the OWI , which will report the conference for its own purposes and make its reports available to the press , will do so good a job that other reporters will refrain from buttonholing delegates to obtain firsthand versions of the proceedings in closed sessions . No one would say positively that this was Mr. Roosevelt 's view .                     