@@705014

txt 8 ALMS SOUNDED ' IN BRITISH CAPITAL Nazis Return for Night 's Work of Destruction After R. A. F. Beats Off Day Attacks By RAYMOND DANIELL Special Cable to THE NEW Yoax TrmEs . LONDON , Thursday , Sept. 19 ? Chancellor Adolf Hitler 's raiders gave London no peace yesterday . Between daylight and nightfall the warning sirens shrieked eight times . No bombs were dropped in the London area during the daytime , as the R. A. F. beat off the invaders , hut when night came there began a repetition of Tuesday night 's wanton murder and destruction . The government estimated officially today that ninety persons were killed and 350 severely injured in last night 's raids on London , The Associated Press reported . A communique issued by the Air Ministry and the Ministry of Home Security asserted that damage was mainly to small dwelling houses in Central London and in suburbs south of the river . With typical systematic thoroughness the German raiders worked up throughout last night and this morning to the most intense attack of the war on London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more frequent intervals . Beginning with widespread bombing in the suburbs , the assault spread , as night advanced , to the West End again . A direct hit on a movie theatre crashed through to a ground floor cafe . The upper floors of a well-known hotel were damaged . The guests went on dancing , unperturbed , down below . The hotel management had taken precautions to insure that no one was sleeping on the higher floors , so there were no casualties there . Savage attacks were also reported from a northwestern town and port . The London raids continued until // 8 ALARMS SOUNDED IN BRITISH CAPITAL // the all clear , when dawn was well on its way . Big battles were fought yesterday for possession of the air over the most vulnerable naval bases , the Strait of Dover and the mouth of the Thames on the path to London . So successfully did the R. A. F. stave off the blows of five separate waves of Reich bombers , escorted by many times their number of Messerschmitt fighters , that by 8 o'clock last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans were still being blocked over the Channel . It was not until they had the cover of darkness that the Germans bombed London . The Air Ministry announced at 9:30 last night that in the day 's operations forty-six Nazi planes had been destroyed , one by anti-aircraft fire . British losses were put at nine planes , but five pilots were reported safe . Each stream of bombers or fighters was met by Hurricanes and Spitfires , ready to harass and destroy the raiders . They came at a height of more than 20,000 feet along , roughly , the same course , crossing the Kentish coast between Dungeness and North Foreland . Groups Turned Back The first attack was made by 100 fighters . The second came shortly after noon , when five groups of bombers and fighters crossed the Kentish coast . Only one of their formations was able to reach the London area . The others were all turned back or dispersed by the defending fighters . One group of fifteen bombers , guarded by about forty Messerschmitt 109 fighters , scattered so quickly before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the British pilots got a chance to open their guns . Another heavily protected German group , stepped up in tiers , was attacked head-on by a patrol of Hurricanes near the Isle of Sheppey on their way up the Thames . The bombers jettisoned their bombs and fled straight back over Folkestone . These haphazardly dropped bombs wrecked houses and killed some persons in a town along the bank of the Thames . The third and fourth attacks came in quick succession . Soon after 4 P. M. another 100 of the Nazis came over Kent again , making for the Thames Estuary . Before this attack had ended another 300 planes , more than 200 of which were fighters , came in by Dungeness . It was these two attacks that took the roughest handling from the R. A. F. Squadrons of Spitfires met one raiding group over Kent and shot down five bombers , one Messerschmitt fighter and shared in the destruction of another Heinkel . Near the Thames Estuary a single squadron of Hurricanes shot down eight Dornier bombers and three Junker 88 's and helped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Hurricane patrols alone accounted for nine more bombers . As soon as the R. A. F. and the German fliers came to grips , the contest broke up into dogfights above dense clouds . Grotesque patterns of white smoke , like sky writing , caused by condensation of exhaust vapors in cold air , were clearly visible . Yet for all this activity it was almost a silent battle from the ground , and only the keenest eyes could occasionally make out the machines . Ground Guns Take Part In the late afternoon there were more dogfights over the coast as new raiders approached , and at another point anti-aircraft guns , silent while the air fighting was in progress , burst into action when eighteen bombers , protected by forty Messerschmitts , crossed the Channel coast . British fighters reported that they had shot down four airplanes when they reached an inland town . One duel resulted in a Messerschmitt 's crashing midway between Canterbury and Folkestone and adding one more wreck to the graveyards of German planes littering the Kentish hopfields . During the combat over the Thames @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down through the clouds and then converged from either side . Their guns blazed and the bomber 's tail was seen to fall off . Immediately afterward the bomber dived vertically , crashed on a stretch of beach and burst into flames . Another raider was seen to crash in the distance . Seven separate times during the daylight hours , the Germans tried Ito wear out or crush the defense in a bid for local superiority , but each time it was denied them . At dusk , ! however , it was a different tale . 1 The R. A. F. fighters no longer I barred the way and virtually nothing lay between London and the bombers but anti-aircraft guns . After a day in which the blows had been warded off , the time again came for London 's night agony . Yesterday 's tea-time raid set off the alarm for the hundredth time since the war began . Londoners were beginning to take the attacks in their stride . The day , which was marked by the longest as well as the shortest period of alarm thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raiders were hovering near or had passed . Yet pedestrians , bus passengers and automobile riders had reminders on all sides that Herr Hitler was not fooling when he threatened to destroy them and their capital unless they surrendered . Night Time of Terror The night , which has become the time of terror for the people of this city , presented a different aspect . With its millions huddled underground in packed shelters , which may become incubators of infection , the capital after dark is like a deserted village in which life has ceased . Living here and working at night is a little like being awake on a steamship when the engines have stopped at sea . Each trip between the underground office and the underground sleeping hole is like a dash across No Man 's Land in the last war . The shell craters and wrecked buildings that one passes on his normal rounds multiply like rabbits with each passing day . They are not confined to any one area now . There will be new ones at dawn , and last night 's goodnight to friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stone 's throw from the American Embassy , and the two places in which this correspondent has lived in this year 's sojourn in London have been damaged . There is no one whom one meets , from office boys to Members of Parliament , who has not had a narrow escape or suffered damage to his property . Indeed , in all this vast city of 8,000,000 people , the man or woman who has not heard the scream of a falling bomb and been showered with shell fragments , had his home set on fire or his office wrecked , would almost be worth interviewing for he would be news . Tuesday night 's raid , in which the damage to human life and property probably set a new record , lasted just six minutes less than ten hours and was the longest yet . A ten-minute raid yesterday in midmorning , which was the fourth since dawn , was the shortest . But with each raid , whether long or short , pitiful new figures are added to London 's growing numbers of refugees whose homes have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or time bombs . The streets were full of them in several sections of London yesterday morning . Grasping babies and pillows under their arms . they were moving with tired faces in the glow of the fires that the raiders had lit to illuminate their targets . Tuesday night 's prolonged and intensive bombardment from the air was not confined to London . The Glasgow area and the Mersey-side had heavy raids , and yesterday the southeast coast , the point at which , many persons believe , Herr Hitler is trying to soften up the defenders for landing invading troops , was flown over and bombed by raiders . There is one comforting aspect about the night raids to the people who live in this battle-scarred city , which has received most of its heaviest blows at night . That is the growing ability of the defenses to inflict punishment on unseen raiders . In nine nights , twenty-three raiders have been brought down ? sixteen by anti-aircraft guns , five by fighters and two by barrage balloons . Still the nocturnal marauders are flying too high for accurate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dwindling gasoline forces them to make for home . London 's tighter barrage has driven the Nazis to use more fast and manoeuvrable machines than the clumsy heavy bombers for their raiding expeditions . But , looking at it from the families ' viewpoint , none can gainsay the accuracy of an official statement that large numbers of little planes can carry almost if not as much death and destruction as their big brothers in smaller numbers . It is notable , however , that in the daylight raids the big bombers are coming over escorted by as many as eight fighters each to protect them .                     