@@708051

txt Earth tremors , felt by residents on Chicago 's north hide and reported by other cities all the way to the east coast and as far north as Montreal , Canada , resulted from a " severe earthquake " approximately 750 miles northeast of Chicago , Prof. A. R. Schmitt , Loyola University , disclosed early today . Altho the reports were widespread , It was indicated that the heaviest shock was felt in Montreal , where it was reported by telephone to Tim Mamie that " a severe shock has been felt for 30 seconds . " Prof. Schmitt said the shock came at 11:40:43 p. rm . ICWTJ and lasted approximately 35 seconds . Tim Taintem learned by telephone that the eat thquake apparently centered in Col nwall , Ontario , about 86 miles west of Montreal . Reports to Montreal from that textile manufacturing city disclosed that the walls of several buildings collapsed and at least one person had been injured . Many Awakened Here . Only those living on the north side were aware of the shock here . Telephones in THE Taintma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awakened or had " been made ill " by the tremors . Slight shocks in southeastern Wisconsin set coat hangers , lamp shades , and switchboard cords swaying , police reported . Reports also came from cities in Connecticut , Rhode Island . New Jersey , Pennsylvania , West Virginia . and Delaware , with slighter shocks in Ohio and central , Indiana . As reports were received from various parts of the country , It became apparent that the eastern seaboard cities were most affected by the earthquake . In Hackensack . N. J .. floor lamps were knocked over in houses and prisoners of the Bergen county jail were reported near panic from fear . New York Area Shaken . In , the New York area , tremors were felt at Intervals , it was reported . At La Guardia airport , officials said that the tremors were felt distinctly in the administration building and reported one tremor lasted between 45 and 50 seconds . Prof. Schmitt recalled that a similar earthquake shook Chicago on Nbv. 1 . 1935. 12:05 a. in .. but that it centered near the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been fairly prominent since Indian lore days . " The quake , he added , was not quite as severe as the one in 1935 but he said that " it would have caused considerable damage if It centered in a populated                     