@@710098

txt Special scholarships will soon make it possible for selected inmates of the - Reformatory for Women at Framingham and the Norfolk State Prison Colony to undertake courses in recognized schools to aid them in their return to constructive activity . Under present plans for the educational grant announced today by the United Prison Association of Massachusetts , one inmate will be selected from each of the institutions for the award . Other grants are contemplated as additional funds become available . " This unusual ' scholarship , ' " commented Malcolm Strong Nichols , President of the Association , " is offered as an incentive to members of the State 's penal population who wish to bruk away from past difficulties and who desire to fit themselves for good citizenship . Obviously , it can be used only by men and women who have served their time or otherwise have earned the right to be released into the community . " Funds Donated Funds to finance the scholarship program were donated by persons interested in the work of the Association . A portion of the funds has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Massachusetts Elks Association . Only prisoners eligible for parole consideration on or before July 1 , 1947 , will be considered for the first award . Those eligible for release at a later date may also file application . A committee of officials at each institution will make the first screenings . The United Prison Association will Make the final choice of candidates on the basis of recommendations by the institution committees . Although most of the persons selected for the study opportunity are expected . to be interested primarily in vocational training courses , no specific restrictions as to choice of study exist . If necessary , at least a portion of the student 's living expenses will be borne by the grant for as long a period as is considered necessary . kdvance Step The educational grant was ' ermed " an advanced step in penology " by Matthew W. Bullock , Chairman of the Massachusetts Parole Booard . " I am heartily in ' accord with the project , " Mr. Bullock asserted . Maurice N. Winslow , Superintendent of the Norfolk State Prison Colony , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association gives our institution a new and val , . : able aid in the rehabilitative program of the prison . " " With proper safeguards , " commented Dr. Miriam Van Waters , Superintendent of the Reformatory for Women , " this educational grant could revolutionize the post-institution care of women offenders . "                     