@@709841

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 26 ? Presient Truman refused today to inervene in the meat famine situaion . He declared that he believed in the justice of the present price structure and that he would not ask permanent decontrol or a temporary moratorium on meat-price ceilings . The President backed up Clinton P. Anderson , Secretary of Agriulture , in the latter 's recent statements that " price adjustments are now behind us . " The President , in his stand . thus refused to take the moratorium action asked yesterday by Representative John W. McCormack , Of Massachusetts , majority leader of the House , or to call for a special session of Congress to decontrol meat as urged upon him personally today by Representative Edith Nourse Rogers , Republican , of Massachusetts . Mr. Truman said firmly that he had stated his views . Holds to His Position Told that Robert E. Hannegan , chairman of the Democratic National Committee , had issued a statement saying that the Executive Committee had asked him ( lvtr . Hannegan ) " to discuss with the Decontrol Board and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meat supply available to the American people , " President Truman repeated that he had stated his views . The meat statement was practically the only thing taken up at the President 's news conference today , and Mr. Truman did most of the talking . He said more than once that he could guarantee the facts he mentioned . Reading rapidly from a statement so freshly prepared that no mimeographed copies of it were available to reporters , the President declared that dire predictions of famine were wholly wrong , and that the normal run of grass-fed cattle of the early fall would soon appear and improve the supply . He blamed the present tight supply situation on Congress , saying that if price control legislation had been enacted in the early spring as he had asked , the present difficulties could have been avoided . THE PRESIDENT'S.STATEMENT The text of the President 's statement was as follows : " I have been somewhat disturbed by the comments on the meat shortage . I happen to know of my own knowledge something about the meat situation , since I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of the war , looked into it in detail . I am now , and for some time have been , inquiring into the present meat shortage . " In July and August , when there was no price control on meat , meat was abundant . Now there is price control and meat is short . It is natural , therefore , for the people to blame the shortage on price control . This line of reasoning is wholly wrong . " The fact is that the present shortage is due in large part to the extraordinarily large slaughter in July and August . Without price control , prices of the relatively short supply of livestock went to unprecedented heights . A lot of livestock was rushed to market because of these prices and because it was known that the controls were likely to be restored . " Many of these cattle would normally have been fed to heavier weights and come to market during September and October instead of August . " Whether price control had been restored or not the glut of meat in summer was bound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the desirable cuts and grades . Be // sides , with the restoration of price controls after ' a period of uncertainty and confusion , it was only natural that livestock growers would hesitate to send their animals to market . " Hopes " of Producers Cited " Producers would naturally hope that something might happen to give them higher prices again . To the extent that livestock is going into feed lots and being fed to higher grades and better weights , the result will be a greater quantity and better - quality of meat in the near future than would be the case if there had been a further continuance of the Premature marketing of livestock . " Also , the normal run of grassfed cattle which occurs in the early fall should begin to appear with a consequent improvement Of meat supply . " The fall run of hogs which normally begins in October may be somewhat later this year because of the prospects for a record corn crop and the resulting opportunity for profit from feeding to heavier weights . - " Ordinarily the heaviest hog slaughter occurs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the total yearly slaughter customarily takes place . " In spite of the outlook for temporary relief in the , next few months , it is hard to predict what may happen in the spring . It is very possible that there- may be periods in various parts of the country when meat is scarce . Certainly , however , the dire predictions of a meat famine are without basis : - ? - - " I want to repeat that the difficulties with our meat supply can not be laid to the door of price control . If , as I had urged upon the Congress , the price-control legislation had been re-enacted in the early spring , many of these difficulties would have been avoided . " It is clear , however , that the present level of livestock ceilings as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture is a fair and equitable one , and one which should be sufficient to bring forth the maximum production of meat . An increase in prices or the abandonment of price control on meat now would , in the long run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fed Cattle Himself , He Says As he read the statement , the President several times interrupted himself to put in asides . Once his face broke into a grin as he interpolated that he knew about these things , had lived in one of the biggest cattle markets in the country , and had spent a big part of his young life feeding cattle . When reporters could not keep up with his rapid-fire delivery , the White . House press secretary , Charles Ross , Anterrupted to say " a little slower please . " The President slowed down momentarily , but soon was speaking even more rapidly on the subject Asked about Mr. McCormack 's request for a sixty-day lifting of the price ceiling , the President made clear that . Representative McCormack had not conferred with him before issuing the request . Another questioner then asked about a demand of Representative Adolph J. Sabath of Illinois that the Attorney General investigate the packing industry over an alleged conspiracy to keep meat off the market . " I do n't know anything about it , " Mr. Truman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hannegan statement was read to him was interpreted by some present as indicating that he had not known anything about that either . But there was firmness in his voice when he answered the question : " Do you think there will be an increase in meat in the near future ? " " I think there will be if the people will be patient and let the situation catch up with itself , " he answered . " If the controls do not come off the meat will come to the market . That is why I have made this statement . " Comments on Sabath Charge Of the Sabath charge , Mr. Truman remarked that Representative Sabath was . from Chicago and should know about the condition there , but he remarked that he ( President Truman ) did not think that the situation was as described . Asked if cattle growers were deliberately holding stock from the market to force the , end of price control , the President said he thought that entirely possible , but that he knew nothing about it and had made no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference , Chairman Hannegan had emerged from a meatless luncheon with the comment that " one subject fully and completely discussed was the shortage of meat . " He gave reporters copies of a resolution voted at the Democratic gather-ing : " This executive committee has held extended discussions as to the present situation regarding the meat supply . While it is recognized that . the American people are better fed ' than any other peop ' - in the world , nevertheless , the shortage of meat is a cause of great concern . " It is recognized that the situation today has resulted from the blind . opposition of Republican members of Congress to adequate control measures . It was the sense of the meeting that the chairman immediately discuss with the Decontrol Board and any other proper authorities ways and means of increasing the meat supply available to the American people . " Abolition of OPA Requested Representative Rogers , one of Mr. Truman 's morning callers , emerged from his office to tell reporters that the President had not promised to accede to her request that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and abolish OPA . She said that he had taken the stand that Congress had taken price control out of his hands " when it legislated the Decontrol Board . " Mrs. Rogers said that she had come back to Washington from her Massachusetts district because the meat situation had become " a nat- tional emergency affecting the national health , " and that she intended to remain here gathering up health figures which she hoped might change the President 's stand . She said that she would phone Secretary Anderson in New Mexico and telegraph Speaker Sam Rayburn in Texas as well as seeing every official in Washington who might do something about it . Senator James M. Mead , now campaigning for the Governorship of New York , and Representative Sabath of Chicago , dean of the House and chairman of the Rules Committee , both raised the question of an alleged packer conspiracy to keep meat off the market . Chairman Sabath , from Chicago , sent a telegram to Attorney General Tom-.C . Clark charging that the big packers were on strike to force the price of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them for " collusion " in " an apparent conspiracy " to violate the anti-trust laws . Mead Telegraphs Anderson In a telegram to Secretary Anderson , addressed to the Department of Agriculture here , Senator Mead said : " If a conspiracy among the big packers exists to keep meat off the market to the detriment of the American people . Federal authorities should exert all their power and influence to expose the conspirators and bring return of meat supplies to the shops of the nation . " Many farmers anxious to sell their cattle are unable to do so . Licensing of local slaughterers where health standards are - safeguarded may prove effective . " Senator Mead said the gravity of the situation . merited the setting up of " a council of government agencies " to include the Department of Justice , Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion , Department of Agriculture , Office of Price Administration , and the Public Health Service . Mayor Edward J. Kelly of Chicago , who was in Washington , added his bit to the discussion in behalf of the sixty-day suspension plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " would indicate what could be done on both price and supply on meat in a free market . " He said that meats were as scarce in his city , center of the packing industry , as elsewhere . A United States Army request for 25 per cent of the meat slaughtered in Federally inspected plants to be set aside for men in the service brought from Secretary Anderson out in Albuquerque , and from Agriculture Department officials here , the statement that this would probably be done as it had been the unvarying policy of the department to comply with the Army 's requests for food . This would further cut down the supplies from the big packers .                     