@@709152

txt A freight embargo was imposed on Buffalo today just as its record-breaking blizzard ended and a similar local storm in the Watertown area abated . J. Frank Riley , resident agent at the Lehigh Valley terminal in Buffalo , described the embargo as the most rigid ever put on freight in Buffalo , adding that there were no exceptions , not even on military shipments . The embargo on all freight consigned to the Buffalo area was ordered by the car service division of the Association of American Railroads , Mr. Riley said . Although passenger trains began to approach normal schedules after delays ranging up to six hours , and although Mayor Joseph J. Kelly tonight ended the state of emergency which he proclaimed for the city Sunday night , freight yards in the area remained clogged by the heavy snowfall which deposited up to sixty-eight inches it Lackawanna , south of the city , since the start of the storm on Friday . So heavy was the snow at Lackawanna that the Bethlehem Steel Company suspended all iron and steel production at its plant there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blast furnaces were banked , and twenty-seven active openhearth units were tapped . Alfred Shonkwiler , Bethlehem 's assistant plant superintendent , said the snow had made it impossible for employes to get to work . The plant 's railroad system was paralyzed by frozen switches and snow-covered sidings . Other plants in the Buffalo area were having difficulties . The Republic Steel Corporation 's production was about 65 per cent of ca , pacity . Donna-Hanna Coke Cornpany 's output fell to 80 per cent of capacity . Hanna Furnace reported that it was losing production . Several other plants remained closed . The two disturbances , attributed to polar air sweeping off Lakes Erie and Ontario , caused at least eight deaths and widespread hardship before diminishing to light flurries today . Mostly clear weather prevailed throughout the rest of the State . Weather observers predicted that a shift in the wind , from the southwest and west , to the northeast and east would bring additional light snow to western New York tonight and spread eastward over the State by tomorrow night . It was expected that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-four hours . Scores of automobiles and trucks were reported trapped along a road between Adams and Sandy Creek , south of Watertown , where forty-eight inches of snow had fallen . The State police and Sheriff 's officers in Jefferson County were alerted for distress calls , but officials said that up to early evening there was nothing to indicate that outside help was required . Snowplows Ca n't Get Through State highways between Watertown and Syracuse remained blocked as snowplows were unable to make headway . No attempt was made to open secondary roads in the vicinity . Roads in the Mannsville-LaconaSandy Creek area were plugged solid . Also blocked was a road from Watertown into Lewis County , through Lowville . A fresh fall of seven to eight inches in the Mannaville area had brought the total there above the 50-inch mark before the weather began to clear somewhat late in the day . Other heavy snowfalls in that area included Barnes Corners , 48 inches , Lacona 41 , Watertown 35 , Pierpont Manor 31 , and Pulaski 10 . The Railway Express Company announced a partial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The International Railway Company reported that all its bus routes were in operation and all but one of its nine street car lines functioning . The Blue Bus Company announced resumption of service between Buffalo and Rochester which was interrupted three days . The Buffalo streets division and IRC crews , assisted by units of the New York Guard ordered out by Governor . Dewey , managed to re- , open most of the city 's streets . State Officials Send Plows 4 Special to THE NEW YORS TIMES . ALBANY , Dec. ** of the State Public Works Depart- ment said today that all its surplus snow-fighting equipment in western New York had been sent into Buffalo and near-by communities snowbound by the blizzard . The Equipment sent to Buffalo , Lackawanna and Lancaster includes eight large plows normally used on the main State highways . New Snowstorm Heads East Another snowstorm began developing in the eastern half of the country last night , bringing some moderation but no lasting relief from one of December 's bitterest cold spells , according to The Associated Press . More than thirtythree deaths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cold wave . The additional snow increased traffic hazards over wide areas . The snowfall , ranging from a depth of one to seven inches , covered eastern Kansas , Missouri , northern Arkansas , Illinois , : Kentucky , Tennessee , Indiana and Ohio and was headed toward the eastern seaboard . Sleet , snow and rain spread over Georgia , Louisiana and Alabama five inches of snow , which later turned to rain , fell at Memphis , Tenn . Weather forecasters said the fresh snow caused a rise in temperatures but that the mercury would drop again with readings remaining some twenty degrees below normal for the remainder of the week over the northern half of the country . Sub zero readings were common in the Northern Plains States . The coldest readings were from BroaduS and West Yellowstone , Mont. , with thirty-three degrees below .                     