@@710795

txt The forceful . noral authority of a United Church of America , comprising the majority of the Protestant denominations , could prevent a catastrophic third world war , the Rev. Dr. E. Stanley Jones said today in Boston . ' Completing a tour of 30 cities on which he has been crusading for a United Church , the noted author and missionary to India spoke today at the Boston City Club before several hundred laymen and clergymen and earlier at a press conference . Under the proposed plan for a United - Church , which would set up a general assembly in which all denominations would have delegates , Protestants would present a united front on peace problems , education and church questions , the missionary explained . Local Self-Control " Just as these United States came together on the principle of federal union with local self-government in the states , so we suggest that there be one church , the United Church of America . Under that church , we would have branches . .. of one church .. . ' the Episcopal branrh , the Lutheran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In these branches , there could be local self-government or state 's rights " , one branch keeping its bjshops , another its ritual of baptism by immersion , but none compelling others to follow suit , " he said at his press conference . Describing the movement which is under the sponsorship of the Association for a United Church of America , as a grass roots , people 's approach up to the officials of the denomination , Dr. Jones said that " between the branches there could be 90 per cent who would be willing to have interchange of ministers , members , and intercommunion straight off . " Referring to the opinion of an atomic physicist that if the peace could be made within *le next , 10 years the use of the atomic bomb in war could be prevented , Dr. Jones said the church is the key to the situation . Potent Moral Force He added that if the 70,000,000 Christians in America , two thirds of whom are Protestants , could speak with one voice , " they could determine the moral direction of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , " a co-operative man evidenced in a Christian society , would bring peace , he said . It is planned that a congress of the denominations would be called some time in 1948 to draw up a constitution for such a united church after the denominations have approved , he added . Dr. Jones envisaged a union not only of American denominations but a world union , flexible enough to allow diversity in the branches and having as one of its branches the Roman Catholic Church , if it would agree to become one . Dr. Jones said he thought it was possible " to find a form of union which will preserve all the good in the denomination emphases and yet give the church a single-pointed power of witness to . the nation and the world . " Ile said that reports from cities throughout the United States indicate that the church people of this country are ready for a united church .                     