@@707438

txt The bold assault on the Gilbert Islands , where American soldiers and marines are now battling Japanese garrisons under the protection of the biggest American naval force ever assembled in the Pacific , has stirred this country 's imagination more powerfully than anything that has happened in that region since the conquest of Guadalcanal . For this assault , which makes good Admiral Nimitz ' Armistice Day declaration that " our time has come to attack , " is primarily a challenge flung down by the American Navy to the Japanese Navy to come out and fight . It is a demonstration that the American Navy , so often " annihilated " in Japanese communiqu  --  s , dominates the Pacific outside of Japan 's island-rimmed fortress , and that it sails the seas with a broom lashed to the mast , right up to the ramparts of that fortress . This demonstration has not only revived and strengthened America 's traditional pride in her Navy as her first line of defense ; it has also aroused hopes of a drushing defeat of the Japanese fleet which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise be anticipated . But this hope is based primarily on the traditional American view of a Pacific war as a naval conflict that might be decided in one great sea battle . That view , however , seems to be out of date for two reasons . The first is that it presupposes a limited war for limited objectives , as were most wars fought in the past . But this war , as so often declared by all Allied statesmen , is a total war for the unconditional surrender of the enemy , and that means the invasion and occupation of the enemy country . A sea victory could greatly facilitate this invasion , but can never take its place . The second reason is that a major sea battle appears to be contrary to Japanese strategy . For the Japanese regard their navy as primarily an auxiliary of the army , responsible for securing the army 's communication lines within an island empire . The prospect of the Japanese Navy 's risking defeat in open battle and thereby endangering the communication lines of Japan 's far-flung battlefronts is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' the assault on the Gilbert Islands is still a major undertaking because it amounts to the opening of a new front in the Pacific . And this front is beginning to reveal the grand strategy of the whole Pacific war . It is a , strategy of the long pull , based on the consideration that until the war ends in Europe the Allies will be unable to muster sufficient strength for a frontal assault on Japan . But they do possess sufficient naval and air superiority to wage a war of attrition ' which must whittle down Japan 's naval and air strength , and especially her shipping , until her outer defenses fall and the . Allies advance their bases for the frontal assault to be made when the time comes . In this war of attrition the principle of dispersal appears more serviceable than the usual military maxim of concentration . For the new front , does not stand alone . It must be viewed in relation to General 's front in New Guinea and the Solomon , Lord Louis Mountbatten 's front in Burma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex erting pressure on all these fronts , the Allies force Japan to scatter her forces over distances almost equal to those confronting the Allies themselves , with the result that it is impossible for her to concentrate in great strength on any single front . Inasmuch as Japan 's resources will prove in the end far inferior to those of the Allies , she will find that her very over-extension is one cause of her downfall . But that is tomorrow 's story . There will be hard fighting , great risks and doubtless many disappointments before that stage is reached .                     