@@711425

txt Alger Hiss , president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and former State Department official , denied categorically to the Anise Un-American Activities Committee that he has ever belonged to the Communist Party or ever followed the party line . He made his denial to the committee as President Truman at . ' the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue was describing the congressional spy hearings as a " red herring " designed to take the public mind off the lack of action by the special session . The President reaffirmed his order to executive department heads to withhold loyalty information on government workers from congressional committees . He said the recent Senate and House hearings had disclosed no information " that has not long since been presented to a federal grand jury . " Told to Hold Back Data Department chiefs were told by the President that they may forward , in response to a written committee request , " all unclas , . sified routine papers , " but they were instructed to withhold all investigative data of any type , whether relating to . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If they have any doubts , the department chiefs were told to refer requests to the White House . A special Senate investigating committee , headed by Senator Homer Ferguson ( R ) of Michigan , has been trying unsuccessfully to get from the Commerce Department employment records of William W. Remington. accused by Miss Elizabeth Bentley of furnishing material to a wartime Communist spy ring . The story Mr. Hiss told the House committee about himself was so diardetrically opposed to , that given earlier this week by Whittaker Chambers , a senior editor of Time magazine , that Robert K. Stripling , committee investigator , recommended . that Mr. Chambers be recalled for an explanation . Mr. Chambers had accused Mr. Hiss of being a member of a . Commtinist " underground " seeking to infiltrate into the government . He testified that he had called at the Hiss residence and tried to persuade him to leave the party but had been unsuccessful . Refutes Chambers ' Claim Mr , Hiss , who served in the State Department from 1936 to 1947 and helped write the United Nations Charter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never laid eyes " on Mr. Chambers who also had accused his brother Donald of being a Communist . Of the alleged members of the underground named by Mr. Chambers , Mr. Hiss said he had known Henry Collins from boyhood and had worked with Lee Pressman on the Harvard law review and in the Agricultural Adjustment Administration . He said he had gov- Hiss Displeased The committee appeared satisfied with Mr. Hiss ' denial that he ever had any connection with the Communist Party , but he made it clear to them that he was displeased at not having been given a chance to meet with the committee before it caused " a great public press display " of what Mr. Hiss said he considered " totally unfounded charges against me . Denials , " he told the committee , " seldom catch up with charges . " Questioned as to his attitude toward the employment of Communists in government , Mr. Hiss agreed that effort should be made to oust them but he added , " every effort that is compatible with the reputation of innocent persons . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between policy-setting positions and routine jobs . But when he was asked , " If you were the head of a bureau would you , employ a Communist charwoman ? " he used President Roosevelt 's retort by calling it an " iffy " question . Informed in 1946 Committee members , especially Representative John E. Rankin ( D ) of Mississippi , questioned Mr. Hiss at some length about his participation in the Yalta conference and in drafting the charter of the United Nations . He said he opposed the Yalta agreement that gave Russia a UN vote . for Byelorussia and the Ukraine but he was in favor of the veto clause " without which there would have been no United Nations . " He added that he thought various changes could be made in the clause today . Mr. Hiss told the committee he first had been informed that charges of Communist leanings were being made against him back in 1946 when James F. Byrnes , former Secretary of State , called him to his office and told him such stories were centering from the Federal Bureau of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with him by Adolph A. Berle , to whom Mr. Chambers claimed he had told his story . He said he never had heard of Mr. Chambers until FBI agents called on him in New York .                     