@@711428

txt Below the heights whereon stand . Belgrade 's old Turkish fortification , the ugly brown Danube , to give its true color , flows quietly on , oblivious to the latest in- , ternational effort to establish control over thiS most important Europ.ean Waterway . Unlike the diplomats laboring in the.sweltering heat of a Balkan summer , this ' mighty river eddies by , unconscious that it has become for a moment the latest plaything of East-West rivalry . Nor would it be much concerned if it learned that the chances of reaching a satisfactory agreement on its future control are about as slim as the reeds which grow along its banks . Utile Hope Seen For present indications clearly point to either a stalemate . of the 11-nation Danubian conference or to some outcome which will be so utterly unsatisfactory to the western powers that they will refuse to give it their signature . Main point of disagreement lies in the Russian proposal for the new Danubian accord to replace that of 1921 . Boiled down to its simplest terms , this Russian proposal would confine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of which , except Austria , which attends the conference only as an observer , and Germany , which is n't present at all , are Communist and lie within the Russian sphere . Furthermore , this control , especially as it touches free navigation , would be exercised " in accordance with interests and sovereigh rights of Danube states . " Finally each state would be the real boss of that part of the river lying within or along its boundaries , thus ' ' reall'y eliminating the river 's ' international character . As for the part which the western powers would play in guaranteeing free commerce on the Danube , to put it bluntly , they would be on the outside looking in . In making its proposals , Russia is in a strong diplomatic and prat- , tical position . First and foremost , Russia and its satellites do control almost the whole length of the river and , in the last analysis , can do therewith exactly as they please . Second , they claim , again with some basis of reason , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violated by certain British and French dictated decisions in 1938 and 1939 . Finally a pro-Russian majority in the present gathering makes it possible for Moscow to push through any decision on the river which it wishes . The practical question in all this is just how far the three western powers of the United States , Britain , and France are willing to go in surrendering their past rights over Danube control . In the case of the two latter , these rights are long-standing legal ones ; in the case of the United States , they were inherited through the Allied victory over Germany and Austria . Faced with a situation wherein virtually every card . lies . in Russian hands , what will the western , minority do ? Arguments Rapped So far as can be learned , they , themselves , have n't yet decided definitely . So far as can be judged , their policy is one of sitting tight , making such concessions as cannot.be avoided , stressing moral rather than physical or diplomatic sides to the question and , in the end , refusing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , throws them out of this area on . their ear . Giving the general Anglo-American position , British Ambassador Sir Charles Peake stated that whereas Britain was ready to readjust Danube control in the light of present-day realities and changes , it did n't intend to be intimidated by Russia . He further stated that Russian arguments against the 1921 agreement were fanciful and against international law . As has been the case with so many postwar international gatherings , this one here is not really a convention as much as a Russian Anglo-America fencing match . In this particular case , the only real point of interest is how far Rus- : ' sia will go in pushing its advantage or if it will show some tiny spark or conciliation , something Anglo-Americans do n't look for . Besides this point , all references to international law et al are of little significance .                     