@@711142

txt Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. , son of the late President , urged the people of the ' United States yesterday to draft Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower for the Democratic nomination for President to bring about " the unity of our country " in this critical time . Rejecting the candidacy of President Truman in an interview at 598 Madison Avenue , Mr. Roosevelt declared Henry A. Wallace as a third-party candidate for the Presidency in no conceivable way reflected or inherited the liberal objectives and principles of his ' father . He asserted Mr. Wallace was confusing and dividing the the country . He added that he had informed President Truman of his intention to call for the drafting of General Eisenhower through ' Senator J. Howard , Democratic National Chairman . In Washington , an aide to General Eisenhower said the General had not seen Mr. Roosevelt 's statement . The aide added that General Eisenhower would not issue any statement and that his letter , in which he removed himself as a possible candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination , would stand . Elliott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced he favored the nomination of General Eisenhower and had rejected an appeal from C. B. Baldwin , campaign manager for Mr. Wallace , to support the former Vice ' President , according to the Associated Press . " My position is a very simple one , " Elliott Roosevelt 's statement read . " I believe that the Democratic party has failed to provide the leadership that was needed in the winning of the peace . That peace can still be won . " The movement to draft General Eisenhower for the Democratic nomination for President has gained the support of leaders of the Liberal party , including State Chairman Adolf A. Berle Jr. , David Dubinsky , president of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union , and Alex Rose , secretary-treasurer of the Hat , Cap and Millinery Workers Union . Liberal Party Opposes Truman A survey of members of the Liberal party which polled 329,235 votes for President Roosevelt in this state in 1944 , indicated that 75 per cent of its members were opposed to the nomination of President Truman and that the President had no chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party 's policy committee last Monday it was decided to ask the leaders of the Democratic party to nominate a liberal candidate for President other than President Truman , with General Eisenhower favored . The Liberal party leaders believe the nomination of General Eisenhower would result in election of many more Liberal members of Congress than would be possible with President Truman as the candidate . It also was learned here that Southern Democratic leaders , resentful over President Truman 's civil rights program , were ready to join the draft Eisenhower movement . None of the groups concerned professed to have any definite assurance that General Eisenhower would accept the Democratic nomination . It is known that after the recent Southern Governors Conference in Washington , some of the Governors were in touch with General Eisenhower . It is the hope of Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . and those who favor General Eisenhower for the Democratic nomination that the critical world situation may convince him the American people have a right to draft him despite his previously expressed unwillingness to be a candidate . In a letter to Leonard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , General Eisenhower wrote that it was his conviction that " the necessary and wise subordination of the military to civil power will be best sustained " * * when lifelong professional soldiers in the absence of some obvious and overriding reasons abstain from seeking high political office . " Roosevelt 's Statement Franklin D. goosevelt Jr. , said he had had no contact with General Eisenhower and did not iDtend to have any . He added that he had informed Paul E. Fitzpatrick , Democratic State Chairman , now in Florida , of his statement as a matter of courtesy , but had not been able to reach Edward J. Flynn , New York Democratic National Committeeman . Mr. , Roosevelt 's statement said : " I am convinced that the most serious concern of the people of the United States is to elect as President next November a man who will not only have a united party behind him , but also will be capable of securing the unity of our country and have the confidence and support of all Americans . " The Third Party candidate in no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of my late father . In a moment of world crisis he is confusing and dividing the country . Nor have the men suggested for Republican nomination demonstrated any marked ability to unite the American people . " Circumstance requires a man who will convince the Russian leaders that the constant aim of our policy is to secure the lasting peace for which World War II was fought and who , at the same time , will take all necessary steps to stop further aggression , direct or indirect , by the U.S.S.R. against the free peoples of the world . " The American people have such a man in Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower . I am mindful of the General 's earlier statement on this matter , but since the Communist coup in Czechoslovakia we have entered a period as critical as that after Munich . The American people have a right to call the General back into active public service . " " I have not talked with the General since 1943 in North Africa , nor do I have any intention of communicating with him . I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men and women of labor , the farmers , the business and professional community , in short , all Americans urge him to accept the nomination , he will , as always , answer the call of duty with patriotism , humility and courage . " In times of crisis the Democratic party has provided such great leaders as Jefferson , Jackson , Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt . In keeping with this tradition , I am convinced that the Democratic party will again mirror the overwhelming will of the American people , when its leaders meet at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia , and will draft Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower for President . " Acts as Individual Mr. Roosevelt , who is national vice chairman of the Americans for Democratic Action , said he issued his statement as an individa ual , a citizen and a veteran and not in any official capacity . " I did not ask anyone for approval or disapproval , " he said . " The decision is my own . The movement to draft General Eisenhower must be a genuine and honest draft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is my hope that those who agree with us will work through their local and state Democratic organizations by making their desires felt to those organizations Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . sssomateo with a view to obtaining delegations pledged to a favorite son or ' unpledged delegations . " Asked if he thought President Truman . if nominated , could be elected , he said : " I will answer the question this way . I feel that the great need of the country is to be unified by a great and proved leader . General Eisenhower will furnish that leadership which all Americans so desperately seek . " Clubs Being Organized A. new independent movement to draft General Eisenhower for the Democratic nomination has been started by a group including many young veterans . Daniel James , a music publisher at 1775 Broadway , is secretary . Clubs already have been organized in Bronxville , Woodmere , I. ; Millwood , the West Bronx and on the West Side of Manhattan . Mr. James said this organization , known as " People for Eisenhower , " would organize other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Democratic nomination for President was viewed as one of desperae tion and unlikely to succeed . Though as an Army officer and West Point graduate General Eisenhower has had no personal political affiliation , Republican leaders said , he was appointed to West Point by the late Senator Brostow , a Republican . His son was appointed , to West Point by Senator Arthur Capper , a Republican , and his family has been Republican .                     