@@711567

txt Having heard the Western indictment of Russia 's use of force in Berlin , the Security Council of the United Nations has adjourned for an " intermediate waiting period " of a few days before attempting to pass judgment on it . This period will be utilized by the Western Powers to canvass the situation created by Russia 's refusal to participate in the proceedings even while physically present , and to draft a resolution which as a minimum is expected to call on Russia to end the I Berlin blockade and remove its threat to international peace and security . It can be only hoped that Russia will also take advantage of this waiting period to-review those of its policies which have given rise to the Berlin crisis and , as in the case of Iran , find ways and means of abating it to make possible those negotiations which Moscow professes to desire but does everything to prevent . in- any event , the Western standpoint has been clearly stated by the representatives of Britain , France and the United States . That standpoint is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and forcible measures in Berlin , Russia has created an " insuperable obstacle " to any further negotiations regarding Germany . The Western Powers are determined to take whatever measures may be necessary to insure the safety and subsistence of their forces in Berlin and the populations committed to their care by Four-Power agreement . But the moment the blockade is lifted and the Russian attempt to put them under duress abandoned , they are willing to discuss with Russia all disputed points on Germany , including the dispute over the future German Government , and to do so in the Council of Foreign Ministers , as Russia wants . In short , refuting the Russian complaint that they will not negotiate  --  a complaint echoed by certain ? elements in this country  --  the Western Powers declare that they are willing to negotiate with Russia on whatever , and wherever , and whenever Russia desires , but not by abandoning their rights in advance or bowing to ? Russia 's use of force against them . It is up to Russia to show its good faith by displaying a similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean , howeeeer that the Western Powers are committed to wait forever for Russia to agree to a peace settlement while FIttssia seeks to impose one by its own Might and on its own terms . Nor does it- mean that the Western Powers accord to Russia the right and the power tEparalyze all their efforts to organize the world for peace , economic stability and self-defense . On the contrary , they are all the more likely to obtain Russian agreement to an acceptable settlement if they first agree among themselves and present to the world a peace program which not only goes beyond die vague outlines and limited scope ' hinted at thus far , but which can also mobilize the full force of world opinion behind it by a return to those principles which inspired free men to wage war and are just as necessary to wage peace . And they will add to the impact or this- program if they make it plain that , contrary to the Russian contention , the Council of Foreign Ministers is-not the only instrument for such a sttlement and that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again because of the Russian veto . As a matter of fact , the Potsdam Agreement , which created this Council , specifically provides that , while the Council " shall be authorized td draw up " the peace treaties with Italy and the East-European countries , it shall be Merely " utilized for the preparation of peace settlement for Germany , " which-plainly implies the employment of other and more , authoritative agencies for " drawing up " the remaining peace treaties themselves . Such more authoritative agencies have already been suggested in a Mexican resolution now before the General ? Assembly , which in effect calls on the Big Powers , who sought to arrogate to themselves the right to make the peace ? and failed in the attempt , to seek a solution in the larger forum of either the Assembly or , what seems more practical , in a peace conference consisting of at least the original signers of the United Nations Declaration , which should also set the moral standards for the conference . Since former Secretary of State Byrnes , the ' father of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a failure , the Mexican resolution provides one way out of the present deadlock which deserves to be explored .                     