@@706415

txt The Tribune today presents on page 10 the names of 446 men of the Chicagoland area who have given their lives in military operations of the navy , marine corps , and coast guard since the start of the war , including those at Pearl Harbor . By states , these sacrifices were : Illinois , 142 officers and men ; Michigan , 89 ; Iowa , 96 ; Indiana , 57 , and Wisconsin , 62 . The naval losses in action for the whole nation total 2,991 . New London , Wis. , May 4 tSpectall . ? " I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost and the solemn pride that must i be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice on the altar of freedom . " When Abraham Lincoln wrote its immortal letter to Mrs. Bixby , which closed with the above prayer , all of the characters in the tragedy now shrouding the Barber farm home near here were yet to be born @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , history has in a measure repeated itself . Another mother , Mrs. Peter Barber . has occasion to feel that solemn pride . Three Sons Lost on Ono Ship . Three of her sons were killed when a warship was bombed and sunk at Pearl Harbor . So far as is disclosed by casualty lists , this is the largest loss inflicted on a single family in the ' United States in this war . Lincoln wrote Mrs. Bixby after he had been informed five of her sons had been killed at various times during the Civil war . Mrs. Barber lost hers all at once . She is , however , the mother of five sons . The stir , vivors are Clayton , 16 years old , and Robert , 9 . Her husband is a veteran of the first World war , in which he served as a sergeant with the 10th infantry . No letter tendering Mrs. Barber " the consolation that may be found Leroy ( left ) , Malcolm ( center ) , and Randolph Barber . in the thanks of the republic they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No. 1 gold star mother of World War II . But there was a telephone call at 2:30 a. m. on Dec. 21 which brought the family the news that the three inseparable Barber boys were dead . A Christmas Memorial . Word of the tragedy spread at once thru the community here , and memorial services were held just before Christmas . The nation at large did not learn of it until the navy 's cas ? ualty lists were released today . The brothers were Malcolm , 22 ; Leroy , 21 , and Randolph , 19 , all firemen aboard a warship . Leroy was the first to enlist , his mother said today , and received preliminary training at Great Lakes . Ile was so impressed with the ship to which he was assigned that he wrote his brothers . advising them to enlist and to request a similar assignment . The navy made an exception in the . ' case of the three brothers to its rule against permitting mere than one member of a family to serve on the same ship . Asked to Separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their deaths asking that they be transferred to separate ships so they would not be subject to the possibility of being lost in one disaster . " I remember how grand they thought it was that they could all be on one ship , " Mrs. Barber said. ; " While in Hawaii they met Gene Autry , the movie star , and last fall they were his guests for a week at his ranch in California . " The living room of the Barbers ' modest frame farmhouse is a testimonial to the devotion of the brothers to their home and its ties . The walls are covered with pictures and mementos sent ; by the boys while In service . Shaeed Their Sports . " They were together in everything they did , " the mother said . She told how they hunted as a trio in the woods and swamplands near the farm or Joined their father lb fishing for pike , catfish . or bass in the nearby river . They were . schooled in the parish school here where the nuns who were their teachers remember @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not bitter , ' the father said , " but there is one thing neither of us can forgive . We were at peace when the attack started . Our boys did n't even know about it . They must have been caught below decks without any chance to fight back . If they had known  --  if we had been on guard  --  they would have returned the lire and they might not all have died . " , " We have no eholee , we must go on despite what has happened . " Mrs. Barber added , glancing at 16 year old Clayton . Ile is a student at WashIngton IIigh school here and for him going on means getting old enough to avenge the deaths of his older brothers                     