@@708460

txt The Stars and Stripes went up on Corregidor 's blasted , bomb - seared " Topside " today as Gen. Douglas , stepping ashore on the island fortress for the first time since leaving it more than three years ago , told assembled troops : " Hoist the colors and let no enemy ever haul them down . " The ceremony on the parade grounds in front of the long ? Cement officers ' barracks , which were gutted by enemy bombs and shells after the outbreak of the war , was brief but moving in its simplicity . At 11:30 A. M. the general% entourage arrived at the old American flagpole , which was still standing . The general , addressing Col. George M. Jones of Memphis , Tenn. , commander of the 503d Regimental Combat Team , which is just now completing the mop-up of the remaining Japanese , awarded to him the Distinguished Service Cross . General paid tribute to the recapture of Corregidor as " one of the most brilliant operations in military history , " pointing out that Colonel Jones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own by two to one . So far , 4,215 Japanese have been killed on Corregidor . " I see the old flagpole still stands , " said the general . An honor guard of 336 men who participated in the recapture of the island stood still at attention as the colors were hoisted . Then General stepped forward , grasped Colonel Jones ' hand and said : " Colonel , my heartiest congratulations . " The general and eleven other Army officers who left Corregidor with him in 1942 made a quick inspection of the island before the flag-raising ceremonies . They came back to Corregidor " by the same means of travel in which they left  --  motor torpedo boats . As General stepped ashore he paused and surveyed the desolate scene from Corregidor 's south dock . Then he resumed a rapid walk down the blasted cement dock , whose supports and rails had been damaged heavily by bombs and shells . Ashore he and his party climbed into jeeps and began a tour of the historic installations . There was Malinta Hill and the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is engraved . The general stepped inside where the Americans had grimly awaited defeat three years ago . He saw his former residence on the island 's tapering tail  --  a residence that had been destroyed before he left Corregidor . It had been his second residence on Corregidor , the Japanese having previously bombed him out of his first home near the officers ' barracks on Topside . Only a few cement ruins were left of his second residence but the General was heard to murmur : " I am home again . " Looks at Silenced Guns The entourage proceeded to the flagpole and to the site of his first residence . Here the general also walked around , looking at the coastal defense guns , which had been battered into silence when Corregidor 's gallant force surrendered on May 19 , 1942 , under command of Maj. Gen. Jonathan M. Wainwright . During the tour of inspection the business of killing Japanese hiding out in tunnels and caves continued . Two rifle shots rang out some distance from the party . Soldiers said Japanese had been killed last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although pointing out that warfare on Corregidor now has settled into a rountine of picking off stray Japanese who come out after water or food , and mostly at night . Many Japanese had been sealed inside the caves and tunnels , and the odor of long dead Japanese permeated the route of the general 's itinerary . He also was able to look out over Manila harbor and watch American bombers strafing and dropping explosives on nearby Caballo Island , little pin points of light sparkling on its bluffs as the bullets sprinkled into it and huge clouds of smoke and dust billowing into skies as the bombs fell . This was one of the most restrained military ceremonies ever staged in this theatre , and the general 's address was delivered slowly without visible emotion . TEXT OF GENERAL 'S ADDRESS The text of his address was as follows : " Colonel Jones : The capture of Corregidor was one of the most brilliant operations in military history . Outnumbered two to one , your command by its unfaltering courage , its invincible determination and its profesional skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have cited to the Order of the Day all units involved and I take great pride in awarding you the Distinguished Service Cross as a symbol of the fortitude , the devotion and the bravery with which you have fought . " I see that the old flagpole still stands . Have your troops hoist the colors to its peak and let no enemy ever haul them down . " Ranged behind the general as he spoke were eleven men who left Corregidor with him : Lieut . Gen. Richard K. Sutherland , his Chief of Staff ; Maj. Gen. Richard J. Marshall , Maj. Gen. C. Paul Stivera , Maj. Gen. Charles A. Willoughby , Maj. Gen. Spencer B. Akin , Maj. Gen. Hugh J. Casey , Brig . Gen. LaGrande A. Diller , Maj. Gen. William F. Marquat , Col. Sidney Huff , Lieut . Col. Joe and Second Lieut . Paul Rogers . Brig . Gen. Carlos P. Romulo , now Resident Commissioner to the United States for the Philippine Commonwealth , was also present at the ceremony , The Associated Press said . He had served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1942 and did the " Voice of Freedom " broadcasts from Malinta tunnel . On the completion of the address and the raising of the colors the entourage returned downhill , dust from the road drifting across jagged splinters of trees on which hung parachutes of paratroopers who made the jump on Corregidor on Feb. 16.                     