@@711109

txt Votes topped voices in the House of Representatives , and the Committee on Un-American Activities gets the $200,000 appropriation it needs to carry on its investigations against subversive attacks on the Federal Government . Opposition to continuing the tenure of the committee that has been drawing down public censure for its unsupported accusations against Dr. Edward U. Condon , Director of the United States Bureau of Standards , as " the weakest link in atomic Ocurity , " was extremely vocal . But the final vote was 337-37 in favor of the antienemy group . Only one Republican joined with 36 Democrats and labor members in voting " nay . " Meanwhile the committee is pressing on with its case against the public official whom it charged with being , a consort of communist spies . In closed sessions , the committee is questioning Department of Commerce officials as well as members of the Department Loyalty Board which recently gave Dr. Condon favorable clearance . The committee got the largest sum it yet has received from Congress to carry on its investigations against suspected enemies of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blistering barrage of criticism from members who regard the committee as " un-American . " Committee Termed Unfair Critics argued the committee is " unjust and unfair . " Representative Adolph Sabath ( D ) of Illinois led the attack against the committee . He charged that it deliberately attacked Dr. Condon " to create sentiment in the House for additional appropriations. " - Reresentative John E. Rankin ( D ) of Mississippi shouted that there is an acute need for the committee 's work . There are in this country , he said , " elements who are trying desperately to get the secret of the atomic bomb . " If they should succeed , he said , they could destroy this country with 12 ' strategically placed atom time bombs . Mr. Sabath said the committee 's accusations against Dr. Condon were based on the statements of a former communist who refused to give his name . The committee accepted these statements , he said , despite the fact that Dr. Condon twice had been cleared . Representative Ethanuel Celler ( D ) of New York said the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hysteria against Russia . " He said the committee had refused Dr. Condon 's every effort to get a hearing on the charges . Representative Vito Marcantonio ( ALP ) of New York charged that Mr : Rankin was " trying to frighten this Congress into voting for this appropriation by atomic bomb talk . " " Rather than trust the biased activities of this committee , " he said , " I would rather trust the judgment of the American people . This committee was set up in violation of the Bill of Rights . Representative Ellsworth B. Buck ( R ) of New Ybrk said he would support the appropriation " in the hope that the committee 's headlines will come from work well done " rather than " from charges they hope to prove . " His statement brought applause frOm a large group of members on the Republican side . Support Pledged Representative Adam Clayton Powell ( D ) of New York said he would support the committee only if it would investigate " all un-American activities , " including : " The recent wave of police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital , Jackson . " Mr. Rankin claimed that his State had been mentioned " unfavorably " and demanded a ruling that Mr. Powell 's words he branded " unparliamentary . " ( This is a legal technicality that would strike the words from the record and force Mr. Powell to remain silent on the floor for the rest of the day . ) Representative Joseph W. Martin ( R ) of Massachusetts , Speaker of the House , declined to make such a ruling despite Mr. Rankin 's protests . Mr. Martin said that Mr. Powell was entitled to voice his opinions of conditions in Mississippi . Dramatics ' Assailed By the Associated Press Washington Late developments , in the House un-American Activities Committee 's handling of its case against Dr. Edward U. Condon , Director of the National Bureau of Standards , include : 1 . Representative Chet Holifield ( D ) of California declared in a House speech that the committee 's charges against the atomic scientist were " a cheap means of securing publicity . " He criticized what he called " the theatrical release " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcommittee headed by Representative Richard M. Nixon ( R ) of California held a closed door hearing to examine three men who served on the Commerce Department Loyalty Board .                     