@@706481

txt CUT IN DELIVERIES OF MILK PUT OFF AT REQUEST OF Plan for Every - Other - Day Service to Consumers Is Postponed Pending Parley UNION FEARED DISMISSALS Disputants Fail to Reach an Agreement After 7-Hour Conference Here Acting upon the request of the War Labor Board in Washington , the milk distributors of the New York metropolitan area yesterday postponed indefinitely their plan for every-other-day deliveries to home consumers , pending adjustment of the dispute between the distributors and the Milk Drivers Union over the effects which the union feared the plan would have upon employment . Union officials oppose the plan on the ground that it will lead to the dismissal of 5,000 of the 14,000 drivers and maintenance men employed by the more than 100 milk companies represented in the New York - New Jersey Metropolitan Milk Industry War Conservation Committee . The distributors say that dismissals will not exceed 10 per cent , and would be necessitated only over a period of months . Strike threats and alleged sabotage of the delivery curtailment program , initiated by the distributors in compliance with the order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent reduction in mileage as a means of conserving tires , fuel and equipment , have marked the opposition of the union to the program . Under the distributors ' plan , drivers will make only one call on a customer each day , leaving the plants later in the morning than has been the custom . Call backs are to be abolished . These features of the program went into effect yesterday . The every-otherday deliveries to home consumers were to have begun this morning . This was temporarily halted upon the intervention of the War Labor Board and an appeal by Mayor Laguardia for adjustment of the controversy to avoid a possible strike and other interference with deliveries . Announcement of the postponement of every-other-day deliveries pending further negotiations with the union and representatives of the War Labor Board was made in behalf of the distributors by Donald Pendleton , chairman of the distributors ' committee , after receipt of a telegram from William H. Davis , chairman of the War Labor Board , asking that the plan be held in abeyance , and following Mayor Laguardia 's appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . WLB Proposal Is Met The distributors held a meeting of their group at the Hotel New Yorker , where they voted to comply with the request of the War Labor Board , after which they met with officials of the Milk Drivers Union at the office of Alfred L. Bernheim , acting impartial chairman of the industry at 295 Madison Avenue . This conference failed to produce an agreement and spokesmen for both sides thereupon adjourned to the office of Aaron Horvitz , Federal conciliator , acting in behalf of the War Labor Board , in the Chanin Building . At midnight last night , after meeting both separately and jointly for seven hours with represents. - // MILK DELIVERIES I CONTINUE DAILY // tives of the distributors and the union , Mr. Horvitz said that no agreement had been reached and that he was referring the matter for further consideration to Dr. John R. Steelman , director of the United States Conciliation Service . It was considered probable that Dr. Steelman will recommend to Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins that she certify the dispute to the War Labor Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as representatives of the Office of Defense Transportation . which had previously given its approval to the every-other-day delivery plan , were E. M. Brady , E. M. Fitch and W. J. I Clark . Mr. Horvitz , it was learned , pointed out to the disputants that the " system " of conserving tires , fuel and equipment by a 25 per cent reduction in transportation was the only question to be settled . He said the reduction must be achieved to meet the order of the Office of Defense Transportation , and warned that delays now might necessitate even greater curtailment in deliveries at the end of the month . While the distributors charged that drivers in most instances had refused to take out the extra milk supply for 50 per cent of home consumers yesterday , in preparation for the inauguration of the every-other-day delivery program that had been scheduled to begin this morning , Michael J. Cashal , vice president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , parent organization of the Milk Drivers Union , denied any knowledge of such refusals or of any other acts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ address Mayor La Guardia urged the War Labor Board to formulate a program to meet not only the milk controversy but for all other situations which might affect hundreds of thousands of people throughout the country as a result of strikes or threatened strikes arising from curtailment and readjustment of industrial and commercial operations necessitated by the war . Wants Differential Shared The Mayor also urged the milk companies to share part of the differential between delivered milk prices and prices of milk in stores as " salary " for three months for milk drivers who might lose their jobs through the every-other-day delivery system . The Mayor pointed out that the milk companies were enjoying a differential of from 4 to 5 cents a quart between the price of delivered milk and milk sold in stores , and he suggested that for a period of three months one-half of this differential be set aside for the men who are threatened with the loss of their jobs . He estimated the number of such men at 1,500 . The Mayor warned also that he would expect the milk companies to reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ savings in operation costs accruing from curtailed deliveries . The Mayor , in his suggestion , said that while the milk differential fund is being set up for payment of compensation to men who lose their jobs , the men may find other employment . At the end of the three months period , he said , they will be entitled to unemployment compensation , thus extending the unemployment compensation period for three months . Abolition of Sunday deliveries to wholesalers was also postponed by the distributors , pending agreement on every-other-day deliveries to home consumers .                     