@@706667

txt New treaties providing for lend-lease in reverse may be an important factor in whittling down the dollar amount of the British Empire 's debt to the United States after the war . The United States will soon sign " reciprocal aid " agreements with Great Britain and Austrlha . These will cover both goods and services supplied by these governments to the United States . ? Already the British and Australians have provided U. S. armed forces with a variety of aid , the quantity of which is ever expanding . They hope this will be a large consideration in terms of final lend-lease settlements . To make sure that their aid is applied " on account , " the British and Australians are now negotiating formal agreements with the U. S. State Department . Development of Original Policy Such lend-lease in reverse treaties are logical development of President Roosevelt 's original policy . He early stated , and the LendLease Act itself provides , that U. S. aid to foreign governments may be paid hack " in kind or property , or any other direct or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Roosevelt said in his June , 1941 , lend-lease report to Congress that it is the policy of the United States  --  to see that " the money costs of the war . . . fall according to the rule of equality in sacrifice , as In effort . " If the British can supply equipment to U. S. forces , then their " money costs " in terms of ultimate repayment will be less . The agreement between Britain and the United States has reached a stage of almost complete meeting of minds on both sides . The pact to be concluded between this country and Australia is still ' in the negotiation stages . Their details are a carefully guarded secret . - ' Types of Reciprocal Aid But the broad set of principles which they will embrace will cover the following types of reciprocal aid : 1 . Transportation of American troops to Britain in British troopships . The cost of this operation is borne by the British including merchant marine personnel to man the ships . In addition these ships are escorted at least a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ craft . When American troops land in Britain they frequently disembark at bases built for the United States partly out of British pocket , material and manpower . From these bases the troops are transported to camps in British railroads operated at Britain 's expense . They arrive at camps built largely out of British materials and manpower . The troops eat food  --  particularly vegetables  --  supplied in part by Britain . 2 . Use of British aircraft by the American armed forces . Reports yesterday indicate out air force is flying Spitfire planes in operational work in Britain . 3 , Use of British owned and controlled ports throughout the world for repair and K-fitting of American naval craft in the same manner that America has thrown open her ports to the British . 4 . Supply of cannon and ammunition for American forces by British munitions plants . 5 . Supply of essential parts for weapons and armed vehicles for our armed forces by British depots . Raw Materials Excluded It is understood that raw materials will be excluded from these new pacts . This is due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not included under lend-lease . Thus , the United States will continue to pay dollars for industrial diamonds from South Africa , wool from Australia , and tea , rubber and fibers from Ceylon . Strategically speaking , the new agreements will provide a distinct advantage to the United States . The ability of the United States to procure supplies for her armed forces abroad from areas in which they are located will mean vast savings in shipping space . It will also meet problems created when military dictates require supplies immediately and can not await transportation of the equipment from the United States . In practice , the pacts will provide a mechanism which will work something like this : Suppose the U. S. Army , air forces in Britain need 50 Spitfire planes for a particular operation . The pacts will provide authorization to British military officials on the spot to allocate the planes to the America &; on their own responsibility without resorting to a maze of red tape . There will be no necessity for applications , eligibility examinations , priority ratings , and other prolonged procedure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to allocate the 50 Spitfires , the British official concerned will fill out a form recording the transaction . Copies will be sent to London to the British treasury which will keep books on British reciprocal aid . The process will be similar in the case of Australia whose own Treasury will probably handle the Commonwealth 's dealings on the new basis , Some sources believe that since these forms may be filled out on the battlefronts there  --  may be cases in which both the original copy sent to London may be sunk and the carbon lost in battle which may lead to difficulty in the bookkeeping procedure . The new agreements , according to well in formed sources , indicate a growing change in the concept of lendlease . They point out that prior to America 's entry in the war , lend-lease was a one-way street , the effort of a friendly neutral nation to provide part of its national wealth and resources to those nations whose defense was considered vital to the defense of the United States . On the other hand , now that the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been laid upon pooling of resources . Examples are to be found in the pooling agreements concluded as a ' result of the Washington meeting of President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill of Britain early in the year . 