@@705213

txt Creation of a fullfledged division of finance . within a revamped National Defense Advisory Commission . having power to coordinate production of credit was urged here before the annual convention of the Investment Bankers Association by President Emmett F. Connely . Set-up of the defense commission should be revised along lines of the old War Industries Board and a chairman appointed who would have authority to act , Mr. Connely said . Functions of Division Functions of the finance division would include coordination of credit resources . just as other divisions handle problems relating to raw materials and finished products , and study or methods to ease the eventual transformation from a war to peace time economy Mr. Connely also criticized proposals for - compulsory competitive bidding " on new corporate security issues . and decried the trend toward private placements of securities as a threat to free enterprise . Other reports were made to the convention by John 3. head of the special committee on ratings , who discussed the confusion which exists in the supervision of banks , and L. M. Marks . chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation the railroads might become the nucleus of companies offering all types or transportation . " An economic road map of the present and future is needed , " Mr. Connely said . " We ? Irge that the finance division be composed of mousiness experts and that they be instructed by Congress to study the best method of promoting and financing national defense so that the obieerive will be accomplished with minimum strain on our resources while at the same time cni owing every possible protection around the system of free enterprise . In addition , this division of finance should be charged with the duty of making an exhaustive analysis of how our economy can best be adjusted to peacetime activities . under all conceivable conditions which may exist when the present emergency is over . " Specific Problems Discussed Discussing specific problems of investment banking . Mr. Connely said that two disturbing elements are the subjects of " compulsory competitive bidding " and " private placements . ' There is one very simple and fundamental reason why compulsory competitive bidding is wrong , he asserted , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the investor . " Under competitive bidding . " he said , " the old system of negotiating a price which is fair to both the borrower and the lender will have to be done away with . The result will be that competing groups will be tempted to bid too high in order to secure the issue which is being sold , and the issue will be overpriced to the investor He is the sufferer " On the matter of private placements . Mt Connely said that this was a direct threat ti the American system of free enterprise . with opportunity for all . " This is a situation which is not of our making . " he said , " and we believe that the complaints of hundreds and thousands of investors , large and small . who have had their securities called for redemption with no opportunity for reinvestment in the refunding , issue are justified and valid . We are heartily opposed to this practice which is detrimental to the small investor  --  a practice through whir% such institutions as trust funds , - nclowment funds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , estates , and individuals are frozen out of high grade investment opportunities and are forced into accepting a lower grade of investment . We can not oelieve that any such a practice will be permitted to continue , regardless of the expedient that brought about this method of refinancing . " Public Relations Plan Outlined Regarding the public information program of investment banking , Mr. Connely said : " We of the investment banking business arc no more omniscient than any other business man or any economist or pub le So long as men seek a profit fr. , n , their own thrift and industry there will oe epeculatior .. There will be successes and there wit , be failures . " Our business is not an exact science that can foresee the future . A tailor can make you a suit and he can guarantee that its cloth is all wool and that it will give eatizfaction . He can afford to be precise in his statements . But even the tailor is not expected to do the unreasonable and guarantee his merchandise against style change . vermin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not so fortunate . The stability of invei-trnent securities  --  our stock in trade  --  is in no small degree dependent upon events of sore future day , far beyond our control . " Our job is to make as certain as is humanly possible through investigation , checking and research that the securities which we offer to the public will be good ' public relations ' mediums years hence . " Study of Supervisory Policies The confusion which exists with respect to the supervisory policies of the various agencies charged with the responsibilities of bank examination was emphasized in a report of the ratings special commtitee submitted by John .1 . . It was asserted that existing regulations have gone far toward closing the market for long-term credit to all corporations except a relatively small number of large well established enterprises which Lave enjoyed fairly substantial earning power in the past 10 years . The members of the committee believe that the Comptroller 's office and Federal Reserve authorities are far from satisfied with the operation of the Comptroller 's regulation governing bank inventrnents , but it seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulation now represents the best obtainable compromise between a number of conflicting views , the report said . Commercial bankers are not particularly concerned over the effects produced by the Comptroller 's regulation , it was added . The Senate committee on banking and currency , it was pointed out , is now about to undertake the study of the broad group of questions relating to banking policies brought up a year ago by the Federal Reserve Board , whose report on the situation concluded with the statement : " It seems hardly possible to consider any of these questions singly . If they are to be considered as a whole and studied in the light of past history of bank examination , of existing banking and credit conditions , and of the object to be sought . answers should be found which will go far toward producing a sounder and more flexible banking system . " I. B. A. to Present Views The report of the ratings special committee to the L B. A. concluded : " It is obvious that the investment banking business is intimately concerned with any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this study . It is also obvious that the investment banking business , through the Instestate.nt Bankers Association , is perhaps better qualified than any other agency to offer evidence concerning the , degree to which the availability of long-term credit to industry is impeded by existing banking regulations . Accordingly , the coming year should offer the Investment Bankers Association an opportunity to make its views a matter of public record at the forthcoming hearings . ' In a report submitted to the I.B.A . for the railroad securities committee by L. M. Marks of Laurence M. Marks &; Co. , it was suggested that future legislation might make the railroads the nucleus of transportation companies operating all types of services and using all means of carriage . The hOpe was expressed that the Transportation Act of 1940 will bring greater equality of regulation between railroads and their various competitors , with reduction of much of the unnecessary competition in rates and services . Attention was called to the apparent ability of the railroads to measure up to the requirements of a national emergency after going through a period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstration of the advantage of private ownership and management . The hope was voiced that this would protect the roads against the possibility of an upwara spiral in wages and material costs which could erase their earnings completely . Further reduction in the earning power of railroads , it was asserted , could result in government control . At today 's meeting , Charles S. Garland , financial adviser to the industrial materials division of the National Defense Advisory Commission , and a partner of Alex . Brown &; Sons , Baltimore , will- be one of the speakers along with Dr. Virgil Jordan , president of National Industrial Conference Board .                     