@@710716

txt BUS PENSION RULING IS EXPECTED TODAY Tie-lip of Service by Strike Due on Schedule Tomorrow , Union Leaders Say By A. R. RASSEN With 3,000 - Manhattan and Queens bus employes set to strike at 4 A. M. tomorrow , hope for maintaining - uninterrupted bus service hinged last night on a pension ruling to be made today by Supreme Court Justice Ferdinand Pecora . Even this hope dimmed as spokesmen for the Transport Workers Union , CIO , and the New York City Omnibus Corporation indulged in a fresh exchange of recriminations while awaiting the Pecora decision . Austin Hogan , president of Local 100 of the union , said the walkout would take place at the scheduled time unless the company agreed to grant lifetime pensions to 137 elderly employes in accordance with the union 's interpretation of an arbitration award issued June 18 by David L. Cole of Paterson , N. J. Edmund C. Collins , vice president of the company , construed Mr. Hogan 's statement as a warning I that the union would strike unless Justice Pecora ruled in its favor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state courts . Each side accused the other of responsibility for any tieup that might develop . While the battle of statements went on , the Board of Transportation rushed plans for stepping up subway service to accommodate as many as possible of the 1,200,000 bus riders who would be stran , ded if the strike materializes . William Jerome Daly , secretary of the transit board , said the board was prepared to run additional trains on all lines of the IRT , BMT and IND subways in the affected areas of Manhattan and Queens . Manhattan would be hardest hit ' by a strike . The only buses left loperating in the borough would be those of the Third Avenue Transit Corporation and the East SideComprehensive Omnibus System . The buses that would be halted by the strike represent 90 per cent // of those operating m Manhattan . In addition to lines directly operated by the New York City Omnibus Corporation , the union plans to stop all buses of the Fifth Avenue Coach Company . The companies are jointly owned and their buses operate from the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are manned by 2,100 employes of the omnibus company and 900 of the Fifth Avenue company . The only effect in Queens would be a cessation of service on the Fifth Avenue lines . Most Queens bus companies would not be affected . There was no repetition by the union of assertions made at the beginning of the dispute that subway operations would be slowed down by TWU members if the city attempted to expand service during a bus strike . However , it was announced that 2,000 pickets from the IRT , IND and BMT ? subways would join the bus drivers in their off hours . The union said at least 5,000 pickets would march outside the bus company 's garages or distribute circulars acquainting the public with the union 's ' side of the controversy tomorrow . At Police Headquarters it was reported that the police were ready to handle any emergency that might arise in connection with the bus dispute . However , it was announced that no orders had been issued for special strike details or for cancellation of leaves . In a statement made public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were complete . He " apologized " to the 1,200,000 bus riders for any inconvenience they might suffer . " If you have to walk on Friday , blame the New York City Omnibus Corporation , " Mr. Hogan declared . " Unless John A. Ritchie ( chairman of the corporation changes his mind about the fate of 137 old men and decides to pay them the lifetime pension which was awarded to them by Arbitrator David L. Cole , the men of the . Omnibus Corporation will show him that they are 100 per cent behind the arbitrator , 100 per cent behind the old men and 100 per cent behind the Transport Workers Union . " Responding for the company , Mr. Collins characterized the Hogan statement as " a bold and brazen adopted of the coercive tactics adopted by the union while the question in dispute is being considered by the Supreme Court . " " In effect , " Mr. Collins declared , " Mr. Hogan has again served notice on the court that unless the court decides this legal controversy in favor of the union before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relinquishes all right to appeal the union will strike regardless of the rights and interests of the public of New York City . " Mr , Collins stressed that the company 's sole interest was in obtaining a court decision as to the meaning of the arbitrator 's award and that the pension rights of the elderly men would in no way be prejudiced by this action . The company has contended that its pension obligation ends Jan. 31 , when the present agreement expires . The union maintains that all those retiring up to Jan. 31 are entitled to lifetime pensions . Justice Pecora 's decision is expected to clarify this question . It was indicated at Supreme Court that the ruling would be handed down this morning .                     