@@705540

txt With Great Britain apparently losing the war , President Roosevelt faces a fateful decision for his country and himself . The question confronting him is whether to send the armed forces of the United States into the war in a last desperate effort to save the British from defeat . The forces which the British government and American internationalists are imploring him to send immediately are the warships requirpi to convoy arms cargoes to England , Faces Three Vital Problems . What makes the question most difficult for the President to decide is the following combination of consid-erations : I. The tide of American public sentiment Is flowing so strongly against involvement in the war that the President would brook political disaster if he should take a divided nation into the conflict . 2 . With Germany stronger in the air than Great Britain and the United States combined , the American navy would be employed to defend Britain at the risk of the loss of warships vital to the defense of the United States . 3 . With Hitler in . control of-Europe ' and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the near east , and the British Isles themselves , all that American intervention could achieve would be a prolongation of the war for years until American airplanes and an American army could overcome the totalitarians , at a cost of economic exhaustion and probably revolution . Convoy Pressure Grown . The President Is being subjected daily to increasing pressure to order the convoying of arms cargoes and otherwise to bring the United States into the war as a full fledged belligerent . In the arguments privately addressed to him and publicly spread thru their publicists , the interventionists are proclaiming that the emergency is acute , that not a moment is to be lost if Britain is to be saved . Mr. Roosevelt appeared yesterday to . be on the point of making his great decision when he began preparation of . the speech which he delivered today at the dedication of the Woodrow Wilson birthplace at Staunton , Va . The radio chains were notified tobe ready to broadcast an important pronouncement . At the last moment the nation-wide broadcast was abandoned , for the President had decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . The closest he came to the pronouncement of policy was his praise of Woodrow Wilson for teaching that " democracy can not survive in isolation . " Pessimism Grips Supporters . An atmosphere of gloom pervades the administration , The interventionists who predominate in all key post lions make no bones of admitting privately that the President has lost control of public opinion , that the country is becoming morecind more isolationist . Mr. Roosevelt is being urged to take the aggressive to stem this tide of anti-Interventionist sentiment , being assured that he alone can persuade the country that it is to our best interest to get into the war . The official gloom has been deepened by reports the government has been receiving from its agents abroad on Great Britain 's situation in the war . These reports indicate that Britain 's plight is desperate  --  that it is doubtful that the United States could save . Britain from defeat were it to get into the war at once as an outright belligerent . ? Whole Mediterranean Periled . The British are threatened with the loss of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans have succeeded in ferrying 30 divI . slons of troops and equipment from Italy to northern Africa . Tile undertaking is said to have been accomplished with Italian troop ships operating at night and with few exceptions successfully eluding British warships . Together with troops now converg. ing upon Egypt from Greece , the Germans are estimated to have a total force of 700,000 men to close the pincers on the Suez canal , defended by 300,000 British . At the same time the Germans menace British control of Iraq and its vital oil pipe lines supplying fuel to the British fleet in the Mediterranean . For a week or more London has been preparing Washington for the worst . According to the British , they can lose Gibraltar and Suez and still remain in the fight . They profess confidence that the Germans will be , unable to invade the British Isles . Expect Defeat in Weeks : American government officials , however , are far less sanguine . The judgment of our highest military authorities is that Britain 's situation is extremely critical . One estimate Is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer . The sinking by German submarines and bombing planes of ships transporting arms from the United States to England has reached staggering proportions . Figures on merchant tonnage destroyed , as given out by the " British , indicate that close to 40 per cent of the military equipment we are producing for Britain is going to the bottom of the Atlantic . ' President Roosevelt , however , declared this figure a gross exaggeration . It is known , however , that the possibility of removing the seat of the British government from- Londoni to Canada has been considered in administration councils . Such ' a move is regarded as altogether likely if the Germans succeed in driving the British from Africa and the near east and proceed to coneentrni.0 on their attempt to invade England . Fleet of Grave Concern . ? The primary concern here is the disposition of the British fleet in the event of evacuation of the British Isles . Prime Minister Churchill has given his pledge to the United States that the British lieet will not ' he allowed to fall into the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Britain should be invaded , the British fleet would be sent , ere too , late ' , to Canada to continue the war . It now appears , - however , that continuation of the war by the British under such circumstances would be contingent upon the United ' States coming in with Its navy as a belligerent . According to reports received from the government 's observers , abroad , the losses suffered by the British ' navy have been far greater than the Churchill ministry has admitted . One observer described five British warships entering port in a " badly smashed up " condition . The crews were in battle tattered uniforms , with morale none too good , according to this report . Ship Facilities Ruined . German bombings , according to the reports of all observers , have pretty thoroly ruined British dock facilities and ship building plants . The result has been endless delays In unloading such cargoes of arms , and food and other supplies as escape the German submarines and bombers . With the crippling of harbor and drydock facilities and the suspension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a British port remaining in which a damaged warship can be re-paired within a reasonable time . That is the reason damaged British warships are being sent to the United States for repair under the terms of the aid Britain act . In some quarters it is believed that the President is delaying a decision on his course till after consideration of the bill providing for requisition of foreign sixips ' in American ports , which will begin in the house tomorrow .                     