@@705283

txt HALT CONGRESS PROBE OF ARMY DEFENSE SLUMP Soft Pedal Denied by Committee Head . BY WILLARD EDWARDS . Chicago Tribune Press Service . Washington , D. C. , Jan. 9 . ? A congressional inquiry into the causes of the bogged down army defense program has been momentarily , halted , it was revealed today . Ten days ago , when it was announced the house naval affairs committee . would undertake Representative May . an investigation this week into the status of the naval expansion plan , Chairman Andrew J. May D. , Ky. , of the house military affairs committee declared that his committee would conduct a similar investigation of the army 's progress . The impression was given that both committees would work at the same time , thus giving the public its first complete and official picture of what has been accomplished by the administration with the 18 billion dollars voted by , congress for defense needs last year. , Navy Inquiry Continues . The naval affairs committee met Tuesday and again today , question . ing Admiral John H. , Towers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members elicited admix sions that there is a serious shortage of navy airplane engines which could not be remedied for at least 18 months and the fact that the naval air force was increased by only 445 planes during the entire year of 1940 , The army 's procurement program is admittedly in far worse shape than : the navy 's . Chairman May was asked today why his ? committee has not yet met and what are its future plans . He also was asked whether the administration had asked him to soft-pedal or delay the investigation , The chairman denied any one from the administration had attempted to dictate to the committee . He offered as an excuse for the committee 's failure to meet this week the fact that there are two committee vacan. , cies to be filled . The inquiry could not proceed with an " incomplete " membership , he said . The committee has a total membership of 27 . Procedure to Be Altered . May said that his committee would meet next Tuesday , but that instead of questioning high ranking officials at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members would adjourn to the war department , where I they would confer with officials and determine the course of the investiga. lion . Later on , said the chairman , public hearings would be held . Chairman May 's answers indicated the war department will dictate the extent of the congressional inquiry , into the army 's admitted failure to obtain planes , guns , tanks , ammuni. tlon , and other military equipment in sufficient quantities to equip properly , the force now being drafted . The naval inquiry , conducted by ; Chairman Carl Vinson D. , Ga. , cen. tered today on the danger of threat . ened strikes to the aircraft industry , Vinson Threatens Action . Admiral Towers told the commit . tee that the navy was worried about a threatened walkout of employes of the Ranger Engineering division of the Fairchild Engine and Airplane corporation at Farmingdale , N. Y. , which has contracts for nearly 2,000 army and navy aircraft engines . The dispute , the admiral said , involve% wages and methods of arbitration . The navy has a contract with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engines , Towers said . The contracts are negotiated ones because that company alone pro . duces air  --  cooled , in  --  line engines . Strike Situation Delicate . 1 The situation in regard to strikes is a delicate one thruout the aircraft industry , Admiral Towers said , and the navy is watching it closely . " There has been no major strike yet In aircraft plants producing tog the navy . but I 'm afraid I wo n't be able to make that statement tomor. row , " Admiral Towers said . " Congress is not going to sit quietly by and permit anything to interfere with the procurement and de . livery of the defense program , " Vim . son declared . " At the proper time , a remedy will be presented en the ( floor of the house to deal with strike sitgatios. "                     