@@705762

txt Governor Charles Edison is receiving a flood of correspondence congratulating him on his fight against Mayor Frank Hague and it is conceded that the Jersey City Mayor 's dramatic renunciation of the State Democratic leadership last night will increase the political stature of Mr. Edison in the public mind . The reaction of high-placed Democrats to the Mayor 's bold stroke in " handing over " the State leadership to the Governor was silence and even Republican leaders were cautious in appraising it . Attorney General David T. Wilentz , Democratic leader of Middlesex County , had no comment and Monmouth County Prosecutor John J. Quinn was " too busy " to discuss the situation . And there was nothing forthcoming from Passaic County leaders except " no comment " Senator Crawford Jamieson of Mercer County , one of the five Democratic legislators who voted for the rail tax bills that provoked the break between Mr. Edison and Mr. Hague , was an exception . " I never took seriously the threat of Hague to oppose re-election of Democratic legislators ( those who voted for the tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe such a statement probably was made by one of his representatives , in his name , and without his knowledge . " I trust his action will result in a united action by the Democratic party of the State to defeat G. 0 . P. legislators who have sabotaged most of Governor Edison 's program and disgracefully blocked the appointment of William L. Dill as State Highway Commissioner . Sees " Smoke Screen " Removed " The railroad tax issue may not now be used to smoke screen the very bad record of the Republican majority in the Legislature . " H. Alexander Smith of Princeton , chairman of the Republican State Committee , expressed sympathy for Governor Edison 's position , but Assemblyman Herbert J. Pascoe , Union County Republican who sponsored the tax program and who was the object of much of the Mayor 's wrath during the controversy over it , had nothing to say . The reaction of the public to Governor Edison 's declaration of independence from Mayor Hague , even before Mayor Hague dramatized the break with his " abdication " announcement , may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor 's office in Trenton and at the Little White House it Sea Girt . They came from all over the East , from persons in all walks of life . Many of the writers compare the Governor with Woodrow Wilson , who when Governor some ' thirty years ago broke the " boss " rule of James Smith Jr . and went on to the Presidency . " Ride ' em cowboy ! " was the expression a New Yorker used to commend the Governor . " Long will I remember this day , " wrote a prominent Jersey City lawyer , " as the beginning of the long-hoped-for fall and decline of the unholy Hague empire . " Hails Reply to Jersey Hitler ' Another Jersey City resident said congratulations were in order " for your grand reply to the Jersey Hitler , who rules this city like a foreign dictator . " Another New Yorker told the // EDISON ACCLAIMED IN FIGHT ON HAGUE // Governor : " You are now my candidate for higher office in 1944 . " A Camden man wrote : " Woodrow Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation rallied to his sterling-Ieadership . " " I am as proud now to be a Jersey Democrat as I was in the days of Woodrow Wilson " was the commendation received from a nationally prominent Morris County resident . Attaches of the Governor 's office in Sea Girt were amazed to discover that more congratulatory messages were received from Hudson County than from any other district in the State . One wellwisher from Jersey City admitted he had been a member of Hague 's speakers ' bureau . The correspondents who compared the Governor with Woodrow Wilson had grounds for the compliment . Neither Mr. Edison nor Mr. Wilson had sought or held elective office before becoming Governor of New Jersey , and each was looked upon by professional politicians as tyros in an intensely practical business . Yet Mr. Wilson back in 1910 quickly proved that he knew his way around and Mr. Edison is demonstrating the same thing , in the opinion of his friends . " Gift " Amuses Governor It is too early to draw accurate conclusions on the Mayor 's action in relinquishing the titular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be more amused than honored by the " gift . " He holds that the Mayor had nothing to hand over , that the leadership was something for the voters to bestow and that they bestowed it on him last November . Senator Homer C. Zink , Essex County Republican , predicted during the debate on the bills that if their passage brought about the financial ruin of Jersey City it " would be the last nail in the political coffin of its Mayor . " Mr. Hague may be fearful of just such a result and by relinquishing the State leadership lie may only be staging a strategic retreat to consolidate his position on his " home front , " some observers contend . So long as he can retain control there and in the rest of Hudson County , he still will be able to exert a powerful influence in State-wide elections . He did not resign as a member of the Democratic National Committee , of which he is vice chairman , and made it clear that he proposed to remain active in his own county when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent the rail tax issue from being beclouded by a fight for the leadership between himself and the Governor . In some quarters it was believed that the Mayor would return to the political war next year , when a United States Senator is to be elected ; in 1943 , when a Governor will be named , and in 1944 , a Presidential year . It would not be surprising , it is believed , if former Governor A. Harry Moore , who has already served three terms , became a candidate to succeed Mr. Edison . Governors can not serve consecutive terms in New Jersey . Whether Governor Edison 's victory in the tax fight is only a temporary success or the first of a series that will completely rout the Mayor remains to be seen . It was Mr. Wison 's ability to " follow through " after unhorsing Smith that made him Presidential timber .                     