@@707705

txt This week it was plain that Germany was attempting to frighten British and American public opinion away from the invasion by improving the appearances of its defensive strength . So far as the western , aspect is concerned the appearance was improved . The swift military occupation of his Balkan satellites was impressive . So.was the strenuous defense of Cassino , much of which still lay . in German hands 10 days after the pulverizing air attack which ' was supposed to clear the way to : Rome . So too Was the fact . that Finland remained in the war on Germany 's side ' and that Spain still protracted negotiations , over our - demands for the implementation of its neutrality . - ? Theprice Hitler was paYing.for this improVed appearance ? is the iinportant thing . Part ' ofit was to be seen on the Russian frOnt where the Dniester was crossed with a speed and force which was frankly admitted as alarming in Berlin . The rest of . the price.remains to be measured ? when the invasion takeiplace .. lt ? thay turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have- invested ' troops whiCh will'be vitalin the invasion . ? ' : Big Big. , for . Finland - , The price ' of ' . keeping Finland in the war:has been the-maintenande of rat : least ' seven German divisions in . Finland . and another 10 ' or 15 on the exposed and-dangerous Baltic . front . The price of holding Cassino has been - paid in parachute troops which are the ' best shock troops-in the German Army ; Can Hitler ' afford this price ? We do ' not- and can not estimate the full answer , We can see , however , that preinvasion appearances have become . increasingly important to Germany and that it is'Willing to spend heavily to maintain and improve them . And there is in this very fact the indication we are looking for that Germany does fear the invasion and is willing to spend heavily on what it apparently thinks is a chance of averting it . Why it thinks it sees ' this chance is no secret . The invasion is not an ordeal , which any Briton or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reluctance . That re- luctance has been particularly prominent in Britain . This is known in Germany . It also is known that leading British military opinion has consistently sought an alternative to the invasion and only accepted the necessity of it with the deepest reluctance . Looks Like Soft Spot This undoubtedly has looked in Berlin eyes like the soft spot in the Allied picture . They have worked on it to the utmost , turning Cassino into a warning of the limitations of air power against fixed defenses , consuming their own Balkan satellites in a spurious conquest , daring to maintain a large army on the northern front when . they are short of troops everywhere . The inter-Allied policy picture this week bore heavy hallmarks of successful German propaganda directed at the same soft spot . The purpose of the invasion is to de= feat Germany . The defeat of Germany will admit Russia to a primary role in European affairs . Fear of this development would be an argument against the invasion . By this week so much doubt had been raised in both Britain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allied leaders were forced to give it their attention . The President sought to meet it by recalling attention to the brutalities of the German and Japanese record . Mr. Churchill announced a foreign-policy speech for tomorrow . Mr. Hull began putting together a speech in which he will apply his principles to concrete cases . This was something none of the three had wanted to do . Their policy has always been to hold politics in abeyance until the military decision had been reached . The last moment they would have chosen for serious foreign-policy discussions is the moment when they naturally would want to concentrate every thought and energy on the invasion . Yet they were forced to it by public agitation which had become insistent . The benefit of such agitation to the German cause is so apparent that one ca n't help suspecting skillful German propaganda nudging it on from behind , no matter how sincere the motives of thOse who did the agitating . Japan Springs Surprise Meanwhile , in the Far East , Japan staged a surprise . Small Japanese forces invaded India . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was made on what had been a quiet part of the Burma front . It probably will take another week before its real scope can be ascertained . British troops dispatched to seal off the penetration only made serious contact yesterday . The first resultS were promising . However , it served as a reminder that there is ' a large Japanese army on the continent of Asia which must be defeated when the island war in the Pacific is finished . One possible explanation of the stab into India is a cheap Japanese service to Hitler . Tokyo never has done much for its European ally . It has fought its own war in its own way . Here was a chance to make a little move where it might worry London and just conceivably might make London wonder about the wisdom of committing too much force to the invasion at a time when India was under threat in the Far East . It 's possible .                     