@@704841

txt After a series of conferences with supporters Wendell L. Willkie , Republican nominee for President , announced yesterday the appointment of an advisory committee of twelve , headed by Governor Harold E. Stassen of Minnesota , to function throughout the campaign . He also announced that he had instructed the responsible officers of the Republican national organization to limit campaign contributions to $5,000 , to accept contributions in cash in no greater amount than $10 and to refuse all contributions from corporations , however they might be disguised as advertisements in campaign books or programs or in any other form . He declared he did not wish any contributor to feel that his contribution entitled him to any reward , such as appointment as an Ambassador in this crucial period or to any other public position . Mr. Willkie also let It be known that he was considering  --  without having made a definite decision ? setting up a new form of organization for a Presidential campaign , to consist of a three-man board composed of a campaign manager as chairman , the chairman of the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russell W. Davenport , who resigned as managing editor of the magazine Fortune to coordinate the various volunteer pre-convention activities for Mr. Willkie . Vacation Is Delayed Difficulty in getting the man wanted for campaign manager caused postponement of both the meeting of the sub-committee of the national committee , authorized to name a national chairman , scheduled for today at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria , and the start of Mr. Willkie 's vacation . Mr. Willkie said he had asked the members of the sub-committee to delay their meeting until Friday because he did not wish to have them meet and then hold them here over the Fourth of July . Selection of the national chairman , it was learned , awaits a decision on whether to put Mr. Willkie 's triumvirate plan into operation and , if this is adopted , upon the selection of a campaign manager . It now seems that Mr. Willkie 's vacation , which he hoped to start today , must be delayed until Sunday or possibly until Monday or Tuesday of next week . The candidate has not yet decided where he will pass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tramp freighter on the Great Lakes but abandoned this idea when he learned that no Great Lakes freight steamship had sleeping quarters for the thirty or more newspaper reporters and photographers tentatively assigned to accompany him . Advisory Committee Members In addition to Governor Stassen , who was his floor manager at the national convention and temporary chairman of the convention , Mr. Willkie named the following as members of the advisory committee : . Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts , minority leader of the House and perma nent chairman of the convention . Governor Raymond E. Baldwin of Connecticut , a Willkie convention floor leader . David S. Ingalls of Ohio , who was manager of Senator Robert A. Taft 's campaign for the Presidential nomination . Representative Charles H. Halleck of Indiana , who was manager of Mr. Willkie 's pre-convention campaign and made the speech putting him in nomination . Governor Ralph L. Carr of Colorado , a Willkie convention floor leader . Mrs. Ruth Hanna McCormick Simms , daughter of the late Mark Hanna , who was co-manager of Thomas E. Dewey 's campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tennessee convention delegation . Oren Root Jr. , young New York lawyer , who was one of the first to take an active part in the campaign for Mr. Willkie 's nomination . Mrs. Ruth de Young Kohler , wife of Herbert V. Kohler , president of the Kohler Company , Kohler , Wis. , and special writer for The Chicago Tribune . Representative J. William Ditter of Pennsylvania , chairman of the Republican Congressional Committee . Senator John G. Townsend of Delaware , chairman of the Republican Senatorial Committee . Limit on Campaign Gifts In reasserting his desirie to limit campaign contributions and to get as many contributors as possible , Mr. Willkie said : " I am requesting that there be no contribution in this campaign in excess of the provisions of the Hatch act , even though the Hatch act as yet has not passed Congress . The limit from any one source , as set by the Hatch act , is $5,000 , and I again urge Congress to pass the Hatch act . " I am particularly anxious about that because in this crucial period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man who contributes to this campaign to think that by reason of a large contribution he is entitled to any reward in the way of an ambassadorship or any other public position . I want to emphasize that at this time , when information received from our ambassadorial and ministerial staffs is of such overwhelming consequence , I do n't want appointments to such positions to be the result of any campaign contribution . " I want to stress the fact that I will be very happy to have any honorable citizen contribute to this campaign . I want everybody to know that , but I also want everybody to know that contributors will not receive any return in the way of any political influence or job . " Mr. Willkie said he had received a great many checks during his preconvention campaign , all of which he had returned because he paid his own personal expenses . Since then , he added , he had received a substantial number of checks which would be turned into the national campaign fund . " I do n't want any campaign contributions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Larger contributions should be made by check , draft or money order or in some written form so that there can be a complete and detailed report of every dollar received arid expended . No Gifts from Corporations " I do n't want any corporate contribution in any guise , whether it be by advertising in campaign books or programs or anything else . I do n't want corporate contributions directly or indirectly . I do n't want anybody connected with the national committee or any local committee to raise any money under the guise of corporate advertising . " Reminded that some States had laws forbidding corporations to contribute to political campaigns , Mr. Willkie said he knew of these restrictions , and added : " The practice has grown so that a corporation advertises in campaign ' literature , ' booklets and so on , which in effect are campaign contributions . " In my judgment , this is a people 's movement and I am going to insist on keeping it that way . The more dollar contributions , the more small contributions , the happier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very large number of small contributions . " Management of Mr. Willkie 's campaign by a three-man board obviously is aimed at getting the support of anti-New Deal Democrats and independents as well as Republicans for Mr. Willkie , who was a Democrat until he clashed with the Roosevelt Administration in connection with his duties as president of the Commonwealth and Southern Corporation . Selection of a campaign manager who would be the executive officer of the proposed three-man board would lessen to some degree the importance of the Republican national chairman . Adoption of Mr. Willkie 's plan for a triumvirate to manage his campaign seemingly depends on his success in getting the right sort of a man for campaign manager . The Republican Presidential nominee was represented as seeking an outstanding , vigorous and able man in " midlife " with organizing ability . Whether this man has a business background was said to be immaterial , and the State he comes from would make no difference , Mr. Willkie regarding geographical considerations as unessential . He must , however , have enough knowledge of politics to " know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have his campaign manager represent the newer element in public affairs . If the three-man organization can not be established , Mr. Willkie will be satisfied to go back to the customary arrangement of having the campaign run by the chairman of the Republican National Committee . Mr. Willkie already has discussed his plan with party leaders including Governor Stassen and Samuel F. Pryor Jr. , national committeeman from Connecticut . He will discuss it again today with the subcommittee of the Republican National Committee , headed by Walter S. Hallanan , national committeeman from West Virginia , which has been authorized by the full committee to name the national chairman . No Pledges on Cabinet Posts In his morning press interview , Mr. Willkie said he was " completely unfettered " in regard to Cabinet appointments , if he should be elected President . " There was not a promise , nor a pledge , nor an understanding , direct or indirect , contingent , remote , or any other word you fellows can think of , with anybody about anything in connection with cabinet appointments . " Maintaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination , Mr. Willkie said he was not ready yet to comment on President Roosevelt 's proposal for a steeply graduated excess profits tax to help finance national defense . His comment on President Roosevelt 's appointment of two prominent Republicans , Henry L. Stimson and Colonel Frank Knox , to the Cabinet War and Navy posts respectively was : " That 's up to each man 's conscience . " Ernest T. Weir , head of the National Steel Company and chairman of the National Republican Finance Committee , conferred with Mr. Willkie and said he intended to do all he could to help in the campaign . Another caller was William M. Chadbourne , a New York delegate to the convention and treasurer of the New York County Republican Committee . Stassen Leaves for Home After a final conference with Mr. Willkie , Governor Stassen , accompanied by Mrs. Stassen , left last night for St. Paul . " I am running for re-election , so that my part in the Presidential campaign will be largely advisory , " Governor Stassen said . " However , I always will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Asked if Mr. Willkie had a good chance to carry the States of the Northwest and Middle West , the Governor said he believed he would carry most of those States and added that Mr. Willkie was the strongest candidate the convention could have chosen . " It is very encouraging to find how cab drivers , clerks and the ordinary average citizen are talking about him , " he said . " The people certainly like him . With a properly conducted campaign and a proper presentation of the issues , there is no doubt of M. Willkie 's election . "                     