@@709519

txt TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Many sincere friends of international law and human welfare have grave misgivings concerning the prosecution of German officials being carried on at Nuremberg . Some believe strongly that the basis of that prosecution is so defective as to threaten the causes which those taking leading parts therein mean to serve . The proceedings at Nuremberg- seem defective because of the character of the tribunal and because of the nature , in part , of the law applied . There can be little criticism of the conduct of the proceedings  --  freedom for the accused to know the charges , to offer defense , present evidence , , and so on . Jurisdiction Doubted Attempts have been made to justify the ex parte character of the tribunal by alleging that neutral judges could not be found end that the persons appointed can be relied upon to render fair judgments . It is , however , frankly absurd to suggest that highly competent judges could not be found outside of the prosecuting states and is an insult to numerous jurists in several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were unwilling to leave the decision to neutral judges , insisting upon having their own nationals on the tribunal . We encounter here the same attitude which lies back of insistence on national ' judges on the Court of International Justice , an attitude which , in proportion as it is effective , tends to corrupt the judicial process . There is no occasion to argue greatly over the ability of national judges to remain objective and fair . They will do their utmost to attain this result and also succeed in that effort to a certain degree . /kit the most elementary psychology would indicate beyond shadow of doubt that they can not succeed completely . And such an idea conflicts flatly with the passionate attachment to national judges manifested by the states themselves . And whatever be the possibility of impartiality by the present judges or their actual performance , it will quite simply never be possible to make the people of Germany believe this or to bring neutral opinion , or even the not inconsiderable or unimportant conscientious independent opinion in United Nations ell over the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all devotees of international law and human welfare will agree that everything justifies the effort te unish violations of the laws of war  --  wanton cruelty by belligerents to co ? ' - ants and prisoners of war , mistreatment of civilians , and so on . These offenses are condemned by the moral opinion of mankind and proscribed by the rules of the law of war . Nor would many be troubled over the relative responsibility of superiors and subordinates in this matter ; superior officers who give orders in violation of the laws or tolerate such violations are unquestionably responsible , and subordinates who actually violate the law may be held responsible , ignorance or superior orders only counting as grounds for clem-scy . To punish individuals for the offense of waging aggr -- 7ive war or conspiracy to wage war , however , is to inject a new element , apart from the difficulty that " aggrese 've war " had not been authoritatively defined prior to 1939 . Assuming the Pact of Paris valid in 1939 and that Germany acted in violation thereof , it remains true that no bridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this matter . And no ex-parte agreers-2nts or ind1 : ' is among the United Nations alone can remedy this situation retroactively . It might be admitted that the prejudice against ex post facto criminal legislation should be subject to exceptions or could wisely b ' departed from in sufficiently serious circumstances , for considerations of social ( international ) welfare . But even so neither the United Nations nor any group thereof could exercise international law-making authority over Germany and her nationals . It has been intimated that the Declaration of Berlin of June 5 , 1945 , gives such jurisdiction but that act explicitly repudiated annexation and also conferred upon the occupying powers within Germany ( Preamble , Par . 3 ) only authority " for the maintenance of order * * ' and * * * administration of the country . " Legal Situation Chaotic As for the charge of committing " crimes against humanity , " even within Germany itself , the legal situation becomes even more chaotic . The category was injected for obvious ethical and political considerations , some of them very urgent , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ juridical basis under pre-existing law . Critics sometimes argue that the trial may serve as a. precedent for similar treatment of our own leaders in the future when the other side is victorious . ' But this rests on an unrealistic implication of a continuous series of wars , with the fortunes ofvictory oscillating from side to side , and overlooks the unquestionable assumption that the international community , as represented In the prosecution and the Tribunal at Nuremberg , must be expected to remain dominant . The real check upon any such development lies in making the prosecution and convictions expressions of true justice and not arbitrary revenge . If these are the facts what shall we say of what is being done ? The present trial will infallibly be carried out , but we should know how to appraise it . It is not even useful to speculate on what could have been done ; the question is whether what is being done is to be a model for the future . Complete conaemnation of the Nuremberg trial is unjustified . It would have been altogether too unjust and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war to go unpunished . There was little ground on which persons who had , in Berlin , ordered things done in other countries could have been tried merely in any single country . Even if that could have been done on the basis of Commonwealth v. Blanding or Cutting 's Case , it would not have been satisfactory to other countries . There remained nothing to do but set up an international tribunal . There was also probably no alternative available in the choice of judges . It was the present tribunal or none , and the present tribunal is better than none . Only it should be recognized that the action must be regarded as largely political , or political qualified or limited by the judicial element as much as circumstances permit . That is an improvement , but if it is not to damage the reputation of international law there must be no pretense that this is the pure thing . It probably would have been sounder if no attempt had been made to prosecute on the charge of making war or conspiring-to make war , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against humanity . " This was probably unavoidable political ) x also . In sum , it apears that the prosecution at Nuremberg for violations of the . laws of war is preferable to anything else that might have been done but that no illusions should be harbored concerning the character of the action and no pretenses made to the public on this score . The proceedings do not represent international law and adjudication at their best , or even at their normal , and to pretend that they do is to cast unwarranted obloquy on those essential and worthy institutions . The possible beneficial effects of developing international criminal law or penal jurisdiction for individual offenses may be seriously jeopardized by what in the instant case may look like mere political vengeance . PITMAN B. POTTER . Washington , D. C. , May 11 , 1946 . Not Entirely Socialistic To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In an editorial of May 20 on the recent Netherlands elections you referred to the Catholic party victory . Is it possible that you misunderstand the situation when you say , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party , can easily adapt itself to Socialist principles " ? This and other statements might indicate that you do not present the true differences between the Catholic parties and the Socialists . Is it not more true to say that the Catholic parties are parties of the Center , being neither Right nor Left ? Is it not more true to say that rather than " adapting itself to Socialist principles " the Catholic party is striving to carry out social programs of its own ? These Catholic parties  --  the M.R.P. in France , the Italian Christian Democrats , and the Dutch Catholic party , etc. , ? have their own principles , policies and programs . following very closely the teaching of the Church as expounded in the Papal encyclicals . At times the more enlightened Socialists undertake programs which are not at variance with Catholic teaching . The Catholic parties . while they never forget the materialistic principles of the Leftists are to be condemned and fought , may support programs which Socialists advocate . It is not to be supposed from this action , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles " or are " becoming Socialistic , " since these programs are no more peculiar to socialism alone than is the American social security system peculiar to socialism . FRANK ARRICALE . New York , May 23 , 1946 . Problem of Trieste Ethnic Divisions Are Seen as Fallacious The writer of the following ? letter has spent more than twenty-five years in social work and community organizations and is an advocate of safeguarding minorities throughout the world . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Mans : ? A dispatch dated May 17 recounts the approach in Paris to the Council of Ministers of a delegation consisting of a Croat priest , an Italian lawyer and a Slovenian priest to urge that the disputed territories of Trieste , Istria and the Julian Marsh , where they live , be constituted as an autonomous " political and economic unit with the hinterland of Yugoslavia . " The delegation is reported to have stated that " the Itallians , Slovenes and Croats in the disputed region have been living happily and peacefully together . " The ' problem of Trieste has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a crucial and pivotal battle between Soviet policy and the policy of the Western powers . It is obvious that there are only two alternatives to breaking the deadlock . One is war , the other is compromise . The former is unthinkable ; those on , both sides who , in the passion of their ideologies , speak of a. third war , belong behind the bars of custodial institutions . There will have to be a compromise . Old Concepts To effect a compromise the statesmen entrusted with the solemn responsibility of inaugurating peace will have to realize that an old world has been destroyed , and with it those conceptions of international relations and human relations that have enouraged international conflict and civil wars . Among those conceptions is the time-honored , but unfortunate and dangerous international doctrine that ethnic considerations should govern national boundaries . Many students of history and authorities in the field of international politics support a statement of mine that " Men must realize that race and state are not a natural , divinely ordained synthesis . The ancient and hallowed doctrine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must by international agreements yield further to the more exalted ethical-religious ideal of the sanctity of the individual , whatever be his racial origin , religion or political creed . " Under this new principle  --  vital for the future peace of the world  --  it is anachronistic to deliver these territories to Italy only because Italians are the most numerous element in the population . Were they in the minority , it would be equally unfortunate to incorporate them in Yugoslavia merely on the ground that Yugoslavians were the numerically dominant population . Wrong Principle It was because ethnic principles governed the boundaries defined by the Versailles treaty and collateral treaties that trouble was bred . Indeed it was the ethnic principles that contributed very largely to the second World War . Under the nobly conceived but impractical doctrine of " national self-determination " sincere efforts were made by the peacemakers in 1919 to " leaving a minimum of people under alien rule , " to use Mr. Byrnes ' language . But every schoolboy knows how tragically those efforts failed . In another section of his recent re ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admit that we can not cooperate without sacrifice of our principles . " That is a noble sentiment as well as a hopeful note . But may I venture to suggest that we should make certain that the principles we refuse to relinquish are the correct principles . I submit again that the ethnic principle , which our Secretary of State has repeatedly and persistently stressed , is the wrong principle . If it is enforced it will perpetuate the evils that contributed to the terrible events of recent years , and that will obstruct and endanger , rather than insure , peace . It is particularly strange that the representatives of the United States should insist on the ethnic principle as the governing factor in boundary disputes in view of the traditional indifference to , indeed discouragement of , the ethnic differences among the more than sixty nationalities which constitute the American nation . Failure a Tragedy Our Secretary of State will return to another meeting of the Council of Ministers in June . For that meeting to fail would be a tragedy indeed . It will fail if ethnic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain . It Nvill fail if Russian militarypolitical considerations govern . It will not fail if the deciding factors will be the economic and social conditions of the inhabitants of that territory and the relation of Trieste to the economic needs of the wider regions which it , as a seaport , serves . Strategic military considerations , hitherto entertained by both the U. S. S. R. and the Western Powers , are , in the light of the atomic age , pathetically unrealistic . I do not speak here as an attorney for either Yugoslavia or Italy . All , I feel impelled to emphasize is that if the hitherto fallacious considerations to which I have called attention , continue to dominate the attitudes of both sides , the world will be confronted by the most tragic impasse in history . Perhaps the wisest course is to place these territories for the time being under a United Nations trusteeship , to be liquidated , if so desired by its inhabitants , after Europe as a whole becomes more nearly " normalized . " MORRIS D. WALDMAN . New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               