@@705419

txt Tax revisions to encourage more corporate common stock financing and less debt financing ( bonds ) are being suggested by Securities and Exchange Commission officials . SEC members have proposed that the Treasury examine present tax allowances on debt interest which they contend encourage the use of mortgage financing . ( Interest on debt is deductible from taxable income . ) It is suggested . according to a Treasury official . that either the deduction currently allowed for interest on debt be reduced or discontinued , or that some provision be made to give equal treatment to a percentage of capital which goes into corporate structures . Studies are underway to determine whether any recommendations can be made to Congress when the general tax revision legislation is taken up after March 15 tax returns have been analyzed . A. revised excess profits tax form has been prepared by the Internal Revenue Bureau . incorporating changes necessitated by recent amendments of the law . Story on Page 7.1 Recommended by SEC Securities and Exchange Commission officials for some time past have been urging business to give more attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of common shares , contending that the debt structures of many corporations are " dangerously " out of line . Jerome Frank as chairman of the SEC repeatedly has urged that more equity financing be undertaken by business and industry . More fecently . Commissioner Sumner T. Pike proposed that states give consideration to liberalizing insurance company investment retrictions so that they may purchase common shares . Room for Long-term Investment In his statement beft.rc the TNEC on insurance company investments , Pike said life companies are experiencing great difficulty in investing their funds and " there appears to be room for the long term investment of a portion of their funds in common stocks of substantial corporations with an established record of earnings . " The continued flow of savings funds into insurance companies which are barred from purchasing common stocks , he says , is certain to have serious effects on the economy . " Common stocks of corporations with an established record of earnings are clearly as ' safe ' as many bonds , " Commissioner Pike added . In his oral presentation before the TN . EC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in operating utility companies would be available for investment when the Holding Company Act is carried to its administrative conclusion and that he would be the last to argue these common shares were not good for the life insurance company portfolios .                     