@@707400

txt Two weeks of foreign policy debate by the treaty-ratifying United States Senate approached their climax today with a clear majority revealed by preliminary votes as favoring collective security on the lines of the Moscow declaration . President Roosevelt at his press conference today welcomed inclusion of two paragraphs from the Moscow agreement into the original Connally resolution . His reply to a question whether passage of the resolution reduced the need for a two-thirds Senate majority in ratifying treaties was a brief comment that the Constitution still stands . Not more than half a dozen or so votes are expected against the broadened resolution which puts the Senate on record as recognizing " the necessity of there being established at the earliest practicable date a general international organization , based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all peace-loving states and open W membership of all such states . " Thus the terms of the more specific Moscow agreement hammered out in the actual conferences of Allied Foreign Ministers take the place of the more timid original Senate phrases which have grown obsolete in only two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two test votes yesterday the Senate showed its willingness to go along with the Connally resolution . One of the votes , however , showed less than the necessary two-thirds majority , which is required to ratify a treaty , and the lack of which kept the United States out of the League of Nations and  --  some believe  --  provoked World War II . No on Atlantic Charter In one test on the revised Danaher amendment , the Senate refused 70 to 15 to write the , Atlantic Charter , with its prohibition of territorial annexations and promises of world trade reforms , into the resolution . If the position of officially announced absentees is included in this record , the vote was 76 to 16 . This was an 83 per cent Senate approval . On the second test , an amendment from Senator Chapman Revercomb ( R ) of West Virginia , the latter stipulated that American participation in the projected in- ternational organization " shall be by treaty only , " thereby attempting to bar international understandings and executive agreements not requiring the two-thirds majority rule . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officially announced absentee positions were recorded it would have been 58 to 29 . It is significant on this 54-to-28 vote that it was less than the required two thirds , and graphically illustrated even at this embryonic stage of the postwar world collaboration fight , the extreme difficulty of getting Senate treaty approval . The Revercomb amendment was a typical " reservation " the result of which was to prevent American entry into the League though at all times in the 1920 fight a big majority of the Senate favored some international machinery , Some observers yesterday saw in the 54-to-28 vote a cloud no bigger than a man 's hand . Senator Danaher had modified his original amendment at the last minute , from a list of almost dictionary definitions of resolution terms to a declaration against aggrandizement and other matters contained in the Atlantic Charter . Most of the Danaher supporters were pre-Pearl Harbor opponents of the Administration 's foreign policy , and included only one former supporter of the " B-2 , H-2 " resolution , Homer Ferguson ( R ) of Michigan . Ten Republicans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were Senators ? Edwin C. Johnson of Colorado , Francis Maloney of Connecticut , Robert R. Reynolds of North Carolina , David I. Walsh of Massachusetts , and Burton K. Wheeler of Montana . Senator Robert M. La Follette ( Prog. ) of Wisconsin , opposed to any , resolution , ' was paired . against it . On the Revercomb amendment , or " reservation , " 22 Republicans and 6 Democrats were recorded for it . The Democrats were Senators Harry F. Byrd of Virginia , D. Worth Clark of Idaho , and Senators Johnson , Reynolds , Walsh , and Wheeler . Senator La Follette , in addition . though absent . was paired against it . As debate started today Senator Henrik Shipstead ( R ) of Minnesota , asked the Chamber to send the amended resolution , back to committee to await Secretary Hull 's return to " tell us what did happen at Moscow . " His proposal was immediately indorsed by Senator Wheeler and Senator Abe Murdock ( D ) of Utah who argued that the Senate knew nothing about what had happened . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said history shows it is impossible for he United States to isolate itself from a world war . The Senate then agreed to limit debate to 15 minutes , indicating early action .                     