@@710921

txt The shooting stage has been reached in. the present strikers ' riots in France . despite every effort made by the Schuman Government to prevent it . Three strikers are reported to have been killed by gunfire at Valence . Shots were fired in Paris near the Saint Quen electric station Dec. 4 , but no casualties resulted . A Mobile Guard policeman also was fatally injured in a recent clash at the Salmson Motor Works near Paris . In Paris , the strewing of nails in the streets has caused severe damage to bus tires and general motor transport at some points . Saint Etienne , important steel and industrial city and the center of several days ' conflict , reported " all calm "  --  but it was the strikers holding the city who made the report . For the moment , they had complete control , as the Government forces apparently awaited to launch a new offensive . The city was calm because striker police patrolled the streets , checking all passersby for identity cards and maintaining order for their own purposes . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was seeing that nothing unfavorable to them was printed . At the National Assembly in Paris , allegedly secret orders issued by the Communists to strikers at Saint Etienne were shown . They called for " offensive action against all police forces " and ordered strikers to " preserve all stocks of materials , do not carry firearms , use only pick handles , monkey wrenches , stabbing awls , and other tools . " Stations Taken Over Striker forces sought to take over railroad stations at Beziers , Narbonne , Perpignan , Marseille , and Carnoules . They succeeded at Carnoules . Further rail action resulted in the derailment of a train of 15 cars near Tours . At Marseilles , strikers lost control of the city 's roads after having held them since Dec. 4 . Parachute troops forced many of them to restore the paving blocks they had used for building road blocks . Some 130 persons were arrested in that city for various acts against the peace . In Paris electricity suddenly went off and even the Metro could not run until nearly 10 a. m. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walk to work . Clear reports from the electric stations were difficult to get , but it seems that five out of six Paris stations were out of order at one time or another . They are being operated by raval crews in key positions . At Stouhen , a leftist Paris suburb , 1,000 strikers tried to stage a march on the power station , but were repelled by police . The first case of saboteurs being arrested is reported by the rightist paper L'Aurore . The action occurred on the Paris-Malesherbes line near Corbeil . Six men pulled the cord to stop the train , rushed ahead to the locomotive , pulled the engineer and firemen out of the cab , put out the fire in the boiler , and then applied axes to the main bearings of the locomo , tive . Some passengers slipped out unobserved , ran ahead , and told authorities at the next station . Five of the six men were arrested . According to L'Aurore , each had a Communist Party membership card and when questioned replied , " It was on order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) strike committee at Rue Traversiere in Paris that we acted . There we were chosen , given a detailed plan of how to act , and ordered to damage the engine of Train 3313 . " Reserves Called Up The Government is working rapidly to meet new problems of violence with extra reserves now called up . The challenge of working against saboteurs with four years ' experience in sabotage during the German occupation is being met by calling up for security duty troops who were in action in the last stages of the war ? who thus are most familiar with underground methods . The great advantage of the saboteurs in their experience is offset to some degree by the fact that the remainder of the French population also had experience in resistance . When forces are fully set up , it is expected the Government will be able to suppress the campaign of violence now causing such severe dislocation . While strikes as such are quieting down from the point of view of the will to work , violence causes stoppage of work . Consequentiy stoppages increase as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blowing up of the high steel masts which carry the main high-tension wires . Using " plastic , " an explosive used during the resistance because it is highly portable and effective when used in small amounts , saboteurs have caused serious breaks in the already troubled French electrical supply system . The Communist paper L'Humanite reported that a German hand grenade had been thrown at the home of Communist leader Maurice Thorez , but fortunately had caused no damage except broken windows in the neighborhood . The paper claimed that the so-called " Blue Plan " was the cause . This Blue Plan was the term for a small group of men arrested by the Government last spring . They supposedly were extremist followers of Gen. Charles de Gaulle , who were said to be arranging an underground move . It is a typical Communist tactic to try to place the blame for something they do on the group which they are onooSinC.                     