@@707937

txt More than 1,600 Greater Boston boys and girls took paying jobs for the first time during the month of May , 1944 , according to figures of the Certificating Office of the Boston School Department . Another 3,800 came in to get renewal certificates . The number for . June will probably be even higher ; they do n't know yet because they have been too busy to stop and tabulate them . Every day from 9 to 5 the Certificating Office is crowded with young people , lined up to secure the employment certificate which any Massachusetts employer must have before he can hire a minor . The child must in turn present a written promise of a job from his prospective employer , and a birth certificate or other proof of his own age . During this third summer of the war , the rush for work certificates among school children is so constant and heavy that ten emergency clerks have had to be added to the permanent staff of six , to handle the applications of girls and boys between 14 and 21 who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many as 700 applicants . Concern has been expressed  --  notably by the Massachusetts Civic League , the State Department of Labor and Industries , the Federal Children 's Bureau , and the Boston Juvenile Court  --  that there is not more control over the summer and after-school employment of so many of the State 's children in business and industry . The Certificating Office checks on but one point  --  whether the job is with a firm engaged in interstate commerce . If it is , then the certificate can not be issued , since Federal laws prohibit it . But , apart from this single limitation , the office exerts no effective control over these temporary jobs . This is currently resulting in a situation where children rush into jobs for which they are not prepared , or into jobs too heavy or hazardous for them . ' Also there is a tremendous amount , the Certificating Office admits , of changing jobs among these minors who come in for certificates . Five Jobs in 13 Davy Miss Mary Mahoney , who supervises the office , says there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs between July 1 and July 13 . " We do n't even have time to file one of his certificates , " she complains , " before he is back after another one . " Asked what she thought caused such a rapid turnover in jobs , she said , " Oh , they get into a job and then they just decide they do n't like it . Or they meet their friends and the friends say why do n't you come over to our place and work . Or they have an idea they can get more pay somewhere else . " ' , Lack of vocational ' guidance at the point and at the time of applying for a work certificate is declared by many to be an outstanding weakness in the system . The Boston school department provides a vocational guidance expert in each high school , but the tieup is apparently not too close , and in summertime it does n't exist at all . Superintendent of Schools Arthur L. Gould has , in spite of pressure , refused thus far to permit children to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare workers believe is far too hazardous for minors because it frequently necessitates their going into places undesirable for children . It is at the moment a question before the courts whether this work comes under the head of interstate commerce and thus whether it is or is not an occupation in which minors may be employed , but Mr. Gould has meanwhile decided in favor of the children . Minors are not permitted , ac- cording to the Massachusetts laws , ' to work in restaurants where liquor is served , or to work in trades or occupations considered dangerous to their health or morals . The Certificating Bureau does its best to see that certificates are issued only to employers obeying these laws , but it has not the personnel to do more than the minimum of investigation . War industry is putting strong pressures on youth to work all hours of the day and night , and youth is responding . But complaints are beginning to come in from parents that Johnnie is not eating or sleeping so well since he went on the night shift ; teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they work too hard after school . The continuous line of children at the Certificating Bureau day after day proves that the children have no intention of holding back from the glamorous appeal of the advertisements offering training , high salaries , and rapid promotion . Mrs. Hattie M. Smith of the State Department of Labor and Industries , who has been active in pressing for more widespread vocational guidance for school children , said today : " It seems to me not too much to demand that at least one vocational guidance expert be included on the staff of every certificating bureau in the State . " 