@@712244

txt It may be hard to see how a little lever pulled down on a New York voting machine in a city election can make its effect felt on state and national politics . But when more than one-quarter of the city 's 8,000,000 citizens do this  --  as they will Nov. 8 ? the outcome necessarily propels its influence beyond city and state boundaries . The mayoralty of this city has to be counted among the top administrative jobs in the country . New York 's budget is second only in size to the federal budget , and the city employs some 200,000 workers . Politically , too , it is in a powerful position . Many Presidents  --  with their eyes on the next election  --  have taken care to see that New York had an administration friendly to Washington . When President Roosevelt had trouble with the regular Democratic machine here in the early days of the New Deal , he was one of the initiators of the American Labor Party  --  then a powerful coalition of left- and right-wing labor and liberal elements and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason , Mr. Roosevelt supported Fiorella H. La Guardia , a fusion choice . In this year 's campaign , President Truman is sure to support Mayor William O'Dwyer for reelection . A Democratic victory here in November would bolster the party throughout the country . A A A Contrariwise , a fusion victory might have a more far-reaching effect in a diffefent direction . If Newbold Morris , independent , progressive Republican who heads the fusion ticket , wins , he may be hailed as the new type of Republican leader needed to defeat the Democrats on the national level . His supporters already are so describing him , but they seem a little premature . The election also will have the more immediate effect of influencing the 1950 gubernatorial elections in this state . Should Mayor O'Dwyer win , observers believe he will run for governor . If his election in the city is decisive , it will help him toward realization of that ambition . But defeat this year would make it almost impossible for him to get to the state capital in 1950 . In another way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - than - city considerations . In very close polling  --  a possibility  --  the city election could depend on the choice the Democrats make to succeed recently retired Senator Robert F. Wagner . If the Democrats choose former Gov . Herbert H. Lehman , they will give the city ticket a boost . Mr. Lehman is widely liked in this state and city . On the other hand , it will be to the fusion advantage if Mr. Lehman refuses the offer made to him and the Democrats select a weaker candidate . A A A The memory of Mr. La Guardia will be invoked in the current campaign . Mr. La Guardia is remembered by many as an outstanding nonpartisan mayor . Mr. Morris was his president of the city council and will promise the same kind of administration . To further dramatize the parallel between fusion then and now , Mrs. Fiorello H. La Guardia will campaign for the current ticket . Mayor O'Dwyer will rely during his campaign on his accomplishments . Democrats will " point with pride " to : Doublidg of the transit fare to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improved public schools and hospitals ; low cost housing and sane handling of the city 's aviation facilities . Although the Democrats are given the edge by most observers , the fusionists are not defeatists . Mr. Morris is going to follow the example of Mr. Truman in 1948 ? and , he hopes , with the same result . He plans to visit every single neighborhood in the city to tell people face to face why they should vote fusion . After agreeing on a citywide ticket , the fusionists recently ran into a little stormy weather over county candidates , and for a short while it looked as if fusion might unfuse . But , largely through the mediation of Mr. Morris , the Republicans and liberals shook hands and made up . The role of peacemaker may have enhanced Mr. Morris ' stature . It is fortunate that the difficulty arose during the early part of the campaign or it might have had disastrous results . It again reemphasizes that the Republicans and liberals in their innermost beings do not particularly like each other , but they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of defeating the Democrats is to unite . And so they do . In any event , the campaign , which is not really under way yet , promises to be lively , and citizens may have a hard choice between two popular candidates , both making convincing appeals .                     