@@709239

txt A legislative compromise on Army-Navy unification proposals was indicated today as the War Department made tentative plans for a sweeping reorganization of the Army . Military sources predicted a separate air force , or a virtually completely autonomous air force within the War Department structure ; elimination of the Army Service Forces and merger of their ' functions with those of the War Department General Staff ; transformation of the Army Ground Forces into a tactical Army Group Command ; probable elimination of the Eastern and Western Defense Commands and changes in the Army Service Commands , regardless of whether or not President Truman 's service-unification proposals were passed by Congress . President Truman 's proposals for unification of the War and Navy Departments in one service , " Department of Defense , " which virtually followed Army recommendations , have not yet been trpnslated into legislation . Tentative Bills Printed Senator Elbert D. Thomas of Utah , chairman of a subcommittee of the Senate Military Affairs Committee , which has been studying unification proposals , said today that no final legislation had as yet been drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was whipped into shape . Several tentative bills have been printed , he said , but none of them as yet represent the final consensus of the subcommittee . From other sources it was learned that some form of compromise legislation , which would meet many of the Navy 's objections to the Army 's unification proposals , was being considered . One solution under consideration , it was said , would establish three virtually autonomous departments , or divisions for Navy , Air and Ground Forces , with Secretaries of Cabinet or Coequal rank at their heads , and a fourth Secretary , also of Cabinet rank , as a sort of " minister of defense , " to coordinate inter-service activities and military and ? related civilian functions of government . In any case , Congressional and military sources agreed that the , President 's unification proposals would probably be considerably modified by Congress if , indeed , any unification legislation is approved . Final Congressional action on unification legislation probably is still some distance off , it was also indicated . The Military Affairs Committee of the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legislation , and after its work is completed it is probable that the Naval Affairs Committee will hold hearings or consider the bill before it is reported to the . Senate . In the House , where there is much support for a separate air force , but much opposition  --  led by the chairman of both the Military annd Naval Affairs Committees ? to a merged War and Navy Department , any unification legislation is likely to engender considerable debate and delay . The same observation is even more true of the .6. rmy 's proposals for universal peacetime military training . Congressional opinion is still lukewarm to , or opposed to , the peacetime draft and some sources go so far as to call the peacetime training ? a dead issue . Even military opinion is veering to the conclusion that the legislation , as asked by the War Department , which would require each young man after reaching the age of 18 , to receive a year of training by the Army , is unlikely to be passed , at least without major modifications . Some Decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military establishment is , therefore , assuming a shape fundamentally different than that envisaged last fall . So far that shape is nebulous and incomplete , for nearly all final decisions by the Army and Navy are handicapped by a lack of definitive policy and legislation . However , some decisions ( some of them still subject to Presidential or Congressional approval ) have been made , others have been tentatively approved ; others are still in the planning stage . Some of the decisions that have assumed definite shape are outlined below . Most of the changes in the military structure that are involved can be made , observers say , under the terms of the Presidential reorganization bill or by virtue of the President 's extraordinary war powers ; some of them may require additional legislation . 1 . A separate air force , either organized as a separate Government department , or as an autonomous division of the War Department , is virtually certain . This air force will include , as it is now envisaged , all except naval aviation , for General of the Army Dwight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Army should retain its own tactical air arm to give direct support to the ground forces . 2 . Elimination of the Army Service Forces . The supply , procurement and other functions of the Army Service Forces would be transferred to the War Department General Staff , which would itself be altered and renamed . Under some of the changes proposed by the Patch and Simpson Boards , which have been studying reorganization of the Army , the various " G 's " of the General Staff would assume executive and admintstrative , as well as staff duties . " G-1 " would become a " Director of Personnel " for all the ground'forces . " G-4 " would become a t " Director of Supply " with the technical services  --  ordnance , chemical warfare , Quartermaster Corps , etc. ? grouped under him . Change in Ground Forces 3 . Transformation of the present Army ground forces into a tactical Army Group Command , which would in effect provide the top . command and staff framework for any expeditionary force this country might be required to send @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its functions to the Twelfth Army Group commanded by Gen. Omar N. Bradley in Europe , would be grouped the armies , corps and divisions the permanent peacetime Army will retain . Just how many these will be is nit yet certain ; there ha ; been some talk of a peacetime Army based on twenty divisions but most observers do not believe the final figure will be nearly that large . 4 . Probable elimination of the Eastern and Western Defense Commands , and merger , reduction in number or change in functior , of the service commands . Now numbering nine , they may be reduced to six or four of changed in name , 1 . t it is - believed that some Army geographical grouping of the country for military purposes will be retained . Much Larger Guard Probable 5. - The - pre-war strength of the National Guard will probably be more than doubled in size , and aviation and ; to a lesser extent , armored strength , will be stressed . 6 . The Joint Chiefs of Staff , in one form or another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , both of which are still functioning in Washington , will be retained . Other plans , considerably more tentative than the foregoing , are outlined below . They are envisaged as plans for the permanent peacetime military forces , not the interim forces that for some time will be occupying Germany and Japan and policing other parts of the world . 1 . If universal peacetime military training is not provided for , a permanent peacetime professional ground force of about 500,000 is now contemplated . An independent , or virtually independent air force of somewhat more than 500,000 is the goal of the Army Air Forces if the peacetime draft fails of passage . The Navy already has gone on record for a peacetime Navy of about 500,000 men.and 58,000 officers , plus about 110,000 marines . Thus , if the plans of the services are turned into legislation , our permanent peacetime professional military forces would total about 1,700,000 men , provided the peacetime draft is not passed . If the peacetime draft should be passed , this figure would be somewhat ? though probably not materially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too large and more than Congress will approve . Cost Set at VA to 8 Billion 2 . The services ' estimate of the combined annual military budget necessary to support the permanent professional forces of about this size varies between three and a half billion and five billion dollars , with some estimates as high as eight billion . 3 . Volunteer enlistments on a sliding six-year scale  --  one year in active service , five in National Guard or Reserve ; two years in active service , four in National Guard or Reserve , etc. ? are envisaged as a means of " feeding " both the Regular Army and the National ' Guard . After leaving the li .. igular Army , men would be required to serve a certain number of years in the National Guard . Men who were still privates at the end of their first enlistr-ent in the Regular Army probably would not be re-enlisted . Officer Candidates Schools and chances for promotion from enlisted to " non-com " and commissioned rank would be broadened . 4 . If peacetime universal training is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times will probably be reestablished , and the Army Reserve Officers ' Training Camps greatly expanded in size . 