@@704977

txt To the Art Editor : PERMIT me to contribute a few remarks to the discussion now current concerning Howard Devree 's extremely interesting comments on the policy of the Metropolitan Museum in acquiring contemporary art . Though every one agrees that art today suffers from lack of patronage , the underlying cause seems , somehow , to have eluded identification . It was , however , clearly indicated by Forbes Watson in an essay published some time ago . Therein he referred to the singular delusion entertained by most people of means that they contribute to the advancement of culture when they build a new museum or endow yet another chair of fine arts in some university , though they drive the artists of their own time to despair by withholding from them patronage and encouragement . Certainly no.one can call that culture healthy in which the chief actors ( the artists ) are crowded off the stage by a host of uncreative supernumeraries . With the exception of a few distinguished educators , the professorial pantologists are in the main M. A. 's who ' have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about art , which is something quite different . To arrest the alarming increase of cultural frigidity that is produced by excessive pedantry , some of the leading universities have taken a step in the right direction by the introduction of artists in residence . Through contact with creative artists there is hope that the public may yet be taught to appreciate art as an emotionally stimulating and desirable experience . The museums that misguided philanthropy has caused to multiply like fungi throughout the land are , for the mostvart , impressive structures that enshrine together with forged old masters and bestsellers by the Cagliostros of L'Ecole de Paris and the . German Katzenjammer School of Expressionismus , a pathetic handful of pot-boilers , which the curators euphemistically style " representative collections of contemporary American art . " Like inebriated mariners , museum potentates recklessly squander staggering sunis on trash salvaged from rubbish heaps* of antiquity and on counterfeit old masters of questionable provenance and no cultural value . When it comes to the acquisition of native art , however , they wax inordinately sober and economical and purchase not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are cheaper . Though they rationalize their stinginess by dignifying cut-rate bargains as ' " representative examples , " the fact remains that , due to this penurious policy , the museums  --  including the Metropolitan  --  convey the grossly misleading impression that American art is feeble , immature and inferior stuff . The formation of an enlightened public taste can be promoted only by an intimate - familiarity with works of the highest order . A habitual exposure to trash induces , on the contrary , a debased taste for trash . If the latter is not to prevail , a drastic reform in the attitude of the museums toward contemporary American art must be instituted . Peyton Boswell 's suggestion that museum acquisitions be recommended by a committee of art critics seems to present a sound solution of the problem . Not only are they brought into contact with every phase of contemporary art but the very nature of their calling demands from the critics a constant exercise of critical judgment to discriminate between masterpieces and daubs and to distinguish the works of Felis Leo from those of the apes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the knowledge , experience and judgment of the critics , there can be no doubt that the museums , if they did not achieve perfection , would undergo , at all events , a salutary transformation and become what they should be  --  instruments for the improvement of popUlar taste through the presentation of the best in native art . IGOR STEINVALOFF . To the Art Editor : THE selling of American art and the attendant hazards is a subject in which I am deeply interested and to which I have devoted my entire life . I have been selling American art exclusively for thirtythree years , and I think I have sold more paintings and sculpture by American artists than any other living person . In fact , it has amounted to many millions of dollars . And this was practically all contemporary art . My experience has proved to my satisfaction that the Americans who are able to buy paintings do not like the cult of ugliness , or socalled modernistic art . They *lay smile at it in magazines or enjoy it in exhibitions , but they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in their homes . I have also observed that the very busy , hardworking business man does not like exciting , harrowing or dramatic paintings ; he much prefers a restful , peaceful , or what we dealers sometimes call a " poetic canvas " ; if it is a landscape , he wants it to be lyric . On the other hand , - art students , interior decorators , and other rather " arty " people who are not engaged in the exhausting industrial battle , seem to like the " raw meat " pictures . A third factor that is a deterrent to ; the sale of contemporary American art is the sponsorship and confirmation of the modernistic trend by museum directors and art mite ics . This causes the prospective buyer to hesitate in the purchase of what he likes , and , generally speaking , fails to encourage him to buy what he does n't like . I offer these factual observations without comment and criticism for what they are worth on a subject that is really vital to all American artists and dealers today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Galleries . To the Art Editor : THERE is an angle to this saleof-art discussion which has not been touched and needs a practical solution . Almost every artist has his studio stacked with unsold paintings , prints or sculpture , and some even have to hire storage space . Current exhibitions usually want only the artist 's latest work ; and therefore there are literally millions of works which have been in shows and are now out of circulation . George Biddle , in his article in the current Harper 's , shows how extremely small the average artist 's income is from the sale of his work . The point , howeve ? , is that the artist usually has a tremendous number of his works which he would be glad to sell at a lower price than his current work . The difficulty is in making the contacts . Now , there are a great many people who want pictures or sculpture but who do not go to galleries because of timidity or apathy , or the inaccessibility of galleries if these people live far from large cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there are probably many ways  --  is through artists ' agents . Musicians , commercial artists , writers  --  all have agents , but not in the field of painting and sculpture . That is a field which ' has been almost completely overlooked . Museums consume a very small p  --  opo  --  tibn of contemporary art , and government patronage , although tremendously helpful , goes only to muralists and those on relief . ROSELLE H. Osx . To the Art Editor : CONCERNING the Metropolitan Museum 's part in nursing contemporary art production , so fairly considered in your columns of late , would it not be possible and most useful if the Metropolitan were to maintain a permanent gallery or two in which to hang a revolving exhibition of American present-day painting ? Granted that the Metropolitan , by its very nature , is not set up to do so thorough a service with contemporary things as it Is with antiquities , could not this section be serviced by dealers in the city whose cooperative duty it would be to send and fetch away canvases they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of works they have learned through years of handling art to recognize as above the general level of marketable goods ? The kind of work that prompts them to drop a note to the Metropolitan requesting that some one come and look at this exceptional thing  --  and which so often the museum fails to do anything about . This dealer-fed gallery would be no n ; tore than a peep-hole in the fence to the big game being played inside . It could be labeled as a nonmuseum activity . The critics would be asked to give close attention to it . Certain of the paintings to come to these hallowed halls must fit so well into the atmosphere , be so praised critically , so well liked by the public and by the Hearn committee , that they would be chosen to stay  --  be bought by this generous fund . Thus , slowly , things that wear well would have won their way  --  the public being meanwhile better served with a knowledge of what our age is producing . MONICA WILEY . The Art Center of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street , will open on Tuesday with an extended program of classes in painting , sculpture , illustration , crafts , photography and commercial arts ,                     