@@709806

txt The two Senate advisers of the United States peace conference delegation pleaded today for united American support of the foreign policy outlined by United States Secretary of State James F. Byrnes . In formal statements obviously directed at the New York speech in which Secretary of Commerce Henry A. Wallace advocated spheres of influence , Senator Tom Connally , Democrat , of Texas , declared that there should be no bickering at home while the delegates strove for peace , and Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg , Republican , of Michigan , said doubt had been cast on the unity and authority of United States foreign policy . Mr. Connally 's statement was issued tonight without knowledge that President Truman had told a Washington news conference there was no change in the established United States foreign policy and that his " endorsement " of Mr. Wallace 's speech had resulted from a misunderstanding . Mr. Connally , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , declared that " if the United States is to speak with a persuasive and influential voice in the peace conference , there must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours before this Senator Vandenberg had issued a statement in which he said . " We can only cooperate with one Secretary of State at a time . " Statement by Connally The text of Mr. Connally 's statement follows : The task of Secretary Byrnes is difficult at most . He has performed his duties with real ability , splendid tact and remarkable patience . He has advanced and protected United States interests , and has sought a stable and just peace . It has been generally understood that at no time has there been any disagreement with President Truman 's policy . He deserves and should have the support of the united peoples in the United States . There is no place in our international relations either for partisan politics or for intraparty division or personal ambitions. ? While we are striving desperately for peace in the world there should be no controversy or bickering or strife at home . If the United States is to speak with a persuasive and influential voice in the peace conference there must be no division behind the lines . The statement by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is dependent upon the . degree of American unity behind it . Rightly or wrongly , Paris is doubtful of this unity this morning . Our hi-partisan foreign policy during the last eighteen months has had overwhelming bi-partisan support in behalf of the unselfish aim for which we fought the war . Though differing in some points , most Republicans have been glad to join with most Democrats in thus presenting a united American front to the world . This is the only road to organized peace and collective security . Those who leave this road jeopardize the very objective which they profess to embrace . I am sure most Republicans , despite inevitable differences in some aspects , will be glad to continue to seek unity with the Administration in a bi-partisan foreign policy on a sound American basis which rejects dictatorship by anybody . which is neither hostile nor subservient to any other power on eartb , and which defends human rights and fundamental freedom . But the situation equally requires unity within the Administration itself . We can only cooperate with one Secretary of State at a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been to support Britain and work with her on most of the issues that have arisen here . This had led to United States-Soviet clashes , and thus the impression that the President had endorsed a diametrically opposed policy had struck the delegation like a thunderbolt .                     