@@706649

txt The Allies have taken the initiative in the Pacific with a major attack on JananrRp United States forces have landed in the Solomon Islands . The operation appears to be the result of well-co-ordinated planning between Admiral Nimitz and General , intended presumably as a diversion to bolster up the crumbling Russian defense . While General 's airmen attacked Japanese bases New Guinea and New Britain to keep the Japanese Air Force at its bases , Admiral Nimitz 's naval units concentrated upon the Japanese on the Solomon Islands  --  apparently in some force . According to meager reports so far issued on this four-dayold operation , landing parties have been sent against Japanese land garrisons and airfields at Tulagi , on Florida Island , in the Solomons . Resistance is acknowledged to be heavy , but if the Allies can capture and hold Tulagi , they will have a new base for Flying Fortresses that will hinder seriously further Japanese plans for expansion in the Southern Pacific . For the moment , Japanese claims to have sunk or damaged 28 warships and transports may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setback and also would reveal that transports conveying a land army were in use . But Japan celebrated a great triumph at the Coral Sea before the Allied commanders issued their report . Elsewhere , the Allied situation undoubtedly is grave  --  particularly in view of the serious turn of events in India . For some days there have been indications that Marshal Timoshenko in Russia might not hold much longer on to the line so far held by his left wing in the North Caucasus . It . now appears that his troops are being rapidly withdrawn from that area . The Germans are pushing through via Krasnodar toward the Black Sea port of Novorossisk and via Maikop to the other port of Tuapsc . At both ports Russian forces are understood to be in process of embarking to avoid entrapment . If the report is true that the Germane also have captured Pyatigorsh , they are half way across the Northern Caucasus toward the Caspian , where their tanks have easy maneuvering across the broad flat areas . Meanwhile , mention of loud explosions in the Mailtop district would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil fields . They are minor oilfields , but the loss of this North Caucasu territory , and with it almost the last remaining ports in the Black Sea , not only would , he a severe blow to the Russians , but a severe curtailment of Allied nrospects of a Middle Eastern offensive Pacific Battle : Miles Attacking Solomon Islands Admiral Ernest J. King announced today that American forces had landed in the southeastern Solomon Islands with the purpose of driving out the Japanese and permanently occupying this strategic base in the Southern Pacific The announcement was made in a statement which said that " heavy fighting is still in progress " and that the American units engaged so far have had at least one cruiser sunk and two cruisers , two destroyers and one transport damaged . Information as to damage inflicted on the enemy is incomplete , King reported , but includes " a large number of planes " as well as surface units " put out of action . " General 's headquarters in Australia stated that Allied bombers hammered at three Japanese bases on New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Solomon Islands to the east the United States Navy and " other forces " of                     