@@712215

txt Early in June the Administration staged a sort of gigantic medicine show at Des Moines , Iowa , heart of the corn country , to the accompaniment of the vocal and embannered war whoop , " Brannan or Bust . " The event was officially designated a Midwest conference of Democrats of sixteen states , and to give added significance to the occasion three Cabinet members , twenty Congressmen and Vice President Barkley graced it with their presence , not to speak of a score of labor union bigwigs . The central purpose of this jamboree was to " sell " that section of the country on the idea of farmerlabor solidarity , a concept which was handsomely gift-wrapped by the Administration leaders in the so-called Brannan farm plan . This is the politically streamlined proposal authored by the Secretary of Agriculture which would guarantee the farmer wartime prosperity in perpetuity at no cost to the consumer ( at the expense of that well-known beast of burden the American taxpayer ) . This week Congress had its first opportunity to express itself on the picturesquely phrased issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have rejected the first of the two implied alternatives with emphatic and unmistakable enthusiasm . Technically , what happened was that the House voted 222 to 152 against the Administration-sponsored Pace bill . The Pace bill was a legislative device by which the sponsors of the Brannan Plan had hoped to get their foot in the door for their new brand of Utopianism . It provided for what may be described as a two-year " pilot " test of that idea , a test limited to three commodities  --  potatoes , eggs and wool . But the House , it seems , did n't even want this " sample . " On the key vote of the day seventy-nine Democrats , including many Administration stalwarts , joined in the coalition against it , the largest defection on a major bill for the present session of Congress . All this belongs on the credit side of the House ledger . On the debit side , unfortunately , is the fact that it voted to repeal the Aiken law , enacted last year , and to substitute for it a new measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tennessee legislator , this bill would merely have postponed the effective date for the introduction of flexible price supports from Jan. 1 , 1950 , to Jan. 1 , 1951 . But as amended on the floor it provides for the continuance indefinitely of the 90 per cent level of supports devised to meet wartime conditions and continued year by year on one pretext or another ever since . There is no need to review again at this time the frequently stated arguments against a policy , under present peacetime conditions , of fixed , high level price supports . It must be obvious that , by encouraging farmers  --  efficient and inefficient alike  --  to produce for the loans that can be obtained on their crops , rather than for consumption , present Government policy must inevitably disrupt the whole mechanism of the free market and aggravate further the already serious problem of the farm surplus . Fortunately , this is by no means necessarily the final chapter on farm legislation . in the present Congress . The Senate - still has to act , and the Committee on Agriculture in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flexible supports . The Senate , if it is prepared to stick by its guns , is in a position to insist on at least a substantial compromise with the Gore bill 's proponents . The alternative , so far as the latter are concerned , would be to go along with the Aiken law , which is now on the statute books awl which will remain there unless and until the Senate should concur with the House on the desirability of its repeal .                     