@@710679

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. 26 Saying that his staff of 600 employes had been " geared ' to a speedy and efficient administration of the Labor Management Relations Act , " Robert N. Denham , general counsel of the ? National Labor Relations Board , made public today his organizational plan and announced new appointments . The Washington office of the general counsel will be divided into four major activities , each headed by an associate general counsel . The work will be carried on by four divisions , the operations division , the standards and policies division , the legal division and the administrative division . Mr. Denham abolished the division of authority that formerly existed in the twenty-one regional offices where regional directors reported directly to the NLRB while ' regional attorneys reported to the general counsel . He said that " the regional directors will hereafter exercise full authority over all personnel and activities within their region , subject to normal direction from Washington . " " This will result , " he continued , " in the elimination of the office of regional attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regional office to national headquarters . This structure , it is anticipated , will tend to eliminate operational duplications and promote coordination of activities of the various regions . " The new NLRB of five members headed by Paul Herzog as chairman is now a labor court . It will rule on cases of unfair labor practices which have passed through the general counsel 's office and the proceedings before trial examiners . In handling these cases Mr. Denham 's office is supreme . In representation cases appeal from the general counsel may be had to the board . The new operations division will be headed by Charles M. Brooks . He will have charge of all field // operations and will provide a single channel between the regional offices , the seven subregional offices and Washington headquarters . Divisions ' Duties Defined The standards and policies division will be headed by Joseph C. Wells , and will analyze cases to determine the propriety of issuing unfair labor practice complaints . It will also handle policy matters and act in an advisory capacity to the general counsel . The legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all court appearances and litigation including special injunction litigation . Mr. Findling will be assisted by A. Norman Somers , formerly - in charge of the board 's enforcement division . All three appointees , though still in their thirties have seen previous service with the NLRB . Just 33 years old , Mr. Wells , graduate of National University School of Economics and Government , George Washington University and National University Law School , served as legal assistant to two board members and was a trial examiner after leaving the Marines in 1944 . Mr. Findling , a New Yorker and graduate of Columbia College and Law School , practiced privately until 1939 , when he joined the board 's legal division . He is 39 years old . Mr. Brooks , 36 years old , is a native of Alba , Tex . He also is a graduate of National University Law School . He joined the board first in 1937 as an attorney assigned to the Los Angeles office . ' He served as a lieutenant colonel in the Army during the war doing legal work . The administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will perform the usual administrative functions necessary to the operation of the agency . In referring to the twenty-one regional Offices Mr. Denham said that ' it is anticipated that by certain structural readjustments and functional changes in office procedures , field operations will be materially speeded up . " " Cases will be disposed of either administratively or by hearings with substantially less delay than has been experienced in the past , " he added . The following new regional directorships were announced by Mr. Denham : Cincinnati , Jack G. Evans ; Pittsburgh , Henry Shore , and St. Louis , ' Charles K. Hackler . Affidavit Is Rejected George Q. Lynch , president of the AFL Pattern Makers League , filed an anti-Communist affidavit with the NLRB General Counsel today but it was rejected because it was not made out on the board 's prescribed form . Mr. Lynch said he objected to the " buckshot affidavits " required by the board and at the same time asserted that Mr. Denham 's rulings on the anti-Communist affidavits would , in fact , foist on his union a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taft-Hartley law was designed to curb . In one letter covering the affidavit disclaiming. communism which he and his associate officers had signed , Mr. Lynch said that it was Mr. Denham 's " public responsibility " to mention the names of the organizations he deemed to be subversive . His officers , he said , lacked the training necessary " to detect and identify the multiplicity of activities covered by your buckshot affidavit . " Mr. Lynch declared he would have " the temerity " to say that " a buckshot affidavit having force of government , is a totalitarian technique which can be employed to destroy basic freedoms through fear . " In a second letter dealing with Mr. Denham 's rule that every member of a parent labor federation ( AFL or CIO ) must sign an anti-Communist affidavit ? before any affiliate can have access to the NLRB , Mr. Lynch referred to a rumor that " a John L. Lewis , thirteenth vice president of the AFL , refuses to sign the Communist disclaimer and that his union has withdrawn cases previously filed in regional offices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Taft-Hartley advocates assured us that Public Law 101 would curb the dictatorial powers of so-called ' labor czars . ' Your ruling , sir , places the Pattern Makers League under a czar for the first time within its sixty years of constitutional self-government . You have created the opportunity for any Gromyko on the AFL council to say ' No . ' " It was reported today that some CIO unions were considering challenging in court the Denham ruling that old cases partially processed before the new law went into effect could be examined in the light of the act and modified if necessary . Some NLRB officials were said to be of the opinion that such lawsuits might possibly hold up the NLRB 's operations , but only insofar as more than 3,000 cases pending when the act went into effect are concerned .                     