@@709573

txt The way appeared cleared late today for a Senate - House conference committee agreement recommending a restoration of qualified authority to resume conscription of the 18-year-old class , but in no event before next Oct. 1 . Dispatches from an American naval vessel on its way to the Bikini atoll atomic bomb tests announced that Representative Walter G. Andrews , Republican , of New York , had radioed in response to an appeal from Senator Chan Gurney , Republican , of South Dakota , directions that his disputed proxy be cast in favor of this compromise . This , on the basis of balloting already taken would assure a 4 to 3 vote among the House conferees in favor of the plan , which the Senate delegation already had approved by that margin . Terms of New Arrangement This arrangement , which was designed by Senator Gurney and Representative John J. Sparkman of Alabama to meet at once the minimum demands of the Senate and to go the maximum distance to which the leaders believed the House would consent , would include the following : A renewal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not before Oct. 1 , and not then unless President Truman formally proclaimed that in no other way could the Army be kept up to required strength . A Congressional declaration that the 18-year-old group must in any event be called up last , or at the end of the line of induction behind volunteers , those 20 or more , and those of 19 , in that order of selection . Mr. Andrews , who from the start had been a leader for the strongest possible draft , involuntarily became yesterday the absent agent by whom the House delegation rejected the same plan which it is now almost certain to approve in the next meeting of the conferees Thursday . Maneuvering in Conference Before leaving far Bikini as an official observer 4 the atomic experiments Mr. Andrews had left a proxy in the care of Representatives Leslie C Arends of Illinois and Dewey . F.hort of Missouri , Re publicans ; lid Representative Andrew J. lay , Democrat , of Kentucky . When the critical vote was taken on whether the conferees for the House , which has been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should recede to the extent of accepting the Gurney-Sparkman plan , the Administration leaders recruited a previous dissident , Representative Overton Brooks of Louisiana . This left them feeling certain of victory , for on all previous votes the proxy of Representative Andrews had been cast on their side . This time , however , Mr. May , himself an adamant opponent of the 18-year-old draft , cast the Andrews proxy against the compromise , and thus against any sort of conscription for the youngest group . The strong draft proponents were astpnished at this action , since they contended that Mr. Andrews , if present , would certainly have accepted the limitation on an 18-year-old draft when the alternative was none at all for that class . Mr. May was represented as defending the way he used the proxy on the ground that a permissible interpretation of Mr. Andrews ' position was that as an earlier leader for an unrestricted draft he would hold out to the end against any modifications whatever of the power to conscript those of 18 . Senator Gurney , refusing to accept Representative May 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing a reversal // of the May decision by the absent member himself . The Gurney-Sparkman plan now likely to emerge from the conference committee is believed by many to be certain of adoption in the Senate , . which originally went much further and approved unabridged conscription of those 18 and 19 years old . The outlook in the House , which twice has refused to sanction any draft for those categories and in which the demand for a conscription " holiday " first arose , was much more obscure . Speaker Rayburn , however , is known to have expressed confidence that the House would " go along , " on the showdown , with the conference committee .                     