@@710028

txt BRITISH ASK U. N. TO SET UP VETO-FREE ARMS BODY NOW ; SOVIET BLOCKED ON GREECE RUSSIA HINTS A BAN Molotov Holds Creation of Group Outside Veto a Charter Breach BUT ASKS DATA ON BOMB Shawcross Accepted Challenge of Russia to Yield Facts on Arms as Well as Troops By THOMAS J. HAMILTON A resolution proposing on-the-spot inspection of the armed forces and armaments of all members of the United Nations immediately was submitted to the General Assembly last night by Sir Hartley Shawcross , head of the British delegation . His resolution , which would combine a Britisn proposal for on-the-spot inspection with a Soviet proposal for a report on armaments as well as troop strength , was made in the midst of a series of dramatic interchanges with Soviet Foreign Minister Molotov . Delegates and spectators cheered the most dramatic session of the General Assembly since it came to Flushing Meadow . but it was too early to determine whether , as Sir 1:artley remarked . the quick British response to the Soviet offer marked " an historic day " for the United Nations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of note paper as the United Nations interpreters were still giving the English translation of a sudden offer by Andrei Y. Vishinsky , the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister . He had offered to accept international inspection of troop strength if Great Britain and the United States would agree to broaden the resolution to include armaments . Text of the Resolution The resolution , which specifically barred the veto from being used on the inspection agency was as follows : The General Assembly recommends the immediate establishment of an international supervisory commission operating within the framework of the Security Council , but in its operations not subject to the veto of any power on the Security Council , which shall be entitled by agents of any nationality acting on its behalf to verify and confirm on the spot in the territory of any member state any or all of the information submitted in accordance with any requirement of the General Assembly or of the Security Council as to armed forces or armaments . When the said supervisory commission has been established the member states shall be required to submit full particulars of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces under each of the Paragraphs 1 to 4 of the pending resolution for a troop census . Events last night came so quick ! y that delegates and spectators ! mind difficulty in following the lramatic exchanges between the 3ritish Attorney General and the Soviet Foreign Minister . In paricular it was hard to understand vhy Mr. Molotov , after attacking he British amendment as merely in attempt to " prevent us from a : : ing a decision tonight " on the rcop census proposal , finally antounced that he agreed with it " in principle . " ' So Let 's Get Together ' Sir Hartley quickly replied that e agreed " in principle " with Mr. lolotov , and added , " So let 's get og ether tomorrow and talk things ver . " Their discussion will take place the special twenty-member suboramittee of the Assembly 's Polit ; al and Security Committee , rhich yesterday morning made onsiderable progress in its efforts o reach an agreed version of the roposals by the Soviet Union , the rnited States , Great Britain and Cher countries on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since Senator Tom Connally , the ' rifted States member of the Poontinued on Page 16 , Column 3 BRITISH ASK U. N. FOR AN ARMS BODY // litical and Security Committee , had announced only a few hours r " rlier that the United States still opposed both the British and Russian amendments , he was placed in a very difficult position by the sudden Anglo-Russian move toward an understanding . The best that the United States representative could propose was to refer the entire question of the troop census , including the new British amendment , to the subcommittee . His vagueness puzzled Paul-Henri Spaak , the alert President of the Assembly , who recalled delegates to a sense of reality by pointing out that the pending resolution would require all members of the United Nations to report their troop strength by Jan. 1 , and that Sir Hartley Shawcross had said that the British amendment involved the establishment of a thorough-going system of international inspection by Jan. 15 . Doubts Time Is Sufficient " Gentlemen , " M. Spaak said , " I am an optimist , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we can expect to do all this . " Delegates and spectators were carried away for a time by the enthusiasm created by the Soviet offer , and more in particular by Sir Hartley Shawcross 's quickwitted response . Actually , since the Soviet Union had fought unsuccessfully in the Political and Security Committee for the inclusion of information on armaments in the troop report , and Great Britain had lost its own fight for on-the-spot verification of the troop reports , there was nothing epoch-making in the decision of both countries to bring their rejected amendments before the Assembly . What was important was the alertness of Sir Hartley , who quickly accepted the Soviet offer , to couple the two amendments , and at the same time joined with it the , exemption of inspection agency from the veto  --  which Mr. Molotov , had already accepted for general ' disarmament . Even more important , however , from the viewpoint ' of the United States , were the possible effects of the merged Anglo-Russian proposal on the Baruch plan for international atomic control . Mr. Connally 's difficulties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British amendment , would render all atomic installations and stocks of atomic bombs subject to international inspection after Jan. 15 . Would Queer U. S. Position The United States atomic plan provides that information on manufacturing techniques shall not be surrendered until an effective international control plan is in operation , and then this " know-how " would be surrendered , not to individual countries , but to an international authority that would distribute only information for peacetime use . The General Assembly 's decisions , though taken by a twothirds vote , are not legally binding , but acceptance of the resolution United States in a difficult position . All these ramifications were not immediately apparent last night when the remarkable series of interchanges between Mr. Molotov and Sir Hartley began . Earlier the British representative , who was a confident and dapper figure , with a red handkerchief dangling casually from his breast ppcket , had made an able and ironic speech ridiculing the Soviet Union 's demand , as expressed Sunday night by Mr. Molotov , for the exclusion of home troops from the troop census . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sober dark serge suit , picked Mr. Vishinsky to answer Sir Hartley , but Mr. Vishinsky , contrary to expectation , was mild in his tone . Then he appealed to Great Britain and the United States to accept the addition of armaments to the resolution . Sir Hartley rushed to the plat-1 form , announcing , " I immediately accept that challenge , " and he introduced his new resolution with the explanation that under it the Russians could come to Britain " to verify our forces " the moment it was agreed that Americans or Frenchmen or Chinese could go to Russia with the same powers . " What , " he asked , " could be fairer than that ? " Mr. Molotov , who was following Sir Hartley 's statement through his interpreter , Vladimor Pavlov , did not move from his seat , but waved his arms and shouted back in Russian , " You are late , we have submitted such a proposal a long time ago . " ? Sir Hartley replied ironically that " I wish the Atomic Energy Commission knew it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get together tomorrow " and pass it unanimously . Mr. Connally then declared that the United States , once an adequate international system of inspection was established , was willing to give the inspectors access to " every bayonet , every other  --  every other  --  armament , " and then came back to his attack on the Soviet Union 's opposition to revealing home troop strength . Next Mr. Molotov , declaring that the British amendment had been " concocted under our very eyes , " gave every indication that he would reject it . It had been brought , he contended , " to prevent us from taking a decision tonight " on the troop census . He added that it evidently meant the abrogation of the veto power on the Security Council , and would mean " that we should undertake tonight to revise the Charter . " Sir Hartley replied that he felt " a little dismayed " and charged that the Soviet chiefs had made their challenge because " they thought we were not prepared to meet it . " He dismissed the objections by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called for an immediate vote . He said he would be willing to postpone the inauguration of the inspection system from Dec. 15 until Jan. 15 , and recalled that Mr. Molotov had publicly agreed that the veto power should not apply to international control and inspection for disarmament and the abolition of the atomic bomb . Sir Hartley 's statements were acid in tone , but nevertheless they were followed , after an interval for the harassed translators to catch up , by Mr. Molotov 's acceptance of his proposal " in principle . " It could only be assumed that meanwhile the Soviet Foreign Minister had awakened to the farther-reaching consequences of the British resolution . Accord on Disarmament Point The British offer also reflected the progress made , despite much trouble with individual phrases , at yesterday 's meeting of the twentymember subcommittee on disarmaments . This produced agreement on one crucial point , that the powers of the proposed international inspection agency should be determined by international conventions ? in other words , put into the resolution Mr. Molotov 's pledge that the Security Council , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which involved the withdrawal of the British amendment providing that the agency or agencies should operate " independently " of the Security Council , was a considerable step forward .                     