@@711886

txt The United States , Canada , and five western European nations were reported near agreement tonight on a treaty binding each signatory to come to the aid of a member state under armed attack . After five months of secret negotiations , the seven nations have worked out a formula , according to reports , considered strong enough to Impress soviet Russia that aggression against any one of them will mean war , while avoiding congressional scruples against committing this country In advance to war . The exact wording of this proVision remained secret here but the London and Paris press printed partial texts said to be based . upon authoritative sources , Includes " Armed Force " These diapatches Indicated that the key article 5 in the treaty , bearing upon the liability of member states In case of attack upon one of them , will state that " aid " will include the use of " armed force . " subject to the constitutional right of congress to ' determine when military action shall be launched . State Secretary Acheson will ' meet with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " compromise " which is considerably stronger than senate leaders recently indicated they - were willing to ac-. cept . ' The treaty must be ratified by a two-thirds majority of the senate . see Military " Teeth " Britain , . France , Belgium , the , Netherlands and Luxemburg , the European members of the pro- , posed North Atlantic military al- ' Hance , are reported to consider the new draft as containing military " teeth " satisfactory to them . One version of article 5 in the London Evening News gave . the wording as follows : " In the event of any member of the pact being subjected to military attack in Europe or North America , the other signatories will consider this to be an attack on them all and will immediately render aid , Including the use of armed force , to the vi ctim of aggression . " At Decisive Stage This would be followed , the dispatch said , by a qualification that the nature of the aid should be as deemed necessary by the the parliaments of the countries concerned . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American congress ' to declare war . Informed capital hill sources here said that they considered the above wording too strong and that the tentative drafts shown them by the state department ' have only contained some reference to the possibility that the " action " to be taken may be mil-I Itary action . It was apparent , however , that ) tomorrow 's meeting of the seven nations here marks a decisive . stage in the negotiations and that substantial agreement has been reached on the draft of a defense clause . Ready In Two Weeks This accord was regarded as clearing the way for prompt completion of the treaty , probably in about two weeks . Other articles , re-enforcing article 5 , it was reported , would pro ? vide for almost continuous consultation among the members of the alliance and for co-ordinated defense planning once the treaty comes in force . The idea is to anticipate any emergency which might arise . At the moment of action , each country could determine its own measures in relation to the general plan already worked out . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights of each nation under the United Nations charter . It is understood by the negotiators that the United States would immediately undertake to send at least 1 billion dollars worth of military supplies to the European signatories No Word From Connally There was no word forthcoming from Sen. Connally , ( D. , Tex. ) , of the senate foreign relations committee , on these European reports , Connally on Feb , 15 offered a ' formula , immediately attacked in Europe as " watered down , " which proposed language reading partly as follows : " In the event of an armed attack . . . a party to the treaty . , will individually or in concert with other parties take such measures as it may deem necessary to main  --  tain the security of the North Atlantic area . " Insertion of the phrase , " armed force , " as one of the " measures " to be taken is bound to arouse long argument in senate debate on the treaty , according to all indications . A number of senators have expressed opposition to either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treaty . Restoration Of Original The " compromise ' , is , in fact , one senator said , practically a restoration of the original draft tentatively drawn up in Washington before the senate Wore . It still tolls short , however , of the original proposals of some of the western European nations who would have preferred an automatic commitment , putting the United States into war in case any member nation was attacked by Russia . Both Senators Connally and Vandenberg , ( R. , Mich. ) , ranking minority member of the foreign relations committee , conceded that the United States could not constitutionally make such a war pledge . From Canada , meanwhile , came reports that high officials in Ottawa will insist that the pact con , tain a guaranty of economic bene ' fits which will form a permanent substitute for the Marshall plan it the treaty is to satisfy the hopes of the Canadian government . Canadian Ambitions The ambitions of Canada toward a world government were clearly Indicated in a statement attributed to " a very high source , " " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still to be settled by the Washington negotiators , " he said . " The other is the phraseology of the military obligation of the United States to defend the other signatory nations , " Canada is taking the lead in arguing for inclusion of the economic clause , which some other countries , including American representatives , consider insignificant and ' eyewash . ' " The Canadians regard the economic and social provision almost as important as the military obligation and conceivably could refuse to sign the treaty if it includes a. weak military commitment and no economic clause , Only Temporary " The Marshall plan is all right but it is only temporary , We want the Atlantic pact to include permanent economic and social obligations on all the members . The clause could be only general in wording and have no noticeable effect for the first few years but included because it would be permanent . " Prime Minister Louis St. Laurent end L. B. Pearson , minister of external affairs , . stated publicly recently that the economic obligation is necessary to make the Atlantic pact worthwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the high source said , " the definite oblige- ) tions to continue th . Marshall plan principles is anticipated as a step toward economic Integra ; non of the United States , Canada and Britain . This would be in line with the economic ties included : in the Benelux treaty . "                     