@@711598

txt Seeking a solution to the transfer dispute that has snarled traffic on twenty-nine Bronx bus lines since Sunday morning , Mayor O'Dwyer yesterday called a meeting of all participants in the controversy . The conference will be held at 10:30 A. M. today in the Board of Transportation offices at 250 . Hudson Street . Theodore W. Kheel , director of the city 's Labor Relations Division , will represent the Mayor . Others expected to attend include William Reid , chairman of the Board of Transportation ; John P. , Corporation Counsel ; Michael J. Quill , City Councilman and international president of the Transport Workers Union , CIO , and officials of the Third Avenue Transit System , parent company of the Surface Transportation Corporation , which operates the Bronx buses . The Mayor 's action came after thousands of Bronx bus riders found it impossible to obtain transfers from the buses to subways and- elevated lines during yesterday 's morning rush hours . Many , standing in the rain while impatient passengers argued with the drivers , were soaked before they got aboard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riders left their garages without transfers , contending that making change and issuing transfers was too much work in addition to driving their buses . As a result , passengers who previously had paid 12 cents for a combined bus-subway ride had to pay 6 cents on the bus and 10 cents on the subway , a total of 16 cents . The ? home-bound evening rush was more noitnal , since the bus drivers were accepting transfers from subway and elevated lines . The drivers ' refusal to sell transfers was based on their complaint that they had all they could do to steer the heavy vehicles safely through traffic without the additional " bookkeeping . " For the most part they were courteous with passengers , though some drivers were roundly abused . Taking all aspects of the snarl Auto consideration , Mayor O'Dwyer said : " In the case of overcrowded buses in heavy traffic , it is the safety angle that is important . The Third Avenue System contends that the 6-cent fare permitted by the Public Service Commission is not enough money to meet operating expenses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two types of vending machines required for collecting fares and issuing transfers . The city has , in anticipation , new delivery of equipment including 400 Johnson machines , which would be adequate for the Third Avenue 's crosstown buses . " Vending machines for transfers , if ordered now , would not be available for ten weeks . It is obvious that the people must be served with transfers . The handling of the 6-cent fares and transfers by operators is dangerous to the safety of passengers. : Some arrangement must be worked out to help the operators for the next ten weeks . The possibility of putting men at key points to handle transfers will be considered at Tuesday 's conference . " The Mayor added that the conference would consider whether the city could lend the company transfer vending machines temporarily . Quill Sees Traffic Speed-Up Mr. Quill , whose union includes the drivers involved in the dispute , reported that the buses moved much more rapidly yesterday as the drivers devoted most of their attention to driving . Two weeks ago , he said , he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to make change and issue transfers . Asked what suggestions he would bring to this morning 's meeting he said : " Until we get proper vending machines in the buses , the Board of Transportation should handle these ' transfers in the subways and on the elevated lines . Bus operation is becoming more dangerous now with the onset of wet and frosty Weather . It 's all the drivers can do to move their buses through traffic without making change and selling the Board of Transportation 's transfers . " I was out on Fordham Road myself at 6:30 this morning and rode the lines for four hours . My observation was that the buses moved much faster between stops when the drivers did not have to sell the transfers . As yet , there are no signs of this dispute spreading to Queens . " Milo R. Maltbie , chairman of the Public Service Commission , said yesterday that his agency had no jurisdiction over labor disputes between the Third Avenue System and its drivers . Declaring that the commission had received no complaints from the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official ' knowledge - regarding the matter , but it seems that the employes of the Surface Transportation Corporation have refused to handle transfers between the lines of that corporation and the facilities operated by the City of New York . The commission has no authority to issue orders to the employes of the Third Avenue System . That corporation is under the jurisdiction of this commission , but labor matters are not within the scope of our authority as fixed by the Legislature . " As to the obligation of the corporation , ' the law clearly provides that when a tariff has been fired with the commission and has become effective , the corporation must comply with the terms of such tariff , and it is illegal to - do otherwise . " The commission 's next regular scheduled meeting will be on Oct. 26 , in Albany . Mr. Maltbie 's statement drew a retort from John Lewis , spokesman for the Third Avenue System . He said the PSC had fixed the interim fare at 6 cents , " a figure too low to meet operating costs " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provision for meeting the 24-cent-an-hour pay increase for drivers , which had created a deficit ' of about $1,000,000 in addition to an operating deficit of $50,000 monthly . Under these circumstances , he asserted , the commission should certainly be interested in the consequences of its own decision . He said that the company was trying to make a down payment on the retroactive pay , but that the commission had forbidden it to use funds from its subsidiaries for this purpose . Trolley . Service Held Impossible Asked whether trolley service might be restored in the Bronx to ease the present tangle , Mr. Lewis said this would require three or four months of proceedings before the commission . He ruled out the possibility- on the ground that the trolley powerhouses were out of use and that the trolley cars were being sold . Since the present situation resulted from orders by public agencies , Mr. Lewis maintained that it was their responsibility to settle it . A Board of Transportation spokesman said the . board was " caught in the middle and was as much a victim of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of the thirty-one Bronx transfer points , 6,000 additional dimes were ' registered up to 9 A. M. yesterday by riders who ordinarily would use transfers . At 205th Street and Perry Avenue , northern terminal of the IND subway division , 7,000 dimes were collected between 7 and 9 o'clock , against a normal 4,000 . The count at Grand Concourse and 167th Street showed 1,400 more dimes than usual . The board received 600 complaints in writing and " innumerable " telephone complaints .                     