@@706869

txt The task of knocking Italy out of the war may be lightened by her already advanced cam of industrial anemia . June , 1940. began her decline . Benito Mussolini threw in his hand with Adolf Hitler . Vanished at once were coal supplies from South Wales . The current Allied occupation of North Africa deprives the Italians of iron ore from Algeria and Morocco . Shipments from Spain are in peril . Fiat of Turin , Breda of Milan , Ansaldo of Genoa , the Montecatini chemical and- metallurgical plants , and other heavy industry in Europe 's boot , spent November in a more " depressed and precarious " state than had been witnessed since Mussolini went to war , according to British Ministry of Economic Warfare sources . Hydroelectric power shortage is a heavy factor . ranking with bombing by the R.A.F. A 40% reduction in consumption of electric power must be managed by Italy this winter . Light Rain Hits Electricity Output Light rainfall early this year left Alpine dams thirsty . Leaning almost entirely on its hydroelectric power station in the Alps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of these is believed to have been destroyed by R.A.F. raids on Genoa . Coal shortages have or will curtail operation of the others . Italy used to import some of her electric power from Switzerland . But these imports will probably have to be reduced , for Swiss ate- , Lions , too , have been affected by the Alpine drought . Coal shortages in Italy have grown steadily worse . Some coal  --  perhaps two million tons a year  --  has been obtained from Sardinia . But it is of inferior grade . " only fit for fertilizer , " as one Italian industrialist remarked before the war . Italy is receiving some good coal from Germany but shipments are irregular and have not amounted to anything - like the minions of tons which represent Italy 's monthly require -- ments . Italian industrialists can find one ironical consolation in the power shortage . Raw materials are so scarce in Italy that the demand for power to process them will not be so great . Italian industry goes hungry for copper and iron in particular . Italy 's domestic copper production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her wartime needs are about 30.000 tons annually . She probably has recovered and re-used most of her available copper scrap . It is considered doubtful that Germany and the occupied countries of Europe can be of much help in alleviating Italycopper shortage since supplies from these area , can not meet Germany 's own demands . Italy Needs Four Million Tons of Iron Italy will probably need about four million tons of iron to maintain her industry during the next 12 months . Her domestic output and that from other sources in south Europe are not expected to exceed two million tons . It is also believed that if Germany can not deliver any sizeable amounts of coal to Italy she certainly ca n't provide iron . In addition iron shipments from Germany will severely tax an already over-loaded Axis transportation system . Italy probably still has access to adequatsupplies of mercury , which she produces at home , and of bauxite , which can be shipped up the Adriatic Sea from Jugoslavia and Greece . But liven full use of these two materials is limited ( A ) by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mercury for her explosives plants and ( SI the shortage of power needed to process both these materials Italy 's industry has also been hard hit by manpower shortages due tit a large measure to German demands for Italian workers . In 1941 about 400,000 Italian workmen including many coal miners and skilled metal workers were drawn into the Reich . This drain has continued during 1942 . In addition to these factors , Italian industry has been given a direct pounding by the RAF . Italy 's vital industries are embraced by a triangle whose three points are Turin , Milan and Genoa . Each has been bombed severely . Just to the east of the area are the aluminum plants and shipyards on the Northern Adriatic . The Italians have sought to move- some industrial plants to safer spots , at Tern ' and points further south . With bombers of the United Nations now based on North Africa , safety will be hard to find .                     