@@711057

txt New York University 's new Law Center will be built on Washington Square South in the block bounded by Sullivan , West Third and Macdougal Streets . Announcement of the site was made last night by Dr. Harry Woodburn Chase , chancellor of- the university , to 1,000 alumni of the Law School at their sixtieth annual dinner in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . Residents of the Washington Square area , although unaware of the exact site of the Law Center , have opposed its construction there . They formed a Save Washington Square Committee headed by Harold M. Fleming , held protest mass meetings , collected 10,000 signatures on a petition against erection of the building and sent their objections to the Mayor and Cit : , Planning Con.mission . Yesterday , when the site became known , the committee issued a statement depr'cating the , , move and repeating opposition Ms " further encroachment " The group noted failure to get a " frank admission " from the university on ' where it intended to build . " The area involved , " the committee said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is one of the few remaining blocks which still give the square its character as one of the landmarks of New York . In the apartments , workshops and ateliers behind its attractive four-story facade and skylights live some hundred hardworking painters , sculptors , musicians , illustrators , photographers and other artists who are too ' busy to take any part in the so-called Bohemian life of Greenwich Village and the Washington Square area . Their eviction in the critical housing shortage would be a grievous hardship . " While the organization decried selection of the site , it gave no in dication of any further steps that might be taken to block construction of the building . Dr. Chase announced that the dean of the Law School , Arthur T. Vanderbilt , had been elected to the University Council . He will resign in June to become New Jersey 's first Chief Justice under its new Constitution . The dean will become chairman of the council 's committee on the law school . His acceptance of the post assures his continued leadership in furthering the growth and establishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vanderbilt pointed out that while other law schools were increasing their enrollments , N. Y. U. 's unit was curtailing the number of students to give individualized instruction . He compared the 461 graduate students at N. Y. U. with the average of nine in other schools . Instructors should teach at least one course in public law as well as one course in private law , the dean said . He added that at periodic intervals they should engage in either public or private practice . Students , the dean declared , should take an interest in public affairs , and such interest demonstrated in high school and college should be as much a prerequisite for admission to law school as academic marks and character . First-year students , he remarked , should devote their time " to learning the leading principles of the subjects which are basic to the common law system and to acquiring the rudiments of legal thinking . " Scale Model Displayed A scale model of the new Law Center was displayed at the dinner . It will be of Harvard brick with white limestone trim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Higgins . The site of the center was acquired from Columbia University , but announcement of the exact location had been withheld previously until details of the purchase were completed . While no figure of the cost of the land was made public , the dean said it exceeded $1,000,000 . A campaign for $3,000,000 for the center was started in June , 1946 , with former Gov . Herbert H. Lehman as honorary chairman . The committee has raised $1,700 , - 000 to date . Queens County Surrogate Anthony P. Savarese , president of the Law Alumni Association , was toastmaster at the dinner . He introduced David Tishman and John F. X. , who will be cochairmen of the final phase of the fund-raising drive . Mr. Tishman is a New York builder and Mr. is United States Attorney for the Southern District . A. special Musical entertainment , " Strictly Off the Record , " was directed by Newman Levy , its author .                     