@@705648

txt The war aim of the British and American Democracies working " absolutely.hand in hand " to build a new world of peace , order and honor , was pictured in terms that glowed with hope by Viscount Halifax , British Ambassador to the United States , this afternoon in a speech before enthusiastic members of the Boston Chamber of Commerce . Calling upon Britain and America to " put aside all misunderstanding and former divergencies , " Lord Halifax envisioned the two great democracies working " side by side " to lead all humanity to permanent peace and freedom . " We must build together the foundations of a new world , establishing a great rock in the midst of a stormy sea , to which other nations desiring the same way of life can join with us in the construction of that world . " As examples of these " other nations , " he mentoned South America and the free countries of Europe . " Together we can go forward to realize the ideals we hold here today  --  honor in international relations ; domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for every man . I look forward to the enduring understanding and confidence between your people and mine , on which the future of the world so largely depends . " Emphasizing America 's stake in the final outcome of the great conflict , Lord Halifax declared : " It is impossible for your great country to maintain its way of life if we are destroyed , as it would have been impossible for us to maintain our way of life if the whole of Europe had been under Hitler 's heel . " Viscount Halifax made this statement in discounting the possibility of a negotiated peace . He added these words : " There is absolutely no possibility of a compromise between the German way of life and that of the British and American democracies . " Recalling the days when he personally conferred with Hitler as British Foreign Secretary in an effort to secure a stable understanding in Europe , His Majesty 's Ambassador continued : " No country worked harder to avoid the great and enduring tragedy of total war than my country . There were many who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were inexorably forced to the conclusion that we must meet the gospel of force by force , and by force show that force does not pay . " German Guarantees In a humorous reference to the falsity of German guarantees , he declared : " No country is in a state so dangerous as one which has received one of Hitler 's guarantees . " He did not make clear whether this remark referred to Turkey 's recent pact with the Reich . " Hitler usese agreements as a criminal uses a drug on his victims , " the diplomat continued , " to be able to rob and murder him with greater ease and pleasure . " Discussing German strategy the British Ambassador held there are three weapons being used against Britain  --  invasion , bombing and blockade . With reference to inva. - sion he stated , " I give you firm , confident assurance that if ever the Germans try an invasion , every man , woman and child in England will give them the most glorious reception they have ever had . " After all , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being invaded . We have n't acquired the habit of it : and we do n't mean to acquire it . " When history is written , it will be said that Hitler lost the war in the months of June and July , 1940. when he allowed to slip through his fingers the best chance he will ever have " to invade England . Commenting on the aerial battle over Britain , he declared " good progress " is being made in meeting the problem of night bombing . With reference to the blockade , His Majesty 's Ambassador appealed once more for America to get the goods to the battlefront . " By whatever means your Government deems best , it is vitally important to make sure that the material you are manufacturing with such energy and such disturbance of civil life safely reaches the hands of England stretched out to receive them , " he solemnly asserted . His itinerary today was as full as the hands of a Hurricane pilot handling a swarm of dive bombers . The morning began early with visits from a dozen or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trip will also include a visit to the Federal Housing Project in Charlestown and a stopover at a British warship in port  --  known to the Ambassador and his party as " s-fii . " At 2:45 he will award the Order of the British Empire to Charles Steward , the Manager o* Cunard White Star Lines . From 5 to 6 p. m. the English-Speaking Union will hold a reception for him at the Junior League Building . The morning 's interviews over , Lord Halifax still had a full schedule : he paid official calls upon William Cardinal O'Connell , Roman Catholic Archbishop of Boston , upon Gov . Leverett Saltonstall , and upon the Rt . Rev. Henry K. Sherrill , Episcopal Bishop of Boston . At Bunker Hill During his sight-seeing tour this afternoon in the company of the Consul-General , he will make " every effort " to stop at the Bunker Hill monument , for this is one of the sights of Boston he has always wanted to see , he said . Among those who were invited guests at the official reception were Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rev. Dr. Russell H. Stafford , Congregational clergyman ; Dr. Leonard Carmichael , President of Tufts College ; Dr. Carl S. Ell . President of Northeastern University ; Dr. Daniel Marsh , President of Boston University ; John P. Tinsley , President of the Associated Industries of Massachusetts ; and Allan Forbes , President of the State Street Trust Co . The interviews were held in groups  --  the churchmen , the educators , and the business men making up the three parties .                     