@@705383

txt Surveying the Situation in Various Occupied Countries , They Decide Not To Follow the 1914-18 Policy By DAVID ANDERSON Wtoaleso to TrcoNsw YOH. .1.1=13 . LONDON , Feb. ** observers of Europe 's intricate food problem , turning back the pages of history to the last war for guidance and some salient points  --  one of them being Herbert Hoover 's relief program  --  have arrived at interesting conclusions with a direct bearing on the present situation . The following is a description of how the British interpret the food problem . There is no hope here that the Nazis will repeat the mistakes of 1914 by exploiting the occupied countries in a haphazard fashion , yet it is felt that no amount of planning or careful administration will save Germany in the long run from the accumulation of food shortages and discontent . A quick glance at each of the nations within the German orbit as the British view them today explains why London condoned Mr. Hoover 's activity during the World War and is resolutely opposed to it now . Belgium is coupled with Poland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatly aggravated by having to supply large German troop concentrations which are fed off the surrounding country to ease the strain on Germany 's overtaxed transportation system . These soldiers , moreover , must be assured of rations far above those of the Belgians themselves . The near-by Netherlands is in a much more favorable position . There , shops have foodstuffs with which to meet the ration cards of the civilian population , and normal exports of dairy produce are carried on , though not in the pre-war volume , with the Reich . Danes ' Situation Even better off are the Danes , the British declare . After the first wild slaughtering of herds when Germany laid hands on this fresh source of meat there has been strict protection of cattle . A substantial export surplus is still available , while the people of Denmark are said to be comparatively on easy street . One important shortage is fodder , which may in the long run prove a serious handicap . Farther north , Norway is being drained of supplies . An example cited here is that of fresh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their homeland while offering the Norwegians scant comfort with lectures on the virtues of frugal living . France is the most complicated part of the Continent 's food picture because it is hopelessly tangled up  --  and that by deliberate German design , the British say . In the first place , the nation is divided into occupied and unoccupied zones without regard to economic interdependence . Thus the territory held by the Nazis is more than self-sufficient and the domain of Vichy at best is a poor stepchild . France is seen as a land beset with local problems , with plenty of food here and none fifty miles away . Amid such conflict occupied France appears to be better organized under German administration than the area southward , but throughout this country as elsewhere in Europe much depends on the 1941 harvest . A really bad crop would create a serious situation for the Germans and conquered nations alike . Plight of Balkans Circling through the Balkans to Czecho-Slovakia , the opinion is that they are in " a bad way ? if not actually today then certainly potentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yugoslavia and Rumania for the exchange of foodstuffs , the British believe , will never be fulfilled since Berlin has asked too much . This look at Europe 's larders gives the impression of uneven supplies . Germany 's job is to assure smooth distribution and Britain 's to cause friction . Across the scene , the British aver , the shadow of Mr. Hoover 's plan has now fallen . He proposes to supply essential food to the peoples of five small occupied democracies . Last Sunday he mentioned starting with Bel. gium . This association of words , " Hoover , " " relief " and " Belgium , " inevitably sets the British thumbing through the records of 1914-1918 . It was seen that Mr. Hoover , together with Shaler Page , plunged into the program for the relief of Belgium a couple of weeks after the Kaiser 's armies invaded that country . Spontaneity marked the undertaking , which the British Government accepted as a humanitarian venture on a relatively modest scale . Whitehall smiled on Mr. Hoover , the British say , once it was certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the official patrons being the American , Dutch and Spanish authorities ? at least one neutral being a great power commanding the respect of both Britain and Germany . Soon it was noted that the supplies pleased the persons living in German-occupied Belgium and France . Both these points have gained significance today . Troubles Arose The efficient , straightforward German military control of Belgium was then succeeded by a civil Governor from Berlin and troubles arose in handling relief supplies . The war went on year after year , relief ships were torpedoed and it became apparent the Germans were taking large stocks of food from occupied countries while leaving the actual supplies brought by Mr. Hoover . Yet the British Government failed to object , as it is doing now , and for one reason . It was feared that the Belgian and French workers behind the German lines would yield to pressure to have them help the enemy in his factories , farms and in the dozens of other ways they could be useful . There was even strong talk of Belgium 's making a separate peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food suplies . Applying the lesson to the existing situation , this is what the British have concluded : the French and Belgian workers are already employed by the Germans , and nothing would be gained by catering to them , the better policy being to foster revolt by clamping the blockade on tight . Food relief under Mr. Hoover expanded to such astonishing proportions between 1914 and 1918 and created so insistent a demand among those receiving it that if attempted today it would sweep from Spain to Norway , turning into a Frankenstein , the British continue . They are convinced it would be impossible to give at one place and withhold from another . German Bad Faith Charged Last , say the British , ample proof of German bad faith , added to the unreliable local relief administrators in Belgium and France during the World War , would make another experiment impractical . The British also point to the collapse of the relief structure after Mr. Hoover left when the United States entered the war . Often in the course of the last conflict there were heart-searchings in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but Britain felt compelled to go on with it . Labor interest was inclined to support Mr. Hoover , whereas business men were uneasy in view of the rising shipping losses and the moot question whether the recipients of relief or the Germans were getting the most of the bargain . Finally , in the World War there was a genuine threat of starvation , since the Germans made no careful plans for living off conquered lands , and this , the British now argue , does not exist . That is why the people of Britain , husbanding their empire 's food resources , are almost violently opposed to Mr. Hoover 's latest scheme for aiding Europe .                     