@@708739

txt The Okinawa campaign is over , but the Seventh War Loan drive has still a week to run . This nation 's investment at Okinawa was about 50,000 men , of whom about 11,000 were dead or missing on June 19 and the rest more or less seriously wounded . Its investment in war bonds is two billion dollars past the fourteen-billion-dollar national quota , but this total is deceptive . The bonds that count in the war against inflation are those purchased as a result of individual economies . Of these the ones that count most are the E bonds , especially intended for small investors . The small investors have n't yet done their part . They were allocated four billion dollars ' worth of bonds . Yesterday they were still below three billion dollars . In this city and State-they were not much past the twothirds mark . A billion dollars or so may seem small in a war which may cost this country close to half a trillion dollars . But an extra billion dollars taken out of the competition for consumers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does help to kill the black market . The consumer who takes his money out of the black market and puts it into this white market is doing something for himself ? he will get the money back with good interest a few years from now . He is doing something for his country  --  for in effect he is hiring some one to make war goods instead of hiring him to make unnecessary civilian goods . He is doing something for the fighting man and the fighting man 's family  --  for he is helping to sustain the value of the soldier 's pay , allowances , pension and insurance . The lag in E bonds means only that Americans do not in all cases fully understand the significance of this investment ; that they do not realize the close connection between supporting the war in this way and supporting it in other ways ; that they do not grasp what encouragement this kind of support gives to the man at the front . For his part , the man in the foxhole , the man crawling among the rocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gun as the suicide plane heads in , does not have much time to think about bonds . When he gets time he might think it odd that any of us with a little spare money should hesitate to put it into E bonds . He might think that buying an extra bond could n't possibly hurt as much as fatigue , heat and wounds . The nation is behind the war . No one doubts that . All of us have friends or relatives in . uniform . All of us want co make the fighting man 's ordeal as brief as possible . Any one of us would say or do anything that would cheer the man in the line . Now , in fact , during the few days that remain of this drive we can say it and do it with bonds  --  and above all with the E bonds .                     