@@709159

txt The O.W.I. may be dead . but its soul transmigrates . Attempts to set up it ministry et domestic propaganda keep bobbing up . The latest proposal is by President Truman 's Bureau of the Budget , headed by Harold Smith . Soon after the end of the war with Japan , Elmer Davis decided . not without urging from the nation 's press , that his Office of War Information had completed its mission . Overseas public relations work was shifted to the State Department and the domestic propaganda machine shut down . Theoretically that ended the war-horn concept that the U. S. Government should have a generalissimo of information to marshal the news handed out to press and radio . But sonic of Mr. Davis ' subordinates were reluctant to give up their work . The announcement of O.W I ' s demise had hardly stopped echoing when some displaced persons of the agency proposed that a peacetime organization take I is place . Idea Pops Up In 0 . W.M.R. When this was scotched. the same idea with slightl ? different trimmings was proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boss John Snyder personally assembled the top press agents of the Government bureaus and suggested that they agree on a central unit to clear their publicity releases . Jealous of their autonomy , the information men smothered the proposal . Now the ghost walks again . It 's roaming the executive office of the President ? in a dank and murky section of the Budget Bureau called the publications control unit . From there , a former O.W.I. executive , George E. Beauchamp , has been advancing the Budget Bureau proposal . It has been advocated conversations with officiala of other agencies . Now it is supplemented by circulation of a 10-page projected edict to cabinet officers and the heads of independent agencies , which , if put into effect , would reimpose most of controls over news , and other controls besides . The projected regulation is. according to its preface , aimed at establishing " economical and effective Government publishing policies . " This would be pursued with zeal . Controls would be unposed upon Government publications ? meaning " any book , pamphlet , leaflet , bulletin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throwaway , broadside. newspaper . news release , periodical , magazine , journal ? study , report . statistical abstract . summary , technical paper , manual , handbook . instruction , procedure , envelope stuffier , etc. , or reprint of same whether printed or processed . " Apparently Government officials would still be permitted to doodle on their desk pads without prior clearance from the Budget Bureau . What the Budget Bureau Wants ICS true that in theory the Budget Bureau is asking the right to examine all Government publications only after they have been issued . on the 15th day of each month . But the agency proposes that it have the task of prior examination of press releases and other documents under a multitude of circumstances Officials believe that in practice they 'd have to clear most everything with the Budget Bureau , in old slow-going 0 . W.1. fashion . For instance , they 'd have to submit every press release or other publication " dealing with subject matter that is of concern to two or more different depaiements or establishments . " In overlapping Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to clear in advance " all mimeographed publications in excess of 5,000 copies , or otherwise processed publications in excess of 10.000 copies . " Washington mimeograph machines do n't even get warmed up on 5 000 copies . When the subject matter is important , , that number of copies would not supply a , large Government department with enough to meet its internal needs , let alone furnish copies for the press and citizens who may ; he affected by the Government 's policy or action . Highly Artietic Illustrations Promised The centralized propaganda ministry would operate , of course , with the loftiest of motives . For instance , the projected , decree is determined that " whatever illustrations are approved should be of high artistic quality . " The publications control unit would exercise much of its power through a " publications control officer " to be appointed by the head of each Government department or establishment . This functionary , the Budget Bureau circular says , would have primary responsibility for " economical and effective " : policies within his agency . acting under deItailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter is to exercise " a coordinating and regulatory function . " To attain an appearance of unity during the war . the late President Roosevelt ordered his administrators to clear with the 0 W.I. all press releases , speeches and other material involving more than one department . While this may have created an impression of unanimity outside of official Washington , it probably caused more internal dissension than any other job which the wartime in-. formation agency undertook . News announcements were sometimes suppressed because of opposition from rival agencies . arid customarily they veeie delayed for hours or days awaiting clearance . During these waiting periods garbled news " leaks " frequently occurred . The Budget Bureau is prepared , however , to pick up where the 0 W I. dropped this hot potato . Its clearance procedure would involve even greater tangles of red tape . The projected ukase would require that any agency wishing to obtain advance Budget Bureau approval of some news announcement would not only have to submit it for inspection but also fill out an elaborate " request for periodical approval " Must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be submitted for advance approval , the circular adds that each department must submit each month one copy of all material printed or otherwise reproduced during the previous month . Under the circular 's broad definition of a publication an agency would have to submit everything but its letterheads ; for the larger departments these monthly samples would number up in the thousands . 1 . ' elint the Budget Bureau proposes to do with all this reading matter is not disclosed in the circular . Whether this latest attempt . to set up an " information C711 r " will be noire successful than the previous attempts is doubtful unless President Truman is prepared to ram it down the throats of his administrators and standa by to repeat the dose at frequent intervals as Mr. Roosevelt had to do with the 0 W I. Most cabinet officers and heads of other government agencies object to Some superpublicity agency telling them what information they can release to the public . They consider the job of determining how much the public should know about their department 's activities as a part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They argue that no top agency would be in a position to appreciate fully the job a particular publication may be designed to accomplish and that outside meddling might cause some program to fail , to the embarrassment of the official charged with carrying it out . They also fear that if they lose control of their publicity sections . Congress may not learn what a good job is being done and that future appropriations may suffer . Another group which can he expected to oppose this move to centralize government information is the Washington newspapermen . They have long resisted any attempt to set up a government-wide news bureau on the grounds that it 1S a first step to keep them from the sources of their stories . . To them the idea is a recurring nightmare in which the reporter is reduced to solely handling the official government handouts. 