@@704753

txt With speed the keynote , the aviation industry today will discuss with Government officials plans for achieving the national defense program outlined by President Roosevelt . Dis .. cussions will include financing plant expansion . Secretary Morgenthau yesterday called engine production " the real trouble " in attaining the goal , Meanwhile , two broad recommendations probably will result from the budget survey to determine government methods for financing defense preparations : Raising the national debt limit now to protect the Treasury 's large cash balance and deferring until late ' , a decision on new taxes . WASHINGTON ? The aviation industry comes face to face today with the greatest challenge to the American industrial system since 1917 . During meetings with Government officials starting today , the men who direct the aircraft factories of the United Statee will reveal their plans for achieving the task set for them by President Roosevelt  --  a goal of 50,000 military airplanes and an annual production capacity for the same number of ships by some , as yet , undesignated date . Secretary of Treasury Morgenthau , interviewed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacation , said that this country 's aircraft industry is capable of producing , without further expansion , two and a half times as many planes as it is producing now , but that engine production is " the real trouble , " according to the United Press . He declared that airplane engine manufacturing plants have reached their top capacity and added that the Government , in seeking to carry out President Roosevelt 's suggestion of an industry capable of producing 50,000 planes a year . would " have to start right in with the engine industry . " Secretary Morgenthau devoted all of yesterday to outlining a program which is expected to form the basis of discussions between the aircraft industry and Government officials . Informed Washington observers believe it is irnppssible to over-state the importance of the series of meetings that start today . For they believe that the arms program called for by President Roosevelt may carry more tarreaching implications for the entire system of private industry than perhaps any other development in history . And the aviation industry probably is the key to the success of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it out . Arms Program May Be Drop in Bucket Furthermore , it is felt that unless the Allied armies can halt the headlong rush of Nazi invaders the program requested by Mr. Roosevelt last Thursday will be only a drop in the bucket compared with the money and effort that will be expended on arms in this country during the months and years to come . This possibility further heightens the importance of the meetings between government and industry that are beginning now . Responsible Government officials , led by Mr. Roosevelt . have stated publicly that they would like to see the huge industrial expansion involved in the new arms program carried out as much as possible by private capital . Industry already has been assured that the funds of the Reconstruction Finance Corp . will be at its disposal for plant expansion purposes . SVhereever expansion funds can not be raised from private sources and industry does not chose to borrow from the RFC. the Government will build and equip aircraft and other plants to be operated by private industry on a fixed-fee basis At the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determination in Washington that no industry or no group of industries shall be permitted to stand in the way of national defense or to make large profits from the preparedness program . This attitude seems to obtain in all quarters in Washington , including Capitol Hill . Speedy Increase to Be Sought At this stage , it would be premature to speculate on the plan that will evolve from the Government-industry meetings and the hearings that are expected to follow before congressional committees . The Government will ask the aircraft makers to build a capacity for production that will far outrank the industry built up by Germany over a period of seven years . Whether any time limit will be set is not known but some officials hope it can be accomplished within 15 to 18 months . To help carry it out the Government has promised financial aid for plant construction and for training labor , and indicated it will make some concessions in labor laws to permit longer working days and to remove other restrictions to a speedy increase of output . Undoubtedly industry will demand many concessions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of labor laws , etc . How far these will go and what will be the attitude of the New Deal administration toward them , can not be forecast at this time . Preliminary indications are that industry would not object to Government-constructed plants as long as it receives guarantees against actual Government competition and an agreement permitting the companies to purchase Government factories at a later date if they desire to do so . The degree to which Government and the airplane industry can work out a mutually satisfactory plan of operations is believed likely to chart the course for practically all industrial expansion required for implementation of the arms program . There is no doubt that whatever proposals are made by the aircraft industry in the way of taxation and profits will be closely examined by certain quarters on Capitol Hill if not elsewhere . Challenge to Industry This , then , appears to be the challenge that is put to American industry , represented for most practical purposes by the aircraft manu-facturers : 1 . Unprecedented demands are being made in the interest of national defense . 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fulfillment of those demands within the framework of the private capitalistic system . 3 . If . under these conditions , industry can not do the job or is unwilling to do it , Government will step in and take over . Aspects of Problem As for the physical problems involved in creating the desired expansion of the aircraft building capacity , details can not be known until industry representatives have presented their data and their plans to Government officials . However , certain broad aspects of the job can be listed . Based on official and unofficial observations , these inclue the following gener-alities : 1 . Aircraft factory floor space will have to be doubled at least . 2 . The physical size of engine plants may have to be trebled . 3 . The cost of expanding aircraft and engine factories  --  and of building new ones  --  will run into the hundreds of millions of dollars ? perhaps as high as $400,000,000. 4 . Optimistic quarters hope that the desired capacity for 50,000 planes can be built within the next 15 to 18 months . present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 20.000 military spips by early 1942 , but this may be stepped up considerably if events make it necessary . Personnel Problem 5 ? An industry capable of an annual output of 50,000 military planes would require a personnel of approximately 250,000 . This will present a problem but the way has been cleared somewhat by the huge expansion of the industry during the past year and the skilled labor training methods that have been instituted under it . Furthermore , the problem has been minimized by a policy of breaking down highly skilled operations to a number of semi-skilled operations with the result that graduates of technical schools can be brought into the aircraft plants and put to work without further training . Increased Government assistance to vocational schools may be requested . 6 ? Greatest strain will be felt in the machine tool industry and the guess in Washington is that rather drastic methods may be resorted to in order to make available the output of this industry for expanded aircraft and engine plants . One suggestion being put forward is that automobile manufacturers might be requested to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next spring . ' Sus delaying their demands for new machine tools and granting priority to the needs of the aircraft industry . Coordination Will be Needed 7 . A great amount of coordination , involving official or unofficial establishment of systems of priority for raw materials and allocation of the output of supplying industries , probably will be necessary . These will include manufacturers of all types of accessories and aircraft armament. 8 . A definite effort will be made to induce industry to locate new plant units in the midwest section of the country . Obviously , this would involve finding sites that are accessible to raw material sources , where transportation facilities are adequate . where supplies of skilled labor are available , and where the weather factor does not complicate construction problems . Furthermore , the time element may dictate a greater emphasis on expansion of existing plants . 9 . Government will assume the responsibility for training pilots and ground forces of mechanics to handle the new planes to be acquired by the air corps , but a vastly increased program of civilian pilot training already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , publisher of the Chicago Daily News and vice-presidential candidate on the Republican ticket in 1936.                     