@@705744

txt In The Nation Maybe Nazi Propaganda Is n't So Wonderful By ARTHUR KROCK WASHINGTON , July ** of the most frequent statements made to the American people by their public men are : United States representatives are invariably out-traded in international conferences or negotiations ; even the public propaganda of the authoritarian states is always deadly in it &; effect here and requires persistent countering . The first assertion is a favorite with the isolationists and noninterventionists ; the second comes more often from those who advocate aggressive defense measures . These two declarations are made so steadily , and those who utter them have been so generally successful , in holding office , that presumably they go down well with the voters . But on the general record both assertions are fallacious . As recently as today this government made an international deal in which Federal Loan Administrator Jones required the posting by Great Britain of more than $500 millions of collateral in exchange for a loan of $425 millions and arranged that the loan shall not be renewed when it terminates unless twothirds of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virginio Gayda of late have been manufacturing open propaganda which can have no other effect than to gain support for the President 's foreign policy . Of Mr. Gayda 's " warnings " almost nothing need be said . He is always sicking his big brother on us ( " Japan will fix you " or " Germany will settle you when the time comes " ) ; and that attempt to frighten the American people probably only amuses them at the I expense of Italy , which presumably is the last result Mr. Gayda intended . Dr. Goebbels 's inspired press utterances have been more skillful , and at times have found the holes in our policy . But , whether because of the slow going in Russia , the " V " movement in Europe or the plain proof that the United States is now committed to destruction of the Nazi power  --  perhaps as a consequence of all three  --  Dr. Goebbels as an effective propagandist is definitely slipping . There are numerous evidences to suggest that his German press is now hurling boomerangs exclusively without knowing they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this newspaper was reprinted a triumphant Nazi cartoon , approved , as all publications must be , by Dr. Goebbels 's bureau . It appeared in Kladderadatsch and pictured the President gleefully shearing the British lion as Delilah sheared Samson , and apparently nor the same reason . Nothing 3ould be more calculated to reassure the large American group which has criticized the President 's defense policy as being proBritish instead of primarily American . If these critics can be brought to accept this official Nazi view of the consequences of the aid-Britain program , they will be heartily for it . That is n't what Dr. Goebbels wants at all . Today a fresh supply of boomerangs was launched by the master minds of Nazi propaganda . " Authorized German quarters " ( The United Press newsticker 's description of the Berlin press spokesmen ) commented that the Bolivian Government 's charges against the German Minister at La Paz were " sheer invention , " a part of the " extortions " of the Washington government on Latin-American nations . Any reader of the agreed facts in the La @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Nazis are nervous over the revelations , which is precisely the opposite of the effect intended . Then there was published in the afternoon editions of the Nazi press today what was described as a " sensation . " What was it ? A D. N. B. dispatch from Oslo under streaming headlines that " a secret illustrated document " had been unearthed showing the President in Masonic garb . The President is a Mason ! " Roosevelt Exposed " was the headline in Dr. Goebbels 's own Der Angriff . The only possible reflection in this ' country could be : " So what ? If the Nazis did n't know that , and if they think we did n't or care one way or the other , they must be incredibly dumb . " That is n't very good propaganda . The final exhibit of the day was made by the newspaper B-Z am Mittag of Berlin . It found that the President 's request to Congress to extend the service of the civilian army is " a new and carefully planned , cunning blow against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , long ago belonged in the waste-basket . " The President has circumvented Congress in other matters . But in this instance he most carefully did not , though many members who fear the issue cordially wish he had . What the President did was to insist that Congress exercise a " right " it had specifically reserved , as members who now regret that reservation are plaintively aware . Perhaps the strain is proving too much for Dr. Goebbels , the same strain that permanently jangled Mr. Gayda some months ago . Possibly his press representatives here have lost the judgment they showed in earlier counsels , or probably they are n't being listened to any more . At any rate , this kind of open propaganda requires nothing but perusal by American children aged 9 ; it is self-refuting . That may be a good sign . ' In the World War when German morale began to crack its official . press propaganda went thoroughly ? haywire .                     