@@708396

txt The Navy came to the rescue yesterday of a shivering civilian population and released 400,000 barrels of fuel oil from the Third Naval District 's Petroleum Pool for distribution under the direction of the Petroleum Administration for War . The action promised to provide a considerable measure of relief , particularly in suburban communities , where continued transportation difficulties and bad weather have aggravated the problem of supplying sufficient quantities of fuel for heating homes . It came as a new four-day freight embargo on civilian freight went into effect . The oil , amounting to 16,800,000 gallons , has been allocated by PAW to sixteen distributors , and while a PAW spokesman declined to give their names , he said the oil was being distributed on an " equitable basis . " Fuel Shortages Widespread New York City continued to meet most of its food and fuel supply problems occasioned by the weather and transportation tieup , but both fuel oil and coal shortages were reported widespread in suburban areas and in up-State New York . The Westchester Advisory Committee of the Solid Fuels Administration for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SFA Administrator , and Walter J. Dockerill , regional SFA representative , that the supplies of the county 's coal dealers would be completely exhausted by noon today and that the tanks of more than 70 per cent of the county 's oil suppliers were already dry . Herbert J. Harris , president of the Westchester Oil Trade Associa- tion , said that a number of the dealers had reported as many as 300 of their regular customers with heatless homes . Some were said to have had no heat for five days . Although plagued by manpower shortages , spokesmen for the railroads expressed belief that the new freight embargo , which is effective through 12:01 A. M. Wednesday , would considerably relieve the present jam on the roads . Adding 1 the transportation difficulties caused by the rail tie-ups was an ice jam in various parts of New York Harbor and the area 's inland waterways which , according to the Coast Guard office here , is the worst in the last ten days . An entire fleet of Coast Guard icebreakers was struggling against ice floes five to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Above Peekskill the Hudson was reported to have frozen to more than fifteen inches . The Coast Guard said that the icebreakers were giving priority to situations complicating the movement of war cargoes , necessitating occasional delays in clearing ice for movement ( ? civilian freight barges . Great South Bay Frozen One of the worst conditions was reported at Fire Island , where the Great South Bay was frozen over solidly to a depth of eight inches . In some places icebergs up to fifteen feet in height were reported . The only means of transportation between Fire Island and Bayshore was by a Coast Guard icebreaker . More harbor-seals were observed frisking on the ice than in milder winters . In Washington the Solid Fuels Administration disclosed that quantities of coal originally consigned to Canadian railroads and industrial plants were being diverted to icebound northern and northeastern United States areas . The flow of coal to Canada for railroad purposes has been halted and shipments for industrial purposes " practically " halted . " Canadian railroads , " the SFA said , " are being forced to take virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stockpiles , which are inadequate . " Railroad passenger traffic was also hit by the weather and demands of the armed forces . F. H. Baird , general passenger traffic manager of the New York Central said the line was curtailing sleeping-car service between New York and Albany , Syracuse , Watertown , Oswego and Montreal , effective Monday , due to a shortage of Pullman cars . The Delaware , Lackawanna &; Western Railroad also announced that two daily passenger trains operating between Binghamton and Utica and connecting with the Lackawanna Limited would be discontinued Monday until further notice as a result of manpower and fuel shortages . The Weather Bureau predicted mostly clear weather today with little change in temperature and diminishing winds . Yesterday 's lowest temperature was 22.9 degrees at 7:30 A. M. and the highest was 31 degrees at 4:30 P. M. Increasing cloudiness was forecast for western New York with little change in temperature . Yesterday 's low at Buffalo was 15 degrees . The Empire State Petroleum Association called upon Governor Dewey to create a New York State Fuel Commission to explore the current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments cooperate to furnish sufficient icebreakers to open ice-bound channels to permit movement of petroleum barges. 