@@708544

txt Argentina is back in the fold of American republics . But the road back to Pan-American unity may prove to be a much shorter and easier ? pad to travel than that leading to San Francisco . The first is paved with good intentions surfaced with a few supporting acts . The second , however , may require a foundation of supporting acts , concrete examples ( to which a surface gloss of good intentions of course would be acceptable ) , which would be much harder to supply . Despite its declaration of war against Japan and Germany , despite its recognition by the other American republics , Buenos Aires is not yet one of the United Nations and can not automatically show up at San Francisco when the United Nations gather there April 25 to plan a postwar organization . Invitation Yet to Come Argentina still has to sign the United Nations declaration . Argentina still must be invited to San Francisco . As for signing the declaration , there seems little to prevent it . Declaration of war is its pass to formal membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Francisco does not follow automatically . The Big Four ( Great Britain , Russia , China , and the United States ) are sponsoring the parley . They do the inviting . Poland , a United Nation , has not been invited . The Russians are insisting that the Lublin regime installed now in Warsaw be asked , while Britain and the United States are holding out for a compromise Polish government as agreed on at Yalta . Now somewhat the same intraBig Three stalemate is expected to arise over iniviting Argentina to San Francisco  --  only in reverse . Since Britain recognized Argentina when the United States did and both apparently are determined to welcome Buenos Aires back into the family of nations , these two countries can be expected to approve inviting Argentina to the Golden Gate gathering . Soviet Against Argentine Bid But Russia , with which Argentina has no diplomatic relations , is set against letting the Farrell regime in on San Francisco . Its semiofficial and frequently officially inspired press has stated bluntly that it would boycott the parley if Argentina should show up . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-communist . Russia does n't believe , as apparently the United States Government does , that Argentina can change its spots so quickly . Twc months ago the United States Government was still calling the Farrell regime " fascist . " Russia insists on calling it the same fascist regime today . Since Argentina ca n't go to San Francisco without Russia 's approval . but only at its invitation , observers here do n't expect it to show up , particularly since time is short . However , there Is one big " if " to this conclusion . Only because all the elements are present for a Big Three " deal " do certain sources here suggest that there still is a chance that both the Warsaw Poles and the Argentines may yet show up at the Golden Gate . Compromise Possible Despite the blunt refusal of Britain and the United States to Russia 's demand that the Lublin-Warsaw Poles be invited to San Francisco , the Moscow Radio continues to support their right to represent Poland there . Should Russia insist on their presence , the logical bargaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their newly found friend Argentina also be invited . While such an arrangement might not be the best solution of either problem , it would resolve two annoying issues by the process of compromise and concession . The other major question raised by the lifting of Argentina 's diplomatic quarantine concerns the genuineness of President Farrell 's conversion to democracy and the United Nations cause . It was obvious from the pleasure and enthusiasm with which Secretary of State Edward R. Stettinius announced Argentina 's diplomatic restoration that this Government is taking on faith , composed of many promises and a few acts , Argentina 's adherence to the United Nations cause ; that it is willing to let name-calling and bygones be bygones ; that it is prepared to believe that fascists can become good democrats . Window Dressing Actually Argentina has dorn considerable window dressing along this line . It first declares war on Japan and Germany though it should be rememberec that it directed that declaration al Japan , not Germany , and included Germany only because was an ally of Japan . Next it signed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to war criminals , to eliminate centers of subversive activity , to control enemy property and loot , to prevent the admission of dangerous deportees and propagandists , to guarantee freedom of access to information . Argentina meanwhile has interned Axis nationals , has suspended certain pro-Axis newspapers , has registered and restricted the actions of enemy aliens , and has put controls over enemy property . Thus it is evident that in certain matters it has implimented its promises in a manner that would . justify the State Department 's rosy hopes . Whether those implementations of its promises will stick , will grow in number and really introduce genuine democracy , to Argentina is a question only the future can answer . This Government now is officially hopeful . Argentine Views BUENOS AIRES , Argentina , April 10 ( Reuters ) ? The Buenos Aires morning paper El Diario , commenting on the resumption of relations between the Argentine and the United Nations , says today that " all misunderstanding has been dissipated and a powerful and generous co-operation between her sister nations will arise again . Argentina will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ providing them with what they lack and what-she produces , " the editorial adds. -                     