@@712380

txt Congress will not increase postal rates before next year , if it votes to boost them at all . That became practically certain yesterday . Senate Majority Leader Lucas ( D .. 111. ) met with his Democratic Policy Committee to discuss the legislative program for the remainder of this session of Congress . Later he listed a number of measures which - he said will be taken up . Asked about the bill reported by the Senate Post Office and Civil Service Committee to hike postal rates more than $130 million a year , Mr. Lucas replied : " That bill is on the calendar . I doubt if we take it up this year . " Later in the day . Mr. Lucas held a legislative discussion with House Speaker Sam Rayburn ( D. , Tex. ) and other House leaders . After this meeting . Sen. Lucas flatly ruled out any action this year on the postal rate measure . " It 's not going to be taken up so far as the Senate is concerned , " Mr. Lucas declared . Mr. Rayburn said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate measure in the House since the collapse of a move to tie a rider boosting postal rates to a bill to increase the pay of postal employes . House leaders have also stated privately that they do not expect to consider postal rate increases before Congress adjourns . The House committee has not even reported a measure , even though it has been considering postal rate increases since early this year . Postmaster General Jesse ? I. Donaldson has repeatedly urged Congress to enact a measure to boost postal rates . Legislation which Senator Lucas said will he taken up by the Senate includes the O'Mahoney mine subsidy bill . the Sparkman home financing measure to liberalize government housing aid . measures to provide financial aid for establishment of rural telephone systems , and school construction . He said the Senate may also pass bills to empower the Export-Import Bank to insure U. S. private investors abroad against certain losses , and permit the federal government to aid states in the collection of certain cigarette taxes . After the round of Democratic pow-wows , indications were that Congress will adjourn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and House Majority Leader McCormack ( 0 .. Mass. ) said the adjournment date depends on the Senate . They declared the House will be ready to quit as soon as the senate is ready . Though lie would not name a specific date , Sen. Lucas stated that adjournment depends somewhat on how long the Senate takes on legislation to liberalize the law admitting socalled displaced persons into the U. S. Before Congress adjourns , the Senate will attempt to push through a proposal to discharge its Judiciary Committee from further consideration of this measure and bring it immediately to the floor .                     