@@712546

txt Natural gas escaping from a leaking pipe was believed tonight to have caused the terrific explosion that killed at least 16 persons and injured 91 others at the Swift 8 . : Co. packing plant . Fire Chief Charles Kuhl said the noontime blast occurred in the automobile parked across street from Swift plant after blast debris struck it . basement of the ? six story brick structure and was caused 1 ? y an accumulation of gas , but he could only theorize that the source was a pipe leak and he had no idea what touched it off . The gas supply to some 120,000 persons in the Sioux City area was affected by the explosion . Natural gas , piped here to be mixed with a larger amount of manufactured gas , was shut off at a supply station at Dakota City , Neb. as a result of the explosion . Hazardous Search ? Gas fumes hovering over the rubble of the wrecked plant hampered and made hazardous the search for more bodies that cons , tinued thru the night . It was believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debris . Nearly 200 searchers labored without stopping except for an occasional cup of coffee as they tried to reach the bottom of the debris where a loading dock once stood at the back of the plant and office building . But they worked with extreme caution because of the free gas . Loud speakers warned every one at the scene not to smoke . During the first hours after the blast hack saws were employed instead of the more effective acetylene torches . Gas masks also had to be used at time . Photografers were not permitted to use flash bulbs in taking pictures . Tossed into Air It was estimated that between 450 and 500 of the company 's 700 employes were in the building when the explosion occurred without warning shortly before noon . Rescue leaders said the toll probably would have been higher except for its occurrence while many employes were at lunch . The force of the explosion tossed victims into the air . The body of a man was found dangling in the wreckage after the explosion . Girls bleeding from wounds and with their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dazed men and women staggered from the building and were unable to recall how they escaped . The explosion blasted large sections out of the entire front end of the brick building . Naked girders were left dangling , in a maze of debris . Debris Piled Up Patrolman Tony Bilunos , one of the first policemen to reach the scene , declared it was " like a bomb explosion . " " We found debris four feet high in front of the building , " he related . " Several persons were running around with blood streaming down their faces . " His parteer , Patrolman Melvin Marshall , ? said he and Bilunos went into the basement and found two bodies in four feet of water . Other rescue workers said they found blood spattered about the second floor offices and a number of shoes lying around . Altho the offices , in the south end of the structure , apparently received the full force of the blast , only one woman was killed . She was Mrs. Ruth Teager of South Sioux City , Neb. , who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . List of the Known Dead All the known dead had been identified late tonight . Thirteen were plant employes . The remaining three were commercial haulers . The three were Henry Babcock , Ralph Beck , and Joe Satri or Santi . ? The company 's known dead , in addition to Mrs. Teager , were : Charles Kurtz , Alvin E. Heck , John M. Butler , Clarence J. Rasmussen , Roland L. Edie , Darrell Raymond Parker , Lewis A. Jones , Ermene Rodriguez , Glendon M. Johns , David J. Selkirk , Andrew Wisner and Arthur De Laughter . Many of the injured were soon released from hospitals after being treated for cuts and bruises but a total of 58 were still hospitalized tonight . National Guard Called The Iowa national guard was called out and the naval reserve , Red Cross , Salvation army and other relief organizations joined in helping Sioux City thru one of its worst disasters . The regional Red Cross blood center at Omaha sent 48 pints of whole blood and 12 units of serum albumen by refrigerator truck . Two disaster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city 's available fire fighting equipment , ambulances and police were sent to the scene . A small fire followed the explosion but was quickly extinguished with little damage . A beer truck was used to carry six injured persons to a hospital before ambulances arrived . Among the injured was John Glen , 60 , general manager of the plant ; H. C. Watts , Chicago , chief construction engineer , and Waldo Krebs , plant superintendent . Officials and workers from other plants in the stockyards rushed to the scene as did public officials . Hundreds of relatives and friends also gathered to learn the fate of workers . In a short time police had to form lines to hold back the throngs . Search in Bitter Cold In the hours following the explosion , dazed and shocked employes milled around the plant . None seemed to know what had happened . Few knew how they got out or what happened to neighbors . " The gas choked us off on the fifth floor , " said M. Francis . " I went up to the sixth floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the eye by something , I do n't know what . " " It seemed to me like the roof fell in , " related Mrs. Darlene Chilton , who was at work on the fifth floor . " The floor went out from'under with a big harrumph , " said Mrs. Fern Lee . The search for possible additional dead was carried on in bitter cold . The Salvation Army and Red Cross set up portable canteens to serve coffee and doughnuts to accident victims and rescue workers . Bulldozers were used in the hunt for more bodies which was concentrated in the dock area . The heavy machinery hoisted hunks of concrete and twisted steel out of the death hole which had been the basement under the dock . It was expected to take all night to clear the debris from this hole . " It will be a tough Christmas in Sioux City , " observed one man . " Think of the broken homes and all those who will be unemployed as a result of this tragedy . " FIRM EXTENDS AID In Chicago , John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disaster " terrible . " " Our first concern , " he said , " is for the employes who have lost their lives , those who have been injured , and their families . Everything possible is being done to alleviate their suffering with the best medical care and to help our people with their problems . " He said a group of Swift executives from Chicago went by chartered plane to Sioux City . The group included medical officers , insurance representatives , and executives with authority to advance funds to employes and their families in need .                     